FR940314-0-00039 FR940314-0-00007 Monitoring, Reporting, Inspections, and Compliance SLOCAPCD may use any authority it possesses under state law to require monitoring and reporting, and to conduct inspections. The Administrator or SLOCAPCD shall consult with the Minerals Management Service and the U.S. Coast Guard prior to inspections. This shall in no way interfere with the ability of EPA or SLOCAPCD to conduct unannounced inspections. General Conditions (1) SLOCAPCD shall implement and enforce the Federal requirements of 40 CFR 55.13 as well as the applicable state and local requirements contained in 40 CFR 55.14. Notwithstanding the above, EPA retains authority for implementation and enforcement of the PSD requirements of part C of the Act and 40 CFR 52.21. (2) The primary responsibility for enforcement of the OCS air regulations delegated to the District shall rest with the SLOCAPCD. Nothing in this agreement shall prohibit EPA from enforcing the OCS requirements of the Clean Air Act, the OCS regulations, or the terms and conditions of any permit issued by the District pursuant to this agreement. (3) In the event that the District is unwilling or unable to enforce a provision of this delegation with respect to a source subject to the OCS air regulations, the District will immediately notify the EPA Region 9 Regional Administrator. Failure to notify the Regional Administrator does not preclude EPA from exercising its enforcement authority. (4) EPA shall retain authority to implement and enforce all requirements for OCS sources located beyond 25 miles from the state's seaward boundaries. (5) This delegation may be amended at any time by the formal written agreement of both the SLOCAPCD and the U.S. EPA including amendments to add, change, or remove conditions or terms of this agreement. (6) If SLOCAPCD adopts revisions to the District regulations reviewed by EPA and found to meet the requirements set forth at 40 CFR 55.11 for delegation, the parties may amend the agreement pursuant to condition 5 above, or EPA may take steps to revoke the delegation in whole or in part pursuant to condition 7 below. Any amendments to regulations submitted by the District to meet the requirements of 40 CFR 55.11 shall not be applied under this agreement until EPA has reviewed such amendments and determined that they are still adequate to implement and enforce the delegable portions of 40 CFR part 55. (7) This delegation, after consultation with the SLOCAPCD, may be revoked in whole or in part if the U.S. EPA determines that the SLOCAPCD no longer meets the requirements for delegation set forth at 40 CFR 55.11(b)(1&hyph;4). Any such revocation shall be effective as of the date specified in a Notice of Revocation to the SLOCAPCD. (8) This delegation of authority becomes effective upon the date of the signature of both parties to this Agreement. (9) A notice of this delegated authority will be published in the Federal Register . Dated: January 12, 1994 David P. Howekamp, Director, Air and Toxics Division, Region 9. Dated: January 18, 1994. John Wise, Acting Regional Administrator, Region 9. County of San Luis Obispo. Harry L. Ovitt, Chairman of the Board of Supervisors. Attest: F.M. Cooney, Clerk of the Board of Supervisors. Approved as to Form and Legal Effect: James B. Lindhold, Jr. County Counsel R. Biering Deputy County Counsel. Dated: November 18, 1993.
