FR940511-2-00084 FR940511-2-00058 Interdependence of generations; Older persons as community resources; Employment and continued productivity opportunities for middle-aged and older persons including training; Home and community based long-term care services including caregivers assistance and health promotion; Housing and coordinated services; Income security with particular emphasis on alleviating poverty; National retirement policy including pre-retirement; Crime; Nutrition; Disability and aging services; Mental health and substance abuse; Future of aging services to be reflected in the Older Americans Act; Combatting false stereotypes; Minority aging; Biomedical and other appropriate research; and Related topics to promote the independence, well-being and security of older persons. or (b) On one of the following specific constituencies: Older Women; One of the following groups of minority elderly: Native American African American Asian/Pacific Islanders Hispanic Elderly persons with disabilities. (2) Should have substantial and significant input and participation by older persons. It should involve older persons and organizations representing older persons in the development and implementation of the event. Efforts should be made to seek out an appropriately diverse representation of interested parties. (3) Provide at a maximum five recommendations that can be utilized by the WHCoA. These recommendations must be: (a) Well articulated; (b) Based on demonstrated information, knowledge and consensus reached at event; (c) Have a reasonable prospect of being attainable within the current political, economic, and fiscal environment; (d) Received within 30 days after the mini-conference. The report should devote no more than 3 pages double spaced per recommendation for up to 5 recommendations (total maximum of 15 double spaced pages). (4) Provide an implementation plan to demonstrate: (a) How they will plan, design, and carry out the mini-conference including proposed date and location, proposed participants (audience discussants and speakers) and cooperating organizations; (b) How they will seek additional sources of support; (c) What they will do as an advocacy group to ensure that their recommendations, if adopted by the WHCoA, are implemented into public policy. (5) Be held by March 31, 1995. (6) Be held in a location accessible to persons with disabilities. (7) Not be a profit-making or fund-raising event although it is permissible to charge a fee to recover the costs of the event. Project Costs: It is expected that 12&hyph;15 projects at $6,000 each will be funded by the WHCoA. Applicants are expected to obtain additional funding from other sources and are encouraged to include with their applications letters of commitment from other funding sources. Part II. Information and Guidelines for the Application Process and Review Part II of this Announcement contains general information for potential applicants and basic guidelines for submitting applications in response to this announcement. Application forms are provided along with detailed instructions for developing and assembling the application package for submittal to the White House Conference on Aging. Specific eligibility guidelines were provided in the program description above. A. General Information 1. Review Process and Considerations for Funding The following steps are involved in the review process. a. Notification: All applicants will automatically be notified of the receipt of their application and informed of the identification number assigned to it. b. Expert Review: Applications that conform to the requirements of this program announcement will be reviewed and scored competitively against the evaluation criteria specified in section D, below. This independent review of applications is performed by panels consisting of qualified persons. The scores and judgments of these expert reviewers are a major factor in making award decisions.
