FR940830-0-00131 FR940830-0-00014 (3) In all cases, a signed and dated statement by the claimant that the delinquent co-owner failed to contribute the proper proportion within the period fixed by the statute. (c) Upon determination by the authorized officer that paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section have been complied with, the BLM records of the mining claim shall be changed pursuant to §3833.3 of this title. Such a change in ownership requires that the claimant submit the service charge required for a transfer of interest pursuant to §3833.1&hyph;4 of this title. (d) Active duty military personnel who give notice and comply with §3851.6 are not subject to the provisions of this section. 38. Section 3851.5 is revised to read as follows: §3851.5 Assessment work not required after allowance of mineral entry. Performance of annual assessment work and payment of maintenance fees is not required after the date that the mineral entry has been allowed. (a) The assessment year in which the mineral entry is allowed is the first assessment year for which the assessment work and payment of maintenance fees is no longer required, and assessment work is not required in any assessment year thereafter until a mineral patent issues. (b) If a mineral entry is canceled in whole or in part, the mining claims and mill sites that are no longer covered by the mineral entry shall be subject to the assessment work requirement, or the payment of maintenance fees, beginning in the next assessment year following the assessment year that the mineral entry was canceled. 39. Section 3851.6 is added to read as follows: §3851.6 Assessment work not required for active duty military personnel. Pursuant to the Soldiers' and Sailors' Relief Act (50 U.S.C. Appendix 565), a person entering active military service is exempt from the performance of annual assessment work under this subpart for each assessment year in which the service person is on active duty. (a) To claim the exemption, the person entering active military service shall file, or cause to be filed with the proper BLM office, a notice of his or her entry into active military service. The notice shall be filed in the assessment year that the person entered active duty status. (b) The filing of the notice exempts the person from performing assessment work or paying the maintenance fees until 6 months have passed from the person's release from active duty status, or until 6 months have passed from release from a military hospital, whichever is later. (c) The performance of assessment work or the payment of maintenance fees shall resume in the assessment year beginning at least 6 months after the date the person was released from active duty or a military hospital, whichever is later. (d) The notice shall be filed as a certified statement pursuant to section 3833.1&hyph;7 of this title, and shall list all mining claims and sites affected by claim name and BLM serial number. Subpart 3852_Deferment of Assessment Work 40. Section 3852.2 is amended by revising the first and second sentences to read as follows: §3852.2 Filing of petition for deferment, contents. (a) In order to obtain a deferment, the claimant shall file with the proper BLM office a petition in duplicate requesting such a deferment. No particular form of petition is required, but the applicant shall attach to one copy thereof a copy of the notice to the public required by 30 U.S.C. 28e showing that it has been filed or recorded in the local recording office in which the notices or certificates of location were filed or recorded.␣*␣*␣* * * * * * 41. Section 3852.3 is revised to read as follows: §3852.3 Notice of action on petition to be recorded. The claimant shall file or record, in the local recording office in which the notice of petition for deferment was filed or recorded, a copy of the order or decision of the BLM authorized officer disposing of the petition. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;21388 Filed 8&hyph;29&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4310&hyph;84&hyph;P ␣
