FR940527-0-00050 FR940527-0-00018 The final element of the discussion of Section 189 requirements concerned provisions in Section 189(e) relating to particulate matter precursors. The conclusion of this discussion was that such precursors do not contribute significantly to particulate matter concentrations which exceed the standard in either area. A fifth section of the notice of proposed rulemaking evaluated whether Ohio's submittals satisfied other Clean Air Act requirements. The principal relevant requirements beyond those of Section 189 are found in section 172(c). The following table summarizes the requirements in each paragraph under section 172(c) and the conclusion in the notice of proposed rulemaking as to whether each requirement is satisfied in each of the two nonattainment areas: ␣ 1Section 1Requirement 1Conclusion of review 172(c)(1) RACM Satisfied in Jefferson but not in Cuyahoga. 172(c)(2) RFP Satisfied in Cuyahoga2 but not in Jefferson. 172(c)(3) Suitable inventory Satisfied in Cuyahoga2 but not in Jefferson. 172(c)(4) Growth margin Satisfied in both areas. 172(c)(5) Suitable permit program Not addressed in this rulemaking. 172(c)(6) Enforceability See text. 172(c)(7) Proper adoption Satisfied in both areas. 172(c)(8) Equivalent procedures Not applicable to either area. 172(c)(9) Contingency plans Not addressed in this rulemaking. 2The proposed approval with respect to these paragraphs was contingent on suitable revision of the test method for the coke quenching limit. Section 172(c)(6), which requires that limitations sufficient to provide for attainment be enforceable by the State and USEPA, was found to be satisfied with respect to all but two paragraphs (relating to quench water quality) for Cuyahoga County 2 and was found not to be satisfied for the Steubenville area. The final element in the notice of proposed rulemaking was a delineation of the proposed rulemaking action. The action proposed was limited approval. Specifically, USEPA proposed to approve all of the regulations except for the two paragraphs noted above relating to quench water quality, i.e. paragraph (B)(10)(c) of Rule 3745&hyph;17&hyph;03 and paragraph (P)(6)(a) of Rule 3745&hyph;17&hyph;12. At the same time, USEPA proposed to approve these paragraphs if the test method is revised to provide either a single day limit or weekly averaging of 5 days' samples. USEPA also proposed to find that the State's submittals satisfy several Part D requirements. Most notably, USEPA proposed to find that the Cuyahoga County plan satisfied the requirement to assure attainment, provided that the limitation on coke quench water quality is made properly enforceable, and proposed to find that the Steubenville area plan satisfied the requirement for timely RACM. However, USEPA proposed to find that certain requirements of Part D were not satisfied for these two areas. Most notably, USEPA proposed to find that the Cuyahoga County plan did not satisfy the requirement for timely RACM, and proposed to find that the Steubenville area plan did not satisfy the requirement for assuring attainment. The notice of proposed rulemaking indicated that the RACM requirement would be satisfied in Cuyahoga County if attainment were assured by December 1993, which would be the case if the measures currently required at Ford by December 1994 were to be required by December 1993 and the quench test method were revised. Finally, USEPA proposed to determine that sources of particulate matter precursors do not presently contribute significantly to violations of the particulate matter standard in Ohio. IV. Summary and Review of Comments Six letters were submitted commenting on this proposal, including letters from the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency (OEPA), Wheeling-Pittsburgh Steel Company, Centerior Energy Corporation, the law firm Fuller & Henry (representing a group of Ohio utilities), the law firm Porter, Wright, Morris & Arthur (representing Ford Motor Corporation), and the law firm Squires, Sanders & Dempsey (representing several steel companies). The following is a summary of each comment and USEPA's review of the comment: Comment: Several commenters requested that USEPA defer rulemaking on Ohio's submittal. These commenters noted that the rules are under appeal to the State's Environmental Board of Review and that several revisions to these rules are anticipated within the next few months. These commenters requested that USEPA wait for these anticipated rule revisions before proceeding with rulemaking. One commenter provided a more detailed rationale for USEPA to defer rulemaking. First, given the commenter's presumption that the Ohio rules will be changed in the near future, USEPA approval of the current rules would soon result in a situation in which companies confront State rules that differ from USEPA-approved rules. Second, the commenter states that USEPA cannot enforce a State rule which a State court has declared void ab initio. The commenter urges that USEPA defer rulemaking to avoid this confusion as to enforceable requirements. Response: Section 110(k)(2) requires action on SIP submittals within 12 months of the date USEPA finds the submittal complete. Since USEPA found this submittal complete on January 28, 1992, USEPA is long overdue for completing action on the State's submittal, and no further delay is justified. USEPA cannot defer rulemaking on rules submitted by the State simply because the State may subsequently revise those rules. Differences between State enforceable rules and federally enforceable rules also arise whenever USEPA disapproves a State rule. In neither case does the potential for such differences constitute basis for USEPA action (or inaction), and in both cases the set of rules approved by USEPA are fully federally enforceable. Regardless of the merits of the commenter's statements for cases in which a State court has declared rules void, in this case no State court has declared judgment on these rules and no evidence was provided that the rules do not remain in effect at the State level. USEPA is acting on the rules as Ohio has submitted them for approval.
