FR940525-2-00013 FR940525-2-00009 •What role, if any, should the Department play in the development of private interim storage facilities? •If the Department is successful in making available central interim storage for spent nuclear fuel, should each utility have the option to pursue continued storage on-site or elsewhere? •Should the Department pursue with Congress the elimination of the existing restrictions on MRS siting, construction, and operations? •What additional comments do you have on the NARUC dialogue? (Copies of their Report are available in the Department of Energy's, Freedom of Information Reading Room, room 1E&hyph;190, 1000 Independence Avenue, SW., Washington, DC 20585 between the hours of 9 a.m. and 4 p.m., Monday through Friday, except Federal holidays.) Cost Sharing Issues •Recognizing the full-cost recovery provision and the limitations imposed on the use of the Nuclear Waste Fund by Section 302 of the Act, should the Department consider offering some form of cost sharing to utilities if it is unable to begin accepting spent nuclear fuel by 1998? •What basis should the Department use for establishing the order and timing by which such cost sharing is offered? •If it is found that such cost sharing may result in increased fees, should the Department continue pursuing implementation of a cost-sharing program? •If cost sharing involves the Department providing MPCs and the utilities paying the costs associated with storage modules and other on-site storage related needs (e.g., costs of loading and handling operations), would the extent of utility expenditures required by this approach affect whether utilities would use it? •If the primary emphasis of a cost-sharing program were to be the provision of MPCs by the Department, what should be done for utilities unable (e.g., those sites that are physically constrained from utilizing MPCs) or unwilling to make use of MPCs? •What other forms of cost sharing should the Department consider? Issued in Washington, DC, May 19, 1994. Daniel A. Dreyfus, Director, Office of Civilian Radioactive Waste Management. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;12787 Filed 5&hyph;24&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6450&hyph;01&hyph;P
