FR941117-2-00071 FR941117-2-00053 Civil Action No.: 94 2305. Stipulation It is stipulated by and between the undersigned parties, by their respective attorneys, that: 1. The Court has jurisdiction over the subject matter of this action and over each of the parties thereto, and venue of this action is proper in the District of Columbia; 2. The parties consent that a Final Judgment in the form hereto attached may be filed and entered by the Court, upon the motion of any party or upon the Court's own motion, at any time after compliance with the requirements of the Antitrust Procedures and Penalties Act (15 U.S.C. ยง16), and without further notice to any party or other proceedings, provided that plaintiff has not withdrawn consent, which it may do at any time before the entry of the proposed Final Judgment by serving notice thereof on defendant and by filing that notice with the Court; 3. Defendant shall abide by and comply with the provisions of the Final Judgment pending entry of the Final Judgment; 4. This Stipulation and the Final Judgment to which it relates are for settlement purposes only and do not constitute an admission by defendant in this or any other proceeding that Section 1 of the Sherman Act, 15 U.S.C. ยง1, or any other provision of law has been violated; 5. In the event plaintiff withdraws its consent or if the proposed Final Judgment is not entered pursuant to this Stipulation; this Stipulation shall be of no effect whatever, and the making of this Stipulation shall be without prejudice to any party in this or any other proceeding. Dated: October 25, 1994. For Plaintiff United States of America: Anne K. Bingaman, Assistant Attorney General. Robert E. Litan, Deputy Asst. Attorney General. Mark C. Schechter, Deputy Director of Operations. Roger W. Fones, Mary Jean Moltenbrey, Robert D. Young, DC Bar # 248260, Nina B. Hale, Attorneys, Transportation, Energy, and Agriculture Section, Antitrust Division, U.S. Department of Justice. For Defendant Association of Retail Travel Agents: Alexander Anolik, A Professional Law Corporation, By: Mitchell Blumenthal. Civil Action No.: 94 2305 Final Judgment Plaintiff, United States of America, filed its complaint on October 25, 1994. Plaintiff and defendant, by their respective attorneys, have consented to the entry of the Final Judgment without trial or adjudication of any issue of fact or law. This Final Judgment shall not be evidence against or an admission by any party with respect to any issue of fact or law. Therefore, before the taking of any testimony and without trial or adjudication of any issue of fact or law herein, and upon consent of the parties, it is hereby ordered, adjudged, and decreed, as follows: I This Court has jurisdiction over the subject matter of and parties to this action. The complaint states a claim upon which relief may be granted against defendant under Section 1 of the Sherman Act, 15 U.S.C. ยง1.
