FR940323-2-00020 FR940323-2-00013 In this case, as a result of the COP test, we discarded sales of the most similar home market model. In conducting the 90/60 day contemporaneity test, we found no remaining sales of the most similar model. Therefore, we relied on CV as the basis of FMV ( see Tubeless Steel Disc Wheels from Brazil, 52 FR 6947 (March 20, 1987), see, also, Import Administration Policy Bulletin, Dec. 15, 1993). Comment 7: Citing AOC International v. United States, 721 F. Supp. 314, 316 (CIT 1989) ( AOC ), Daewoo claims that the Department erroneously excluded from direct warranty costs in the home market the salaries and benefits of employees in the aftersale service centers. According to the respondent, the Department's approach is distortive because it treats all U.S. warranty expenses, incurred in the form of payments to unrelated parties, as direct selling expenses, while classifying similar expenses in the home market as indirect selling expenses simply because the warranty services are provided by the respondent's own service departments. Because the expenses incurred in both markets are identical in nature, respondent contends that the Department should treat such expenses in the same manner in both markets. Department's Position: We disagree with Daewoo. According to our established practice, we consider the home market warranty expenses at issue to be fixed costs that do not qualify as direct selling expenses. This is because the respondent would have incurred such costs regardless of whether they made any sales of the subject merchandise. In the U.S. market, however, Daewoo's warranty repairs are performed by the independent service firms which are paid on a per unit basis, as expense clearly linked to units sold. Consequently, the U.S. warranty expenses are correctly treated as direct selling expenses. Further, we note that the decision in AOC is not final, and may yet be reversed. Therefore, we have continued to treat the home market fixed warranty expenses as indirect selling expenses for these final results ( see Color Television Receivers from the Republic of Korea, 58 FR 50,333 (Sept. 27, 1993), Comment 16 (Eighth Review), and Color Television Receivers from the Republic of Korea, 56 FR 12,701 (March 27, 1991), Comment 20 (Fifth Review)). Goldstar's Comments Comment 8: Goldstar submitted comments concerning three computer programming/clerical errors in the Department's preliminary results analysis of Goldstar's response. Petitioners objected to one of the clerical error allegations, i.e., the inclusion of the U.S. commissions in the ESP ``cap,'' on the grounds that there are no commissions, for comparable sales, in the home market. Department's Position: We agree with Goldstar and have made the following corrections to the appropriate program in our final results calculations for Goldstar: (1) We included the warranty, technical expenses, royalties and promotional fees directly related to the CTV sales in the home market pool of direct selling expenses; (2) we included the U.S. indirect warranty, U.S. indirect advertising and U.S. commission expenses in the ESP cap; and (3) we corrected the amount of commodity taxes in the home market, however, the correction was made according to the new methodology explained above (see Comment 2).
