FR940620-0-00121 FR940620-0-00029 Comment . One comment from an individual with a disability considered the clear floor space specified alongside beds to be insufficient, while a corrections official considered the 36 inch width excessive and recommended that 32 inches be the minimum. Further, this commenter felt that certain cell elements, such as writing desks and storage units, should be allowed to encroach upon this space up to 18 to 24 inches. Response . The 36 inch wide specification is based on requirements for patient bedrooms in ADAAG 6 (Medical Care Facilities). This is in addition to the wheelchair turning space and connecting accessible route required for the cell. Clear floor space required at fixed elements, such as writing desks, may overlap the maneuvering space required at beds; however, the fixed elements themselves may not obstruct or reduce this maneuvering space. This provision remains unchanged except for editorial revisions made for further clarification. Comment . A design professional questioned what the height of beds should be in order to facilitate a transfer from wheelchairs. Response . ADAAG specifies a range of 17 to 19 inches for the height of toilet seats and shower seats in order to facilitate the necessary transfer. This height is appropriate for beds as well. However, determining this height for fixed beds should include non-fixed elements such as bedding or mattresses so that the bed surface to which one transfers is within the range of 17 to 19 inches from the finish floor. Where upper bunks are provided, the height of the beds is particularly important in ensuring sufficient headroom for transfer. This information, including the recommended 17 to 19 inch height for beds, has been added to the appendix. 12.5.2(4)␣Drinking Fountains This provision requires that drinking fountains be accessible for persons using wheelchairs and to those that may have difficulty bending or stooping. This provision is consistent with ADAAG 4.1.3(10)(a). Comment . One design professional disapproved of ADAAG 4.1.3(10)(a) since it contains a performance standard. Another comment from a State corrections authority supported the requirement for drinking fountains accessible at both ``hi-lo'' heights. Response . This provision allows use of ``hi-lo'' fountains, water coolers, or ``other such means as would achieve the required accessibility'' for both wheelchair users and persons who have difficulty bending or stooping. This provision has not been revised. 12.5.2(5)␣Fixed Seating and Tables This provision requires fixed seating and tables be accessible according to ADAAG 4.32. This applies to fixed seating and tables provided within, or serving, accessible cells. This requirement is intended to address seating that may be provided in adjacent common use spaces such as dayrooms. Comment . One comment noted that this provision, if it is to apply to areas such as dayrooms, should be stipulated in ADAAG 12.1 which covers common use areas. Response . As previously noted, this section has been revised to apply to elements, including fixed seating and tables, that are installed within housing or holding cells or rooms. Under ADAAG 12.1, common use spaces, including dayrooms, serving accessible cells are required to be accessible according to the applicable requirements of ADAAG 4.1 through 4.35. This would include the five percent scoping requirement and technical specifications for accessible fixed seating and tables in ADAAG 4.1.3(18) and ADAAG 4.32, respectively. 12.5.2(6)␣Benches This provision requires that benches be 17 to 19 inches high and meet existing structural strength requirements in ADAAG 4.26.3 (Structural Strength). This requirement as proposed specified that benches be a minimum of 24 inches in depth and at least 48 inches long. As discussed in ADAAG 11.4.2(6), the specified minimum dimensions have been removed. 12.5.2(7)␣Storage This provision requires that fixed or built-in storage units be accessible according to ADAAG 4.25 (Storage). Comment . One commenter recommended coverage of inmate lockers. Response . Under this provision, lockers that are fixed or built-in would be subject to the applicable requirements of ADAAG 4.25. This provision has been clarified to apply to fixed or built-in storage units located within housing or holding cells or rooms.
