FR941110-1-00050 FR941110-1-00010 The Act authorizes the Secretary to approve the incurring of expenses by the administrative agency established under an order and states that the order must contain provisions requiring handlers to pay their pro rata share of such expenses. The rate of assessment should be established by the Secretary on the basis of the committee's recommendation and other available information in accordance with proposed ยง956.42. In the event that an assessment rate is established which does not generate sufficient income to pay for the approved expenses, the committee should be authorized to recommend to the Secretary an increase in the rate of assessment in order to secure sufficient funds. The Secretary may approve an assessment rate increase, and such increase should be applicable to all Walla Walla Sweet Onions handled during the fiscal year to which that assessment rate applies. The order should provide for the payment of assessments by first handlers of Walla Walla Sweet Onions for the maintenance and functioning of the committee throughout the time the order is in effect, irrespective of whether particular provisions of the order are suspended or are inoperative. For example, adverse weather during a growing season could result in reduced supplies, and therefore, planned market support activities for the season could be canceled. The committee should be able to continue levying assessments to pay other approved expenses incurred for other purposes. If a handler does not pay any assessment by the date it is due, the order should provide that the late assessment may be subject to a late payment charge or an interest charge, or both, at rates set by the committee with the Secretary's approval. Such charges should be set at rates established to cover additional costs that may be incurred by the committee in attempting to collect overdue assessments, and should encourage timely payments. The period in which payments would be considered late, and late payment charges or interest charges incurred should be recommended by the committee and approved by the Secretary. The committee should be authorized to accept advance payment of assessments so that it may pay expenses which become due before assessment income is normally received. This would give the committee more flexibility in paying obligated expenses, particularly in the first part of a fiscal year before assessment funds are received. The committee should also be able to borrow money to meet administrative expenses that would be incurred before assessment income is sufficient to defray such expenses. However, the committee should not borrow money to pay obligations if sufficient funds already exist in the committee's reserve fund or in other committee accounts. All funds collected by the committee through assessments or any other provision of the order should be used only for the purposes set forth in the order, as set forth in proposed ยง956.43. The Secretary should at all times have authority to require the committee, its members and alternates, and its employees and agents to account for all receipts, disbursements, property or records of the committee for which such person has been responsible. Likewise, when any such person ceases to act in the aforesaid positions, that person should account for all receipts, disbursements, property or records of the committee for which such person has been responsible. In the event the order is terminated or becomes inoperative, the committee should appoint, with the approval of the Secretary, one or more trustees for holding records, funds or other property of the committee. If, at the end of a fiscal period, the assessments collected are in excess of expenses incurred, such excess should be established as a reserve or refunded pro rata to the handlers, under proposed ยง956.44. The committee should be authorized to carry over excess assessment income into the following fiscal period as a reserve. If such excess income is not carried over as a reserve, handlers should be entitled to a refund proportionate to the assessments each handler paid. The reserve should not be allowed to exceed approximately two years' of committee expenses.
