FR940922-2-00037 FR940922-2-00015 Funds are distributed to States based on their proportionate share of birth-through-two-year olds in the general population. No State, however, may receive less than one-half of one percent of the funds available to States. Under the Administration's proposal to merge the Chapter 1 Handicapped program with the programs under the IDEA, States would receive no less under the Grants for Infants and Toddlers with Disabilities Program in 1995 and thereafter than the combined total they received in 1994 for children birth through two years of age under the Grants for Infants and Toddlers with Disabilities program and the Chapter 1 Handicapped program. Objectives of Reauthorization The fundamental objective of the Department's reauthorization effort is to improve results for students with disabilities in America's schools. Reaching this goal requires: •Aligning the IDEA with State and local school reform efforts to ensure a system that enables children with disabilities to benefit from those efforts; •Preparing teachers and administrators to work more effectively with children and youth with disabilities in all educational settings; •Promoting the education of children with disabilities in the least restrictive environment and non-categorical approaches to services to better meet the needs of each child with a disability; •Improving the quality of educational services; •Focusing resources on teaching and learning; and •Improving working relationships between parents and schools. Issues for Public Comment The Secretary solicits comments and suggestions regarding the reauthorization of the IDEA. Parts A and B (except for Section 618) of the IDEA are authorized indefinitely. Statutory authority for Parts C through H expires at the end of fiscal year 1994. However, Parts C through H will be automatically extended by law through fiscal year 1995. Comments are especially invited on the following issues that have been identified thus far by parents, teachers, State and local education administrators, and others concerned with the IDEA reauthorization. Assistance to States and Preschool Grants Programs (Part B) •To what extent and under what conditions should children with disabilities be expected to achieve to State standards and how should children with disabilities be included in State assessment programs? •Are there any changes to the legal framework for initial evaluations or for triennial reevaluations of children that could help States and LEAs improve instruction and services for students with disabilities and focus more resources on teaching and learning? •Are there any changes to the current eligibility requirements, including the use of 13 separate disability categories, that would promote the education of children with disabilities in the least restrictive environment and non-categorical approaches that better meet the needs of each child? •Are there any improvements to statutory provisions concerning Individualized Education Programs that would increase their effectiveness as tools for educational planning and that would better enable teachers and parents to help children achieve to high standards? •Without diminishing the rights and protections afforded children with disabilities and their parents, how can resolving disputes be made less time-consuming, costly, and adversarial? •Should there be any changes to the IDEA to address school safety issues, and if so, what changes would be appropriate? •What changes to the IDEA would help States and LEAs improve the identification of, and services to, children with disabilities from culturally and linguistically diverse backgrounds? •What changes to the IDEA would support parents and schools in working closely together to improve educational results for students with disabilities? •Are there any changes to the Part B funding formula that would improve the program? •Should schools that are implementing schoolwide projects under Title I of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 be permitted to use IDEA funds for those projects as long as eligible children under IDEA continue to receive the rights and protections guaranteed by IDEA? If so, what other conditions, if any, should apply? •Are there any changes to IDEA that should be made to address the needs of students, particularly those in kindergarten through third grade, who have not been identified as disabled, but who are having learning or emotional difficulties that may lead to them being identified as disabled at a later age and who may benefit from intervention in the early grades? Discretionary Grant Programs (Parts C&hyph;G) Current law authorizes a wide range of discretionary programs that support research, demonstrations, outreach, training, technical assistance, dissemination and other activities. Because these programs have evolved over time to address needs as they arose, there is considerable variation in authorized activities, terminology, target populations, eligible applicants, and funding requirements. For example, some programs focus on funding particular types of activities while other programs focus on specific disability categories or age ranges. The Department is interested in determining how it can improve the discretionary authorities, particularly its technical assistance and training activities. •How can the Department improve the coherence and effectiveness of its discretionary programs? •How can resources from different programs be consolidated or coordinated to address issues that cut across age ranges, disabling conditions, and types of activities?
