FR940825-2-00023 FR940825-2-00013 Delaware Bay Harbor porpoise and bottlenose dolphin have stranded inside Delaware Bay as far as Fortescue, NJ. Therefore, only those gill net fisheries operating north of a line drawn from the southern point of Nantuxent Cove (mouth of Cedar Creek, NJ) to southern boundary of Bombay Hook National Wildlife Refuge at Kelly Island, DE (Port Mahon) are reclassified as Category III fisheries. Chesapeake Bay Seaward of the Chesapeake Bay/Bridge Tunnel, 42 bottlenose dolphin and 65 harbor porpoise stranded in Virginian waters during 1993-94. Landward of the Chesapeake Bay/Bridge Tunnel, approximately 14 bottlenose dolphin and 1 harbor porpoise were reported stranded in 1993-94, with little evidence of gill net interactions. Therefore, all gill net fisheries operating between the Chesapeake Bay/Bridge Tunnel and the mainland are reclassified as Category III fisheries. North Carolina After extensive monitoring of gill net effort monitoring in Pamlico and Albermarle Sound, the North Carolina Department of Environment, Health, and Natural Resources has reported no marine mammals incidentally taken in these areas. Therefore, all gill net fisheries operating between the Outer Banks and the mainland from Morehead City, NC to the North Carolina-Virginia border are reclassified as Category III fisheries. Summary of Changes to the List of Fisheries Table 1 _Category I Commercial Fisheries in the Pacific Ocean Reclassify the Alaska Copper River and Bering River (adjacent to Prince William Sound) salmon drift gill net fishery as a Category II fishery (Table 2). Reclassify the Washington, Oregon Lower Columbia River salmon drift gill net fishery as a Category III fishery (Table 3). Reclassify the Washington Willapa Bay salmon drift gill net fishery as a Category III fishery (Table 3). Reclassify the Washington Grays Harbor salmon set and drift gill net fishery as a Category III fishery (Table 3). Add California set and drift gill net fisheries (except the CA Klamath River gill net fishery, Table 2) that utilize a stretched mesh size of greater than 3.5 inches to Category I. This new classification supersedes the following Category I fishery classifications: California angel shark set gill net fishery; California halibut set gill net fishery; California thresher shark and swordfish drift gill net fishery; California soupfin shark, yellowtail, white sea bass set gill net fishery, and will incorporate future California set and drift gillnet fisheries that use a stretched mesh size of greater than 3.5 inches. Table 2 _Category II Commercial Fisheries in the Pacific Ocean. Reclassify the Alaska Copper River and Bering River (adjacent to Prince William Sound) salmon drift gill net fishery from a Category I fishery to Category II. Table 3 _Category III Commercial Fisheries in the Pacific Ocean. Reclassify the Washington, Oregon Lower Columbia River salmon drift gill net fishery from a Category I fishery to Category III. Redefine the Washington, Oregon, California herring, smelt, shad, sturgeon, bottom fish, mullet, perch, rockfish gill net fishery to include only Washington and Oregon. (This California fishery is redefined as a Category III California set and drift gill net fishery (defined below) that utilizes a stretched mesh size of 3.5 inches or less.) Reclassify the Washington Willapa Bay salmon drift gill net fishery from a Category I fishery to Category III. Reclassify the Washington Grays Harbor salmon set and drift gill net fishery from a Category I fishery to Category III. Add California set and drift gill net fisheries (except the CA Klamath River gill net fishery) that utilize a stretched mesh size of 3.5 inches or less to Category III (Table 3). Table 4 _Category I Commercial Fisheries in the Atlantic Ocean, Caribbean, and Gulf of Mexico. No changes.
