FR940124-1-00104 FR940124-1-00009 (B) Calculating the difference between each of those States' initial distribution and $50,000; (vii) Calculating a ``reduction percentage'' by dividing the total amount obtained in paragraph (a)(2)(v)(C) of this section by the total amount obtained in paragraph (a)(2)(vi)(B) of this section; and (viii) Reducing the initial distribution of each State in paragraph (a)(2)(vi)(A) of this section by the product of the amount obtained in paragraph (a)(2)(vi)(B) of this section and the reduction percentage in paragraph (a)(2)(vii) of this section. (b) If the Secretary determines that a SPRE will not spend its entire allotment during the period for which those funds are made available, or if a SPRE does not spend its allotment by the end of the period for which those funds are made available, the Secretary reallots those funds to other SPREs in a manner that the Secretary determines best carries out the purposes of the State Postsecondary Review Program. (c) SSIG and NEISP Program Federal and State matching funds are excluded from the calculations in this section. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1099a&hyph;1099a&hyph;3) §667.12 Application for funds. (a)(1) General. For each fiscal year for which funds are appropriated to carry out this part, a State that has entered into an agreement with the Secretary under §667.3 shall apply to the Secretary to receive its allotment. The State's application must contain the information required in paragraph (b), (c), or (d) of this section, as appropriate. The Secretary publishes in the Federal Register the date by which a State must submit its application. (2) Established review standards. A State has established review standards if those standards met the requirements in §667.21 and the Secretary did not disapprove those standards under §667.22. (b) Application before standards are established. (1) If a State has not established review standards, to receive its allotment the State_ (i) Must submit a plan to develop_ (A) The review standards described in §667.21, in consultation with the institutions in that State, which shall describe the manner in which consultation will take place; and (B) The procedures for receiving and responding to complaints from students, faculty, and others regarding institutions in the State, in consultation with institutions in that State, which shall describe the manner in which consultation will take place; (ii) May submit a plan to identify information maintained by institutions and State agencies, other than the information institutions are required to maintain under the Student Right-to-Know and Campus Security Act, that is relevant to developing the State review standards, to identify systems in which this information is maintained, and to provide estimates of the costs of coordinating the institutions' and State's information systems with an information system developed by the SPRE; and
