FR941216-1-00013 FR941216-1-00005 14 CFR Part 71 [Airspace Docket No. 94&hyph;ASW&hyph;18] Proposed Amendment of Class D Airspace: New Orleans NAS, Alvin Callender Field, LA AGENCY: Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), DOT. ACTION: Notice of proposed rulemaking. SUMMARY: This notice proposes to amend the Class D airspace at New Orleans Naval Air Station (NAS), Alvin Callender Field, New Orleans, LA. Decommissioning of the New Orleans NAS Non-directional Radio Beacon negates the need for Class D airspace to protect the standard instrument approach to this navigational aid. DATES: Comments must be received on or before February 2, 1995. ADDRESSES: Send comments on the proposal in triplicate to Manager, Systems Management Branch, Air Traffic Division, Southwest Region, Docket No. 94&hyph;ASW&hyph;18, Federal Aviation Administration, Fort Worth , TX 76193&hyph;0530. The official docket may be examined in the Office of the Assistant Chief Counsel, Southwest Region, Federal Aviation Administration, 2601 Meacham Boulevard, Fort Worth, TX, between 9 AM and 3 p.m., Monday through Friday, except Federal holidays. An informal docket may also be examined during normal business hours at the System Management Branch, Air Traffic Division, Southwest Region, Federal Aviation Administration, 2601 Meacham Boulevard, Fort Worth, TX. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Donald J. Day, System Management Branch, Air Traffic Division, Southwest Region, Federal Aviation Administration, Fort Worth, TX 76193&hyph;0530; telephone: (817) 222&hyph;5593. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Comments Invited Interested parties are invited to participate in this proposed rulemaking by submitting such written data, views, or arguments as they may desire. Comments that provide the factual basis supporting the views and suggestions presented are particularly helpful in developing reasoned regulatory decisions on the proposal. Comments are specifically invited on the overall regulatory, aeronautical, economic, environmental, and energy-related aspects of the proposal. Communications should identify the airspace docket and be submitted in triplicate to the address listed under the caption ADDRESSES . Commenters wishing the FAA to acknowledge receipt of their comments on this notice must submit, with those comments, a self-addressed, stamped, postcard containing the following statement: ``Comments to Airspace Docket No. 94&hyph;ASW&hyph;18.'' The postcard will be date and time stamped and returned to the commenter. All communications received before the specified closing date for comments will be considered before taking action on the proposed rule. The proposal contained in this notice may be changed in the light of comments received. All comments submitted will be available for examination in the System Management Branch, Air Traffic Division, 2501 Meacham Boulevard, Fort Worth, TX, both before and after the closing date for comments. A report summarizing each substantive public contact with FAA personnel concerned with this rulemaking will be filed in the docket. Availability of NPRM's Any person may obtain a copy of this Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (NPRM) by submitting a request to the Manager, System Management Branch, Federal Aviation Administration, Fort Worth, TX 76193&hyph;0530. Communications must identify the notice number of this NPRM. Persons interested in being placed on a mailing list for future NPRM's should also request a copy of Advisory Circular No. 11&hyph;2A that describes the application procedure. The Proposal The FAA is considering an amendment to part 71 of the Federal Aviation Regulations (14 CFR part 71) to amend the class D airspace at New Orleans NAS Callender Field, LA. Decommissioning of the New Orleans NAS Non-directional Beacon negates the need for the airspace protecting the withdrawn SIAP.
