FR940104-2-00026 FR940104-2-00017 Federal Energy Regulatory Commission [Project Nos. 2315, 2331, 2332] South Carolina Electric & Gas Co. and Duke Power Co.; Notice of Intent to Prepare an Environmental Assessment and Conduct Public Scoping Meetings and Site Visit December 28, 1993. The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) has received applications for relicensing of the existing Gaston Shoals Project, Project No. 2332, Ninety-nine Islands Project, Project No. 2331, and Neal Shoals Project, Project No. 2315. All the projects are located on the Broad River. Gaston Shoals and Ninety-nine Islands are located near Gaffney, South Carolina. Neal Shoals is located near Carlisle, South Carolina. The FERC staff intends to prepare a Multiple Environmental Assessment (MEA) on the hydroelectric projects in accordance with the National Environmental Policy Act. The MEA will consider both site-specific and cumulative environmental impacts of the projects and reasonable alternatives, and will include an economic and engineering analysis. A draft MEA will be issued and circulated for review by all interested parties. All comments filed on the draft MEA will be analyzed by the staff and considered in the final MEA. The staff's conclusions and recommendations will then be presented for the consideration of the Commission in reaching its final licensing decision. Scoping Meetings Two scoping meetings will be conducted: February 2, 1994, 10 a.m., U.S. Forest Service, 3557 Whitmire Highway Union, South Carolina February 2, 1994, 7 p.m., the theater at Chester Park Elementary, School Complex Highway Number 9, Chester, South Carolina. Interested individuals, organizations, and agencies are invited to attend either or both meetings and assist the staff in identifying the scope of environmental issues that should be analyzed in the MEA. The morning meeting is oriented toward the resource agencies and the evening meeting toward the public. To help focus discussions at the meetings, a scoping document outlining subject areas to be addressed in the MEA will be mailed to agencies, organizations, and interested individuals on the FERC mailing list. Copies of the scoping document will also be available at the scoping meetings. Objectives At the scoping meeting, the FERC staff will: (1) identify preliminary environmental issues related to the proposed projects; (2) identify preliminary resource issues that are not important and do not require detailed analysis; (3) identify reasonable alternatives to be addressed in the MEA; (4) solicit from the meeting participants all available information, especially quantified data, on the resource issues; and (5) encourage statements from experts and the public on issues that should be analyzed in the MEA, including points of view in opposition to, or in support of, the staff's preliminary views. Procedures Individuals, organizations, and agencies with environmental expertise and concerns are encouraged to attend the meetings and assist the staff in defining and clarifying the issues to be addressed in the MEA. Persons choosing not to speak at the meetings but who have views on issues or information relevant to the issues may submit written statements for inclusion in the public record at the meeting. In addition, written comments may be filed with the Secretary, Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, 825 North Capitol Street, NE., Washington, DC 20426, until March 4, 1994. All written correspondence should clearly show the following caption on the first page: Gaston Shoals Project, FERC No. 2332, Ninety-nine Islands Project, FERC No. 2331, and Neal Shoals Project, FERC No. 2315. Intervenors_those on the Commission's service list for this proceeding (parties)_are reminded of the Commission's Rules of Practice and Procedure, requiring parties filing documents with the Commission to serve a copy of the document on each person whose name appears on the official service list. Further, if a party or interceder files comments or documents with the Commission relating to the merits of an issue that may affect the responsibilities of a particular resource agency, they must also serve a copy of the document on that resource agency. Site Visit A site visit to the Gaston Shoals, Ninety-nine Islands and Neal Shoals Projects is planned for February 1, 1994. Those who wish to attend should plan to meet at the Gaston Shoals Powerhouse at 9:30 A.M. Any questions regarding the site visit or this notice should be directed to Tim Looney at the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Office of Hydropower Licensing, 825 North Capitol Street, NE., Washington, DC 20426, (202) 219&hyph;2852. Lois D. Cashell, Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;33 Filed 1&hyph;3&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6717&hyph;01&hyph;P
