FR940504-0-00041 FR940504-0-00010 (i) Impose interest based on the rate of U.S. Treasury obligations (with maturities closest to the duration of the license term) at the time of licensing; (ii) Allow installment payments for the full license term; (iii) Begin with interest-only payments for the first two years; and (iv) Amortize principal and interest over the remaining term of the license. (4) A license granted to an eligible entity that elects installment payments shall be conditioned upon the full and timely performance of the licensee's payment obligations under the installment plan. (i) If an eligible entity making installment payments is more than ninety (90) days delinquent in any payment, it shall be in default. (ii) Upon default or in anticipation of default of one or more installment payments, a licensee may request that the Commission permit a three to six month grace period, during which no installment payments need be made. In considering whether to grant a request for a grace period, the Commission may consider, among other things, the licensee's payment history, including whether the licensee has defaulted before, how far into the license term the default occurs, the reasons for default, whether the licensee has met construction build-out requirements, the licensee's financial condition, and whether the licensee is seeking a buyer under an authorized distress sale policy. If the Commission grants a request for a grace period, or otherwise approves a restructured payment schedule, interest will continue to accrue and will be amortized over the remaining term of the license. (iii) Following expiration of any grace period without successful resumption of payment or upon denial of a grace period request, or upon default with no such request submitted, the license will automatically cancel and the Commission will initiate debt collection procedures pursuant to subpart O of this part. (e) The Commission may award bidding credits ( i.e., payment discounts) to eligible designated entities. (1) Competitive bidding rules applicable to individual services will specify the designated entities eligible for bidding credits, the licenses for which bidding credits are available, the amounts of bidding credits and other procedures. (2) Any bidding credit for rural telephone companies will be available only for licenses in rural telephone company service areas and only if eligible rural telephone companies make an infrastructure build-out commitment beyond any standard performance requirement. The amount of the bidding credit for rural telephone companies will be based on the amount by which eligible applicants agree to expand or accelerate the build-out commitment. If a rural telephone company fails to meet an accelerated or expanded build-out commitment, it must make payment to the Commission within ninety (90) days of a penalty equal to the amount of the bidding credit. Grant of the license will be conditioned upon payment of this penalty if and when it becomes applicable. (f) The Commission may offer designated entities a combination of the available preferences or additional preferences. §1.2111 Assignment or transfer of control: Unjust enrichment. (a) Reporting requirement. An applicant seeking approval for a transfer of control or assignment (otherwise permitted under the Commission's Rules) of a license within three years of receiving a new license through a competitive bidding procedure must, together with its application for transfer of control or assignment, file with the Commission a statement indicating that its license was obtained through competitive bidding. Such applicant must also file with the Commission the associated contracts for sale, option agreements, management agreements, or other documents disclosing the total consideration that the applicant would receive in return for the transfer or assignment of its license. This information should include not only a monetary purchase price, but also any future, contingent, in-kind, or other consideration ( e.g., management or consulting contracts either with or without an option to purchase; below market financing). (b) Unjust enrichment payment: set-asides. As specified in this paragraph (b), an applicant seeking approval for a transfer of control or assignment (otherwise permitted under the Commission's Rules) of a license acquired by the transferor or assignor pursuant to a set-aside for eligible designated entities under §1.2110(c), or who proposes to take any other action relating to ownership or control that will result in loss of status as an eligible designated entity, must seek Commission approval and may be required to make an unjust enrichment payment (Payment) to the Commission by cashier's check or wire transfer before consent will be granted. The Payment will be based upon a schedule that will take account of the term of the license, any applicable construction benchmarks, and the estimated value of the set-aside benefit, which will be calculated as the difference between the amount paid by the designated entity for the license and the value of a comparable non-set-aside license in the free market at the time of the auction. The Commission will establish the amount of the Payment and the burden will be on the applicants to disprove this amount. No Payment will be required if: (1) The license is transferred or assigned more than five years after its initial issuance; or (2) The proposed transferee or assignee is an eligible designated entity under §1.2110(c), and so certifies. (c) Unjust enrichment payment: installment financing. An applicant seeking approval for a transfer of control or assignment (otherwise permitted under the Commission's Rules) of a license acquired by the transferor or assignor through a competitive bidding procedure utilizing installment financing available to designated entities under §1.2110(d) will be required to pay the full amount of the remaining principal balance as a condition of the license transfer. No payment will be required if the proposed transferee or assignee assumes the installment payment obligations of the transferor or assignor, and if the proposed transferee or assignee is itself qualified to obtain installment financing under §1.2110(d), and so certifies. (d) Unjust enrichment payment: bidding credits. An applicant seeking approval for a transfer of control or assignment (otherwise permitted under the Commission's Rules) of a license acquired by the transferor or assignor through a competitive bidding procedure utilizing bidding credits available to eligible designated entities under §1.2110(e), or who proposes to take any other action relating to ownership or control that will result in loss of status as an eligible designated entity, must seek Commission approval and will be required to make an unjust enrichment payment (Payment) to the Government by wire transfer or cashier's check before consent will be granted. The Payment will be the sum of the amount of the bidding credit plus interest at the rate applicable for installment financing in effect at the time the license was awarded. See §1.2110(e). No payment will be required if: (1) The proposed transferee or assignee is an eligible designated entity under §1.2110(e), and so certifies; or (2) The proposed transferor or assignor is a rural telephone company as defined in §1.2110(b)(3), and the proposed transferee or assignee is also a rural telephone company and agrees to meet the same construction requirements as the transferor or assignor. Federal Communications Commission. William F. Caton, Acting Secretary. Editorial Note: This appendix will not appear in the Code of Federal Regulations. BILLING CODE 6712&hyph;01&hyph;M Appendix_FCC Form 175 E:GRAPHICSER04MY94.000 E:GRAPHICSER04MY94.001 E:GRAPHICSER04MY94.002 E:GRAPHICSER04MY94.003 BILLING CODE 6712&hyph;01&hyph;C Notice: The solicitation of personal information requested in this form is authorized by the Communications Act of 1934, as amended. The Commission will use the information provided in this form to determine whether grant of this application is in the public interest. In researching that determination, or for law enforcement purposes, it may become necessary to refer personal information contained in this form to another government agency. In addition, all information provided in this form will be available for public inspection. If information requested on the form is not provided, processing of the application may be delayed or the application may be returned without action pursuant to the Commission rules. Your response is required to obtain the requested authority. Public reporting burden for this collection of information is estimated to average 15 minutes per response including the time for reviewing instruction, searching existing data needed, and completing and reviewing the collection. Send comments regarding this burden, to the Federal Communications Commission, Office of Managing Director, Washington, DC 20554, and to the Office of Management and Budget, Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, Washington, DC 20554. The Notice is required by the Privacy Act of 1974, Public Law 93&hyph;579, December 31, 1974, 5 U.S.C. 552a(e)(3) and the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980, Public Law 96&hyph;511, December 11, 1980. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;10638 Filed 4&hyph;29&hyph;94; 4:43 pm] BILLING CODE 6712&hyph;01&hyph;M
