FR941207-2-00086 FR941207-2-00062 The Commission believes that the Chicago Match is consistent with Section 11A(a)(1)(B) of the Act which states that new data processing and communications techniques create the opportunity for more efficient and effective market operations. The Chicago Match employs significant new information technology and an automated system that adds to the existing trading facilities of the CHX. As a result, the Chicago Match will serve as an innovative adjunction to the CHX's existing market structure. The Commission historically has encouraged the creation of new electronic trading systems such as the Chicago Match that may contribute to increased execution alternatives available to investors. At the same time, it is important to ensure that new exchange trading systems are consistent with the investor protection and fair and orderly market standards contained in the Act. The Commission believes that the Chicago Match achieves this objective. The Chicago Match represents a blending of some of the attributes of off-exchange trading systems with the market making and brokerage features of the CHX trading floor. In addition, it will blend the features of a unitary call market with the continuous auction of the CHX floor. The operation of such a hybrid system will differ in important respects from the traditional trading floor design. The Commission disagrees with assertions that these differences would cause the Chicago Match to violate Exchange Act provisions. While the proposal does involve regulatory issues regarding transparency, institutional access, and regulatory structure, for the reasons discussed below, the amended proposal adequately addresses these issues and is consistent with the maintenance of free and open markets and investor protection in accordance with Section 6(b)(5) of the Act. 58 58 15 U.S.C. ยง78(f)(5) (1988). First, the Commission believes that, contrary to the NYSE's assertions, the Chicago Match is properly regulated as a facility of an exchange and not as a proprietary trading system. 59 The Chicago Match will use exchange equipment, including software and lines as well as exchange personnel, to run the system. The Chicago Match will also include CHX market maker participation as well as CHX's Midwest Clearing Corporation to clear trades. Therefore, the Chicago Match will be using the CHX's premises, property, and services for effecting and reporting Chicago Match transactions and, thus, will be using the facilities of an exchange as defined in Section 3(a)(2) of the Act. 60 59 Section 3(a)(2) provides that the term ``facility'' when used with respect to an exchange includes its premises, tangible or intangible property whether on the premises or not, any right to the use of such premises or property or any service thereof for the purpose of effecting or reporting a transaction on an exchange (including, among other things, any system of communications to or from the exchange, by ticker or otherwise, maintained by or with the consent of the exchange), and any right of the exchange to the use of any property or service. 60 An opposite conclusion could lead to the situation where an exchange creates a separate trading system to avoid exchange regulation by directing its core operations to the ``separate'' system.
