FR940505-1-00489 FR940505-1-00012 (2) Identifies a minor administrative change at the stationary source; for example, a change in the name, address, or phone number of any person identified in the permit; or (3) Requires more frequent monitoring or reporting by a responsible official of the stationary source; or (4) Transfers ownership or operational control of a stationary source, provided that, prior to the transfer, the EPA receives a written agreement which specifies a date for the transfer of permit responsibility, coverage, and liability from the current to the prospective permittee. Ambient air quality standards means state and federal ambient air quality standards for the purpose of submittal to the EPA for inclusion in the California State Implementation Plan. All references in this section, ยง52.3001, and ยง52.3002 to ambient air quality standards shall be interpreted as National Ambient Air Quality Standards. Applicable requirements means air quality requirements with which a facility must comply pursuant to the State Implementation Plan, the Federal Clean Air Act as amended in 1990 and implementing regulations, other provisions of the United States Code, and the Code of Federal Regulations. Authority to construct means a preconstruction permit authorizing construction prior to the start of construction and conforming to the requirements of ยง52.3001, New Source Review. Authorized means emission reduction credits (ERCs) which have been evaluated by the EPA to verify that they are quantifiable, enforceable, permanent and surplus at the time of use. Authorization of the ERCs must occur both prior to approval of, and concurrent with, the application for use of the ERCs as offsets pursuant to ยง52.3001, New Source Review. Banking means the system of quantifying, adjusting, certifying, recording, and storing ERCs for future use and transfer. Procedures for banking ERCs are described in applicable district banking rules. Begin actual construction means initiation of physical, on-site construction activities on an emissions unit which are of a permanent nature. Such activities include, but are not limited to, installation of building supports and foundations, laying of underground pipework, and construction of permanent storage structures. With respect to a change in the method of operation, this term refers to those on-site activities other than preparatory activities which mark the initiation of the change. Best available control technology (BACT) means: (1) For any emissions unit, an emission limit based on the most stringent of the following: (i) The most effective emission control device, emission limit, or technique, singly or in combination, which has been required or used for the type of equipment comprising such an emissions unit unless the applicant demonstrates to the satisfaction of the EPA that such limitations required on other sources have not been demonstrated to be achievable. (ii) Any alternative basic equipment, fuel, process, emission control device or technique, singly or in combination, determined to be technologically feasible and cost-effective by the EPA.
