FR940816-1-00011 FR940816-1-00005 The standards for determining discrimination in this area are those utilized in all other areas covered by the Act. Specific practices that violate the Act will be identified and the factual circumstances for identifying violations will be defined. The rule will describe the investigative techniques HUD will utilize, including those HUD employs in current fair housing complaint investigations. The rule will identify remedies to be considered that are appropriate to insurance cases. The areas for which HUD specifically requests comment from the public are the following: 1. Underwriting practices that may discriminate due to either disparate treatment or disparate impact. 2. Sales and marketing practices that may discriminate due to either disparate treatment or disparate impact. 3. Explanations or justifications for those industry practices that could be challenged as violations of the Act because of disparate treatment or disparate impact. In cases of disparate impact, explanations should address the business necessity for the practice and why no less discriminatory alternative exists. 4. Barriers to the availability of insurance, or barriers to equal terms and conditions of insurance, for particular protected classes. 5. Entities and individuals who should be covered by the prohibition against discriminatory insurance practices, such as mutual and stock companies, independent agents, direct writers, exclusive agents, and rating services. 6. Techniques HUD should use in complaint investigations. 7. Remedies HUD should consider to discourage discriminatory practices, including equitable, injunctive, and affirmative relief, monetary damages, and civil penalties. 8. Voluntary actions insurers can take to assure nondiscrimination and to increase availability of insurance to allow access to capital. 9. Other issues that are relevant to the issue of insurance discrimination. In addition to comments, HUD is also requesting any reports, documents, or other evidence that will assist the Department in evaluating issues to be addressed in the regulation. HUD requests that, in submitting comments on any of the foregoing issues, the commenter please cite the item number of the issue addressed by the comment. HUD also welcomes comments on issues related to insurance practices that are not specifically included in the items listed. Dated: August 10, 1994. Roberta Achtenberg, Assistant Secretary for Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;20048 Filed 8&hyph;15&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4210&hyph;28&hyph;P
