FR940419-1-00068 FR940419-1-00009 (4) Education including remedial education; literacy training; completion of secondary or post secondary education and assistance in the attainment of certificates of high school equivalency; (5) Business, entrepreneurial training and counseling; (6) Transportation necessary to enable any participating family member to receive available services or to commute to his/her place of employment; (7) Personal welfare (e.g. substance/alcohol abuse treatment and counseling, self-development counseling, etc.); (8) Supportive Health Care Services (e.g., outreach and referral services; and (9) Any other services and resources, including case management, determined to be appropriate in assisting eligible residents. (c) FIC Service Coordinator. Any person who is responsible for: (1) determining the eligibility and assessing needs of families to be serviced by the FIC; (2) assessing training and service needs of eligible residents; (3) working with service providers to coordinate the provision of services and to tailor the services to the needs and characteristics of eligible residents; (4) mobilizing public and private resources to ensure that the supportive services identified can be funded over the five-year period, at least, following the initial receipt of funding; (5) monitoring and evaluating the delivery, impact and effectiveness of any supportive service funded with capital or operating assistance under the FIC program. (6) coordinating the development and implementation of the FIC Program with other self-sufficiency, educational and employment programs; and (7) performing other duties and functions that are appropriate for providing eligible residents with better access to educational and employment opportunities. ยง905.982 Eligibility. A HA may apply to establish one or more FICs for more than one Indian housing development. A HA must demonstrate a firm commitment of assistance from one or more sources ensuring that supportive services will be provided for not less than one year following the completion of activities. ยง905.983 FIC Activities. Activities that may be funded and carried out by an eligible HA may include: (a) The renovation, conversion, or combination of vacant dwelling units to create common areas to accommodate the provision of supportive services; (b) The renovation of existing common areas to accommodate the provision of supportive services; (c) The renovation of facilities located near the premises of one or more HA developments to accommodate the provision of supportive services; (d) The provision of not more than 15 percent of the total cost of supportive services (which may be provided directly to eligible residents by the HA or by contract or lease through other appropriate agencies or providers), but only if the HA demonstrates that: (1) The supportive services are appropriate to improve the access of eligible residents to employment and educational opportunities; and (2) The HA has made diligent efforts to use or obtain other available resources to fund or provide such services; and (e) The employment of service coordinators. ยง905.984 HA role in activities under this part. A HA shall develop a process that ensures that RO/RMC representatives and residents are fully informed of, and have an opportunity to comment on, the contents of the application and activities at all stages of the application and grant award process. The HA shall give full and fair consideration to the comments and concerns of the residents.
