FR941006-1-00147 FR941006-1-00016 VI. Analysis of Impacts FDA has examined the impacts of the proposed rule under Executive Order 12866 and the Regulatory Flexibility Act (Pub. L. 96&hyph;354). Executive Order 12866 directs agencies to assess all costs and benefits of available regulatory alternatives and, when regulation is necessary, to select regulatory approaches that maximize net benefits (including potential economic, environmental, public health and safety, and other advantages; distributive impacts; and equity). The agency believes that this proposed rule is consistent with the regulatory philosophy and principles identified in the Executive Order. In addition, the proposed rule is not a significant regulatory action as defined by the Executive Order and so is not subject to review under the Executive Order. A. Description of the Industry There are approximately 300 iron-containing products that may be affected by these proposed actions, of which approximately one-half contain 30 mg or more iron per dosage unit. The types of iron-containing products that have been associated with poisonings of young children are products offered in solid oral dosage form as multi-vitamin/mineral supplements, products intended for use as iron supplements, and drug products. Typically, multi-vitamin/mineral supplements provide less than 30 mg of iron per dosage unit. Iron supplements and drug products typically contain 30 mg or more iron per dosage unit. The proposed action to require warning statements would affect all iron-containing products. On the other hand, FDA is proposing to require unit-dose packaging for products containing 30 mg or more iron per dosage unit. Therefore, most multi-vitamin/mineral supplements would be subject to the warning statement requirements but not to the packaging requirements. Most iron supplements and iron-containing drug products would be subject to both proposed requirements. Iron-containing products may be purchased by consumers on their own initiative as dietary supplements, or they may be prescribed by physicians. The information available to the industry suggests that the overwhelming majority of iron- containing products are currently packaged in bottles (Ref. 33). Additional information suggests that iron-containing products administered in hospitals are commonly packaged in unit-dose packaging (Ref. 34). Unit-dose packaging is preferred by hospitals because with this type of packaging, each dosage unit has an identification and an expiration date, and the hospital can continue to use unit-dose packaged drugs rather than having to discard a bottle opened for a specific patient after that patient is discharged. Based on this information, FDA assumes that iron-containing products dispensed in hospitals are currently packaged in unit-dose packaging. According to the National Center for Health Statistics, of the approximately 169 million persons of age 18 or older, 19.7 percent consume iron-containing products (Ref. 35). If it is assumed that each individual consumes one dosage unit per day,there are approximately 12 billion dosage units of iron- containing products consumed annually in the United States. The agency does not have complete information on the number of dosage units of iron-containing products that contain 30 mg or more iron. However, because only pregnant women require 30 mg/day, FDA assumes that the portion of higher-dosage iron-containing products can be estimated by the number of pregnant women in the United States. In 1991, the most recent year for which data are available, there were 4.1 million live births (Ref. 36). FDA is assuming a one-to-one correspondence between the number of live births and the number of pregnancies in concluding that there are about 4.1 million pregnant women on any one day in the United States. The number of live births may overestimate the number of pregnant women because multiple births by one woman are ignored. Also, the number of live births ignores pregnancies not resulting in a live birth, which may result in an underestimate of the number of pregnant women. If it is assumed that the number of live births is an estimate of the number of dosage units of products containing 30 mg or more iron, then the number of dosage units per year can be estimated at 4.1 million times 365 days per year or about 1.5 billion.
