FR941230-1-00038 FR941230-1-00004 (5) Commencement of private business use. Generally, private business use commences on the first date on which there is actual use by the nongovernmental person. If, however, the issuer and a nongovernmental person enter into an arrangement to transfer a financed facility, private business use commences on the date of that arrangement if that arrangement was entered into substantially in advance of the transfer and the transfer will occur during the final year of the term of the issue or after the retirement of the issue. (6) Examples. The following examples illustrate the application of this paragraph (i): Example 1. Research facility. University U is a state owned and operated university. As part of its activities, U owns and operates a bond-financed research facility. U enters into sponsored research agreements with nongovernmental persons that result in private business use. The research otherwise conducted by U (government use) and the private research will take place simultaneously in all laboratories within the research facility. All laboratory equipment will be available continuously for use by workers who will perform both types of research. A researcher will often use a single laboratory to perform identical research that may meet the objectives of U's research and the obligations under the research contracts. Under this section, the nongovernmental persons are using the facility for a private business use. The private business use results from a use of the facility, the research, that is on the same basis as government use of the facility. Therefore, the portion of the facility that is used for a private business use may be determined on a reasonable basis. If more than 10 percent of the use of the facility is private business use, no portion of the facility can be financed with tax-exempt bonds. Example 2. Stadium. City L issues its obligations and uses all of the proceeds to construct a stadium. L enters into a long-term contract with a professional sports team T under which T will use the stadium 20 times during each year. These uses will occur on weeknights and weekends. L reasonably expects that the stadium will be used more than 180 other times each year, none of which will give rise to private business use. This expectation is based on a feasibility study and historical use of the old stadium that is being replaced by the new stadium. There is no significant difference in the value of T's uses when compared to the other uses of the stadium. Assuming no other private business use, the obligations do not satisfy the private business use test of section 141(b)(1) on the issue date since not more than 10 percent of the use of the facility is for a private business use. Example 3. Stadium with significant private business use. The facts are the same as in Example 2, except that L reasonably expects that more than 10 percent of the use of the stadium will be for a private business use. The obligations satisfy the private business use test. Further, since the stadium is not a mixed use facility under ยง1.141&hyph;6, any obligations issued to finance any portion of the stadium are treated as having private business use in excess of 10 percent. Therefore, no portion of the stadium can be financed with tax-exempt bonds. ยง1.141&hyph;4 Private security or payment test. (a) General rule. (1) Private security or payment. The private security or payment test relates to the nature of the security for, and the source of, the payment of debt service on an issue. The private payment portion of the test takes into account the payment of the debt service on the issue that is directly or indirectly to be derived from payments (whether to the issuer or any related party) in respect of property, or borrowed money, used or to be used for a private business use. The private security portion of the test takes into account the payment of the debt service of the issue that is directly or indirectly secured by any interest in (i) property used or to be used for a private business use, or (ii) payments in respect of property used or to be used for a private business use. (2) Aggregation of private payments and security. For purposes of the private security or payment test, payments taken into account as private payments and payments or property taken into account as private security are aggregated. However, the same payments are not taken into account as both private security and private payments. For example, the 10 percent private security or payment test is met if, in the aggregate, the payments taken into account as private payments and the property or payments taken into account as private security exceed 10 percent of the debt service on the bonds, provided no payment is taken into account under both portions of the test. (b) Measurement of private payments and security_ (1) Scope. This paragraph (b) contains rules that apply to both private security and private payment. (2) General rule. The security for, and payment of debt service on an issue is determined from the terms of the bond documents and on the basis of any underlying arrangement. An underlying arrangement may result from separate agreements between the parties or may be determined on the basis of all the facts and circumstances surrounding the issuance of the bonds. If the payment of debt service on an issue is secured by both a pledge of the full faith and credit of a State or local governmental unit and any interest in property used or to be used in a private business use, the issue satisfies the private security or payment test. For special rules for output facilities, see ยง1.141&hyph;7. (3) Present value measurement_ (i) Use of present value. In determining whether an issue meets the private security or payment test, the present value of the payments or property taken into account is compared to the present value of the debt service to be paid over the term of the issue.
