FR940516-2-00144 FR940516-2-00094 (iii) The prohibitions against discrimination on the basis of age under the Age Discrimination Act of 1975 (42 U.S.C. 6101&hyph;07) and implementing regulations at 24 CFR part 146, and the prohibitions against discrimination against persons with disabilities under section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 794) and implementing regulations at 24 CFR part 8. (b) Additional Education and Outreach Initiative requirements. In addition to meeting the application requirements contained in section III.(a), above, all proposals under the Education and Outreach Initiative must include the following: (1) A description of how the activities or the final products of the projects can be used by other agencies and organizations and what modifications, if any, would be necessary for that purpose. (2) Coordination of activities. Each non-governmental applicant for funding under the Education and Outreach Initiative that is located within the jurisdiction of a State or local enforcement agency or agencies administering a fair housing law that has been certified by the Department under 24 CFR part 115 as being a substantially equivalent fair housing law must provide, with its application, documentation that it has consulted with the agency or agencies to coordinate activities to be funded under the Education and Outreach Initiative. This coordination will ensure that the activities of one group will minimize duplication and fragmentation of activities of the other. Failure to submit the documentation required by this section will be treated as a technical deficiency in accordance with section IV., below, of this NOFA. (3) Every regional/local/community-based program application must include as one of its activities a procedure for referring persons with Fair Housing complaints to State or local agencies, private attorneys, or HUD and the Department of Justice for further enforcement processing. (c) Additional Private Enforcement Initiative requirements. In addition to meeting the application requirements contained in section III.(a), above, all proposals for testing under the Private Enforcement Initiative must include: (1) Documentation that the applicant has at least one year of experience in carrying out a program to prevent or eliminate discriminatory housing practices, and has sufficient knowledge of fair housing testing to enable the applicant to implement a testing program successfully; (2) A certification providing that the applicant will not solicit funds from or seek to provide fair housing educational or other services or products for compensation, directly or indirectly, to any person or organization which has been the subject of testing by the applicant during a 12 month period following the test. (d) Additional Fair Housing Organizations Initiative requirements. In addition to meeting the application requirements contained in section III.(a), above, the following application submission requirements apply to proposals under the Fair Housing Organizations Initiative: (1) Each applicant under the continued development of existing organizations purpose of the Fair Housing Organizations Initiative must submit an operating budget that describes the applicant's total planned expenditures from all sources, including the value of in-kind and monetary contributions, in the year for which funding is sought. This operating budget will be used for the purposes of determining the extent of the 50% funding limitation on operating expenses. (2) All proposals for testing under the Fair Housing Organizations Initiative must certify that the applicant will not solicit funds from or seek to provide fair housing educational or other services or products for compensation, directly or indirectly, to any person or organization which has been the subject of testing by the applicant during a 12 month period following the test. IV. Corrections to Deficient Applications Applicants will not be disqualified from being considered for funding because of technical deficiencies in their application submission, e.g., an omission of information such as regulatory/program certifications, or incomplete signatory requirements for application submission. HUD will notify an applicant in writing of any technical deficiencies in the application. The applicant must submit corrections within 14 calendar days from the date of HUD's letter notifying the applicant of any technical deficiency. The 14-day correction period pertains only to non-substantive, technical deficiencies or errors. Technical deficiencies relate to items that:
