FR940413-2-00057 FR940413-2-00031 Statement of Policy on System Institution Activities Involving the Potential for Nonexclusive Territories AGENCY: Farm Credit Administration. ACTION: Statement of policy; request for comments. SUMMARY: The Farm Credit Act of 1971 (1971 Act) gives the Farm Credit Administration (FCA) broad powers to issue and amend the charters of Farm Credit System (System) institutions and regulate the exercise of their powers. In most instances since 1933 the FCA has issued charters and regulations that authorize institutions to provide their services in exclusive territories. The FCA Board has determined that since the agency may be requested to issue nonexclusive charters in the future or to modify the regulations governing out-of-territory activities, the FCA Board should adopt a policy statement setting forth its views on nonexclusive territories. The FCA Board is requesting comments on its views. DATES: Comments must be submitted on or before [June 13, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments should be mailed or delivered (in triplicate) to Kenneth D. Smith, Executive Assistant to FCA Board Member Gary C. Byrne, Farm Credit Administration, 1501 Farm Credit Drive, McLean, Virginia 22102&hyph;5090. Copies of all comments received will be available for examination by interested parties in the offices of the Farm Credit Administration, 1501 Farm Credit Drive, McLean, Virginia. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Kenneth D. Smith, Executive Assistant to Board Member Gary C. Byrne, Farm Credit Administration, 1501 Farm Credit Drive, McLean, Virginia 22102&hyph;5090, (703) 883&hyph;4010, TDD (703) 883&hyph;4444. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The 1971 Act authorizes the FCA to issue and amend the charters of System institutions and regulate the exercise of their powers. Included in this authority is the ability for the FCA to issue or amend charters or promulgate regulations that would result in increased competition among System institutions. The issue of competition among System institutions arises, typically, in two types of situations. First, charters could be issued authorizing two or more System institutions to extend the same types of credit services to the same types of customers in the same geographic territories; such charters have typically been issued as a result of mergers or other chartering actions requested by institutions. Second, institutions could be authorized by regulation to engage in certain activities outside of their chartered territories. Background Although the FCA has broad authority to issue charters that authorize two or more institutions to serve the same territory, exclusive charters have been the general practice since 1933. 1 The exceptions to this general practice are worth noting. Prior to the Agricultural Credit Act of 1987 (1987 Act), at least four types of competition existed at various times as follows: 1 The Emergency Farm Mortgage Act of 1933 (1933 Act) authorized the chartering of production credit associations (PCAs) and other institutions. FCA, generally, has issued PCA charters with exclusive territories. (1) Nonexclusive Charters The 1916 Federal Farm Loan Act (1916 Act) authorized the creation of numerous National Farm Loan Associations, predecessors to the Federal land bank associations (FLBAs). Few, if any, of these associations had exclusive territories. Most of the charters involving nonexclusive territories were issued prior to 1933. At one time, there were about 5,000 FLBAs. As a result of mergers and territorial realignments, only a few FLBA charters with nonexclusive territories remain, all in the Texas District. (2) Competition Between Short- and Long-Term Lenders The potential for intra-System competition has always existed between the long-term lender (Federal land bank/FLBA) and the short- and intermediate-term lender (Federal intermediate credit bank/production credit association/agricultural credit association) (FICB/PCA/ACA) serving the same territory because of overlapping lending authorities. (3) Specialized Association Charters In the early days of the System, FCA granted certain associations authority to finance specific commodities over wide geographical areas (often statewide) resulting in the issuance of charters with the same territory as other associations in the area. Only two of these specialized lending charters remain: two ACAs on the east coast have full authority in an exclusively chartered area and very limited authority in broader areas. In addition, a small number of other nonexclusive charters were granted. Very few of the other nonexclusive charters granted during this early period still exist, and they are primarily located in New Mexico, a small area of California, and Nevada. (4) Competition Created By Statute The 1916 Act created parallel long-term mortgage credit systems to serve both commercial banks and direct retail customers: A system of cooperative mortgage banks and a system of joint stock land banks owned by investors. The former evolved into the Federal land banks (now the farm credit banks or agricultural credit banks) and the latter no longer exist. 2 2 In 1993, similar systems were created to serve cooperative borrowers (the banks for cooperatives) and short-term production credit users. The production credit system consisted of the PCAs, FICBs, (now the farm credit or agricultural credit banks), and a system of production credit corporations (which no longer exist). In addition to these existing forms of competition, the 1987 Act contained several provisions that have resulted in competition among System institutions:
