FR941116-2-00009 FR941116-2-00002 Management Area 10_Dispersed Recreation/Forage Modify the title and management area description to reflect the changes embodied in the public LURs. The title of this management area would be changed to ``Dispensed Recreation/Semi-Primitive.'' Modify vegetation S&Gs for forage allocation and utilization standards to ensure achievement of the HCNRA-wide goals and objectives. Modify access S&Gs to establish road densities to ensure achievement of the HCNRA-wide goals and objectives. Management Area 11_Dispersed Recreation/Timber Management Modify the title and management area description to reflect the changes embodied in the public LURs. The title of this management area would be changed to ``Dispersed Recreation/Roaded Natural-Roaded.'' Modify the management area description to reflect the intent of the public LURs. Modify vegetation S&Gs for forage allocation and utilization standards to ensure achievement of the HCNRA-wide goals and objectives. Modify access S&Gs to establish road densities to ensure achievement of the HCNRA-wide goals and objectives. Management Area 12_Research Natural Areas Modify vegetation S&Gs for forage allocation and utilization standards to ensure achievement of the HCNRA-wide goals and objectives. Develop S&Gs for scientific research consistent with the objectives for these areas. Management Area 16_Administrative and Recreation Site Retention Identify sites for allocation to administrative and recreation site retention compatible primary objectives of the HCNRA Act and compatible with management area objectives. Develop S&Gs for management, development, and maintenance of administrative and recreation sites, including ROS classes. Monitoring and Evaluation The monitoring and evaluation program for the HCNRA would be refined to be compatible with the above changes in management direction to ensure that the goals and objectives for the HCNRA are achieved; assess the effectiveness of achieving desired conditions and results; ensure quality consistency and cost effectiveness of monitoring data and information in order to support maintenance of changes in management direction; and maintain viable Forest Plans. The existing Forest Plan Monitoring and Implementation Plan and CMP Monitoring Plan would serve as the foundation in which to develop a refined monitoring plan that would best monitor the implemented management plan. The format for each monitoring element, whether it is implementation, effectiveness, or validation monitoring would address the following: _Monitoring Goal _Purpose of Monitoring _Unit of Measure _Threshold of Variability _Frequency of Monitoring _Costs _Responsibilities This EIS will tier to the Final EIS and Forest Plan. The CMP is incorporated into the Forest Plan. The CMP provides the programmatic management direction for the HCNRA. The Forest Plan provides goals and objectives, standards and guidelines, management area direction, and monitoring and evaluation for the various lands on the Forest and HCNRA. Both the Forest Plan and CMP provide programmatic management direction for site-specific management practices that will be utilized during the implementation of the Forest Plan and CMP. The HCNRA consists of an estimated 652,488 acres. The HCNRA is comprised of the following management areas: wilderness, wild and scenic rivers, dispersed recreation/native vegetation, forage, dispersed recreation/timber management, research natural areas, and developed recreation and administrative facilities. The analysis will consider a range of alternatives, including no-action. Public participation will be especially important at several points during the analysis, beginning with the scoping process (40 CFR 1501.7). The Forest Service will be seeking information, comments, and assistance from Federal, State, local agencies and other individuals, organizations, or governments who may be interested in or affected by the proposed project. This input will be used in preparation of the draft EIS. The scoping process includes: 1. Identifying potential issues. 2. Identifying major issues to be analyzed in depth. 3. Identifying issues which have been covered by a relevant previous environmental analysis. 4. Exploring additional alternatives based on themes which will be derived from issues recognized during scoping activities. 5. Identifying potential environmental effects of this project and alternatives (i.e., direct, indirect, and cumulative effects and connected actions). 6. Determining potential cooperating agencies and task assignments. 7. Notifying interested publics of opportunities to participate through meetings, personal contacts, or written comment. Keeping the public informed through the media and/or written material (i.e., newsletters, correspondence, etc.). The draft EIS will be filed with the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and is expected to be available for public review by April, 1995. The comment period on the draft EIS will be 45 days from the date the EPA publishes the notice of availability in the Federal Register . The final EIS is expected to be available for public review by September, 1995. The Forest Service believes, at this early stage, it is important to give reviewers notice of several court rulings related to public participation in the environmental review process. First, reviewers of draft environmental impact statements must structure their participation in the environmental review of the proposal so that it is meaningful and alerts an agency to the reviewer's position and contentions. Vermont Yankee Nuclear Power Corp. v. NRDC , 435 U.S. 519, 553 (1978). Also, environmental objections that could have been raised at the draft stage may be waived or dismissed by the court if not raised until after completion of the final EIS. City of Angoon v. Hodel, 803 F.2d. 1016, 1022 (9th Cir. 1986) and Wisconsin Heritages, Inc. v. Harris , 490 F. Supp. 1334, 1338 (E.D. Wis. 1980). Because of these court rulings, it is very important that those interested in this proposed action participate by the close of the 30-day comment period so that substantive comments and objections are made available to the Forest Service at a time when it can meaningfully be considered and responded to in the final EIS. To be most helpful, comments on the draft EIS should be as specific as possible and may address the adequacy of the statement or the merit of the alternatives discussed. Reviewers may wish to refer to the Council on Environmental Quality Regulations for implementing the procedural provisions of the National Environmental Policy Act at 40 CFR 1503.3 in addressing these points. Public workshops are scheduled in Boise and Grangeville, Idaho and Enterprise and Portland, Oregon on November 28 through December 1. Please contact Kurt Wiedenmann, Planning Team Leader, at (503) 523&hyph;1296 for additional information. The final EIS is scheduled to be completed by September, 1995. In the final EIS, the Forest Service is required to respond to comments and responses received during the comment period that pertain to the environmental consequences discussed in the draft EIS and applicable laws, regulations, and policies considered in making the decision regarding the proposal. R.M. Richmond, Forest Supervisor, is the Responsible Official. As the Responsible Official, he will decide whether to implement the proposal or a different alternative. The Responsible Official will document the decision and reasons for the decision in the Record of Decision. That decision will be subject to Forest Service Appeal Regulations (36 CFR part 217). Dated: November 7, 1994. R.M. Richmond, Forest Supervisor. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;28236 Filed 11&hyph;15&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3410&hyph;11&hyph;M
