FR940318-0-00226 FR940318-0-00023 Appendix C to the Preamble Data Confidentiality Claims Data Confidentiality Claims 1. Special Requirements for Submitting Data to the Docket Data submissions must be provided in three copies. If information is claimed as confidential, all CBI must be deleted from the third copy which will become part of the public docket. If no claims of confidentiality are made for the submission, the third copy should be identical to the other two. When portions of the submission are claimed as CBI, the first two copies will include the CBI material as provided in section V of this notice, which shall be deleted from the third copy. For the third copy, the following special preparation is required: _Remove the ``Supplemental Statement of Data Confidentiality Claims.'' _Excise from the body of the study any information you claim as confidential. Replace with generic information if it is available. _Mark the third copy plainly on both its cover and its title page with the phrase ``Public Docket Material_contains no information claimed as confidential.'' 2. Supplemental Statement of Data Confidentiality Claims For any portion of a submission that is claimed as confidential, the following information must be included within a Supplementary Statement of Data Confidentiality Claims: _Identify specifically by page and line number(s) each portion of the study for which you claim confidentiality. _Give the reasons why the cited passage qualifies for confidential treatment. _Indicate the length of time_until a specific date or event, or permanently_for which the information should be treated as confidential. _Identify the measures taken to guard against undesired disclosure of this information. _Describe the extent to which the information has been disclosed, and what precautions have been taken in connection with these disclosures. _Enclose copies of any determinations of confidentiality made by EPA, other Federal agencies, or courts concerning this information. _If you assert that disclosure of this information would be likely to result in substantial harmful effects to you, describe those harmful effects and explain why they should be viewed as substantial. _If you assert that the information is voluntarily submitted, indicate whether you believe disclosure of this information might tend to lessen the availability to EPA of similar information in the future, and if so, how. If required substantiation is not provided along with the submission of information claimed as confidential, EPA may make the complete submitted information available to the public without further notice to the submitter. List of Subjects 40 CFR Part 9 Environmental protection, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. 40 CFR Part 82 Environmental protection, Administrative practice and procedure, Air pollution control, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. Dated: February 15, 1994. Carol M. Browner, Administrator.
