FR940603-2-00160 FR940603-2-00092 Friday June 3, 1994 Part VI Department of Justice Civil Rights Division The American With Disabilities Act Technical Assistance Grants to Promote Voluntary Compliance With the Act; Notice Federal Register ␣/␣Vol. 59, No. 106␣/␣Friday, June 3, 1994␣/␣Notices DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE Civil Rights Division, Public Access Section The Americans With Disabilities Act Technical Assistance Grants To Promote Voluntary Compliance With the Act AGENCY: Public Access Section, Civil Rights Division, U.S. Department of Justice. ACTION: Notice of availability of funds and of solicitation for grant applications. PURPOSE: The Public Access Section of the Civil Rights Division, United States Department of Justice (DOJ), announces the availability of up to $2.25 million to develop and implement projects to inform and educate covered entities and individuals with disabilities about their responsibilities and rights under title II and title III of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (ADA) and to facilitate voluntary compliance with titles II and III of the Act and the Department's implementing regulations. The term ``covered entities'' refers to businesses, commercial properties, institutions, State or local governments or their agencies, and other organizations or enterprises that have responsibilities under title II or title III of the ADA. Grants will be awarded to selected applicants who propose cost-effective and efficient methods of educating entities and individuals with responsibilities and rights under the ADA as well as professionals, such as practicing architects, attorneys, building contractors and others, who provide services to these groups and may assist them in understanding and complying with the requirements of the Act. The primary objective of this program is to encourage and facilitate voluntary compliance with titles II and III of the ADA and the Department's implementing regulations. Only submissions that propose projects of national scope or significance will be considered. In fiscal year 1994, the Department is seeking grant applications in the following six (6) priority areas: (1) Dissemination of ADA informational materials to architects and other design professionals at the local, State, and regional level;
