FR940826-1-00029 FR940826-1-00004 Although the proposed survey is intended to cover the universe of U.S. direct investment abroad, in order to minimize the reporting burden, foreign affiliates with assets, sales, and net income each to or less than $3 million (Positive or negative) are exempt from being reported on Form BE&hyph;10B(SF) or BE&hyph;10B BANK (but must be listed on Form BE&hyph;10A SUPPLEMENT or BE&hyph;10A BANK SUPPLEMENT). In designing the survey, BEA made substantial efforts to consult with data users outside the Bureau and survey respondents to obtain their views on the proposed benchmark survey, including the availability and need for the data, the data items to be reported, and the clarity of instructions.The proposed draft incorporates comments received from users and respondents. In reaching decisions on what questions to include in the survey, BEA considered the Government's need for the data, the burden imposed on respondents, the quality of the likely responses (e.g., whether the data are readily available on respondents' books), and BEA's experience in previous benchmark surveys. The major change from the last (1989) survey to the 1994 survey that is reflected in these proposed rules is the raising, from $15 million to $50 million, of the exemption level for reporting foreign affiliates on the more complex long form. In the 1994 survey, nonbank foreign affiliates for which assets, sales, or net income is greater than $50 million (positive or negative) will be required to be reported on Form BE&hyph;10B(LF) (Long Form); nonbank foreign affiliates for which assets, sales, or net income is greater than $3 million (positive or negative), but for which no one of these items is greater than $50 million (positive or negative), will be required to be reported on Form BE&hyph;10B(SF) (Short Form). In the 1989 benchmark survey, the long-form exemption level was $15 million. This proposed change means that approximately 6,000 foreign affiliates that previously would have been reported on the long form will now be reported instead on the short form, thus reducing both reporting and editing burden from what it would otherwise have been. Other proposed changes in the survey from 1989 to 1994 include revision of the instructions_primarily for purposes of clarification_and modification, addition, deletion, or combination of some items on the forms. These changes do not require changes to the rules. A copy of the proposed survey forms may be obtained from: Office of the Chief, Direct Investment Abroad Branch, International Investment Division (BE&hyph;69(A)), Bureau of Economic Analysis, U.S. Department of Commerce, Washington, DC 20230; phone (202) 606&hyph;5566. Executive Order 12612 These proposed rules do not contain policies with Federalism implications sufficient to warrant preparation of a Federalism assessment under E.O. 12612. Executive Order 12866 These proposed rules have been determined to be not significant for purposes of E.O. 12866. Paperwork Reduction Act These proposed rules contain a collection of information requirement subject to the Paperwork Reduction Act. A request for review of the forms has been submitted to the Office of Management and Budget under section 3504(h) of the Paperwork Reduction Act. The public reporting burden for this collection of information is estimated to vary from 14 to 8,500 hours per response, with an average of 159.4 hours per response, including time for reviewing instructions, searching existing data sources, gathering and maintaining the data needed, and completing and reviewing the collection of information. Comments from the public regarding the burden estimate or any other aspect of this collection of information should be addressed to: Director, Bureau of Economic Analysis (BE&hyph;1), U.S. Department of Commerce, Washington, DC 20230; and to the Office of Management and Budget, Washington, DC 20503, Attention: Desk Officer for the Department of Commerce. Regulatory Flexibility Act The General Counsel, Department of Commerce, has certified to the Chief Counsel for Advocacy, Small Business Administration, under the provisions of the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. 605(b)), that the proposed rules will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. The exemption level is set in terms of the size of a U.S. company's foreign affiliates. If an affiliate is owned 10 percent or more by the U.S. company and has assets, sales, or net income greater than $3 million (positive or negative), it must be reported. Usually, the U.S. parent company (the one required to file the report) is many times larger. Also, to minimize the reporting burden on smaller U.S. businesses, nonbank foreign affiliates with assets, sales, and net income all below $50 million will be reported on the abbreviated BE&hyph;10B(SF), or short form, rather than the BE&hyph;10B(LF), or long form. List of Subjects in 15 CFR Part 806 Balance of payments, Economic statistics, U.S. investment abroad, Penalties, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. Dated: August 5, 1994. Carol S. Carson, Director, Bureau of Economic Analysis.
