FR940208-0-00097 FR940208-0-00031 Regional Effects of Mining Industry The Service does not anticipate disruption to current mining operations from designation of critical habitat. The Service notes that active or previously disturbed mine sites typically do not provide suitable habitat for desert tortoises. Those areas, such as currently operating mine sites, lacking primary constituent elements are not considered critical habitat. Expansion of mining sites on public land would require section 7 consultation to determine whether the expansion would likely destroy or adversely modify critical habitat. In cases where habitat is likely to be adversely modified, the Service may recommend reasonable and prudent alternatives, including relocation of roads or recovery of disturbed mine sites. Mining claims provide rights to explore and develop mineral deposits but there is no assurance that deposits can be developed economically. Claims may never be developed if market conditions do not warrant or if reserves prove insignificant. The uncertainty involved in mining claims and mineral reserves precludes accurate estimation of economic effects from designation of critical habitat. Reductions in County Revenues Potential revenue loss to the seven counties examined in the economic analysis due to reduced use of existing Federal leases and/or permits is not precisely calculable due to several factors, including (but not limited to): (1) The aggregate number of leases for grazing that have been issued under section 15 of the Taylor Grazing Act of 1934, and from which a 50 percent revenue-sharing basis exists, as opposed to section 3 permits that carry a basis of 12.5 percent revenue sharing with the affected county; (2) The final administrative decision by the BLM to partly or completely terminate certain permits/leases for grazing predicated upon their location, existing ingress/egress to other lands, etc.; and (3) The percentage mixture of the above two types of permits issued by the BLM and its attendant fee structure. Although it is known that certain grazing fees in each of the counties will be reduced and/or foregone, it is not possible to estimate accurately the dollar impact on the specific county level until the BLM has concluded its administrative decision process. The effect to the seven counties is expected to total approximately $21,000 (the minimum 12.5 percent local share of the $170,000 grazing fees collected on allotments affected by critical habitat designation).
