FR940810-2-00029 FR940810-2-00018 Department of the Army Availability of a Supplement to the Theater Missile Defense Extended Test Range Draft Environmental Impact Statement AGENCY: Department of the Army, Department of Defense. ACTION: Notice of availability. SUMMARY: The Supplement to the Draft Environmental Impact Statement (DEIS) for the Theater Missile Defense (TMD) Extended Test Range proposal is now available for review and comment. The Supplement to the DEIS was prepared to supplement the information provided in the TMD Extended Test Range DEIS and identifies and assesses potential environmental impacts of additional booster drop zones associated with the White Sands Missile Range (WSMR) extended test range alternative. Only the proposed additional booster drop zones for the WSMR extended test range alternative are discussed in the Supplement. Assessment and discussions pertaining to the overall TMD Extended Test Range proposal are contained in the DEIS published in January 1994. The four extended test range alternatives addressed in the DEIS are Eglin AFB, Florida, (including Cape San Blas), Western Range California (including Vandenberg AFB, Point Mugu, and San Clemente Island), and U.S. Army Kwajalein Atoll and Wake Island in the mid-Pacific. The TMB Extended Test Range DEIS identified potentially significant environmental impacts associated with the original booster drop zones identified for the proposed Fort Wingate Depot Activity (FWDA), New Mexico, and Green River Launch Complex (GRLC), Utah, sites. Through consultation with appropriate government agencies, meetings with environmental groups, contacts with local land owners, and selection of a booster having different technical requirements, the U.S. Army has identified additional booster drop zones that may reduce environmental impacts resulting from booster drops. In keeping with the spirit and purpose of the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA), the Army determined that a Supplement to the DEIS is appropriate to address these additional booster drop zone because of the significant new circumstances relevant to the proposed action. At this time, use of these additional drop zones is preferred over the use of the original drop zones addressed in the prior DEIS. However, a decision will not be made until at least 30 days after distribution of the Final Environmental Impact Statement. The Supplement to the DEIS addresses the potential environmental impacts that would result from the use of these additional booster drop zones identified for the GRLC and FWDA located in the WSMR extended test range alternative. It also identifies any mitigation measures that could avoid or lessen those impacts. Environmental resource topics evaluated include: air quality, airspace, noise, geology and soils, water resources, socioeconomic, hazardous materials and waste, health and safety, land use, infrastructure and transportation, and biological and cultural resources. The lead agency is the U.S. Army Space and Strategic Defense Command. Ballistic Missile Defense Organization, United States Air Force, United States Navy, and Federal Aviation Administration are cooperating agencies. Subsequent to the publication of the TMD Extended Test Range DEIS, additional booster drop zones were identified for the WSMR extended test range alternative. This Supplement to the DEIS supplements the information provided in the TMD Extended Test Range DEIS and describes and analyzes the potential impacts of utilizing these additional target vehicle booster drop zones located along the target missile flight paths between the GRLC and FWDA launch points and the WSMR. The proposed action associated with the overall TMD program is to conduct multiple missile test and operational flights and supporting activities along extended-range flight paths with missile intercepts occurring over existing test ranges or open sea areas. The proposed action includes test site modifications and launch preparations required in order to conduct test and operational flights. Approximately 100 flight test events would be conducted from one or more off-range locations and potentially at more than one extended test range. The four ranges under consideration are WSMR, New Mexico; Eglin AFB, Florida (including Cape San Blas); Western Range California (including Vandenberg AFB, Point Mugu, and San Clemente Island); and U.S. Army Kwajalein Atoll and Wake Island in the mid-Pacific. For the purpose of environmental analysis, four tests per month from each extended test range alternative are assumed. Tests would begin in 1995 and continue through 2000. DATES: The Army will conduct public hearings concerning the Supplement to the DEIS in the following communities. Public comments are invited through September 28, 1994. August 23, 1994_Magdalena, New Mexico, Monticello, Utah August 24, 1994_Grants, New Mexico, Salt Lake City, Utah ADDRESSES: Written comments may be forwarded to: Mr. David Hasley, U.S. Army Space and Strategic Defense Command, ATTN: CSSD&hyph;EN&hyph;V, P.O. Box 1500, Huntsville, AL 35807&hyph;3801. Written comments should be received by September 28, 1994. To record requests for further information call toll free 1&hyph;800&hyph;603&hyph;3030. Dated: August 5, 1994. Raymond J. Fatz, Acting Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Army (Environmental, Safety and Occupational Health) OASA (I, L&E) [FR Doc. 94&hyph;19528 Filed 8&hyph;9&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3710&hyph;08&hyph;M
