FR940216-0-00235 FR940216-0-00010 (f) Conventional gasoline requirement. In addition to other requirements of this section, any refiner and importer shall, for all conventional gasoline produced or imported, maintain records showing the blending of the marker required under §80.82 into conventional gasoline, and the results of the tests showing the concentration of this marker subsequent to its addition. (g) Retailers before January 1, 1998. Prior to January 1, 1998 any retailer that sells or offers for sale any reformulated gasoline shall maintain at each retail outlet the product transfer documentation for the most recent three deliveries to the retail outlet of each grade of reformulated gasoline sold or offered for sale at the retail outlet, and shall make such documentation available to any person conducting any gasoline compliance survey pursuant to §80.68. §80.75 Reporting requirements. Any refiner, importer, and oxygenate blender shall report as specified in this section, and shall report such other information as the Administrator may require. (a) Quarterly reports for reformulated gasoline. Any refiner or importer that produces or imports any reformulated gasoline or RBOB, and any oxygenate blender that produces reformulated gasoline meeting the oxygen standard on average, shall submit quarterly reports to the Administrator for each refinery or oxygenate blending facility at which such reformulated gasoline or RBOB was produced and for all such reformulated gasoline or RBOB imported by each importer. (1) The quarterly reports shall be for all such reformulated gasoline or RBOB produced or imported during the following time periods: (i) The first quarterly report shall include information for reformulated gasoline or RBOB produced or imported from January 1 through March 31, and shall be submitted by May 31 of each year beginning in 1995; (ii) The second quarterly report shall include information for reformulated gasoline or RBOB produced or imported from April 1 through June 30, and shall be submitted by August 31 of each year beginning in 1995; (iii) The third quarterly report shall include information for reformulated gasoline or RBOB produced or imported from July 1 through September 30, and shall be submitted by November 30 of each year beginning in 1995; and (iv) The fourth quarterly report shall include information for reformulated gasoline or RBOB produced or imported from October 1 through December 31, and shall be submitted by the last day of February of each year beginning in 1996. (2) The following information shall be included in each quarterly report for each batch of reformulated gasoline or RBOB which is included under paragraph (a)(1) of this section: (i) The batch number; (ii) The date of production; (iii) The volume of the batch; (iv) The grade of gasoline produced (i.e., premium, mid-grade, or regular); (v) For any refiner or importer: (A) Each designation of the gasoline, pursuant to §80.65; and (B) The properties, pursuant to §§80.65 and 80.66; (vi) For any importer, the PADD in which the import facility is located; and (vii) For any oxygenate blender, the oxygen content. (3) Information pertaining to gasoline produced or imported during 1994 shall be included in the first quarterly report in 1995.
