FR940928-2-00075 FR940928-2-00054 Fish and Wildlife Service Notice of Availability of a Draft Recovery Plan for the Mobile River Basin Aquatic Ecosystem for Review and Comment AGENCY: Fish and Wildlife Service, Interior. ACTION: Notice of document availability and public comment period. SUMMARY: The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (Service) announces the availability for public review of a draft recovery plan for the Mobile River Basin aquatic ecosystem, an area in Alabama with portions extending into east Mississippi and northwest Georgia. This plan specifically addresses the recovery objectives, criteria, and tasks for 1 fish (goldline darter, Percina aurolineata ), 11 mussels (Alabama moccasinshell, Medionidus acuitissiumus; orange-nacre mucket, Lampsilis perovalis; fine-line pocketbook, Lampsilis altilis; southern acornshell, Epioblasma othcaloogensis; uplan combshell, Epioblasma metastriata; Coosa moccasinshell, Medionidus parvulus; ovate clubshell, Pleurobema perovatum; southern clubshell, Pleurobema decisum ; dark pigtoe, Pleurobema furvum; southern pigtoe, Pleurobema georgianum; triangular kidneyshell, Ptychobrachus greenii ), and 1 aquatic snail (Tulotoma magnifica). Additionally, it complements recovery plans previously developed for another 17 listed aquatic species within the Mobile River Basin. The Service solicits review and comment from the public on this draft plan. DATES: Comments on the draft recovery plan must be received on or before December 1, 1994, to receive consideration by the Service. ADDRESSES: Persons wishing to review the draft recovery plan may obtain a copy by contacting the Jackson Field Office, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, 6578 Dogwood View Parkway, Suite A, Jackson, Mississippi 39213. Written comments and materials regarding the plan should be addressed to the Field Supervisor at the above address. Comments and materials received are available on request for public inspection, by appointment, during normal business hours at the above address. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Paul Hartfield at the above address (601/965&hyph;4900, ext. 25). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background Restoring endangered or threatened animals and plants to the point where they are again secure, self-sustaining members of their ecosystems is a primary goal of the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service's endangered species program. To help guide the recovery effort, the Service is working to prepare recovery plans for most of the listed species native to the United States. Recovery plans describe actions considered necessary for conservation of the species, establish criteria for the recovery levels for downlisting or delisting them, and estimate time and cost for implementing the recovery measures needed. The Endangered Species Act of 1973 (Act), as amended (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq. ) requires the development of recovery plans for listed species unless such a plan would not promote the conservation of a particular species. Section 4(f) of the Act, as amended in 1988, requires that a public notice and an opportunity for public review and comment be provided during recovery plan development. The Service will consider all information presented during a public comment period prior to approval of each new or revised recovery plan. The Service and other Federal agencies will also take these comments into account in the course of implementing approved recovery plans. The species considered in this draft recovery plan are the goldline darter (Percina aurolineata), Alabama moccasinshell (Medionidus acutissimus), orange-nacre mucket (Lampsilis perovalis), fine-lined pocketbook (Lampsilis altilis), southern acornshell (Epioblasma othcaloogensis), upland combshell (Epioblasma metastriata), Coosa moccasinshell (Medionidus parvulus), ovate clubshell (Pleurobema perovatum), southern clubshell (Pleurobema decisum), dark pigtoe (Pleurobema furvum), southern pigtoe (Pleurobema georgianum), triangular kidneyshell (Ptychobranchus greeni), and the tulotoma snail (Tulotoma magnifica). The goldline darter was listed as threatened in 1992 due to a suspected decline in historic range, population fragmentation and isolation, and existing threats to extant populations due to water quality degradation. In 1993, eight of the 11 mussels were listed as endangered, and three as threatened due to habitat loss and fragmentation resulting from impoundment and their vulnerability to existing sources of habitat and water quality degradation. The tulotoma snail was listed as endangered in 1991 due to the loss of more than 90 percent of its historic habitat, and the isolation and vulnerability of surviving populations. The recovery objective of the draft plan is to protect the Basin's native aquatic fauna and flora by achieving ecosystem stabilization. Specific recovery objectives include reclassification and eventual delisting of the tulotoma snail; delisting of the goldline darter; and preventing the extinction of the eight endangered mussels and the continued decline of the three threatened mussels. Actions needed for ecosystem stabilization will require protection of habitat integrity and water quality by full and appropriate implementation of Federal and State regulatory authorities; development and implementation of Best Management Practices and Water Quality Plans for construction, agriculture, urban, and suburban activities that affect aquatic ecosystems; development and implementation of Drainage Management Plans that address problems specific to drainages occupied by listed species; development, funding, and implementation of programs that educate and directly involve the general public in ecosystem recovery; and basic research on life history, ecology, anatomy, taxonomy, contaminant sensitivities, and propagation technology of listed and candidate species. This Plan is being submitted for technical/agency review. After consideration of comments received during the review period, it will be submitted for final approval. Public Comments Solicited The Service solicits written comments on the recovery plan described. All comments received by the date specified above will be considered prior to approval of the plan. Authority The authority for this action is Section 4(f) of the Endangered Species Act, 16 U.S.C. 1533(f). Dated: September 21, 1994. Robert Bowker, Field Supervisor. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;23902 Filed 9&hyph;27&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4310&hyph;55&hyph;M
