FR940816-0-00009 FR940816-0-00006 (a) Applicability. These regulations apply to the Buildings and grounds of the Bureau of Engraving and Printing located in Washington, DC at 14th and C Streets SW., and in Fort Worth, Texas, at 9000 Blue Mound Road, and to all persons entering in or on such property. Unless otherwise stated herein, the Bureau of Engraving and Printing Buildings and grounds shall be referred to in these regulations as the ``property.'' It is the responsibility of the occupant agencies to require observance of the regulations in this part by their employees. (b) Limited access. (1) The property shall, in general, be closed to the public. Except as specified in this subsection, access is limited to Bureau of Engraving and Printing (BEP) employees and those individuals having official business with the BEP. (2) Public tours of the facilities are available during authorized hours, or during such other times as the Director may prescribe. (3) Limited areas of the premises may be open to individuals, authorized by the Director, by prior arrangement on infrequent occasions that are announced in advance. (4) All persons entering the property, except for the public areas specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, may be required to present suitable identification and may be required to sign entry logs or registers. (5) All persons entering the property may be subjected to screening by weapons detection devices and shall submit to such screening upon request as a condition of entrance. (6) All persons entering the property may be subjected to inspections of their personal handbags, briefcases, and other handheld articles. (7) In the event of emergency situations, access to the property may be more tightly controlled and restricted. (8) Any entrance onto the property without official permission is prohibited. (c) Recording presence. All persons entering the property may be monitored by means of closed circuit television. Most internal areas of the property, especially production areas, are continuously monitored by closed circuit television. Any video image from the closed circuit television systems may be recorded for later use as needed. (d) Preservation of property. It shall be unlawful for any person without proper authority to willfully destroy, damage, deface, or remove property or any part thereof or any furnishings therein. (e) Compliance with signs and directions. Persons in and on the property shall comply with the instructions of BEP Special Police, other authorized officials, and posted signs or notices. (f) Nuisances. The use of loud, abusive, or profane language, unwarranted loitering, unauthorized assembly, the creation of any hazard to persons or property, improper disposal of rubbish, spitting, prurient prying, the commission of any obscene or indecent act, or any other disorderly conduct on the property is prohibited. The throwing of any articles of any kind in, upon, or from the property and climbing upon any part thereof is prohibited. (g) Gambling. (1) Participating in games for money or other property, the operation of gambling devices, the conduct of a lottery or pool, the selling or purchasing of numbers, tickets, or any other gambling in or on the property is prohibited. (2) Possession in or on the property of any numbers slip or ticket, record, notation, receipt or other writing of a type ordinarily used in any illegal form of gambling such as a tip sheet or dream book, unless explained to the satisfaction of the Director or his delegate, shall be prima facie evidence that there is participation in an illegal form of gambling in or on such property. (h) Intoxicating beverages, narcotics, and drugs. Entering or being on the property, or operating a motor vehicle thereon, by a person under the influence of intoxicating beverages, narcotics, hallucinogenic or dangerous drugs, or marijuana, or the consumption of such beverages or the use of such drugs or marijuana in or on the property is prohibited. Intoxicants, nonprescription narcotics, and other controlled substances (21 CFR part 1308) are prohibited on the property. (i) Soliciting, vending, debt collection, and distribution of handbills. The unauthorized soliciting of alms and contributions, the commercial soliciting and vending of all kinds, the display or distribution of commercial advertising, or the collecting of private debts other than as provided by law, in or on the property is prohibited. This rule does not apply to BEP concessions or notices posted by authorized employees on the bulletin boards. Distribution of material such as pamphlets, handbills, and flyers is prohibited without prior approval from the Director or his delegate. (j) Photographs. The taking of photographs on the property is prohibited, without the written permission of the Director. Title 18 United States Code, Section 474 provides, in part, that whoever photographs any obligation or other security of the United States, or any part thereof, shall be fined not more than $5,000 or imprisoned not more than 15 years, or both. (k) Dogs and other animals. Dogs and other animals, except seeing-eye dogs, shall not be brought upon the property for other than official purposes. (l) Vehicular and pedestrian traffic. (1) Drivers of all vehicles in or on the property shall drive in a careful and safe manner at all times and shall comply with the signals and directions of BEP Special Police and all posted traffic signs.
