FR940505-1-00403 FR940505-1-00012 ( 2 ) All calculations for determining compliance of each water heater model. (C) Compliance Statement . A signed and dated statement attesting to the accuracy of all statements and information in the Compliance Report. (ii) Labeling . A manufacturer shall display the model number of the water heater on the shipping carton and rating plate of each water heater unit. (iii) Recordkeeping . A manufacturer shall keep Compliance Reports, test reports, and compliance statements for as long as the water heater model is offered for sale, sold, or installed in the control area, or for five calendar years, whichever is longer. (6) Test Methods . The manufacturer shall have each water heater model tested in accordance with the following procedures: (i) Each water heater model tested shall be operated in accordance with Section 2.4 of American National Standards Institute (ANSI) Z21.10.1&hyph;1975 at normal test pressure, input rates, and with a 5-foot exhaust stack installed during the NO X emissions tests, and (ii) The measurement of NO X emissions shall be conducted in accordance with the EPA Reference Methods or Submethods described in appendix A of 40 CFR part 60, or other methods as approved in writing by the Administrator. (iii) The following procedure shall be used to calculate the NO X emissions rate in ng/j (lb/10 9 Btu) of heat output: E:GraphicsEP05MY94.107 Where: N=Nanograms of NO X expressed as weight equivalent NO 2 emitted per joule of heat output, ng/j (lb/10 9 Btu) Cf=Carbon number of fuel, dimensionless P=NO X concentration in flue gas, parts per million by volume F=Volume of fuel burned, cubic feet at 30 inches of mercury (Hg) and 60 ○F Ho=Heat output, Btu C=Concentration of CO 2 measured in flue gas, percent The definitions of and the measurement procedures for the above parameters are described in the South Coast Air Quality Management District's Rule 1121 Nitrogen Oxides Emissions Compliance Testing for Natural Gas-Fired Water Heaters and Small Boilers. A manufacturer that has certified a water heater model to demonstrate compliance with a State or local agency rule that meets the requirements of this section, may submit the test results to EPA in lieu of conducting duplicative certification tests. (m) Emissions of oxides of nitrogen from stationary reciprocating internal combustion engines . (1) Applicability . For the purposes of this paragraph, the affected area includes the Sacramento Metro Area as described for ozone in 40 CFR 81.305. (i) Any owner or operator of a stationary internal combustion engine rated at equal to or greater than 50 brake horsepower shall comply with the applicable requirements of paragraphs (m)(1) through (m)(7) of this section. (ii) Any owner or operator of a stationary internal combustion engine that claims an exemption from the standards of paragraph (m)(3) of this section because of the exemption criteria specified in paragraph (m)(4)(ii) of this section shall comply with the monitoring requirements of paragraph (m)(6)(ii)(C) of this section. (iii) Any owner or operator of a diesel stationary internal combustion engine that claims an exemption from the standards of paragraph (m)(3) of this section because of the exemption criteria specified in paragraph (m)(4)(viii) of this section shall comply with the monitoring and reporting requirements of paragraph (m)(4)(viii) of this section. (2) Definitions . For the purposes of paragraphs (m)(1) through (m)(7) of this section, the following definitions shall apply. All terms not defined herein shall have the meaning given them in §52.2950. Diesel engine means a compression ignited two or four-stroke engine in which liquid fuel injected into the combustion chamber ignites when the air charge has been compressed to a temperature sufficiently high for auto-ignition. Emergency standby engine means an internal combustion engine used only when normal power line or natural gas service fails, or for the emergency pumping of water for either fire protection or flood relief. An emergency standby engine may not be operated to supplement a primary power source when the load capacity or rating of the primary power source has been either reached or exceeded. Engine rating means the output of an engine as determined by the engine manufacturer and listed on the nameplate of the unit, regardless of any derating. Higher heating value (HHV) means the total heat liberated per mass of fuel burned (Btu per pound), when fuel and dry air at standard conditions undergo complete combustion and all resultant products are brought to their standard states at standard conditions. If certification of the HHV is not provided by the third party fuel supplier, it shall be determined by one of the following test methods: ASTM D2015&hyph;85 for solid fuels; ASTM D240&hyph;87 or ASTM D2382&hyph;88 for liquid hydrocarbon fuels; or ASTM D1826&hyph;88 or ASTM D1945&hyph;81 in conjunction with ASTM D3588&hyph;89 for gaseous fuels. Lean-burn engine means any two or four-stroke spark-ignited engine that is not a rich-burn engine. Maintenance operation means the use of an emergency standby engine and fuel system during testing, repair and routine maintenance to verify its readiness for emergency standby use. Output means the shaft work output from an engine plus the energy reclaimed by any useful heat recovery system. Peak load means the maximum instantaneous operating load. Permitted capacity factor means the annual permitted fuel use divided by the manufacturers specified maximum fuel consumption times 8,760 hours per year. Rich-burn engine means a two or four-stroke spark-ignited engine where the manufacturers original recommended operating air/fuel ratio divided by the stoichiometric air/fuel ratio is less than or equal to 1.1. Shutdown means the period of time a unit is cooled from its normal operating temperature to cold or ambient temperature. Startup means the period of time a unit is heated from cold or ambient temperature to its normal operating temperature as specified by the manufacturer. Stationary internal combustion engine means any internal combustion engine of the reciprocating type that is either attached to a foundation at a facility or is portable equipment operated at a specific facility for more than 90 days in any 12-month period. Stoichiometric air/fuel ratio means the air/fuel ratio where all fuel and all oxygen in the air/fuel mixture will be consumed. Unit means any diesel, lean-burn, or rich-burn stationary internal combustion engine as defined in this paragraph. Waste gas means the fuel gas produced at either waste-water/sewage treatment facilities or landfills containing no more than 25 percent by volume supplemental gas.
