FR940831-0-00043 FR940831-0-00015 •Any other information regarding the individual's alleged contact. We will evaluate the individual's allegations and seek corroboration; we will resolve reasonable doubt in the individual's favor if the allegation of misinformation seems credible, is supported by other evidence, and there is no contradictory evidence. Information Which Does Not Constitute Satisfactory Proof That Misinformation Was Given Sections 404.633(e) and 416.351(e) explain that certain kinds of information will not constitute satisfactory proof that we gave the individual misinformation which caused him or her not to file an application. Examples of such information include_ •General informational pamphlets that we issue to provide basic program information; •The Personal Earnings and Benefit Estimate Statement that is based on an individual's reported and projected earnings and is an estimate of Social Security benefits which can be requested at any time; the estimate is only a projection based on our records and the individual's estimated future earnings and is not necessarily associated with an intent to file or an inquiry about eligibility; •The SSI Benefit Estimate Letter that is based on an individual's reported and projected income and is an estimate which can be requested at any time; the estimate is only a projection based on our records and the individual's estimated income and is not necessarily associated with an intent to file or an inquiry about eligibility; •General information we review or prepare but which is disseminated by the media, e.g., radio, television, magazines, and newspapers; and •Information concerning Social Security and SSI benefits provided by other governmental agencies, e.g., the Department of Veterans Affairs, the Department of Defense, State unemployment agencies, and State and local governments. Claim for Benefits Based on Alleged Misinformation Under §§404.633(f) and 416.351(f), an individual at any time may ask us to consider establishing a deemed filing date on the basis that misinformation was provided. However, the regulations explain that we will not make a determination on such a claim for benefits unless the following conditions are met. First, a claim for benefits based on an allegation that we provided misinformation must be made in writing. The written statement must explain what information was provided; how, when and where it was provided and by whom; and why the information caused the individual not to file an application for benefits. Second, an application for the benefits must be filed by the claimant or by someone who could file on behalf of the claimant. The application must be filed after the occurrence of the alleged misinformation. This application may be_ •An application on which we have made a previous final determination or decision awarding such benefits to the claimant, provided that the claimant continues to be entitled to Social Security benefits, or continues to be eligible for SSI benefits (or again could be eligible for SSI benefits), based on that application; •An application on which we have made a previous final determination or decision denying the benefits to the claimant, but only if such determination or decision is reopened under §404.988 or §416.1488; or •A new application on which we have not made a final determination or decision. Third, if the only issue in dispute is whether or not the alleged misinformation occurred, we will not make an initial determination on a claim for benefits under §404.633 or §416.351 unless the establishment of a deemed filing date of an application based on the alleged misinformation would result in the claimant becoming entitled to, or eligible for, benefits or additional benefits. Fourth, we will not make an initial determination on a claim for benefits under §404.633 or §416.351 if we have made a previous determination or decision on a claim for benefits based on the alleged misinformation which involved the same party(ies), the same facts and the same issues, and this previous determination or decision has become final. This rule does not apply, however, if the previous final determination or decision may be reopened under §404.988 or §416.1488.
