FR940919-2-00104 FR940919-2-00046 SSA will also seek employee feedback on how well SSA has met their expectations. Employee feedback will be sought on a wide array of issues including Agency goals and performance indicators, training and mentoring needs, and the quality of operating instructions. Although formal mechanisms will be used to obtain feedback periodically, each employee will be encouraged to provide continuous feedback on how to make improvements in the process. Measurements and Management Information Service Perspective SSA's measures of performances will be revised to assess the performance of the Agency as a whole in providing service to claimants for disability benefits. Management information regarding the contributions at each step in the process to the final product, as well as to the work product passed on to other steps will be available. For example, current component processing time measures will be replaced by a measure of time from the first point of contact with SSA until final claimant notification. Meaningful, timely management information will be facilitated by a seamless claim processing system with a common database that is used by all individuals who contribute to each step in the process. Other measures, such as cost, productivity, pending workload, and accuracy will be developed or revised to assess the performance of the Agency as a whole and the participants in the process who contribute to this performance. Measurements for public awareness, as well as claimant and employee satisfaction, will add to this assessment. Management information will be current and accessible from an intelligent workstation. In addition to routine, published national reports generated from the management information system, other reports needed by national or local entities, or individual employees will be preformatted and system-generated on demand. Managers and employees will have the flexibility to change parameters and to access the full data base, permitting comparisons of performance and trends analysis. The management information system will also permit customized, ad hoc reports for special studies or immediate special purpose activities with access to the full data base. Tools including user-friendly report generator software and statistical forecasting and modeling applications will be available on the intelligent workstation to assist users in the data analysis. New Process Enablers Reengineering is dependent on a number of key factors that provide the framework for the new process design. Each of these ``enablers'' is an essential element in the new disability process. Process Unification Under the Social Security Act, the Secretary is granted broad authority to promulgate regulations to govern the disability determination process. In addition to regulations, SSA publishes: 1) Social Security Rulings, which are precedential court decisions and policy statements or interpretations that SSA has adopted as binding policy, and 2) Acquiescence Rulings, which explain how a decision by a U.S. Court of Appeals will be applied when the court's holding is at variance with the Agency's interpretation of a provision of the statute or regulations. ALJs and the Appeals Council rely on the regulations and rulings in making disability decisions. However, guidance for decisionmakers at the initial and reconsideration levels is provided in a series of administrative publications, including: 1) the Program Operations Manual System instructions which provide the substance of the statute, regulations, and rulings in a structured format and 2) other administrative issuances which clarify or elaborate specific policy issues. The use of different source documents by adjudicators fosters the perception that different policy standards are being applied at different levels of decisionmaking in the disability claim process. To ensure that SSA provides consistent direction to all adjudicators regarding the standards for decisionmaking, SSA will develop a single presentation of all substantive policies used in the determination of eligibility for benefits. These policies will be published in accordance with the Administrative Procedures Act and all decisionmakers will be bound by these same policies. Public and Professional Education Public and professional education is essential to ensure that individuals and other groups involved in the disability process have a proper understanding of SSA disability programs, their medical and nonmedical requirements, and the nature of the decisionmaking process. SSA will make information widely available for the general population with the goal of reducing general inquiries from members of the public unfamiliar with SSA disability programs and increasing the number of claimants who enter the disability process knowledgeable and prepared to assume responsibility for pursuing their claims. Pamphlets, factsheets, posters, videos, information on diskettes and on computer bulletin board systems will be developed and presented in a simple, straightforward and understandable manner. Information will be available in many languages and dialects and will accommodate vision and hearing impaired individuals. SSA will work with national and local groups involved in the disability programs to develop direct lines of communications. These efforts will be aimed not only at providing information but also at creating ongoing organizational relationships to maintain a dialogue about the disability process. SSA will also conduct educational outreach with the medical community to provide them with a better understanding of the SSA disability programs, the medical and functional requirements for eligibility, and the best ways to provide medical information needed for decisionmaking. In addition to the use of printed materials, SSA will arrange briefings and training sessions in association with medical organizations and societies at the local, State and national levels, as well as through hospital staff meetings. Those medical providers who conduct consultative examinations for SSA will need ongoing training regarding changes in the disability program. SSA will prepare training programs for this audience which will utilize written, audiotape, videotape, and computerized training methods. SSA will conduct outreach efforts with the legal community, to ensure that information about the disability programs is widely available to the organized bar and the Federal judiciary. Policy documents, regularly updated electronically, and rules of representation will be available at forums sponsored by the organized bar and in initial orientation and continuing legal education programs designed for Federal judges.
