FR940711-2-00099 FR940711-2-00041 Food and Drug Administration [Docket No. 86B&hyph;0058] Anesthesia Apparatus Checkout Recommendations, 1993; Availability AGENCY: Food and Drug Administration, HHS. ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) is announcing the availability of a document entitled ``Anesthesia Apparatus Checkout Recommendations, 1993.'' The document presents a general checkout and inspection procedure that should be conducted before administration of an anesthesia to ensure that the anesthesia machine, patient breathing system, and monitors, which together comprise the anesthesia system, are correctly interconnected, adjusted, and functioning as intended. The document is a revised version of previously published recommendations documents. This action is part of FDA's commitment to help ensure the safety and effectiveness of medical devices. ADDRESSES: Submit written request for single copies of the document entitled ``Anesthesia Apparatus Checkout Recommendations, 1993'' to the Office of Training and Assistance (HFZ&hyph;240), Center for Devices and Radiological Health, Food and Drug Administration, 5600 Fishers Lane, Rockville, MD 20857. Requests should be identified with the docket number found in brackets in the heading of this document. Send two self-addressed adhesive labels to assist that office in processing your requests. The documents entitled ``Anesthesia Apparatus Checkout Recommendations, 1993,'' and ``Anesthesia Apparatus Checkout Recommendations, 1992,'' and received comments and their analyses are available for public examination in the Dockets Management Branch (HFA&hyph;305), Food and Drug Administration, rm. 1&hyph;23, 12420 Parklawn Dr., Rockville, MD 20857, between 9:00 a.m. and 4 p.m. Monday through Friday. Single copies of these documents are available upon written request from the contact person listed below. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Robert Cangelosi, Center for Devices and Radiological Health (HFZ&hyph;210), Food and Drug Administration, 5600 Fishers Lane, Rockville, MD 20857, 301&hyph;443&hyph;2436. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: I. Background FDA is committed to carrying out a program to help ensure the safety and effectiveness of medical devices. One aspect of this program involves regulatory activities under the laws administered by the agency concerning the design, manufacture, and distribution of medical devices. Patient safety, however, is dependent on more than properly functioning devices. Although proper operation, maintenance, and periodic inspection of these devices by the user are matters that cannot always be addressed effectively through regulatory action under the laws administered by the agency, they are essential to minimize risks to patients. Consequently, as an important adjunct to its regulatory program, FDA has initiated a variety of educational efforts to aid medical professionals in the safe use of medical devices. These educational endeavors are conducted in cooperation with, and usually with the active participation of, the relevant professional organizations and other groups within the private sector. For example, to reduce unnecessary retakes in radiology and to improve image quality, FDA, in cooperation with the American College of Radiology and other private sector organizations, developed voluntary recommendations for radiology facilities concerning equipment quality assurance programs (``A Basic Quality Assurance Program for Small Diagnostic Radiology Facilities,'' FDA 83&hyph;8218). In cooperation with the American College of Radiology and numerous other medical professional societies, FDA also fostered the development of guides for clinicians on the effective use of selected diagnostic imaging procedures (``The Selection of Patients for X-ray Examinations,'' FDA 80&hyph;8104; ``The Selection of Patients for X-ray Examinations: The Pelvimetry Examination,'' FDA 81&hyph;8174; ``The Selection of Patients for X-ray Examinations: Chest X-ray Screening and Examination,'' FDA 83&hyph;8204). As an adjunct to the teaching of medical students and radiology residents, FDA funded the development of a basic teaching system in radiology, ``The Radiological Health Sciences Learning File,'' which is now in use in radiology education and is used in 118 medical schools in the United States and in several foreign medical schools as well. These examples illustrate FDA's commitment to ensuring that users of medical devices are sufficiently educated and motivated to use medical devices safely and effectively. II. Scope of the 1993 Recommendations Document The recommendations document that the agency is now making available a revised version of the draft document entitled ``Draft Anesthesia Apparatus Checkout Recommendations, 1992,'' that was announced in the Federal Register of October 6, 1992 (57 FR 46033), and that was based on the original document entitled ``Draft Anesthesia Apparatus Checkout Recommendations,'' that was announced in the Federal Register of February 27, 1987 (52 FR 5583). FDA also intends to make this document available to anesthesia clinicians through their professional organizations and to anesthesia equipment manufacturers so that they may include it in their user education programs. The recommendations in ``Anesthesia Apparatus Checkout Recommendations, 1993'' should be followed for anesthesia systems that conform to current and relevant standards (such as ``Standard Specifications for Minimum Performance and Safety Requirements for Components and Systems of Anesthesia Gas Machines,'' ASTM F&hyph;1161&hyph;88) and that include an ascending bellows ventilator and at least the following monitors: Capnograph, pulse oximeter, oxygen analyzer, respiratory volume monitor (spirometer) and breathing system pressure monitor with high and low pressure alarms. However, the recommendations document offers guidance that users are encouraged to modify to accommodate differences in equipment design and variations in local clinical practice. Such local modifications should have appropriate peer review. The original recommendations document (52 FR 5583) should be followed for other anesthesia systems. Users should refer to the operators manual for specific procedures and precautions. In response to the draft document entitled ``Anesthesia Apparatus Checkout Recommendations, 1992'' (57 FR 46033), eight comments were received and reviewed by the agency. Some minor refinements were made to the checkout recommendations in response to the comments. FDA believes that the pre-use inspection procedure provided in the checkout recommendations will aid medical professionals in the safe use of anesthesia devices. FDA regards the pre-use inspection procedure to be a recommendation as defined in ยง10.90(c) (21 CFR 10.90(c)). Therefore, the checklist is being made available under ยง10.90(c) of the agency's administrative practices and procedures regulations. That regulation provides for FDA to formulate and disseminate recommendations about matters that are authorized by, but do not involve direct regulatory action under, the laws administered by the agency. Dated: June 30, 1994. Michael R. Taylor, Deputy Commissioner for Policy. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;16618 Filed 7&hyph;8&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4160&hyph;01&hyph;F
