FR941012-2-00074 FR941012-2-00050 Transportation •Older Drivers •Accessibility •Public Investment •Options As previously mentioned, comments are invited on the above list as well as on other issues and subissues which should be addressed at the Conference. Public comment is also invited on a strategy for effectively linking issues and subissues both for discussion and for developing recommendations. It is anticipated that a large number of responses will be received from the public during the comment period. All comments received will be reviewed and answered. The Policy Committee will establish priorities among the issues based on public response to the proposed agenda. These prioritized issues will ultimately provide the foundation for the final Conference agenda which will be published in the Federal Register . Conference delegates will receive information about the final agenda in advance of the Conference to allow them to prepare and actively participate in the 1995 WHCoA. Part III. Post-Conference Action on Recommendations During the Conference, delegates will begin the process of establishing priorities for action among the recommendations they produce. Immediately after the Conference, the Advisory Committee (appointed by the President), followed by the Policy Committee, will be responsible for further developing the prioritized recommendations of the Conference for inclusion in the proposed Conference report. This proposed report will be submitted to each State Governor for review and comment as required by the Statute. After reviewing the comments of the Governors, the Policy Committee will prepare and approve an initial report of the Conference to be published in the Federal Register . The Policy Committee will also prepare a separate report on the necessary administrative and legislative actions to implement the recommendations in the Conference report. The final Conference report will serve as a catalyst as well as provide a blueprint for proposed post-WHCoA implementation activities. This action-oriented blueprint will provide the framework for immediate and longer-term actions to implement the Conference's highest priority recommendations. This blueprint will also identify areas and tasks in which the public and private sectors, governmental and non-governmental organizations and agencies, can play a role in implementing the Conference recommendations. These may include private initiatives as well as the enactment of public policies and laws affecting aging Americans, their families and their communities now and into the 21st century. Dated: October 6, 1994. Fernando M. Torres-Gil, Assistant Secretary for Aging. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;25175 Filed 10&hyph;11&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4130&hyph;02&hyph;M
