FR941007-1-00158 FR941007-1-00009 ยง563e.23 Investment test. (a) Scope of test. The investment test evaluates the degree to which a savings association is helping to meet the credit needs of its service area(s) through qualified investments. To be considered under this test, the qualified investments of a savings association must benefit its service area(s) or a broader statewide or regional geographic area that includes the savings association's service area(s). (b) Qualified investments. (1) Qualified investments are lawful investments, deposits, membership shares in a credit union, or grants that: (i) Primarily benefit low- or moderate-income individuals, businesses or farms with gross annual revenues less than or equal to $1 million, or businesses or farms that qualify as small businesses under a Small Business Administration program; and (ii) Address affordable housing (including multifamily rental housing) or other community economic development needs that are not being met by the private market. (2) Donating, selling on favorable terms, or making available on a rent- free basis any branch of the savings association that is located in any predominantly minority neighborhood to any minority depository institution or women's depository institution (as defined in 12 U.S.C. 2907(b)) shall be considered under the investment test. (3) Activities considered under the lending or service tests may not be considered under the investment test. (4) At a savings association's option, the OTS shall consider in its assessment of a savings association's investment performance a qualified investment made by an affiliate of the savings association, provided that the qualified investment is not claimed by any other institution. (c) Assessment criteria. The OTS shall evaluate the investment performance of a savings association pursuant to the following criteria: (1) The dollar amount of qualified investments that directly address credit needs; (2) The use of innovative or complex qualified investments to support community development initiatives; and (3) The degree of responsiveness to credit and community economic development needs. (d) Investment performance rating. The OTS shall rate a savings association's investment performance as provided in Appendix A of this part. ยง563e.24 Service test. (a) Scope of test. The service test evaluates a savings association's record of helping to meet the credit needs of the savings association's service area(s) by analyzing both the availability and responsiveness of a savings association's systems for delivering retail banking services and the extent and innovativeness of its community development services. (b) Assessment criteria_retail banking services. The OTS shall evaluate the availability and responsiveness of a savings association's systems for delivering retail banking services, pursuant to the following criteria: (1) The current distribution of the savings association's branches and ATMs among low-, moderate-, middle-, and upper-income geographies; (2) In the context of its current distribution of the savings association's branches and ATMs, the savings association's record of opening and closing branches and ATMs, particularly branches and ATMs located in low- or moderate-income geographies or primarily serving low- or moderate-income individuals; (3) The availability of alternative systems for delivering retail banking services ( e.g., banking by telephone or computer, mobile branches and ATMs, ATMs not owned or operated by or operated exclusively for the savings association, loan production offices, and bank-at-work or by-mail programs) in low- and moderate-income geographies and to low- and moderate-income individuals; and (4) The range of services provided in low-, moderate-, middle-, and upper-income geographies and the degree to which the services are tailored to meet the needs of those geographies. (c) Assessment criteria_community development services. (1) Community development services are services that: (i) Primarily benefit low- or moderate-income individuals, businesses or farms with gross annual revenues less than or equal to $1 million, or businesses or farms that qualify as small businesses under a Small Business Administration program; and
