FR940127-1-00087 FR940127-1-00019 (1) Escrow accounts at a tribally designated financial institution for receiving deposits with bids and advanced deposits from which direct disbursements for timber harvested shall be made to tribes and forest management deductions accounts; or (2) Tribal depository accounts for receiving advanced payments, installment payments, payments from Indian tribal forest enterprises, and/or disbursements from advance deposit accounts or escrow accounts. (c) The format must allow the Secretary to maintain trust responsibility through written verification that all required deposits, payments, and disbursements have been made. (d) Terms and conditions for payment of forest products under lump sum (predetermined volume) sales shall be specified in forest product contract documents. §163.23 Advance payment for timber products. (a) Unless otherwise authorized by the Secretary, and except in the case of lump sum (predetermined volume) sales, contracts for the sale of timber from allotted, trust or restricted Indian forest land shall provide for an advance payment of up to 25 percent of the stumpage value, calculated at the bid price, within 30 days from the date of approval and before cutting begins. Additional advance payments may be specified in contracts. However, no advance payment will be required that would make the sum of such payment and of advance deposits and advance payments previously applied against timber cut from each ownership in a sale exceed 50 percent of the bid stumpage value. Advance payments shall be credited against the timber of each ownership in the sale as the timber is cut and scaled at stumpage rates governing at the time of scaling. Advance payments are not refundable. (b) Advance payments may be required on tribal land. When required, advance payments will operate the same as provided for in §163.23(a). §163.24 Duration of timber contracts. After the effective date of a forest product contract, unless otherwise authorized by the Secretary, the maximum period which shall be allowed for harvesting the estimated volume of timber purchased, shall be five years. §163.25 Forest management deductions. (a) Pursuant to the provisions of 25 U.S.C. 413 and 25 U.S.C. 3105, a forest management deduction shall be withheld from the gross proceeds of sales of forest products harvested from Indian forest land as described in this section. (b) Gross proceeds shall mean the value in money or money's worth of consideration furnished by the purchaser of forest products purchased under a contract, permit, or other document for the sale of forest products. (c) Forest management deductions shall not be withheld where: (1) The total consideration furnished under a contract, permit or other document for the sale of forest products is less than $5,001; or (2) The monies collected are derived from trespass, defaulted contracts or other civil judgments. (d) Except as provided in §163.25(e), the amount of the forest management deduction shall not exceed the lesser amount of ten percent (10%) of the gross proceeds or, the actual percentage in effect on November 28, 1990. (e) The Secretary shall increase the forest management deduction percentage for Indian forest land upon receipt of a written request from a tribe supported by a resolution executed by the authorized tribal representatives. At the request of the authorized tribal representatives and at the discretion of the Secretary the forest management deduction percentage may be decreased to not less than one percent (1%) or the requirement for collection may be waived. (f) Forest management deductions are to be utilized to perform forest land management activities in accordance with an approved expenditure plan. Expenditure plans shall describe the forest land management activities anticipated to be undertaken, establish a time period for their completion, summarize anticipated obligations and expenditures, and specify the method through which funds are to be transferred or credited to tribal accounts from special deposit accounts established to hold amounts withheld as forest management deductions. Any forest management deductions that have not been incorporated into an approved expenditure plan by the end of the fiscal year following the fiscal year in which the deductions are withheld, shall be collected into the general funds of the United States Treasury pursuant to 25 U.S.C. 413.
