FR940804-2-00018 FR940804-2-00007 In accordance with 19 CFR 353.46, we calculated FMV based on CIF or CNF prices charged to unrelated customers in Germany. In light of the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit's (CAFC) decision in Ad Hoc Committee of AZ&hyph;NM&hyph;TX&hyph;FL Producers of Gray Portland Cement v. United States, 13 F.3d 398 (Fed. Cir. 1994), the Department no longer can deduct home market movement charges from FMV pursuant to its inherent power to fill in gaps in the antidumping statute. Instead, we will adjust for those expenses under the circumstance-of-sale provision of 19 CFR 353.56(a) and the exporter's sales price offset provision of 19 CFR 353.56(b)(2), as appropriate. Accordingly, in the present case, we deducted post-sale home market movement charges from FMV under the circumstance-of-sale provision of 19 CFR 353.56(a). This adjustment included home market foreign brokerage (including containerization, foreign inland freight, loading and port fees), ocean freight, and marine insurance. Pursuant to 19 CFR 353.56(a)(2), we made further circumstance-of-sale adjustments, where appropriate, for differences in credit expenses, and bank charges (including bank interest, courier charges and commissions) between the U.S. and third country markets. We recalculated credit expenses to reflect the revised short-term interest rate reported by respondent. We deducted third country commissions and added U.S. indirect selling expenses capped by the amount of third country commissions. We also deducted third country packing and added U.S. packing costs, in accordance with section 773(a)(1) of the Act. We made adjustments, where appropriate, for differences in the physical characteristics of the merchandise, in accordance with section 773(a)(4)(C) of the Act. Cost of Production Based on petitioner's allegation, and in accordance with section 773(b) of the Act, the Department initiated an investigation to determine whether Grand Foundry made third country sales of subject merchandise at prices below its COP, and over an extended period of time. Although Grand Foundry's COP questionnaire response will be received too late for consideration for the preliminary determination, it will be verified and considered for the final determination. Currency Conversion We made currency conversions based on the official exchange rates in effect on the dates of the U.S. sales as certified by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. See 19 CFR 353.60(a). Verification As provided in section 776(b) of the Act, we will verify the information used in making our final determination. Suspension of Liquidation In accordance with section 733(d)(1) of the Act, we are directing the Customs Service to suspend liquidation of all entries of SSB from India, as defined in the ``Scope of Investigation'' section of this notice, that are entered, or withdrawn from warehouse, for consumption on or after the date of publication of this notice in the Federal Register . The Customs Service shall require a cash deposit or the posting of a bond equal to the estimated preliminary dumping margins, as shown below. The suspension of liquidation will remain in effect until further notice. The estimated preliminary dumping margins are as follows: ␣ 1Manufacturer/Producer/Exporter 1Margin Percent Grand Foundry 2.67 Mukand 21.02 All Others 11.85
