FR940805-1-00031 FR940805-1-00004 In consideration of the foregoing, the Commission proposes to add Part 348, Chapter I, Title 18, Code of Federal Regulations, as set forth below. PART 348_OIL PIPELINE APPLICATIONS FOR MARKET POWER DETERMINATIONS Sec. 348.1␣Content of Application for a Market Power Determination 348.2␣Procedures Authority: 42 U.S.C. 7101&hyph;7352; 49 U.S.C. 1&hyph;27. §348.1 Content of application for a market power determination. (a) If, under §342.4(b) of this chapter, a carrier seeks to establish that it lacks significant market power in the market in which it proposes to charge market-based rates, it must file and provide an application for such a determination. An application must include a statement of position and the information required by paragraph (c) of this section. (b) The carrier's statement of position required by paragraph (a) of this section must include a summary and a statement of material facts. The statement of material facts must include citation to the supporting statements, exhibits, affidavits, and prepared testimony. (c) The carrier must include with its application the following information: (1) Statement A_geographic market. This statement must describe the geographic markets in which the carrier seeks to establish that it lacks significant market power. The carrier must include the origin market and the destination market related to the service for which it proposes to charge market-based rates. The statement must explain why the carrier's method for selecting the geographic markets is appropriate. (2) Statement B_product market. This statement must identify the product market or markets for which the carrier seeks to establish that it lacks significant market power. The statement must explain why the particular product definition is appropriate. (3) Statement C_the carrier's facilities and services. This statement must describe the carrier's own facilities and services in the relevant markets. This statement must include all pertinent data about the pipeline's facilities and services. (4) Statement D_competitive alternatives. This statement must describe available transportation alternatives in competition with the carrier in the relevant markets and other competition constraining the carrier's rates in those markets. The statement must include all pertinent data about transportation alternatives and other constraining competition. (5) Statement E_potential competition. This statement must describe potential competition in the relevant markets. The statement must include data about the potential competitors, including costs, and mileage in reference to the carrier's terminals and to major consuming markets. (6) Statement F_maps. This statement must consist of a map or maps showing the carrier's principal carrier facilities, the points at which service is rendered under its tariff, the direction of flow of each line, the location of each of its terminals, the location of each of its major consuming markets, and the location of the alternatives to the carrier, including their distance in miles from the carrier's terminals and major consuming markets. The map may be on separate pages and must include a general system map and maps by geographic markets. (7) Statement G_market power measures. This statement must set forth for the relevant markets the calculation of the Herfindahl-Hirschman Index; the carrier's market share based on receipts in its origin markets and deliveries in its destination markets, if the Herfindahl-Hirschman Index is not based on those factors; and the calculation of other market power measures relied on by the carrier; along with complete particulars about its calculations.
