FR940407-1-00068 FR940407-1-00014 List of Subjects in 25 CFR Part 20 Administrative practice and procedure, Adult care, Child welfare, Indians, Public assistance programs, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Work experience programs and quality assurance. For the reasons set out in the preamble, part 20 of title 25, subchapter D, chapter I of the Code of Federal Regulations is proposed to be amended as set forth below: PART 20_[AMENDED] 1. The authority citation for 25 CFR part 20 continues to read as follows: Authority: 25 U.S.C. 13; §20.21 also issued under Pub. L. 98&hyph;473. 2. Under subpart A_§§20.1, 20.2 and 20.3 are revised to read as follows: §20.1 Definitions. Adult is a person over the age of eighteen or other age of majority as established for purposes of parental support by tribal or state law (if any) applicable to the person at his or her residence. This includes persons emancipated by marriage. Adult care assistance is a financial payment made on behalf of an eligible Indian person, age eighteen (18) or older, who, due to age, infirmity, or physical and/or mental impairment, requires and receives supervision or non-medical custodial care. Appeal means a written request for correction of an action or decision claimed to violate a person's legal rights or privileges as provided in part 2 of this chapter. Applicant is a person who applies for assistance and/or services provided under this part, or a person on whose behalf an application for assistance and/or services has been made by another person. Application is the process through which a request is made for assistance or services. Area Director is the BIA official in charge of an Area Office. Assistant Secretary is the Assistant Secretary_Indian Affairs. Authorized representative is a parent or other caretaker, relative, conservator, legal guardian, foster parent, attorney (or paralegal acting under the supervision of an attorney), friend, or other spokesperson acting on behalf of or representing the applicant or recipient. Basic needs are necessities to sustain daily life, and include food, clothing, shelter, utilities, household cleaning supplies, and items needed for personal hygiene. BIA means the Bureau of Indian Affairs, U.S. Department of the Interior. BIA general assistance is a secondary or residual source of financial aid payments made to or on behalf of eligible Indian individuals or households for assistance in meeting the cost of essential needs. Burial assistance is a financial payment made on behalf of an indigent Indian person to provide for basic burial expenses. Case is an assistance unit, composed of an individual or group of individuals who are eligible and who receive assistance or services as a unit. Caseplan is a written plan developed by a caseworker in consultation (when possible) with the service recipient(s). The caseplan incorporates strategies to assist individuals and families, either directly or through referrals, in resolving social, economic, psychological, interpersonal and/or environmental problems. Child is a person under the age of eighteen or other age of majority as established for purposes of parental support by state or tribal law (if any) applicable to the person at his or her residence. This does not include persons emancipated by marriage. Child welfare assistance is financial assistance provided on behalf of an Indian child, or an Indian under the age of 22 if assistance was initiated before age 18, who requires placement in a foster home or specialized non-medical care facility in accordance with standards of payment established by the state of residence pursuant to the foster care program under title IV of the Social Security Act, or who has need of specialized services not available under BIA general assistance, or adult care assistance. Commissioner is the Commissioner of Indian Affairs. Designated representative is an official of the BIA designated by a superintendent to conduct a hearing as prescribed in §20.30 and who has had no prior involvement in the proposed decision, and whose hearing decision shall have the same force and effect as if rendered by the superintendent. Disaster assistance is a financial payment made to provide basic and/or special need items when conditions caused by fire, flooding, or natural disaster pose a threat to life or health. Employable person is an individual who is physically and mentally able to obtain employment and is not exempt in accordance with the criteria specified in ¶ 20.21(i)(1). Essential needs are basic needs and special needs as defined in this section.
