FR940505-1-00102 FR940505-1-00012 EPA currently is proposing that the compliance period be quarterly. Prior to the implementation of the manufacturers bubble program, EPA will prepare a statistical showing that the aggregate effect of the specified averaging time is consistent with attaining the ozone NAAQS and satisfying applicable progress requirements on a typical summer day basis in accordance with the proposed economic incentive program rules and guidance (see 58 FR 11110, February 23, 1993). However, EPA is also considering annual, monthly, and flexible compliance periods, and is soliciting comment on the appropriateness of the duration of these compliance periods. EPA is also soliciting comments on establishing a single VOC content limit for all industrial and commercial solvents and coatings, which would be the level that a manufacturer's sales weighted average must be less than or equal to in order to be in compliance. This option differs from the averaging scheme discussed above in that instead of having several VOC content limits for each source subcategory that would be used to determine if a manufacturer was in compliance, a single VOC content limit for all industrial and commercial coatings and solvents would be established. Manufacturers products would have to be less than or equal to this content limit, on average, in order to comply with the rule. This option is exhibited mathematically in following formulas: E:GRAPHICSEP05my94.001 Where: N=Number of Products; i=Product Index; VOCC i =VOC content of product i; SW i =sales weight of product i S i =sales of product i VOC i =Content Standard for the ith product; A manufacturer will be in compliance if: Average Emissions>Average Content Standard That is, if average emissions are less than or equal to the content standard, the manufacturer is in compliance. While the proposed manufacturers bubble rule provides compliance flexibility for manufacturers with several products, requiring manufactures that produce only one solvent or coating to meet content limits could put them at a disadvantage. Because of this, EPA is soliciting comments on options to ease the regulatory burden on manufacturers with one product. Specifically, EPA is considering the following options: •Including these manufacturers despite the competitive disadvantage •Excluding these manufacturers from the rule •Raising the minimum size manufacturer that would be subject to the rule for these manufacturers (h) Recordkeeping and reporting. To demonstrate compliance, EPA will require manufacturers subject to this proposed manufacturers bubble rule to submit documentation to EPA. This documentation will be submitted in two parts. The first part will be a plan describing what products the manufacturer intends to market during that compliance period, the VOC content of each product, an estimate of their sales during the compliance period, and how the manufacturer intends to conclusively show what the sales of those products during the compliance period actually were. EPA will review this plan for completeness and the viability of the proposed sales reporting method. EPA will approve or disapprove this submission within the 90 days of the compliance period. In the case of an incomplete submittal or disapproval, EPA will notify the submitting manufacturer of the deficiencies, and will require another submittal before the end of the second quarter of the compliance period.
