FR940228-1-00108 FR940228-1-00010 The Secretary notes that there may be institutions that use different periods for categories of charges. For example, an institution may charge by the academic year for tuition, but by the academic term for books and supplies. The Secretary, therefore, proposes that, for purposes of determining refunds under this section, ``the period of enrollment for which the student has been charged'' is the longest period for which the student is charged. The institution must include any charges assessed the student for that period of enrollment or any portion of that period of enrollment in calculating the refund. In the example above, since the institution charged for the entire academic year for tuition, the institution would have to determine the actual total charge for books and supplies for the academic year in order to determine the refund to the student. If, in the example above, the institution did not charge for books and supplies after the first academic term, the institution would only include the charges for the first academic term when calculating the refund for the academic year. The Secretary also proposes to use the period of enrollment for which the student has been charged, instead of the payment period concept currently used, to determine the return of refunds and repayments to the Title IV, HEA programs. In doing away with the concept of a payment period for purposes of the calculation of refunds, the Secretary also proposes to do away with the practice of attributing Title IV, HEA program assistance when determining the return of refunds and repayments to the Title IV, HEA programs. The Secretary believes that the premise for the calculation of a pro rata refund, (i.e., the refund is to be determined for the percentage of a period of enrollment for which the student has been charged that remains) dictates that the institution should look at the amount of Title IV, HEA program assistance received for that same percentage of the period. The Secretary believes that adopting the use of the period of enrollment for which the student has been charged to determine the return of all refunds and repayments to the Title IV, HEA programs greatly simplifies these determinations. Overpayments The Secretary proposes to restructure and revise the current provisions relating to overpayments and the repayments to Title IV, HEA programs of institutional refunds and overpayments. This preamble addresses those areas of these current provisions that have been significantly revised. No changes are proposed to the procedures by which an institution determines if a student has received an overpayment for noninstitutional costs. Repayments to Title IV, HEA Programs of Institutional Refunds and Overpayments The Secretary proposes to remove the fraction that is currently used to determine the portion of the refund that an institution must return to the Title IV, HEA programs. Section 485 of the HEA now specifies the order of return of refunds to the Title IV, HEA programs. Further, the Technical Amendments of 1993 changed section 485 of the HEA to specify that an institution is to return a refund to other sources of student assistance only after the refund has been returned to the Title IV, HEA programs (see the discussion below concerning allocations.) The Secretary proposes to make a conforming change by removing the fraction currently used to determine the portion of an overpayment that an institution must return to the Title IV, HEA programs.
