FR940318-2-00054 FR940318-2-00044 [FRL&hyph;4852&hyph;6] Ozone Transport Commission; Recommendation That EPA Adopt Low Emission Vehicle Program for the Northeast Ozone Transport Region AGENCY: Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). ACTION: Notice of availability. SUMMARY: EPA is announcing that on February 10, 1994, the Northeast Ozone Transport Commission (OTC) submitted a recommendation to EPA for additional control measures to be applied throughout the Northeast Ozone Transport Region (OTR). Specifically, the OTC has recommended that EPA require all State members of the OTC to adopt an Ozone Transport Commission Low Emission Vehicle program for the entire OTR. The EPA is commencing a review of the recommendation to determine whether to approve, disapprove, or partially approve and partially disapprove it. The Agency believes that its decision must be made in the context of the Northeast States' overall ozone emission reduction needs to meet the ozone standard. The Agency expects to consider the recommended measure as part of the overall attainment goal for the region, and anticipates gathering information regarding the recommended measure as it relates to the overall attainment effort through consultations and public hearings. The Agency will hold a public hearing before May 11, 1994, and will receive written comments until 30 days following the public hearing. The Agency will consider all relevant data, views, and comments in responding to the recommendation. The Agency will issue a second notice in the Federal Register in late March or early April 1994 that will provide specific information about the time and place of the public hearing and more detail about the process EPA intends to follow in reaching a decision. EPA also expects, in the forthcoming Federal Register notice, to describe a framework for reaching a decision and to identify and discuss significant issues. ADDRESSES: The recommendation and supporting materials that the OTC submitted to EPA on February 10, 1994 are contained in Air Docket No. A&hyph;94&hyph;11 at: U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, 401 M Street SW., Washington, DC 20460. The public docket room is located in room M&hyph;1500, Waterside Mall (Ground Floor). Materials may be inspected from 8 a.m. until 4 p.m. Monday through Friday. EPA may charge a reasonable fee for copying docket materials. EPA will place all information relevant to the OTC's recommendations and to EPA's action on the recommendations in the docket. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mike Shields, Office of Mobile Sources, U.S. EPA, 401 M Street SW., Washington, DC, 20460, telephone: (202) 260&hyph;3450. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Northeast Ozone Transport Region (OTR) was established by operation of law under section 184 of the Clean Air Act (the Act) and is comprised of the States of Connecticut, Delaware, Maine, Massachusetts, Maryland, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, Vermont, the District of Columbia, and the portion of Virginia that is within the Consolidated Metropolitan Statistical Areas that includes the District of Columbia. These States include a large number of ozone nonattainment areas, which are classified under section 181 of the Act into 4 categories with associated attainment dates: Marginal (1994); moderate (1996); serious (1999); and severe (2005 or 2007). For moderate, serious, and severe ozone nonattainment areas, under section 182 of the Act the States are obligated to submit demonstrations by November 15, 1994 that their State Implementation Plans (SIPs) will provide for attainment of the ozone standard by the applicable dates. Congress established the OTR in the 1990 Amendments to the Act based on the recognition that the transport of ozone and ozone precursors throughout the region may render the Northeast States' attainment strategies interdependent.
