FR940124-2-00051 FR940124-2-00041 FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Felicia H. Kung, Senior Attorney, at (202) 504&hyph;2803, or Elizabeth G. Osterman, Branch Chief, at (202) 272&hyph;3018 (Division of Investment Management, Office of Investment Company Regulation). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The following is a summary of the application. The complete application may be obtained for a fee at the SEC's Public Reference Branch. Applicant's Representations 1. Each of the Funds is a series, and separate diversified portfolio of, the Trust, a registered open-end management investment company. The Trust is organized as a Massachusetts business trust. The Adviser, a majority-owned subsidiary of NWNL Companies, Inc., is a registered investment adviser that will provide investment advisory services to each of the Funds. The Distributor is a registered broker-dealer that will act as principal underwriter of the Funds' shares, and is an affiliated person of the Adviser. 2. Applicants propose to establish a multiple class distribution system (the ``Multi-Class Distribution System'') to enable each of the Funds to offer an unlimited number of classes of shares that would be subject to a front-end sales load, a CDSC, a rule 12b&hyph;1 plan providing for a distribution fee and service fee, a combination of the above, or none of the above. Classes of shares that do not have a front-end sales load, and are subject to a rule 12b&hyph;1 plan and a CDSC are referred to herein as ``Deferred Option'' classes. Applicants will comply with Article III, Section 26 of the NASD's Rules of Fair Practice, which limits the amount of asset-based distribution charges a Fund may assess. All Fund expenditures for distribution will be made in accordance with rule 12b&hyph;1. 3. Each Fund currently intends to offer only two classes of shares (``Class A'' and ``Class B''). Some or all of the Funds may not in fact create or issue additional classes of shares. 4. The Funds will offer Class A shares at net asset value plus a front-end sales load. The front-end sales loads generally would be subject to reductions for larger purchases and under a right of accumulation. Class A shares also will be subject to a rule 12b&hyph;1 plan providing for distribution and service fees at a combined annual rate of up to .30 percent of the average daily net asset value of that class. In addition, Class A shareholders who purchase shares at net asset value without the imposition of a front-end sales load may be subject to a low level CDSC (not to exceed 2 percent of net asset value) for a specified period, not to exceed two years, from the date of purchase when they redeem their Class A shares. The purpose of such a sales charge is to reimburse the Distributor for commissions paid to dealers at the time of sale from the Distributor's own resources. 5. The Funds will offer Class B shares at net asset value subject to a CDSC, as described below. Class B shares also will be subject to a rule 12b&hyph;1 plan providing for combined distribution and service fees at an annual rate of up to 1 percent of the average daily net asset value of that class.
