FR941025-2-00025 FR941025-2-00020 DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE Department of the Army Corps of Engineers Notice of Intent To Prepare a Draft Environmental Impact Statement/Report (DEIS/R) for the Queens Gate Entrance Channel Deepening Project, Long Beach Harbor, Los Angeles County, CA agency: U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, Los Angeles District (LAD), South Pacific Division, DOD. action: Notice of intent. summary and proposed action: The Los Angeles District (LAD) and the Port of Long Beach (POLB) are proposing to dredge a navigation channel from the Queens Gate entrance of the harbor to the ^76 foot contour depth to allow vessels to enter the harbor fully loaded. The dimensions of the proposed navigation channel are approximately 1,200 feet in width, 15,000 feet in length, to a depth of ^76 feet MLLW (from current depths of between ^59 and ^69 MLLW). Alternative disposal scenarios for the five (5) million cubic yards of material generated by dredging include beach nourishment (i.e., on and or near shore) at Alamitos Peninsula, Seal, and/or Surfside/Sunset Beaches, disposal in the borrow pits located off the Long Beach oil islands in San Pedro Bay and/or the POLB shipping channel, and/or disposal at the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) approved offshore disposal site known as LA&hyph;2. Figure 1 identifies the overall project area; Figure 2 delineates the proposed dredge area, and Figure 3 depicts potential renourishment and disposal areas. Because of the complexity of the Figures referenced in this summary, they cannot be printed in the Federal Register but are available from the address given for the Los Angeles District, Mr. Russell Kaiser, Environmental Planning Section. alternatives: A full array of alternatives will be developed for future analyses. The proposed plan, viable project alternatives, and the ``no action'' plan will be carried forward for detailed analysis in the National Environmental Policy Act/California Environmental Quality Act document. scoping process: Potential impacts associated with the proposed action and alternatives will be fully evaluated. Resource categories that will be analyzed include: geology oceanography/water quality, air and noise quality, marine resources, cultural resources, socioeconomics, land/water use, recreation, ground and vessel traffic and safety, energy, and aesthetics. The Los Angeles District will be conducting a public scoping meeting with the Port of Long Beach on 1 November 1994, at 7 p.m., in the Board room at the Port of Long Beach Administrative Building, 925 Harbor Plaza, Long Beach, California. addresses: Commander, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, Los Angeles District, Environmental Planning Section, P.O. Box 2711, Los Angeles, California 90053. for further information contact: Mr. Russell L. Kaiser, (213) 894&hyph;0247. Kenneth L. Denton, Army Federal Register Liaison Officer. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;26476 Filed 10&hyph;24&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3710&hyph;KF&hyph;M
