FR940819-1-00053 FR940819-1-00011 Highway-rail grade crossing means a location where a public highway, road, street, or private roadway, including associated sidewalks and pathways, crosses one or more railroad tracks at grade. Joint operations means rail operations conducted on a track used jointly or in common by two or more railroads subject to this part or operation of a train, locomotive, car, or other on-track equipment by one railroad over the track of another railroad. Medical treatment includes any medical care or treatment beyond ``first aid'' regardless of who provides such treatment. Medical treatment does not include diagnostic procedures, such as X-rays and drawing blood samples. Non-train incident means an event that results in a reportable casualty, but does not involve the movement of on-track equipment nor cause reportable damage above the threshold established for train accidents. Occupational illness means any abnormal condition or disorder of a railroad worker, other than one resulting from injury, caused by environmental factors associated with the worker's railroad employment, including, but not limited to, acute or chronic illnesses or diseases that may be caused by inhalation, absorption, ingestion, or direct contact. Person includes all categories of entities covered under 1 U.S.C. 1, including, but not limited to, a railroad; any manager, supervisor, official, or other employee or agent of a railroad; any owner, manufacturer, lessor, or lessee of railroad equipment, track, or facilities; any independent contractor providing goods or services to a railroad; any volunteer providing goods or services to a railroad; and any employee of such owner, manufacturer, lessor, lessee, or independent contractor. Qualified health care professional is a health care professional operating within the scope of his or her license, registration, or certification. For example, an otolaryngologist is qualified to diagnose a case of noise-induced hearing loss and identify potential causal factors, but may not be qualified to diagnose a case of silicosis. Railroad means any form of non-highway ground transportation that run on rails or electro-magnetic guideways, including (1) commuter or other short-haul railroad passenger service in a metropolitan or suburban area, as well as any commuter railroad service that was operated by the Consolidated Rail Corporation as of January 1, 1979, and (2) high speed ground transportation systems that connect metropolitan areas, without regard to whether they use new technologies not associated with traditional railroads. Such term does not include rapid transit operations within an urban area that are not connected to the general railroad system of transportation. Railroad worker human factor includes any of the accident causes signified by the train accident cause codes listed under ``Train Operation_Human Factors'' in the current ``FRA Guide for Preparing Accident/Incident Reports,'' except for those train accident cause codes pertaining to non-railroad workers. Train accident means any collision, derailment, fire, explosion, act of God, or other event involving operation of railroad on-track equipment (standing or moving) that results in damages greater than the current reporting threshold to railroad on-track equipment, signals, track, track structures, and roadbed. Train incident means any event involving the movement of on-track equipment that results in a reportable casualty but does not cause reportable damage above the current threshold established for train accidents. Volunteer includes individuals who willingly perform some sort of service for the reporting railroad without receiving direct monetary compensation from that railroad and are not engaged in either (1) the operation of on-track equipment or (2) any other rail safety-sensitive function for the reporting railroad as described in ยง209.303 of this chapter. Work environment is the physical location, equipment, materials processed or used, and activities of a railroad worker associated with his or her work, whether on or off the railroad's property. Work related means related to any incident, activity, exposure, or the like occurring within the work environment.
