FR940512-2-00077 FR940512-2-00052 VII Further Elements of Decree A. Defendant shall provide actual notice and a true copy of this Final Judgment to each depository institution to which it provides branded ATM network access as of the date of this Final Judgment. B. Jurisdiction is retained by this Court for the purpose of enabling any of the parties to this Final Judgment to apply to this Court at any time for further orders and directions as may be necessary or appropriate to carry out or construe this Final Judgment, to modify or terminate any of its provisions, to enforce compliance, and to punish violations of its provisions. C. This Final Judgment shall terminate ten years from the date of entry. D. Entry of this Final Judgment is in the public interest. Dated: Wilmington, Delaware U.S.D.J. Competitive Impact Statement The United States, pursuant to Section 2(b) of the Antitrust Procedures and Penalties Act (``APPA'' or ``Tunney Act''), 15 U.S.C. 16(b), files this Competitive Impact Statement relating to the proposed Final Judgment submitted for entry in this civil antitrust proceeding. I Nature and Purpose of the Proceedings On April 21, 1994, the United States filed a civil antitrust complaint pursuant to Section 4 of the Sherman Act, as amended, 15 U.S.C. 4, against defendant Electronic Payment Services, Inc. (``EPS''), owner of the Money Access Service (``MAC'') regional automatic teller machine (``ATM'') network. 1 The complaint alleges that EPS's refusal to allow the MAC network's bank customers 2 to obtain ATM processing services from providers other than EPS violates the antitrust laws. 1 EPS is a Delaware corporation owned by four bank holding companies: CoreStates Financial Corporation, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; PNC Financial Corporation, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania; Banc One Corporation, Columbus, Ohio; and KeyCorp, Albany, New York (successor to Society Corporation, Cleveland, Ohio). These four bank holding companies consolidated their various ATM networks (MAC, Owl, Jubilee and Green Machine) into EPS. MAC had previously been owned entirely by CoreStates. EPS plans to add two other equity owners: Mellon Bank Corporation and National City Corporation. 2 The customers of an ATM network are the depository institutions (banks, savings banks, savings and loan associations and credit unions) that seek to give their depositors access to an ATM network. These depository institutions are referred to collectively as ``banks'' in this Competitive Impact Statement. The complaint's two counts allege: (1) That a business practice of EPS is a tying arrangement that is per se unlawful under Section 1 of the Sherman Act, as amended, 15 U.S.C. 1, and (2) that this typing arrangement is a means by which EPS has maintained a monopoly in regional ATM network access in the States of Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Delaware, West Virginia and New Hampshire, and in substantial portions of the State of Ohio (the ``affected states''), in violation of Section 2 of the Sherman Act, as amended, 15 U.S.C. 2. The effect of this practice is to foreclose competition from competing data processing companies in the affected states. Furthermore, because those competing data processing companies would otherwise provide means by which MAC member banks could access competing regional ATM networks, this practice has the effect of excluding those networks and maintaining EPS's monopoly in regional ATM network access in the affected states. The complaint seeks an injunction prohibiting EPS from continuing the tying arrangement, and other relief.
