FR940916-1-00132 FR940916-1-00016 Blending Valve means a device which combines the maximum available dynamic brake retarding force with supplemental air brake retarding force. Block of Cars means one or more cars coupled together for the purpose of being added to, or removed, from a train as a unit. Block of Cars, Previously Tested means a block of cars that received a Class 1 brake system test as a block, that have not been off air for more than four hours and is eligible for further travel before its next required Class 1 brake system test. Brake, Air means a combination of devices operated by compressed air, arranged in a system, and controlled manually or pneumatically, by means of which the motion of a car or locomotive is retarded or arrested. Brake Control System means the components, including software that either automatically, or under the control of the engineer, cause changes in the retarding force applied to the train by the brake system. Brake, Conventional Air means an air brake system designed in accordance with the current Manual of Standards and Recommended Practices of the Association of American Railroads. Brake, Disc means a retardation system used on some rail vehicles, primarily passenger equipment, that utilizes flat metal discs as the braking surface instead of the wheel tread. Brake, Disc Friction means a wheel-mounted or axle-mounted disc that provides a braking surface for the friction shoes. Brake, Dynamic means a train braking system whereby the kinetic energy of a moving train is used to generate electric current at the locomotive traction motors, which is then dissipated through banks of resistor grids in the locomotive car body or back into the catenary or third rail system. Brake, Eddy Current means a magnetic brake that does not make contact with the track and operates independently of the coefficient of adhesion between the wheel and the rail. An eddy current brake is suited for use as a service brake. Brake, Effective means a brake that is capable of producing its required design retarding force on the train. Brake, Extended Range Dynamic means a dynamic brake system which maintains a high retarding effect at speeds from approximately 25 miles per hour (mph) to 8 mph before rapidly tapering off. Brake, Hand means a manually-operated system installed on individual railroad cars and locomotives to provide a means to apply brakes independently of power brakes. Brake Horsepower Per Wheel means the retarding force (in pounds) times speed (in feet per second) divided by 550. Brake, Hydraulic/Pneumatic means a braking system that utilizes compressed air to control the action of a hydraulic piston that ultimately applies braking force to the wheels. Brake Indicator means a plunger type device, directly actuated by brake cylinder pressure, which indicates that brakes are applied or released. Brake, On-Tread Friction means a braking system that uses a brake shoe (usually made of a composition material) that acts on the tread of the wheel to retard the vehicle. Brake Pipe means the system of piping (including branch pipes, angle cocks, cutout cocks, dirt collectors, hose, and hose couplings) used for connecting locomotives and all cars for the passage of air to control the locomotive and car brakes. Brake, Rheostatic means a form of dynamic brake in which the maximum retarding force can be maintained over the entire speed range. Brake Shoes/Pads Aligned with Tread/Disc means that the brake shoe/pad surface engages the wheel tread or disc surface with no more than a 1/4 inch overhang on locomotives and passenger equipment and no more than 1/2 inch on freight equipment. Brake System Software means the onboard programmable computer commands to drive the brake system.
