FR940505-1-00219 FR940505-1-00012 If the enhanced in-use I/M liability threshold is reached, EPA proposes that manufacturers become subject to a selective recall and be responsible for all subsequent vehicle repairs that are identified by the enhanced I/M emission test at the enhanced in-use I/M standards (described previously) and the purge/pressure tests. Manufacturers would thereafter be responsible for all vehicle repairs within that engine family model year until the end of the vehicle's useful life. A manufacturer's repair responsibility would begin after the liability threshold is reached, with no retroactive liability. EPA is not proposing reimbursement from the manufacturer to individual vehicle owners for repairs that occurred prior to exceeding the enhanced in-use I/M liability threshold. EPA is also concerned that some repairs to high mileage vehicles could cost more than the vehicle is worth. EPA is therefore proposing to allow a manufacturer to remedy an emissions failure by purchasing (or offering to purchase) the vehicle. The manufacturer could then remove the vehicle from service instead of making the necessary repairs. The actual value could be determined through a National Automobile Dealer's Association (NADA) publication (e.g., ``Blue Book value'') or via negotiation. The latter is always available, but, as the only option, could become quite involved and result in vastly different prices being paid for similar vehicles. EPA therefore proposes that the manufacturer be allowed to offer the average retail value for the vehicle in question as specified in the NADA ``Official Used Car Guide,'' if the manufacturers elects this option. One option would utilize the national ``Blue Book'' to avoid the possible effects of this program on ``Blue Book'' levels in California. Another option would be to use the ``Blue Book'' applicable in the specific FIP area. EPA is also concerned that the ``Blue Book'' value may not fully compensate an owner for the time and energy needed to find a new vehicle and other intangibles. EPA requests comment on other methods of determining values that proximate the market value of the vehicle, as well as the value to its owner, but provide reasonable protection for the manufacturer. Under this proposal, the vehicle owner has the option of rejecting the manufacturer's offer to purchase their vehicle. Instead, the owner could repair the vehicle at his or her own expense or sell the vehicle in an area not subject to enhanced I/M and the enhanced in-use compliance program. The manufacturer's liability to repair the vehicle would end after the offer to purchase the vehicle was either consummated or rejected in writing. EPA is also concerned whether the manufacturer would exercise its responsibility to repair the vehicle in a way which minimized inconvenience to the owner. EPA therefore proposes that all required repairs be performed in an expeditious manner and requests comments on specific requirements that could be used to ensure this was in fact done. Specifically, EPA proposes, and requests comments on, requiring manufacturers to provide a rental vehicle of equivalent value and function free of charge if the repairs required more than two days in total. f. Geographic coverage . EPA is proposing that enhanced I/M be used in the designated California FIP areas of Sacramento, Los Angeles, and Ventura. EPA is proposing to limit the geographic scope of the I/M-based recall program to the FIP areas. EPA does not believe it would be appropriate to apply the I/M-based recall program to areas not having full enhanced I/M based on the I/M 240 test. However, vehicles from outside the three FIP areas do impact air quality in the three FIP areas. Therefore, EPA requests comment on the option of including the vehicles tested in qualifying enhanced I/M 240 test programs in other nonattainment areas in California in the I/M-based recall program. The test results from such vehicles would then also be used to determine compliance with the liability threshold. Under this option, only a state enhanced I/M program which either duplicates the federal program or is approved by the Administrator as equivalent would be allowed to participate. g. Data collection from test-sites. The Agency proposes that enhanced I/M testing facilities submit the results of all I/M tests, as well as engine family data from the underhood label, on all vehicles tested, to EPA on a monthly basis. This information will be used to calculate failure rates. In addition, personnel at such facilities would be required to retain and maintain results from I/M tests for a period of one year. h. Manufacturer notification of liability. The Agency will provide manufacturers with cumulative test results on their engine families on a monthly basis. Additionally EPA will notify vehicle manufacturers, by letter, within thirty days after the rate of failure meets or exceeds the liability threshold. Manufacturers' responsibility for repairs begins 30 days after EPA sends notification. I/M personnel will notify owners of failing vehicles, when vehicles are brought in for emissions testing, with whom responsibility for repair lies. Vehicle owners must be informed when repair responsibility for vehicles has been shifted to the manufacturers. EPA requests comment on requiring manufacturers to inform all vehicle owners, by letter, if the failure rate for the enhanced in-use I/M standards has exceeded the liability threshold. Such a letter would state that vehicle owner repair responsibility has ended and that the manufacturer is thereafter responsible for vehicle emission repairs until the statutory useful life ends as long as the vehicle is participating in a qualifying enhanced I/M program and has not been abused or tampered. One negative aspect of such a requirement is that it may lead vehicle owners to care less carefully for their vehicles, given the knowledge that much maintenance would now be covered by the manufacturer. 5. Fleets
