FR940425-0-00033 FR940425-0-00018 d. Test temperature. In the NPRM, NHTSA proposed a formula in which the volume of allowable CNG leakage would translate into certain allowable pressure drops in units of kPa for CNG fuel systems, as follows: ␣ 1Volume of CNG leakage 1Allowable pressure drop 39.8 liters CNG 13.72 (T/V FS ). 199.0 liters CNG 68.6 (T/V FS ). where T=Temperature of the test gas in degrees Kelvin, stabilized to ambient temperature prior to testing. V FS =The internal volume in liters of the fuel system from which CNG is leaked. In the NPRM, NHTSA also considered but decided not to propose specifying an ambient temperature. The agency believed that not specifying an ambient temperature would not affect a vehicle's compliance with the standard and would facilitate the combining of tests for various standards. The agency requested comments about its tentative decision not to specify an ambient temperature. Several commenters, including AAMA, NGVC, Navistar, Blue Bird, Minnesota Gas, Flxible, and Thomas, addressed the issue of ambient temperature variability. NGVC, Minnesota Gas, Thomas, and Blue Bird agreed with the agency that no ambient temperature should be specified. Nevertheless, all the commenters, except for Thomas, stated that temperature variations should be compensated for when conducting the crash test. AAMA stated that temperature variations that occur over the course of the testing would change the pressure of the test gas. It stated that a 5.6 ○C (10 ○F) variance in the test temperature would result in a 413.7 kPa (60 psi) change in the pressure of the test gas in a 170 liter (45 gallon) fuel container. AAMA stated that a pressure change due to a temperature change could mask or intensify the actual pressure drop measurement. However, AAMA did not suggest any method to correct for the temperature. After reviewing the comments, NHTSA continues to believe that no ambient temperature should be specified for the reasons set forth in the NPRM. However, the agency also believes that the test procedure and formula should control for temperature variations. Without such control, a large change in temperature could artificially affect the test results. NHTSA has decided to specify that the maximum ambient temperature variation over the 60-minute test period cannot exceed 5.6 ○C (10 ○F). A temperature variation exceeding this amount will invalidate the test results. The agency believes that this test condition will minimize changes in test gas temperature and instrumentation accuracy during the 60-minute period, without placing an unreasonable burden on those performing the test. In addition, NHTSA has decided to include in the pressure drop formula a provision to calculate the average ambient temperature by measuring the ambient temperature at the test's start and then every 15 minutes until 60 minutes has elapsed. The sum of these temperatures is then divided by five (the number of measurements taken) to yield the average ambient temperature. This calculation will be used for the term, ``T,'' in the agency's pressure drop formula. NHTSA believes that including a calculation for the average ambient temperature in the formula will directly control for fluctuations in pressure due to temperature variations, because pressure and temperature are linearly related in the formula (i.e., pressure equals temperature multiplied by a constant, where the constant includes the volume of the system and the compressibility factor).
