FR941110-0-00264 FR941110-0-00016 (2) The accrual of the civil money penalty stops on the day the provider agreement is terminated. (h) Documenting substantial compliance. (1) If an on-site revisit is necessary to confirm substantial compliance and the provider can supply documentation acceptable to HCFA or the State agency that substantial compliance was achieved on a date preceding the revisit, penalties only accrue until that date of correction for which there is written credible evidence. (2) If an on-site revisit is not necessary to confirm substantial compliance, penalties only accrue until the date of correction for which HCFA or the State receives and accepts written credible evidence. ยง488.442 Civil money penalties: Due date for payment of penalty. (a) When payments are due_ (1) After a final administrative decision. A civil money penalty payment is due 15 days after a final administrative decision is made when_ (i) The facility achieves substantial compliance before the final administrative decision; or (ii) The effective date of termination occurs before the final administrative decision. (2) When no hearing was requested. A civil money penalty payment is due 15 days after the time period for requesting a hearing has expired and a hearing request was not received when_ (i) The facility achieved substantial compliance before the hearing request was due; or (ii) The effective date of termination occurs before the hearing request was due. (3) After a request to waive a hearing. A civil money penalty payment is due 15 days after receipt of the written request to waive a hearing when_ (i) The facility achieved substantial compliance before HCFA or the State received the written waiver of hearing; or (ii) The effective date of termination occurs before HCFA or the State received the written waiver of hearing. (4) After substantial compliance is achieved. A civil money penalty payment is due 15 days after substantial compliance is achieved when_ (i) The final administrative decision is made before the facility came into substantial compliance; (ii) The facility did not file a timely hearing request before it came into substantial compliance; or (iii) The facility waived its right to a hearing before it came into substantial compliance; (5) After the effective date of termination. A civil money penalty payment is due 15 days after the effective date of termination, if before the effective date of termination_ (i) The final administrative decision was made; (ii) The time for requesting a hearing has expired and the facility did not request a hearing; or (iii) The facility waived its right to a hearing. (6) In the cases specified in paragraph (a)(4) of this section, the period of noncompliance may not extend beyond 6 months from the last day of the survey. (b) Deduction of penalty from amount owed. The amount of the penalty, when determined, may be deducted from any sum then or later owing by HCFA or the State to the facility. (c) Interest_ (1) Assessment. Interest is assessed on the unpaid balance of the penalty, beginning on the due date. (2) Medicare interest. Medicare rate of interest is_ (i) Fixed by the Secretary of the Treasury after taking into consideration private consumer rates of interest prevailing on the date of the notice of the penalty amount due (published quarterly in the Federal Register by HHS under 45 CFR 30.13(a)); or
