FR941213-2-00006 FR941213-2-00003 Salvage harvest would occur in the Caton Lake and Meadow Creek IRAs. Visual quality objectives would be met on trails, the South Fork Salmon River and Johnson Creek roads, and the Wild and Scenic River eligible Johnson Creek and South Fork Salmon River corridors. Cultural resource sites, riparian areas, and sensitive fish, plant, and animal habitats would be protected. Protection measures for streams would be based on the science utilized to develop the interim direction contained in the draft PACFISH EA. The direction issued with the final PACFISH EA and Decision Notice would be incorporated as necessary. Methodologies, rationale and findings associated with the landscape analysis and site specific environmental analysis would be reviewed by a proposed panel of experts elected from Forest Service research and system branches, and other federal agencies. Recommendations made by this panel could be used by line officers in directing the environmental analysis, formulating alternatives, disclosing environmental consequences, developing a monitoring plan and making the final decision. This may include the option of not moving ahead with any or part of the action alternatives if conclusive information shows that the action would be damaging to anadromous fish. Forest Plan Amendment The Boise and Payette National Forest Land and Resource Management Plans have specific management direction for the South Fork Salmon River Area. The overall goal is to restore harvestable, robust, self-sustaining populations of naturally reproducing salmon and trout. The Thunderbolt Wildfire Recovery Proposed Action is designed to improve fish habitat and is consistent with the objectives and goals of both Forest Plans. Prior to making a NEPA decision, a thorough examination of all standards and guidelines of both Forest plans would be completed and if necessary, plan amendments would be addressed in the EIS. Preliminary Issues Anticipated concerns with the Proposed Action are; (1) Ground disturbing activities may increase sediment delivery to streams and degrade fish habitat, and (2) salvage harvesting in IRAs and the potential effect it may have on the wilderness attributes of the area. Possible Alternatives to the Proposed Action Two alternatives to the Proposed Action have been identified. A No Action alternative, and an alternative that would exclude salvage harvesting in the IRAs. Other alternatives may be developed as issues are raised and information is received. Decisions To Be Made The Boise and Payette National Forest Supervisors will decide the following: What amount, type, and distribution of sediment reduction projects and riparian habitat conservation measures would be implemented, If Forest Plan amendments are necessary to proceed with the proposed actions within the Thunderbolt Wildfire Recovery project area, Should dead and imminently dead trees within fire areas, not needed to maintain ecological functions, be harvested and if so how, and What burned areas need to be planted. Public Involvement Meetings Scoping meetings will be held in McCall (Smokejumper Loft, Dec. 12, 1994, 7:00 PM), Boise (Red Lion Inn, Downtowner, Dec. 13, 1994, 7:00 PM), and Cascade (Ranger District Office, Dec. 14, 1994, 7:00 PM). Additional presentations will be made upon request. Agency/Public Contacts A summary of the Proposed Action and methodologies to be used in the analysis, will be mailed in early December to key individuals, groups and agencies for comments and issue identification. This mailing list will include about 350 people who are generally interested in the Boise and Payette National Forests' NEPA projects, and people who were interested in the Boise National Forest's Foothills Wildfire Timber Recovery Project in 1992. Schedule Draft Environmental Impact Statement, February, 1995. Final EIS, April, 1995. Implementation, July, 1995. Past experience with wildfire timber recovery efforts on the Boise and Payette National Forests have proven that prompt action is required to recover the economic value of fire-killed trees. The trees, mostly Douglas-fir, subalpine fir, and lodgepole pine, are expected to lose more than half of their economic value by the fall of 1995. Recovered timber values would be used to finance beneficial watershed improvement projects designed to improve fish habitat. Comments Comments concerning the proposed project and analysis should be received in writing on or before January 13, 1994. Mail comments to Cindy Tencick, Cascade Ranger District, Boise National Forest, PO Box 696, Cascade, ID 83611; Telephone, (208) 382&hyph;7400. Further information can be obtained at the same location. The comment period on the Draft Environmental Impact Statement will be 45 days from the date the Environmental Protection Agency publishes the notice of availability in the Federal Register. The Forest Service believes, at this early stage, it is important to give reviewers notice of several court rulings related to public participation in the environmental review process. First, reviewers of Draft Environmental Impact Statements must structure their participation in the environmental review of the proposal so that it is meaningful and alerts an agency to the reviewer's position and contentions. Vermont Yankee Nuclear Power Corp. v. NRDC. 435 U.S. 519, 553 (1978), Also, environmental objections that could be raised at the Draft Environmental Impact Statement stage but that are not raised until after completion of the final environmental impact statement may be waived or dismissed by the courts. City of Angoon v. Hodel, 803 F.2d 1016, 1002 (9th Cir,. 1986) and Wisconsin Heritages. Inc. v. Harris, 490 F. Supp. 1334, 1338 (E.D. Wis. 1980). Because of these court rulings, it is very important that those interested in this proposed Action participate by the close of the 45 day comment period so that substantive comments and objections are made available to the Forest Service at a time when it can meaningfully consider them and respond to them in the final environmental impact statement. To assist the Forest Service in identifying and considering issues and concerns on the Proposed Action, comments on the Draft Environmental Impact Statement should be as specific as possible. It is also helpful if comments refer to specific pages or chapters of the draft statement. Comments may also address the adequacy of the Draft Environmental Impact Statement or the merits of the alternatives formulated and discussed in the statement. Reviewers may wish to refer to the Council on Environmental Quality Regulations for implementing the procedural provisions of the National Environmental Policy Act at 40 CFR 1503.3 in addressing these points. Responsible Officials Cathy Barbouletos, Forest Supervisor, Boise National Forest, 1750 Front Street, Boise, ID 83702; and Dave Alexander, Forest Supervisor, Payette National Forest, 106 West Park, McCall, ID 83638. Dated: December 6, 1994. Cathy Barbouletos, Boise Forest Supervisor. Dated: December 6, 1994. David F. Alexander, Payette Forest Supervisor. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;30548 Filed 12&hyph;12&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3410&hyph;11&hyph;M
