FR940713-0-00037 FR940713-0-00017 9. Based on these comments, we have decided to adopt the ranges for the 22 rate categories as proposed in the OIC (see Appendix below). As NARUC observed, establishing ranges at these levels should not require any additional record keeping or substantial effort on the part of the LECs, since they are presently required to maintain their accounting records at these levels under Part 32. 4 4 47 C.F.R. 32.12(b). The LECs for which we prescribe depreciation rates are Class A companies and must keep all the Class A accounts prescribed in Part 32. 10. We have decided not to develop special ranges for LECs that have chosen to study rate categories at levels not listed in the Appendix. The application of our range approach is based on national averages of prescribed depreciation factors. Consequently, to develop special ranges would slow the process significantly as it would be necessary to require many carriers to submit large amounts of data which we would then have to analyze in order to establish appropriate ranges. This would place an undue burden on the majority of the carriers that do not study the plant investment at the levels of detail desired by those LECs that seek ranges for additional categories. 11. Nevertheless, we will consider requests from LECs like Pacific, that study an account listed in the Appendix at a more detailed level than shown, but wish to qualify within the established range for that account. During the prescription process, we will consider their proposals on a case-by-case basis to use the basic factors computed at the more detailed levels to satisfy the range requirements. 12. In the OIC , we solicited comments on a specific set of proposed ranges for the future net salvage and projection life factors for 22 plant categories. USTA and the LECs argued that the proposed ranges are too narrow, because the LECs will be able to use the streamlined procedures for fewer than 50% of the 22 plant categories. They argued that the ranges should be expanded in order to streamline the process significantly. In addition, for a few of the plant categories, they argued that the proposed life ranges are too high. They suggested that, because of the rapid changes in technology, certain plant accounts should be written off more quickly. However, GSA, MCI, NARUC and most of the state commission commenters support the ranges proposed in the OIC . California CATV and GSA believe that the objections to the proposed ranges raised by the LECs are aimed at obtaining higher depreciation rates, rather than streamlining the depreciation process. 13. In the Depreciation Simplification Order , we set forth the specific data that should be considered in establishing the projection life and future net salvage ranges, and we used these data in proposing ranges in the OIC . We based the ranges on statistical studies of the most recently prescribed factors. These statistical studies required detailed carrier-by-carrier analyses of the most recent plant retirement patterns, the carriers' plans, and the current technological developments and trends. Because the proposed ranges reflect these data, we believe that the ranges provide a reasonable degree of confidence that the basic factors falling within their bounds will produce depreciation rates accurately reflecting plant retirements, company plans, and technological trends. Moreover, they allow the LECs sufficient flexibility in the selection of the final factors. 14. Furthermore, we do not believe that the ranges are too high, or too low, as some of the commenters contend. Our objective was not to change the depreciation rates, but to streamline the process used by the Commission to prescribe those rates. Consequently, we will not at this time modify any of the proposed ranges. We believe that some experience with the ranges should be developed before we consider modifying them. If changing conditions require revisions in the ranges, we can modify them at that time. 15. The LECs' assertion that they will be able to use the streamlined procedures for fewer than 50% of the 22 rate categories is incorrect. 5 We have studied the potential application of the ranges to every carrier for which the Commission prescribes depreciation rates. We have found that today over two-thirds of the carriers would qualify for the streamlined procedures for the 22 proposed rate categories. Furthermore, our most recent depreciation rate reviews indicate that the proportion should increase over the next few years. 5 In the Depreciation Simplification Order , the Commission decided that ``if a LEC's current basic factors for any one account do not both fall within the established ranges for that account, the LEC may not use the range approach for that account.'' 16. In the past, we allowed two informal, alternative streamlined procedures for plant accounts representing less than 3% of a carrier's total depreciable investment in a jurisdiction. We are replacing these informal streamlined study procedures with the adoption of our range option. To have several streamlined procedures in place at the same time could prove confusing and could negate any streamlining achieved by the Commission. Moreover, these previous procedures had a minimal streamlining effect as compared with the new streamlined procedures. To illustrate, they only reduce the studies by 3 or 4 pages per category, whereas our new procedures reduce them by 15 pages. Therefore, we have decided to employ only the streamline range option adopted in our Depreciation Simplification Order. 17. Under our depreciation prescription process, one-third of the carriers for which we prescribe depreciation rates have their rates reviewed each year. In the Depreciation Simplification Order , we stated that price cap LECs scheduled for review in 1995 and 1996 could file for changes in their depreciation rates for 1994 as long as they used basic factors within the ranges we selected. These carriers must file these depreciation rate changes in a timely manner in accordance with the requirements set forth in the Depreciation Simplification Order. 18. Accordingly, it is ordered , pursuant to Section 4(i), 201&hyph;205 and 220(b), of the Communications Act of 1934, as amended, 47 U.S.C. §§154(i), 201&hyph;205 and 220(b), that the ranges for the future net salvage and the projection life factors for the accounts listed in the Appendix are hereby adopted as specified in the Appendix. 19. It is further ordered , that this order is effective thirty days after publication in the Federal Register. 20. It is further ordered, that carriers may use the ranges established herein for federal filing purposes prior to the effective date of this order. List of Subjects in 47 CFR Part 43 Communications common carriers, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Telephone. Federal Communications Commission. LaVera F. Marshall, Acting Secretary.
