FR941206-2-00100 FR941206-2-00071 OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT AND BUDGET Office of Federal Procurement Policy Regulatory Reform_Federal Acquisition Regulatory System AGENCY: Office of Federal Procurement Policy, Office of Management and Budget. ACTION: Request for public comments. SUMMARY: In response to the report from the National Performance Review (NPR), the Office of Federal Procurement Policy has been working with various senior level individuals in the Executive Branch to implement the recommendations relating to acquisition regulatory reform. Thus far our primary focus has been the governmentwide regulation, the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR). We are now seeking comments and suggestions related to agency supplementation from the public. DATES: Written comments must be received in the Office of Federal Procurement Policy on or before January 5, 1995. ADDRESSES: Written comments should be submitted to Susan E. Alesi, Special Assistant for Regulations, Office of Federal Procurement Policy, 725 17th Street NW., Washington, DC 20503. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Susan E. Alesi at 202&hyph;395&hyph;6803, Office of Federal Procurement Policy. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: On September 7, 1993, the Vice President released the report of the NPR which required simplification of the procurement process through regulatory reform. Up to this point, the focus of this reform effort has been the governmentwide regulation, the FAR. In the course of developing a plan for regulatory reform of the FAR, we have learned that there is almost a consensus that a problem exists with agency supplementation. In many cases the supplementation is not only that issued by procurement offices but also directives issued by other offices within agencies and departments which have an impact on procurement. Consequently, we are now seeking from the public comments and suggestions related to agency supplementation. Also, providing examples will make comments far more useful. In particular, we would like to know the following: 1. Do you believe that a problem exists with agency supplementation? If so, please describe specifically what you believe the problems are that the supplements create. Please provide examples where possible. 2. Is the problem with other directives within the agency or department which impact procurement as well as the FAR supplement? Please give examples. 3. If you have answered question 1 and/or 2 in the affirmative, do these problems exist in both Defense and the civilian agencies? 4. What recommendations would you offer to resolve any problems you have described? Please be specific and give examples where possible. Dated: October 27, 1994. Steven Kelman, Administrator. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;29956 Filed 12&hyph;5&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3110&hyph;01&hyph;M
