FR940805-1-00112 FR940805-1-00013 (c) Education and work programs _(1) Education program . In conjunction with the applicable education authority, the administrator or designee shall develop a written plan for the comprehensive education of residents. The administrator and applicable education authority shall update the plan as needed, review it annually, and support it with a Memorandum of Agreement. At a minimum, the plan shall include: (i) the roles and responsibilities of the facility and the school district, compliant with the provisions of Title 94; (ii) education release; (iii) education materials and equipment; (iv) developmental, remedial, special and cultural education; and (v) tutorial services as needed. (2) Work programs . The administrator or designee shall develop a written work plan that shall provide for work assignments for residents including the disabled. Work may include facility maintenance duties and community service projects. The administrator shall prohibit discrimination in resident work assignments based on race, creed, gender, age, marital status, disability or tribal affiliation. (3) Regulation of work programs . Resident work programs shall comply with applicable federal regulations. Residents shall not perform any work prohibited by federal or tribal regulations and/or statutes pertaining to child labor. (d) Recreation, library and religious programming _(1) Comprehensive recreation program . The administrator or designee shall require that residents be offered opportunities for recreational and leisure time activities. A facility staff member or trained volunteer shall coordinate the recreation program. (2) Library . The administrator or designee shall develop a written plan to provide reading materials to residents. The plan shall include the criteria for the selection and maintenance of library materials, the location where reading materials are kept, the process by which residents obtain and return these materials and designation of the staff member or trained volunteer who is responsible for library services. The administrator shall update the plan as needed and review it at least annually. (3) Religious programs . Residents shall have the right to practice their religion, subject only to the limitations necessary to maintain institutional order and security. (e) Correspondence and telephone _(1) Regulation of correspondence . The administrator shall regulate resident correspondence and shall make this policy available to all staff and residents. The administrator shall review this policy annually and update it as needed. (2) Limitations on resident correspondence . When the resident bears the mailing cost, the administrator shall not limit the volume of letters the resident can send or receive. (3) Indigents' correspondence . The administrator or designee shall provide indigent residents with a system that enables them to send a minimum of two letters per week. (4) Inspection of letters and packages . The administrator or designee may open resident letters and packages, both in-coming and out-going, to inspect them for contraband. The administrator or designee shall not read, censor, or reject letters or packages except where there is reliable information that there is a threat to order and security or that they are being used to further illegal activities and shall notify residents when in-coming or out-going letters are rejected. The administrator or designee shall deposit any cash, checks, or money orders in the resident's account and issue a receipt to both the residents and the sender. The administrator or designee shall forward any contraband found to the appropriate law enforcement authority. The supervisor shall forward all mail within twenty-four hours of receipt except for Saturdays, Sundays and holidays. Residents shall be prohibited from carrying money in the facility. (5) Privileged correspondence . The administrator shall permit residents to send sealed letters to specified groups of persons and organizations including, but not limited to, courts, including probation staff, counsel, officials of the confining authority, administrators of grievance systems and members of the releasing authority. Mail to residents from this specified class of persons and organizations shall be opened only to inspect for contraband and only in the presence of the resident. (6) Holding and forwarding mail . The administrator or designee shall forward or return first-class letters and packages for residents after transfer or release. (7) Telephone . The administrator or designee shall provide for juvenile access to telephones. (f) Visiting _(1) Visiting rules . The administrator shall establish rules for resident visiting. The facility shall permit the informal communication, including the opportunity for physical contact. (2) Times of visitation . Residents shall receive visitors during normal visiting hours, in accordance with the individual program plan, except where there is substantial evidence that a visitor poses a threat to the safety of the resident or the security of the facility, or may disrupt the program. (3) Sobriety statement . Facility visitors and volunteers shall sign a sobriety statement. The statement shall stipulate that: (i) they are not under the influence of alcohol or illegal mood altering substances; (ii) they are not carrying such substances on their person or in their belongings; and (iii) they consent to a breath test or non-invasive search as a condition of entry, if there is probable cause. (4) Searches (visiting) . The administrator or designee shall provide clear instructions to staff and residents concerning resident and visitor search procedures and the approval required for visual observation of unclothed residents. (5) Special visits . The administrator or designee shall provide for special visits. (6) Visitor registration . The administrator or designee shall provide for visitor registration and identification on entry into the facility.
