FR941121-0-00117 FR941121-0-00011 (4) ``Other consideration'' consists of financial concessions, including, but not limited to, the transfer of assets or the provision of tangible pecuniary benefit, as well as non-financial concessions that confer any type of benefit on the recipient. §90.163 Petitions to deny, responsive pleadings. Petitions to deny any major filing concerning facilities used to provide commercial mobile radio services may be filed by parties able to demonstrate standing to file such petitions. Responsive pleadings to such petitions may be filed in accordance with the provisions of this section. (a) Content and requirements. Petitions to deny and responsive pleadings must: (1) Clearly identify the pertinent major filing(s); (2) Comply with all applicable requirements of §§1.41 through 1.52 of this chapter; (3) Contain specific allegations of fact which, except for facts of which official notice may be taken, are supported by affidavit of a person or persons with personal knowledge thereof, and which are sufficient to demonstrate that the petitioner (or respondent) is a party in interest and that a grant or other Commission action regarding the major filing would be inconsistent with the public interest; (4) Be filed within 30 days after the date of the Public Notice listing the major filing; and (5) Contain a certificate of service showing that a copy has been mailed to the applicant no later than the date of filing with the Commission. (b) Expansion. Petitions to deny a major amendment to an application may raise only matters directly related to the major amendment that could not have been raised in connection with the application as originally filed. This paragraph does not apply to petitioners who gain standing because of the major amendment. (c) Dismissal. The Commission may, by letter, dismiss any petition to deny a major filing if the petition does not comply with the requirements of this section or §90.161. The reason(s) for the dismissal must be stated in the letter. When a petition to deny is dismissed, any related responsive pleadings also are dismissed. §90.164 Classification of filings as major or minor. Applications and amendments to applications are classified as major or minor when such filings concern facilities used to provide commercial mobile radio services. Categories of major and minor filings are listed in section 309 of the Communications Act of 1934, as amended (47 U.S.C. 309). In general, a major filing is a request for a Commission action that has the potential to affect parties other than the applicant. The following are major filings: (a) Initial station authorization. Filings for an initial authorization as defined in §90.165(d)(2) are major. (b) Ownership or control change. Filings are major if they specify a substantial change in beneficial ownership or control (de jure or de facto), unless such change is involuntary or if the filing merely amends an application to reflect a change in ownership or control that has already been approved by the Commission. (c) Renewal. Applications for renewal of authorizations are major. (d) Environmental. Filings are major if they request authorization for a facility that would have a significant environmental effect, as defined by §§1.1301 through 1.1319 of this chapter. (e) In the Specialized Mobile Radio Service, in addition to filings listed in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section, filings are major if they: (1) Request a change in frequency; (2) Request an authorization that would increase the effective radiated power or antenna height above average terrain in any azimuth from an existing transmitter authorized to the filer; (3) Request an authorization that would relocate an existing fixed transmitter; (4) Amend a pending application to change a requested frequency; (5) Amend a pending application in a way that would increase the proposed effective radiated power or antenna height above average terrain in any azimuth from an existing transmitter authorized to the filer; (6) Amend a pending application to change the location of a fixed transmitter from that previously proposed in the application; or (7) Amend a pending application for which pre-filing coordination was required to change the technical proposal substantially from that which was coordinated with other users. §90.165 Procedures for mutually exclusive applications. Mutually exclusive commercial mobile radio service applications are processed in accordance with the rules in this section, except for mutually exclusive applications for licenses in the 220&hyph;220 MHz service and the 929&hyph;930 MHz Paging service, which are processed in accordance with the rules in subpart P and subpart T of this part. Two or more pending applications are mutually exclusive if the grant of one application would effectively preclude the grant of one or more of the others under Commission rules governing the services involved. (a) Separate applications. Any applicant that files an application knowing that it will be mutually exclusive with one or more applications should not include in the mutually exclusive application a request for other channels or facilities that would not, by themselves, render the application mutually exclusive with those other applications. Instead, the request for such other channels or facilities should be filed in a separate application.
