FR941116-0-00135 FR941116-0-00022 (i) Producers growing fruits and vegetables, except for green manure, haying, and grazing, as specified in §1413.43, must not have planted or have been prevented from being planted in excess of normal plantings of such crops for the farm. The cropping history for fruits and vegetables shall be based on the higher of the farm's history of planting such crops in the last year or 3 years preceding the current year. Zero report provisions will be permitted only if the current year acreage of fruits and vegetables for other than green manure, haying, or grazing, is equal to or less than the farm's history for the last year or the 3 years preceding the current year. (ii) Planted and considered planted acreage of other nonparticipating crops planted in excess of such crop's CAB will be reduced, if the total planted and considered planted acreage exceeds the cropland for the farm. (7) For program crops for which the acreage report filed in accordance with part 718 of this title reflects zero acreage of the program crop and which are not participating in an acreage reduction, or land diversion program for the crop, CU acreage may be used to receive planted and considered planted credit for the crop. (8) Any acreage devoted to approved nonprogram crops (ANPC), not to exceed 20 percent of a wheat or feed grain CAB, but not rice, ELS cotton, or upland cotton, if the acreage is planted to dry peas (limited to Austrian peas, wrinkled seed, green, yellow, and umatilla) and lentils; (9) Acreage that is an amount equal to the difference between program crop permitted acreage and planted acreage, if the considered planted acreage is devoted to conservation uses, or the production of commodities permitted under §§1413.41 and 1413.42; (10) Acreage that is an amount equal to the difference between program crop permitted acreage and planted acreage, if the considered planted acreage is devoted to the production of commodities as permitted by §1413.43. Both acreages of double-cropped program crops, oilseeds, and IOC's used on flex acreage will be used for planted and considered planted acreage. (b) With respect to farms owned by the Farmers Home Administration (FmHA), in 1991 and subsequent crop years, an acreage equal to the CAB established for the farm in accordance with §1413.24. (c) The sum of the planted and considered planted acreage of corn and grain sorghum for each crop year shall be prorated to corn and grain sorghum based on the ratio of the CAB for the individual crop of corn or grain sorghum, as applicable, to the sum of the CAB's for corn and grain sorghum established for each crop year. Subpart D_Farm Program Yields §1413.15 Farm program payment yields. (a) The bushel or pound per acre farm program payment yield for program crops for the 1994 through 1997 crop years shall be the 1990 farm program payment yield established for the crop for the farm. (b) If the 1990 farm program payment yield established for a crop for a farm was less than 90 percent of the 1985 farm program payment yield for such crop, the deficiency payments for the crop shall be increased by the amount necessary to provide the same total return to producers as if the payment yield had not been reduced more than 10 percent below the 1985 program payment yield. (c) If no farm program payment yield for a crop was established for the 1990 crop year, the county committee may assign a yield for any such year based upon the farm program payment yields for such crops for at least 3 similar farms in the county or other surrounding area with similar yield capability, including land and cultural practices, not including irrigation practices for feed grains and wheat. §1413.16 Establishing yields for soybeans and minor oilseeds. (a) State ASC Committees shall establish yields for soybeans and minor oilseeds. Such yields shall be used for: (1) Calculating failure to fully comply reductions in accordance with part 791 of this title; and (2) Price support purposes, in accordance with part 1421 of this chapter. (b) State committees shall calculate soybean and minor oilseed yields as follows:
