FR940722-0-00081 FR940722-0-00018 Questions were asked on how often a certification needs to be submitted and if a State could begin operating under the new procedures prior to proposed date of January 1, 1995. The certification is a one-time submittal, unless a State significantly changes its RD&T management process. A copy of the State's certification is to be submitted with its work program. A State may begin operating under these procedures as soon as its RD&T management process is approved by the FHWA. Section 420.215␣Procedure for Withdrawal of Approval This section outlines the procedures used and penalties imposed if a State is not complying with the requirements of this subpart or is not performing in accordance with its RD&T management process. Paragraph (d) in the NPRM proposed that, for any State not in compliance, the FHWA would withdraw the State's ability to approve RD&T activities and require the State to submit individual studies for FHWA approval. This approval requirement is similar to current procedures and would have provided little incentive for a State to correct deficiencies in its program. Therefore, paragraph (d) has been revised to indicate that an adverse decision shall result in the immediate withdrawal of FHWA planning and research funding for the State's RD&T activities until the State is in full compliance. Rulemaking Analyses and Notices Executive Order 12866 (Regulatory Planning and Review) and DOT Regulatory Policies and Procedures The FHWA has determined that this rulemaking is not a significant regulatory action within the meaning of Executive Order 12866 or a significant regulation under the regulatory policies and procedures of the Department of Transportation. This action amends requirements for administration of FHWA planning and research funds to be consistent with legislative changes made by the ISTEA. Also, this rulemaking establishes a mandatory State certification process and a Federal and peer review process to determine annually whether each State complies with the standards for State RD&T management in subpart B. The economic costs of this rulemaking will be insignificant and will consist only of the costs associated with preparation of the grant applications and State development of procedures for RD&T management. The cost savings that will be realized by the States due to the reduction in time to initiate and conduct RD&T activities under the State RD&T management provisions will more than offset the one-time cost of development of the procedures. Regulatory Flexibility Act In compliance with the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. 601&hyph;612), the FHWA has evaluated the effects of this rule on small entities. This rule addresses the administrative procedures and requirements that States must comply with when using FHWA planning and research funds provided under title 23, U.S.C. This rule does not impose any direct requirement on small entities that would result in increased economic costs. Based on this evaluation, the FHWA certifies that this rule will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. Executive Order 12612 (Federalism Assessment) This action has been analyzed in accordance with the principles and criteria contained in Executive Order 12612. Although this rule relates to requirements that States must meet to be eligible for FHWA planning and research funds, federalism implications, though unavoidable, would be minimized. Nothing in this rule preempts any State law or regulation. The rule provides States increased authority and flexibility to manage their federally assisted State planning and research programs. This increase in authority and flexibility is in concert with the principles and criteria contained in Executive Order 12612 for the implementation of express statutory provisions. Accordingly, the FHWA certifies that this rule does not have sufficient Federalism implications to warrant the preparation of a full Federalism Assessment under the principles and criteria contained in Executive Order 12612. Executive Order 12372 (Intergovernmental Review) Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance Program Number 20.205, Highway Planning and Construction. The regulations implementing Executive Order 12372 regarding intergovernmental consultation of Federal programs and activities apply to this program. Paperwork Reduction Act The information collection requirements referenced in §420.105(b) have been approved by the OMB under the provisions of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980 (44 U.S.C. 3501&hyph;3520) and have been assigned OMB control numbers 2125&hyph;0028 and 2125&hyph;0032. The information collection requirements in §§420.111 (a), (b), and (c), and 420.117 (b) and (c) for metropolitan planning areas have been approved by the OMB and assigned control number 2132&hyph;0529. The information collection requirements in §§420.111 (a), (b), and (c), 420.117 (b) and (c), and 420.213 (a) and (b) for State planning and RD&T activities have been submitted to the OMB for approval. National Environmental Policy Act The agency has analyzed this action for the purpose of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq. ) and has determined that this action would not have any effect on the quality of the environment. Regulation Identification Number A regulation identification number (RIN) is assigned to each regulatory action listed in the Unified Agenda of Federal Regulations. The Regulatory Information Service Center publishes the Unified Agenda in April and October of each year. The RIN contained in the heading of this document can be used to cross reference this action with the Unified Agenda.
