FR941202-0-00074 FR941202-0-00010 ``(d) Each solvent cleaning machine subject to this subpart that commenced construction or reconstruction on or before November 29, 1993, shall achieve compliance with the provisions of this subpart no later than. (e) In delegating implementation and enforcement authority to a State under section 112(d) of the Act, the authority contained in paragraph (f) of this section shall be retained by the Administrator and not transferred to a State. (f) The authority conferred in ยง63.463(d)(9) and ยง63.469 will not be delegated to any State. ยง63.461 Definitions. Unless defined below, all terms used in this subpart are used as defined in the 1990 Clean Air Act, or in subpart A of 40 CFR part 63: Administrator means the Administrator of the United States Environmental Protection Agency or his or her authorized representative (e.g., State that has been delegated the authority to implement the provisions of this part.) Air blanket means the layer of air inside the solvent cleaning machine freeboard located above the solvent/air interface. The centerline of the air blanket is equidistant between the sides of the machine. Automated parts handling system means a mechanical device that carries all parts and parts baskets at a controlled speed from the initial loading of soiled or wet parts through the removal of the cleaned or dried parts. Automated parts handling systems include, but are not limited to, hoists and conveyors. Batch cleaning machine means a solvent cleaning machine in which individual parts or a set of parts move through the entire cleaning cycle before new parts are introduced into the solvent cleaning machine. An open-top vapor cleaning machine is a type of batch cleaning machine. A solvent cleaning machine, such as a ferris wheel cleaner, that cleans multiple batch loads simultaneously and is manually loaded is a batch cleaning machine. Carbon adsorber means a bed of activated carbon into which an air-solvent gas-vapor stream is routed and which adsorbs the solvent on the carbon. Clean liquid solvent means fresh unused solvent, recycled solvent, or used solvent that has been cleaned of soils (e.g., skimmed of oils or sludge and strained of metal chips). Cleaning capacity means, for a cleaning machine without a solvent/air interface, the maximum volume of parts that can be cleaned at one time. In most cases, the cleaning capacity is equal to the volume (length times width times height) of the cleaning chamber.
