FR940127-1-00036 FR940127-1-00011 Congressionally-protected Areas Because they are generally managed as natural ecosystems, congressionally-designated wilderness areas and national parks are expected to protect marbled murrelet habitat from alteration. These areas are not proposed for designation as critical habitat because the management goals are generally adequate to conserve the species. However, not all congressional designations are managed in this manner. For example, national recreation areas may not be managed to maintain older forest habitats. In addition, some national parks and wilderness areas are experiencing internal and external threats (e.g., highway realignments) to marbled murrelet habitat. The Service is continuing to gather information on management goals and potential threats to these types of areas. Congressionally-protected areas (e.g., wilderness areas and national parks) are rare within the range of the marbled murrelet in Washington, Oregon, and California. Few wilderness areas lie within the flight distance of marbled murrelets from the marine environment, though some of these areas provide crucial contributions to the conservation of the species. A substantial portion of these areas are incapable of producing marbled murrelet nesting habitat because of forest composition, lack of forest cover, elevation, and other constraints. Therefore, by themselves, congressionally-protected areas are incapable of supporting stable and interactive populations of marbled murrelets. Wilderness areas and national parks contain approximately 302,000 hectares (747,000 acres) of marbled murrelet nesting habitat, representing 29 percent of the suitable nesting habitat on Federal lands within the range of the marbled murrelet. They contain 46 (8 percent) of the known occupied sites on Federal lands. Effects of Proposed Designation This proposal for designation of critical habitat for the marbled murrelet identifies 62 proposed critical habitat units encompassing approximately 1,217,000 hectares (3,005,000 acres) of Federal land based on information available in the Interagency Geographical Information System (GIS) and FEMAT Report (USDA et al. 1993a). The Service has identified 28 proposed critical habitat units totaling 471,000 hectares (1,162,000 acres) of Federal land in Washington, 20 proposed critical habitat units totaling 560,000 hectares (1,382,000 acres) of Federal land in Oregon, and 14 proposed critical habitat units totaling 186,000 hectares (460,000 acres) of Federal land in California. State, private, tribal, and other non-Federal lands are not proposed as critical habitat at this time even if they are physically located within the boundaries of a proposed critical habitat unit, and acreage of non-Federal lands is not included in the above figures. Some small areas of naturally-occurring or human-created non-suitable habitat (i.e., areas that have never been nor will likely ever be marbled murrelet nesting habitat, such as alpine areas, water bodies, serpentine meadows, airports, roads, buildings, and parking lots) are located within the physical boundaries of proposed critical habitat units. Where possible, these areas were not included within the proposed critical habitat boundaries, and acreage totals were adjusted to reflect the exclusion of this non-suitable habitat. However, many of these areas are small and could not be physically identified on the GIS maps. Also, current mapping information does not allow precise identification of the location of primary constituent elements. The Service is continuing to gather information to refine the boundaries of critical habitat units to eliminate areas that do not contain one or more of the primary constituent elements or will remain non-suitable. Efforts by Federal agencies to survey for marbled murrelets have been concentrated in areas of proposed timber sales or limited research locations. Only a small fraction of the suitable nesting habitat has been surveyed to date, and surveys have not been uniformly spread across the range of the species. Therefore, known occupied sites provide only a partial indication of the actual areas used by the species. The proposed critical habitat includes 449 (78 percent) of the 574 known occupied sites on Federal lands. Congressionally-protected areas include 48 additional occupied sites. Congressionally-protected areas were not included in critical habitat because management is expected to be consistent with the conservation of the marbled murrelet. The Service does not have specific information on the amount of suitable nesting habitat or habitat containing one or more of the primary constituent elements on non-Federal lands within the species' range, though it is aware through the Forest Ecosystem Management Assessment Team databases of approximately 189 known occupied sites on non-Federal lands. The Service continues to seek information and comments on the location of suitable nesting habitat and occupied sites on non-Federal lands.
