FR940512-0-00035 FR940512-0-00016 The sanctuary on the north and east sides of Buzzard Island contains 18.0 acres of shallow grassbeds along the northwestern edge and down the length of the east side of Buzzard Island. This area is primarily used by manatees as a feeding area. It has limited value as a warm-water sanctuary but contains abundant vegetation within a short distance from the warm waters in the southern part of Kings Bay. The sanctuary at Tarpon Springs contains 4.6 acres along the northwestern side of Banana Island. This sanctuary contains a small spring and is used by manatees as a thermal refuge, feeding, and resting area. The 4.0-acre sanctuary on the north side of Warden Key provides a protected feeding area close to the warm-water sanctuaries in the south bay. A standard survey of the sanctuary areas has been performed. The new areas will be delineated with buoys, as are existing sanctuaries. Summary of Comments and Recommendations A public workshop, advertised in the Citrus County Chronicle, was held on March 21, 1991 to allow local citizens and other interested parties the opportunity to discuss the pros and cons of different sanctuary locations. A number of the alternatives discussed at the workshop were described in the Service's draft Environmental Assessment supporting the Finding of No Significant Impact that was approved by the Regional Director on August 23, 1991. The sanctuaries as they appear in this rule were selected on the basis of known use by manatees, availability of resources, and minimal impact on recreational use patterns and homeowners. These sanctuaries were implemented for two successive winters, 1991&hyph;2 and 1992&hyph;3, by two separate emergency rules (57 FR 5988 and 58 FR 5643) when completion of the rulemaking process was delayed. Legal notices were published in the ``Citrus County Chronicle'' prior to the implementation of the emergency rules, and each emergency rule offered the Environmental Assessment for review by members of the public. The proposed rule, published in the Federal Register of May 13, 1993 (58 FR 28381), offered a public hearing, if requested, and announced a public comment period to end July 12, 1993. Following several requests for a public hearing, a notice was published in the Federal Register of June 28, 1993 (58 FR 34556) to announce a hearing and extension of the comment period. The hearing was held July 15, 1993, at the Coastal Region Library in Crystal River and the comment period was extended until July 30, 1993, to allow time for written comments to be received following the hearing. At the July 15, 1993, hearing, a clear majority of the verbal comments and small minority of the written comments consisted of statements opposing either Federal regulations on recreational use of Kings Bay and the Crystal River National Wildlife Refuge in general, and/or the procedures used to implement the sanctuaries. Few people at the hearing addressed the sanctuary issue directly and there were several misconceptions as to what the rule would include. Many expressed a fear that future regulations would either eliminate or so discourage recreational boating that the local economy would be negatively impacted. Many speakers believed the preferences of local citizens and local political representatives should have been given more weight. Others feared that future regulations would include closing of the refuge, including the main spring. Although nearly every speaker expressed affection for, or at least acceptance of, manatees in Kings Bay, many believed manatee protection areas should not be implemented in Kings Bay if they interfered with their ``right'' to use public waterways. A few people questioned the soundness of the decision to increase manatee protection, although most also indicated they were not aware of or had not read the research study reports. Many were not aware that a public workshop had been held early in the process and believed the final rule was already in effect. Although one person suggested redrawing one corner of the Buzzard Island Sanctuary to avoid funnelling boats into a narrow channel, none of the negative commenters offered any alternative methods to protect manatees from harassment and a few questioned whether there was any need. Copies of the proposed rule were provided at the hearing to clear up some commonly held misconceptions. For example, a petition of 230 legible signatures protested against ``the closing down of Kings Bay for the Manatees for a period of 8 months per year.'' Because the rule would prohibit boats from only a small percentage of the bay (the total sanctuary area comprises less than 10 percent of the bay and leaves all the boating channels and the main spring open), and because the period they would be in effect is only 41/2 months each year, it is likely these people had confused the dates of the seasonal county speed zone regulations with the shorter sanctuary season. Others may have had the same misconception. Supportive comments were in the minority at the hearing but constituted a large majority of written comments received. Unlike the hearing, which mostly represented only Citrus County residents, two-thirds of the written comments came from Florida residents outside Citrus County. Five letters were received from people who spoke at the hearing and wished to reiterate or clarify their point of view. One comment came from out-of-state. Of all the comments received, 74 individuals and 12 state and national organizations, including national and local chapters of the Audubon Society, Sierra Club, and the Humane Society, specifically stated they support the sanctuaries. Many supporters suggested additional manatee protection was needed. One-third recommended a ban on night diving. Others recommended allowing only passive observation of manatees. Some people favored expanding the sanctuaries system further either by adding a sanctuary south of Warden Key, extending the season to an earlier date, or creating corridors between sanctuaries. Emphasis centered on the southern and eastern parts of the bay where manatee aggregations are largest and most consistent. Save the Manatee Club and the Citrus County-based Friends of the Manatee proposed a time-sharing plan that prohibited public use of the refuge (including the main spring) during extended cold periods based on air and/or water temperatures. Friends of the Manatee also recommended enlarging the Banana Island Sanctuary, implementing a boat-free, swimming and diving area, and a diver-free manatee corridor between sanctuaries. Both organizations also recommended a ban on night diving and allowing only passive observation of manatees. There were two recommendations for a permit system similar to that used in other refuges to limit the number of divers using the refuge's main spring. Many people on both sides of the sanctuary issue, expressed the need for additional law enforcement effort to monitor not only the sanctuaries, but the speed zones, and to prevent manatee harassment by divers and snorklers. There was also a clear consensus that an intensive public education campaign would play a key role in preventing intentional and unintentional harassment of manatees. The Crystal River Chamber of Commerce appealed to the audience that regardless of the outcome of the sanctuary issue, government, conservation groups, and citizens should work together to educate and inform the tens of thousands of visitors who visit the area each year of how to interact with manatees in a safe and appropriate manner.
