FR940426-1-00123 FR940426-1-00015 B. Reconciliation of Financial Statements of Significant Foreign Equity Investees and Foreign Acquirees Financial statements of significant foreign business acquisitions and foreign equity investees are required to be either presented on a U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (``GAAP'') basis or reconciled to U.S. GAAP. In the case of U.S. registrants, these financial statements are required to include all financial information required by U.S. GAAP and Regulation S&hyph;X, such as segments and pension information. The Commission is proposing to allow domestic registrants that are required to report financial statements of significant foreign business acquisitions or foreign equity investees the same ability as has been provided foreign registrants to provide such financials on a basis that complies with Item 17 of Form 20&hyph;F which does not require the disclosures prescribed by U.S. GAAP and Regulation S&hyph;X. Likewise, the proposed rules would incorporate the 30 percent threshold for providing such reconciling information as has been introduced for foreign registrants. 24 24 See Securities Act Release No. 7053 (April 19, 1994). Reconciliation to U.S. GAAP would continue to be required for pro forma financial information depicting the effects of a registrant's acquisition of a foreign business. In circumstances where a registrant furnishes separate financial statements of an equity investee pursuant to Rule 3&hyph;09 of Regulation S&hyph;X, the staff has not required the registrant to also furnish summarized financial data of the investee pursuant to Rule 4&hyph;08(g) of Regulation S&hyph;X (17 CFR 210.4&hyph;08(g)) ( See Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 44, Topic 6:K (March 3, 1983) [47 FR 10789]. However, a domestic registrant that furnishes separate financial statements of a foreign investee that are not reconciled pursuant to the proposed rule should furnish the summarized financial data pursuant to Rule 4&hyph;08(g) in accordance with U.S. GAAP in its primary financial statements. The relief provided under the proposed amendment would be available with respect to financial statements furnished by domestic registrants if the investee or acquired business is a foreign business. A foreign business is defined as a business that is majority owned by persons who are not citizens or residents of the United States, 25 is not organized under the laws of the United States or any state thereof, and either (a) more than 50 percent of its assets are located outside the United States or (b) the majority of its executive officers and directors are not United States citizens or residents. This standard includes tests which are similar to those used in the definition of foreign private issuer in Regulation C. 26 25 Ownership is measured prior to the acquisition of the business. 26 See Rule 405 of Regulation C [17 CFR 230.405]. Comment is requested regarding the appropriateness of permitting a domestic company subject to U.S. GAAP to provide financial statements that comply with Item 17 of Form 20&hyph;F with respect to its foreign equity investees and foreign business acquisitions. Are there situations in which the disclosures required by Item 18 of Form 20&hyph;F should be required? Comment is requested as to whether the 30 percent threshold under which reconciliation is not required is appropriate, or whether the threshold should be lower or higher with respect to domestic registrants. Comment is also requested regarding the appropriateness of the proposed definition of a foreign business for purposes of determining which businesses would qualify for relief under the proposed rule. For example, should the principal place in which the business is administered be a criteria? Comment is requested concerning whether modification of the test for significance with respect to equity investees is appropriate, or whether another test of significance would be more appropriate. C. Age of Financial Statements of Significant Foreign Equity Investees or Foreign Acquired Businesses Finally, the proposed rules would permit the financial statements of significant foreign equity investees and acquired foreign businesses of domestic issuers to be updated on the same time schedule as for foreign private issuers registering or reporting under the federal securities laws. 27 Registration statements of foreign private issuers need to include audited financial statements of the most recently competed fiscal year within six months after the year end; unaudited interim financial statements are required to the extent necessary to bring the most recent financial statements included in the filing to a date within ten months of effectiveness. 28 The proposed relief would be available with respect to financial statements of a foreign business, defined as a business that is majority owned by persons who are not citizens or residents of the United States, is not organized under the laws of the United States or any state thereof, and either (a) more than 50 percent of its assets are located outside the United States or (b) the majority of its executive officers and directors are not United States citizens or residents. 27 17 CFR 210.3&hyph;12. 28 17 CFR 210.3&hyph;19. Comment is requested regarding whether the age of the financial statements included in the filing of a domestic company should be the same as the issuer regardless of whether the acquired business or investee is a foreign business. Comment is also requested as to whether the definition of a foreign business, for which this relief would be extended, is appropriate or should be modified.
