FR940303-2-00101 FR940303-2-00056 DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR Fish and Wildlife Service Receipt of Applications for Permit The following applicants have applied for a permit to conduct certain activities with endangered species. This notice is provided pursuant to section 10(c) of the Endangered Species Act of 1973, as amended (16 U.S.C. 1531, et seq. ): PRT&hyph;786696 Applicant : International Crane Foundation, Baraboo, WI The applicant requests a permit to export 6 Japanese ( Grus japonensis ) and 6 white-naped ( Grus vipio ) crane eggs to Khinganski Nature Reserve, Russia, for the purposes of enhancement of propagation and survival of the species. PRT&hyph;785943 Applicant : New York Zoological Society, Bronx, NY The applicant requests a permit to import blood and tissue samples obtained opportunistically from animals that have been immobilized by the Malaysian Wildlife Department for various management studies. The samples will be imported for scientific analyses to enhance the propagation and survival of the species and will be obtained from the following species: flat-headed cat ( Felis planiceps ), Temminck's cat ( Felis temmincki ), clouded leopard ( Neofelis nebulosa ), marbled cat ( Felis marmorata ), orangutan ( Pongo pygmaeus ), proboscis monkey ( Nasalis larvatus ), gibbons ( Hylobates muelleri ), Sumatran rhino ( Dicerorhinus sumatrensis ), helmeted hornbill ( Rhinoplax vigil ), saltwater crocodile ( Crocodylus porosus ), tomistoma ( Tomistoma schlegelii ), and Asian elephant ( Elephas maximus ). PRT&hyph;785556 Applicant : Matson's Laboratory, Milltown, MT The applicant requests a permit to import up to 47 teeth from woods bison ( Bison bison athabascae ) that were obtained opportunistically from legally hunted animals and/or animals found dead for age determination to enhance the survival of the species through population studies. PRT&hyph;676811 Applicant : U.S Fish and Wildlife Service, Regional Director_Region 2 The applicant requests an amendment to their current permit to include take activities for Barton Springs salamander ( Eurycea sosorum ) for the purpose of scientific research and the enhancement of propagation and survival of the species as prescribed by Service recovery documents. PRT&hyph;702631 Applicant : U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, Regional Director_Region 1 The applicant requests an amendment to their current permit to include take activities for Pacific Pocket Mouse ( Perognathus longimembris pacificus ) for the purpose of scientific research and the enhancement of propagation and survival of the species as prescribed by Service recovery documents. PRT&hyph;786662 Applicant : Dallas Zoo, Dallas, TX The applicant requests a permit to import two captive-born male gorillas ( Gorilla gorilla gorilla ) from the Metropolitan Toronto Zoo, Ontario, Canada, for the purpose of enhancement of propagation and survival of the species. PRT&hyph;785956 Applicant : New York Zoological Society, Bronx, NY The applicant requests a permit to import blood samples obtained opportunistically from the black caiman ( Melanosuchus niger ), Apaporis river caiman ( Caiman crocodilus apaporiensis ), Yacare caiman ( Caiman crocodilus yacare ), and broad-snouted caiman ( Caiman latirostris ) while they have been immobilized by Peruvian scientists for various management studies. The samples will be imported for scientific analyses to enhance the propagation and survival of the species PRT&hyph;785185 Applicant : Columbus Zoo, Powell, OH The applicant requests a permit to export a pair of orangutans ( Pongo pygmaeus ) to the Parque Zoological Nacional, Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic for educational display to enhance the survival of the species. PRT&hyph;787373 Applicant : George A. Robinson, Houston, TX The applicant requests a permit to import the sport-hunted trophy of one male bontebok ( Damaliscus dorcas dorcas ) culled from the captive herd maintained by E.L. Pringle, ``Huntly Glen'', Bedford, Republic of South Africa, for the purpose of enhancement of survival of the species. PRT&hyph;785649 Applicant : New York Zoological Society, Bronx, NY The applicant requests a permit to import blood samples from chimpanzee ( Pan troglodytes ) and Pygmy chimpanzee ( Pan paniscus ), gorilla ( Gorilla gorilla ), Northern white rhinoceros ( Ceratotherium simum cottoni ), and African elephant ( Loxodonta africana ) for the purpose of scientific research and enhancement of survival of the species. Written data or comments should be submitted to the Director, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, Office of Management Authority, 4401 North Fairfax Drive, room 420(c), Arlington, Virginia 22203 and must be received by the Director within 30 days of the date of this publication. Documents and other information submitted with these applications are available for review, subject to the requirements of the Privacy Act and Freedom of Information Act, by any party who submits a written request for a copy of such documents to the following office within 30 days of the date of publication of this notice: U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, Office of Management Authority, 4401 North Fairfax Drive, room 420(c), Arlington, Virginia 22203. Phone: (703/358&hyph;2104); FAX: (703/358&hyph;2281). Dated: February 25, 1994. Margaret Tieger, Acting Chief, Branch of Permits, Office of Management Authority. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;4825 Filed 3&hyph;2&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4310&hyph;55&hyph;P
