FR940616-2-00162 FR940616-2-00102 (iii) The extent to which the project will provide the maximum benefits in a cost-effective manner (20 points). In determining the extent to which the proposal will provide the maximum benefit for the metropolitan area covered by this NOFA in a cost-effective manner, HUD will consider the quality and reasonableness of the proposed statement of work, and the timeline and budget for implementation and completion of the lab. HUD will consider as well the adequacy and clarity of proposed procedures to be used by the proposer for monitoring the progress of the lab and ensuring its timely completion. These procedures may consist of a system for checking whether or not the milestones established are being met. The applicant's capability in handling financial resources (e.g., adequate financial control and accounting procedures) demonstrated through previous project management experience will be taken into account as part of the assessment. HUD will also consider the degree to which the applicant proposes to use funds for program costs as opposed to administrative costs. This criterion will be judged on the basis of the proposer's submissions in response to Paragraphs IV(a)(3), (a)(5) and (a)(7) of this NOFA under the heading ``Checklist of Application Submission Requirements''. (iv) The extent to which the applicant's professional and organizational experience will further the achievement of the proposal's goals (20 points). In determining the extent to which the applicant's professional and organizational experience are likely to further the achievement of the proposal's goals, HUD will consider the applicant's experience in formulating and carrying out programs to prevent or eliminate discriminatory practices, including the applicant's management of past or current projects, including projects that have addressed the problem of providing housing on a nondiscriminatory basis to minorities, women, the disabled and other protected classes. HUD will also consider these qualifications in the context of the applicant's overall knowledge of the fair housing environment in the Chicago metropolitan area. It will also consider the experience and qualifications of existing personnel identified for key positions, or a description of the qualifications of new staff that will be hired, including subcontractors and consultants. This criterion will be judged on the basis of the proposer's submissions in response to Paragraph IV(a)(3) of this NOFA under the heading ``Checklist of Application Submission Requirements''. (v) The extent to which the project will utilize other public or private resources that may be available (10 points). The applicant shall describe whether in addition to the $1.0 million provided by this NOFA it plans to use other public or private resources. The other resources must be clearly and specifically targeted for this project and must be over and above the resources available to the applicant as part of its present, non-project operations for such expenses as salaries, equipment, supplies and rent. This criterion will be judged on the basis of the applicant's response to Paragraph IV (a)(4) of this NOFA under the heading ``Checklist of Application Submission Requirements''. (vi) Minority Business Enterprise/Women-Owned Business Enterprise (5 points). The applicant shall also describe its experience in Minority Business Enterprise/Women-Owned Business Enterprise contracting. The applicant shall provide a summary of the total amount awarded in each of the two categories for the previous three years and the percentage that amount represents of the total contracts awarded by the applicant in the relevant time period. (2) Selection Process. Each application for funding will be evaluated competitively and awarded points based on the General Selection Criteria identified in the previous section. The final decision rests with the Assistant Secretary or her designee. After eligible applications are evaluated against the factors for award and assigned a score, they will be organized by rank order. (3) Cost factors. The Department expects to fund one proposal as a result of this NOFA. It is possible, however, that two or more complete and eligible applications, after evaluation against the Selection Criteria, may be considered equal in technical merit. Should that occur, their relative evaluated cost will become the deciding factor. Furthermore, an applicant's proposal will not be funded whose costs are determined to be unrealistically low or unreasonably high. (f) Applicant Notification and Award Procedures (1) Notification No information will be available to applicants during the period of HUD evaluation, except for notification in writing to those applicants that are determined to be ineligible or that have technical deficiencies in their applications that may be corrected. The Selectee will be announced by HUD upon completion of the evaluation process, subject to final negotiations and award. (2) Negotiations After HUD has ranked the applications and made an initial determination of applicants whose scores are within the funding range (but before the actual award), HUD may require that applicants in this group participate in negotiations to determine the specific terms of the grant agreement. In cases where it is not possible to conclude the necessary negotiations successfully, awards will not be made. If an award is not made to an applicant whose application is in the initial funding ranking because of an inability to complete successful negotiations, and if funds are available to fund any applications that may have fallen outside the initial funding ranking, HUD will select the next highest ranking applicant and proceed as described in the preceding paragraph. (3) Funding Instrument HUD expects to award a cost reimbursable or fixed-price cooperative agreement to the successful applicant. HUD reserves the right, however, to use the form of assistance agreement determined to be appropriate after negotiations with the applicant.
