FR940414-2-00159 FR940414-2-00084 E. Cancellation of claims for late payment of the annual fee. 1. If the late payment resulted from clerical error or mistake, the claim may be cancelled upon payment of the amount due but not paid. 2. If the late payment resulted from negligence, cancel upon payment of the amount due but not paid plus the following percent of that amount for each day payment is in arrears: a. First seven calendar days_not less than one-third of one percent nor more than three-fourths of one percent per day. b. Second seven calendar days_not less than one and one-third percent nor more than one and three-fourths percent per day. c. After the fourteenth calendar day_not less than two and one-third nor more than two and three-fourths percent per day. 3. If the late payment was intentional, no relief shall be granted. X. Guidelines for Cancellation of Claims Arising From the Failure To Hold Merchandise at the Place of Examination (19 CFR 113.62(f)) A. Failure to Hold or Transfer Merchandise. If the principal seeks and obtains permission from Customs to have merchandise examined at a place other than at a wharf or other place in the charge of a Customs officer and fails to hold merchandise at the place of examination or fails to transfer the merchandise to another place upon instruction from Customs obtained before the merchandise was released, the claim will be cancelled upon the following terms. 1. If either the bond principal or surety files an entry summary and pays estimated duties, taxes and fees on the merchandise, Customs may cancel the bond claim upon payment of an amount between $100 and $1,000 if the merchandise was not suspected by Customs to be restricted or prohibited. 2. If neither the bond principal nor surety files an entry summary and pays estimated duties, taxes and fees on the merchandise, Customs will cancel the bond claim upon payment of an amount equal to the estimated duties that would have been due plus an amount between $100 and $1,000 if the merchandise was not suspected by Customs to be restricted or prohibited. 3. If the merchandise not delivered to or retained at the examination site is restricted or prohibited, and the bond principal or surety proves that an entry summary was filed, estimated duties, taxes and fees were paid and the merchandise was deemed admissible with that entry summary, Customs will cancel the bond claim upon payment of an amount between $100 and $1,000. 4. If the merchandise not delivered to or retained at the examination site is restricted or prohibited, and the bond principal or surety does not prove that an entry summary was filed, estimated duties were paid or provide a showing that the merchandise was deemed admissible, Customs will cancel the bond claim upon payment of an amount equal to the estimated duties plus an amount between 15 and 25 percent of the value of the merchandise but not less than $250. 5. If the violation is determined to be intentional in nature, no relief should be afforded. B. Failure to Keep Customs Seal or Cording Intact. For a violation which involves the failure to keep any Customs seal or cording intact until the merchandise is examined, the claim shall be cancelled upon payment of an amount between $100 and $500 if there is no evidence to indicate the merchandise in the sealed or corded shipment was tampered with. If there is evidence of tampering, the claim shall be cancelled upon payment of an amount equal to the value of any missing merchandise. XI. Guidelines for Cancellation of Claims Arising From the Failure of a Centralized Examination Station (CES) Operator To Retain Merchandise at the CES (19 CFR Part 118, 19 CFR 113.63) A. Merchandise not delivered to or retained at a Centralized Examination Station (CES) by the CES operator. 1. If an entry summary is filed on the merchandise and estimated duties, taxes and fees are paid, Customs may cancel the bond claim upon payment of an amount between $100 and $1,000 if the merchandise was not suspected by Customs to be restricted or prohibited. 2. If an entry summary is not filed or estimated duties, taxes and fees are not paid on the merchandise, Customs will cancel the bond claim upon payment of an amount equal to the estimated duties that would have been due plus an amount between $100 and $1,000 if the merchandise was not suspected by Customs to be restricted or prohibited.
