FR940114-2-00169 FR940114-2-00102 A. Part I.C. has been incorporated into the proposed permit to further clarify the discharges that will be authorized under this permit. B. Part II.A.2. of the proposed permit is required to assure compliance with the technology-based requirements established in Part II.A.1.a. of the proposed permit. IX. New Source Performance Standards (NSPS) Pursuant to section 301 of the CWA, NSPS (40 CFR 440.144) were promulgated for gold placer mine facilities. NSPS apply to new mines determined to be new sources by virtue of their activities occurring after promulgation of the rule (May 24, 1988). The NSPS for gold placer mining facilities are based on the same treatment technology as BAT, which consists of simple settling plus recirculation of all process water. Since BAT is based on the most stringent demonstrated technology that is available for treating gold placer mine wastewater, those mines which are new sources will not be subject to controls more stringent than those applicable to existing mines. In accordance with section 511(c)(1) of the CWA, NPDES permits for new sources are subject to the provisions of the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA). NEPA requires that, prior to the issuance of an NPDES permit to a new source facility, an Environmental Assessment (EA) must be prepared to determine the potential for any significant impacts on the quality of the human environment resulting from operation of the new source. Permit part I.E.1. requires that new facilities submit a notice of intent by January 1 of the year of discharge. This will allow adequate time to complete EAs for each new source prior to the mining season. If the EA indicates that significant adverse environmental impacts may occur, then the applicant must prepare an Environmental Impact Statement (EIS). However, if the EA indicates that significant impacts are not anticipated, a Finding of No Significant Impact (FNSI) shall be issued and the facility will be covered by the existing general permit. The FNSI may be based, in part, on required permit conditions or mitigation measures necessary to make the recommended alternative environmentally acceptable. X. State Certification Section 301(b)(1)(C) of the Act requires that an NPDES permit contain conditions which ensure compliance with applicable State water quality standards or limitations. The limitations for turbidity and arsenic were established pursuant to WQS and federal standards, respectively. Section 401 requires that States certify that Federally issued permits are in compliance with State law. No permits can be issued until the requirements of Section 401 are satisfied. These are permits for operations discharging to waters (inland waters) of the State of Alaska. EPA is requesting State officials to review and provide appropriate certification to these draft permits pursuant to 40 CFR 124.53. XI. References Ashton, W. and R. Carlson. 1984. Determinations of Seasonal Frequency and Durational Aspects of Stream Flow With Regard to Fish Passage Through Roadway Drainage Structures. Department of Transportation and Public Facilities. Griffith, J.S. and D.A. Andrews. 1981. Effects of a small suction dredge on fishes and aquatic invertebrates in Idaho streams. North American Journal of Fisheries Management 1:21&hyph;28.* *Literature cited in literature research project. Hassler, T.J., W.L. Somer and G.R. Stern. 1986. Impacts of suction dredge mining on anadromous fish, invertebrates and habitat in Canyon Creek, California. Calif. Coop. Fish. Res. Unit., Humboldt State University, Arcata, California, Coop. Agreement No. 14&hyph;16&hyph;0009&hyph;1547, Work Order No. 2. 135 pages.* Harvey, B.C. 1986. Effects of suction gold dredging on fish and invertebrates in two California streams. North American Journal of Fisheries Management 6:401&hyph;409.* Huber, C. and D. Blanchet. 1992. Water quality cumulative effects of placer mining on the Chugach National Forest, Kenai Peninsula, 1988&hyph;1990. U.S. Forest Service, Chugach National Forest, Alaska Region. 74 pages.* McCleneghan, K. and R.E. Johnson. 1983. Suction dredge gold mining in the mother lode region of California. California Department of Fish and Game, Environmental Services Branch, Administrative Report 83&hyph;1.* Minshall, G.W., D.A. Andrews and C.Y. Manual-Faler. 1983. Application of island biogeographic theory to streams: macroinvertebrate recolonization of the Teton River, Idaho. In J.R. Barnes and G. W. Minshall editors Stream Ecology: Application and testing of general ecological theory. Plenum Press, New York.* Scannel, P.O. 1988. Effects of elevated sediment levels from placer mining on survival and behavior of immature Arctic grayling. Master's thesis. University of Alaska, Fairbanks, Alaska, USA. 93 pages.* Somer, W.L. and T.J. Hassler. 1992. Effects of suction-dredge gold mining on benthic invertebrates in a Northern California Stream. North American Journal of Fisheries Management 12:244&hyph;252.* Thomas, V.G. 1985. Experimentally determined impacts of a small, suction gold dredge on a Montana stream. North American Journal Fisheries Management 5:480&hyph;488.* U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. 1985. Water Quality Study: Arkansas River above Salida, Colorado. U.S Army Corps of Engineers, Albuquerque District, P.O. Box 1580, Albuquerque, New Mexico 87103.* U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. 1991. Regulatory strategy for controlling small commercial and recreational placer mining, draft. U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Office of Solid Waste, 2800 Crystal Drive, Crystal Station, Crystal City, Virginia 20202. EPA Contract No. 68&hyph;C8&hyph;0066, W.A. 30. SAIC Project No. 1&hyph;833&hyph;03&hyph;630&hyph;00. 73 pages.* U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. 1988. Development Document for Effluent Limitations Guidelines and New Source Performance Standards for the Ore Mining and Dressing Point Source Category_Gold Placer Mining Subcategory. U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Office of Water Regulations and Standards, Industrial Technology Division, Washington, DC 20460. EPA 440/1&hyph;88&hyph;061. Finding of No Significant Impact To all interested government agencies, public groups, and individuals: In accordance with the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) procedures for complying with the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA), 40 CFR part 6, subpart F, EPA has completed an environmental review of the following proposed action: Issuance of a General National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) Permit No. AK&hyph;G&hyph;37&hyph;0000 for Alaskan Placer Miners. The proposed action is issuance of a General NPDES Permit covering both existing and new source facilities in Alaska which mine and process, using gravity separation methods, gold placer ores. The proposed effluent limitations, monitoring provisions, and other conditions are specified in the draft General NPDES permit. The Fact Sheet, accompanying the draft permit, describes the basis for these requirements. The proposed General NPDES Permit would replace the existing individual NPDES permits.
