FR940621-1-00005 FR940621-1-00002 9 CFR Part 94 [Docket No. 93&hyph;061&hyph;1] Certificate for Importation of Milk and Milk Products AGENCY: Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, USDA. ACTION: Proposed rule. SUMMARY: We are proposing to amend the regulations concerning the importation of milk and milk products to require that any milk or milk product imported into the United States from countries declared free of rinderpest and foot-and-mouth disease be accompanied by a certificate stating that the milk was produced and processed in a country declared free of rinderpest and foot-and-mouth disease, or that the milk product was processed in a country declared free of rinderpest and foot-and-mouth disease from milk produced in a country declared free of rinderpest and foot-and-mouth disease. The certificate would have to name the country in which the milk was produced and the country in which the milk or milk product was processed. Also, the certificate would state that, except for certain movements under seal, the milk or milk product has never been in any country in which rinderpest or foot-and-mouth disease exists. Requiring a certificate would help ensure that milk or milk products imported into the United States do not introduce rinderpest or foot-and-mouth disease into the United States. DATES: Consideration will be given only to comments received on or before August 22, 1994. ADDRESSES: Please send an original and three copies of your comments to Chief, Regulatory Analysis and Development, PPD, APHIS, USDA, room 804, Federal Building, 6505 Belcrest Road, Hyattsville, MD 20782. Please state that your comments refer to Docket No. 93&hyph;061&hyph;1. Comments received may be inspected at USDA, room 1141, South Building, 14th Street and Independence Avenue SW., Washington, DC, between 8 a.m. and 4:30 p.m., Monday through Friday, except holidays. Persons wishing to inspect comments are requested to call ahead on (202) 690&hyph;2817 to facilitate entry into the comment reading room. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Dr. John Gray, Senior Staff Veterinarian, Import-Export Products Staff, National Center for Import-Export, Veterinary Services, APHIS, USDA, room 756, Federal Building, 6505 Belcrest Road, Hyattsville, MD 20782, (301) 436&hyph;7885. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background The regulations in 9 CFR part 94 (referred to below as ``the regulations'') govern the importation into the United States of specified animals and animal products in order to prevent the introduction into the United States of various diseases, including rinderpest and foot-and-mouth disease (FMD). These are dangerous and destructive communicable diseases of ruminants and swine. The regulations in §94.1(a)(2) list countries that are declared free of rinderpest and FMD. Milk and milk products have the potential to spread rinderpest and FMD if they are produced or processed in or have transited a country where these diseases exist. Therefore, under §94.16, milk and milk products are restricted entry into the United States unless they are imported from countries listed in §94.1(a)(2). As trade barriers are being lifted between many countries (such as among members of the European Union), it has become increasingly difficult to ensure that milk or milk products imported from countries listed in §94.1(a)(2) were produced and processed in a country free of rinderpest and FMD and were never in a country where rinderpest or FMD exists. For example, some milk produced in France was recently imported into the United States from Great Britain. At that time, France was designated in the regulations as a country where rinderpest or FMD exists. If APHIS had known that the milk imported from Great Britain had been produced in France, we would not have permitted its importation into the United States. To help prevent similar incidents, we are proposing to amend §94.16 to require that milk or milk products imported into the United States from a country listed in §94.1(a)(2) as free of rinderpest and FMD must be accompanied by a certificate endorsed by a full-time, salaried veterinarian employed by the country of export. The certificate would have to state that the milk was produced and processed in a country listed in §94.1(a)(2), or that the milk product was processed in a country listed in §94.1(a)(2) from milk produced in a country listed in §94.1(a)(2). The certificate would have to name the country in which the milk was produced and the country in which the milk or milk product was processed. Further, the certificate would state that, except for movement under seal as described in §94.16(c), the milk or milk product has never been in any country in which rinderpest or FMD exists. (Section 94.16(c) allows milk or milk products imported into the United States from countries listed in §94.1(a)(2) as free of rinderpest and FMD to transit a country infected with rinderpest or FMD en route to the United States, provided the milk or milk products are, among other things, transported under serially numbered official seals to ensure that the milk or milk product is not removed from its container during transit.) This certification would help ensure that milk or milk products imported into the United States do not introduce rinderpest or FMD into the United States. However, we do not propose to require that milk or milk products imported from Canada be accompanied by the proposed certificate, even though Canada is listed in §94.1(a)(2) as free of rinderpest and FMD. Canada has a common land border with only the United States, and Canada imports milk and milk products from other countries under conditions as restrictive as would be acceptable for importation into the United States. Therefore, we do not believe the certificate would be necessary. Executive Order 12866 and Regulatory Flexibility Act This proposed rule has been reviewed under Executive Order 12866. The rule has been determined to be not significant for purposes of Executive Order 12866, and, therefore, has not been reviewed by the Office of Management and Budget.
