FR940114-0-00063 FR940114-0-00020 (d) Design load deflection. (1) When a structural assembly is subjected to total design live loads, the deflection for structural framing members shall not exceed the following (where L equals the clear span between supports or two times the length of a cantilever): Floor_L/240 Roof and ceiling_L/180 Headers, beams, and girders (vertical load)_L/180 Walls and partitions_L/180 (2) The allowable eave or cornice deflection for uplift is to be measured at the design uplift load of 9 psf for Wind Zone I, and at the design uplift pressure cited in paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section for Wind Zones II and III. The allowable deflection shall be (2 x Lc)/180, where Lc is the measured horizontal eave projection from the wall. (e) Fastening of structural systems. (1) Roof framing shall be securely fastened to wall framing, walls to floor structure, and floor structure to chassis to secure and maintain continuity between the floor and chassis, so as to resist wind overturning, uplift, and sliding as specified in this part. (2) For Wind Zones II and III, roof trusses shall be secured to exterior wall framing members (studs), and exterior wall framing members (studs) shall be secured to floor framing members, with 26 gage minimum steel strapping or brackets or by a combination of 26 gage minimum steel strapping or brackets and structural rated wall sheathing that overlaps the roof and floor. Steel strapping or brackets shall be installed at a maximum spacing of 24 ’ ’ on center in Wind Zone II and at a maximum of 16 ’ ’ on center in Wind Zone III. The number and type of fasteners used to secure the steel straps or brackets or structural sheathing shall be capable of transferring all uplift forces between elements being joined. * * * * * 8. Section 3280.306 is amended by revising paragraphs (a) introductory text and (b); adding a heading for paragraph (c) introductory text; revising paragraphs (c) (1) through (3) and (d) through (g) to read as follows: §3280.306 Windstorm protection_support and anchoring systems. (a) Provisions for support and anchoring systems. Each manufactured home shall have provisions for support/anchoring or foundation systems that, when properly designed and installed, will resist overturning and lateral movement (sliding) of the manufactured home as imposed by the respective design loads. For Wind Zone I, the design wind loads to be used for calculating resistance to overturning and lateral movement shall be the simultaneous application of the wind loads indicated in §3280.305(c)(1)(i), increased by a factor of 1.5. The 1.5 factor of safety for Wind Zone I is also to be applied simultaneously to both the vertical building projection, as horizontal wind load, and across the surface of the full roof structure, as uplift loading. For Wind Zones II and III, the resistance shall be determined by the simultaneous application of the horizontal drag and uplift wind loads, in accordance with §3280.305(c)(1)(ii). The basic allowable stresses of materials required to resist overturning and lateral movement shall not be increased in the design and proportioning of these members. No additional shape or location factors need to be applied in the design of the tiedown system. The dead load of the structure may be used to resist these wind loading effects in all Wind Zones. (1) *␣*␣* (b) Contents of instructions. (1) The manufacturer shall provide printed instructions with each manufactured home specifying the location and required capacity of stabilizing devices on which the design is based. The manufacturer shall provide drawings and specifications certified by a registered professional engineer or architect indicating at least one acceptable system of anchoring, including the details of required straps or cables, their end connections, and all other devices needed to transfer the wind loads from the manufactured home to an anchoring or foundation system.
