FR941128-1-00027 FR941128-1-00005 The technical applicability of a LAI adjustment, as implemented for particle deposition velocity, has not been extensively studied. Thus, the robustness of using a LAI in routine model applications is uncertain. Excluding algorithms with LAI adjustments, the ADOM 1 scheme produces the best composite fractional bias measure (CPM) and was significantly better than other models tested at the 95% confidence level. ADOM 1 slightly underestimates observed deposition velocities, a trait that is shared by all the algorithm candidates. Considering all of these factors, ADOM 1 is recommended for estimating dry deposition velocity in the ISC2 model. The ADOM 1 dry deposition algorithm has been tested within the framework of the ISC2 model and comparisons of deposition estimates using the old and new deposition algorithms have been made for a range of source types and particulate emission scenarios. Similar comparisons have been made of particulate concentration estimates as affected by the old and new deposition algorithms. A report 21 documenting these analyses and assessing the potential consequences of replacing the current deposition algorithm in ISC2 with the proposed algorithm has been prepared. 21 Environmental Protection Agency, 1994. Comparison of ISC2 Deposition Estimates Based on Current and Proposed Deposition Algorithms. EPA Publication No. EPA&hyph;454/R&hyph;94&hyph;018. U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Research Triangle Park, NC. The results of the comparative analyses of the proposed dry deposition algorithm vary with release type, particle size, and averaging period. Consequently, care should be exercised in interpreting the generalizations that follow regarding deposition and concentration estimates. The effects on the actual deposition predicted by ADOM 1 were examined. For surface releases, the new algorithm gives higher annual and 24-hour deposition estimates for all particle sizes. For 1-hour and 3-hour estimates for surface releases the results were mixed. For elevated releases, deposition estimates given by the new algorithm are higher for 0.1 m m and 1 m m particles, lower for 10 and 20 m m particles, and higher for 80 m m and 100 m m particles. The results for elevated releases of 50 m m particles depend on release height. The effects on ambient concentrations predicted by ISC2 were also examined. For both surface and elevated releases of small and intermediate particle sizes (i.e., 0.1, 1.0, 10 and 20 m m), the differences in concentration estimates between the old and new algorithms are less than 10 percent. These differences are considered insignificant. Results for the large particle sizes (i.e., 50, 80, and 100 m m) depend on release height. For surface releases, the concentration estimates using the new algorithm are diminished. For elevated releases, concentration estimates using the new algorithm are increased. EPA is also soliciting public comment on whether it would be appropriate to require the proposed dry deposition algorithm to be used for all ISC2 analyses involving particulate matter in any of the programs for which Guideline usage is required under 40 CFR parts 51 and 52 (see Summary ). Heretofore, use of the deposition algorithm has been optional, depending on the relevance of particle deposition to a particular application. However, with the more accurate deposition algorithm proposed herein, its use may result in the systematic prediction of more accurate ambient concentrations. Therefore, EPA is soliciting comment on whether it would be appropriate to revise Guideline section 8.2.7 (Gravitational Settling and Deposition) to require use of the deposition algorithm, and if so, whether the implementation guidance provided in the User's Instructions17 is sufficient. 2. Enhancements to On-site Stability Classification EPA is proposing to revise the on-site stability classification with the adoption of a new technique, adapted from Bowen et al. 22 and herein referred to as the solar radiation/delta-T (SRDT) method. This method uses total solar radiation during daytime and temperature difference, delta-T ( D T), at night and is a replacement for the one originally proposed (56 FR 5900). As proposed in supplement C, the hierarchy of stability classification schemes in the Guideline will be changed to reflect a preference for SRDT-derived stability categories. Operation of the method is fully described in section 6.4.4.2 of ``On-Site Meteorological Program Guidance for Regulatory Modeling Applications'' (EPA&hyph;450/4&hyph;87&hyph;013), hereafter, ``on-site guidance''. 22 Bowen, B.M., J.M. Dewart, and A. I. Chen, 1983. Stability Class Determination: A Comparison for One Site. Proceedings, Sixth Symposium on Turbulence and Diffusion, American Meteorological Society, Boston, MA; pp. 211&hyph;214. (Docket No. A&hyph;92&hyph;65; II&hyph;A&hyph;6) The new method has been completely reconfigured in terms of its classification criteria, in response to the public comments provided at the Fifth Conference on Air Quality Modeling (March 1991) regarding the original proposal. The comments (Docket A&hyph;88&hyph;04, Category IV&hyph;D; see footnote # 4) were generally favorable to the concept of a SRDT method for determining stability category. However, there were some substantial criticisms of specific SRDT components. Most significant were comments on: (1) Accuracy of measurements associated with a 2&hyph;10m D T; (2) Limitations on temperature measurements made at 2m; (3) Use of a 10&hyph;60m D T in lieu of one measured from 2&hyph;10m; (4) Lack of evaluation data bases; (5) Use of net radiation measurements in lieu of solar radiation; and (6) Merits of s measurements for stability determination. Regarding the use of net radiation, it is not apparent that there is sufficient experience with routine use of such measurements to justify requiring their use, whereas there has been extensive experience with D T systems. Regarding the use of s measurements, experience has been that, unless such systems are tuned for site-specific regimes, the s -based methods do not represent Pasquill-Gifford (P&hyph;G) stability classification well. Evaluation results, 23 based on on-site measurements from three widely separated locations, indicate that the SRDT method seems to be less sensitive to local measurement configurations and is expected to be geographically robust. Furthermore, the new SRDT method has been configured so that the system accuracy will not be limiting. Thus, the method will be less sensitive to random temperature differences. The claim (commenter IV&hyph;D&hyph;27 in Docket Item V&hyph;C&hyph;1; see footnote # 3) that accurate measurement of the 2m temperature may be adversely affected by surface conditions under the tower has merit in certain circumstances. The new SRDT method does not mandate that the location of the lower temperature sensor be at 2m. EPA believes that proper siting of temperature probes in accordance with Chapter 3 of the on-site guidance, coupled with sound judgment, should obviate any such problem. Use of a 10&hyph;60m D T, an interval specified in the meteorological monitoring protocol used by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, is accommodated by the new SRDT method. Finally, substantial effort was made in acquiring suitable on-site data bases with which to evaluate the new SRDT method; the new SRDT method has been more extensively evaluated. 23 Environmental Protection Agency, 1993. An Evaluation of a Solar Radiation/Delta-T (SRDT) Method for Estimating Pasquill-Gifford (P&hyph;G) Stability Categories. EPA Publication No. EPA&hyph;454/R&hyph;93&hyph;055. U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Research Triangle Park, NC. (NTIS No. PB 94&hyph;113958)
