FR940505-1-00423 FR940505-1-00012 Fitting means a component used to attach or connect pipes, piping details, and other equipment, such as, vessels, heat exchangers, and condensers. These components include but are not limited to flanges, threaded connections, and other connectors. Gas processing plant means any facility engaged in the separation of liquids from field gas and/or fractionation of the liquids into gaseous products, such as ethane, propane, butane, and natural gasoline. Gas production facility means a facility at which petroleum gas or natural gas extraction and handling are conducted, as defined in the Standard Industrial Classification Manual as Industry Number 1311, Crude Petroleum and Natural Gas. This definition includes, but is not limited to, compressor stations, dehydration units, sweetening units, field treatment units, liquefied natural gas units, extraction wells, flow lines, gathering lines, separators, and other auxiliary nontransportation equipment used in petroleum gas or natural gas extraction and handling. Hatch means any covered opening system that provides access to a tank or container, usually through the top deck. Inaccessible component means any component located over fifteen feet above ground when access is required from the ground; or any component located over six feet away from a platform when access is required from the platform. Leak means a major gas leak, major liquid leak, minor gas leak, or minor liquid leak. Leak minimization means reducing a leak to the lowest achievable level using best modern practices including tightening, adjusting, or adding sealing material and without shutting down the process which the component serves. Leak repair means any corrective action taken for the purposes of reducing a component leak to the lowest achievable level below the applicable standard using best modern practices. Major component means any 4-inch or larger valve, any 5-horse-power (5-hp) or larger pump, any compressor, and any 4-inch or larger pressure relief device. Major gas leak for any component means the detection of total gaseous organic compounds in excess of 10,000 ppmv as methane above background as measured according to the test procedures in paragraph (t)(7)(i) of this section. Major liquid leak means a visible mist or cloud or a continuous flow of liquid. Minor component means any component that is not a major component. Minor gas leak means for any component, except stuffing boxes and control valves, the detection of total gaseous organic compounds in excess of 1,000 ppmv but not more than 10,000 ppmv as methane above background as measured according to the test procedures in paragraph (t)(7)(i) of this section. Minor liquid leak is any liquid leak which is not a major liquid leak and drips at a rate of more than three drops per minute. Oil production facility means a facility at which crude oil extraction and handling is conducted, as defined in the Standard Industrial Classification Manual as Industry Number 1311, Crude Petroleum and Natural Gas. This definition includes, but is not limited to, extraction wells, flow lines, gathering lines, separators, and other auxiliary nontransportation equipment used in petroleum extraction and handling. Open ended line means any valve, except safety relief valves, having one side of the valve seat in contact with the process fluid or gas and one side open to the atmosphere. Owner or operator means any person who owns, operates, leases, controls, or supervises an emissions source or air pollution control equipment. Person means any individual, corporation, copartnership, firm, company, partnership, joint stock company, trust, association, State, municipality, political subdivision, or any other legal entity, or their legal representative, agent, or assigns. Pipeline transfer station means a facility that handles the storage or transfer, or both, of petroleum products or crude petroleum in pipelines. Platform means any raised, permanent, horizontal surface that provides access to components. Pressure relief device (PRD) means a pressure relief valve, rupture disc, or any other equipment designed to relieve pressure within process a line when the static pressure reaches a setpoint. Pressure relief event means a release from a pressure relief device resulting when the static pressure reaches the setpoint of the pressure relief device. A pressure relief event is not a leak. Pressure relief valve (PRV) means any valve that is automatically actuated by upstream static pressure, and used for safety or emergency purposes. Pump means any device used to transport fluids by the addition of mechanical energy. Refinery means a facility that processes petroleum, as defined in the Standard Industrial Classification Manual as Industry Number 2911, Petroleum Refining. Repair means any corrective action taken for the purposes of reducing a leak to below the applicable standard. Rupture disc means a diaphragm held between flanges for the purpose of isolating a volatile organic compound from the atmosphere or from a downstream pressure relief valve. Stuffing box means a packing gland, a chamber or ``box'' which holds packing material compressed around a moving pump rod or valve stem. For the purposes of paragraph (t) of this section, stuffing box seals are considered to be pump seals. Unmanned facility means a remote facility which has no permanent sited personnel and is greater than five miles from the nearest manned facility. Unsafe-to-monitor component means a component installed at a location that would prevent its safe inspection or repair as defined by Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) standards or in provisions for worker safety found in 29 CFR part 1910.
