FR940728-1-00038 FR940728-1-00013 FEDERAL MARITIME COMMISSION 46 CFR Parts 502, 503, 510, 514, 540, and 583 [Docket No. 94&hyph;14] Update of Existing Filing and Service Fees AGENCY: Federal Maritime Commission. ACTION: Proposed rule. SUMMARY: The Federal Maritime Commission (``Commission'') proposes to revise its existing fees for filing petitions, complaints, and special docket applications; various public information services, such as record searches, document copying, and admissions to practice; filing freight forwarder applications; various ATFI-related services; filing applications by cruise operators for performance and casualty certificates; and providing NVOCC listings. This proposal will update existing fees to reflect current costs to the Commission. DATES: Comments due September 12, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments (original and fifteen copies) to: Joseph C. Polking, Secretary, Federal Maritime Commission, 800 North Capitol Street, NW., Washington, DC 20573&hyph;0001. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Jeremiah D. Hospital or George S. Smolik, Bureau of Trade Monitoring and Analysis, Federal Maritime Commission, 800 North Capitol Street, NW., Washington, DC 20573&hyph;001, (202) 523&hyph;5790. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Commission is authorized under the Independent Offices Appropriation Act (``IOAA''), 31 U.S.C. 9701, to establish fees for services and benefits that it provides to specific recipients. The IOAA provides: (a) .␣.␣. that each service or thing of value provided by an agency .␣.␣. to a person .␣.␣. be self-sustaining to the extent possible. (b) .␣.␣. each charge shall be_ (1) fair; and (2) based on_ (A) the costs to the Government; (B) the value of the service or thing to the recipient; (C) public policy or interest served; and (D) other relevant facts. 31 U.S.C. 9701. The primary guidance for implementation of IOAA is Office of Management and Budget (``OMB'') Circular A&hyph;25, as revised July 8, 1993. OMB Circular A&hyph;25 requires that a reasonable charge be made to each recipient for a measurable unit or amount of Government service from which the recipient derives a benefit, in order that the Government recover the full cost of rendering that service. OMB Circular A&hyph;25 further provides that costs be determined or estimated from the best available records in the agency, and that cost computations shall cover the direct and indirect costs to the Government of carrying out the activity, including but not limited to: (a) Direct and indirect personnel costs, including salaries and fringe benefits such as medical insurance and retirement.␣.␣.␣.; (b) Physical overhead, consulting, and other indirect costs including material and supply costs, utilities, insurance, travel and rent .␣.␣.␣.; (c) The management and supervisory costs. (d) The costs of enforcement, collection, research, establishment of standards, and regulations, including any required environmental impact statements. OMB Circular A&hyph;25, paragraphs 6 d. (a), (b), (c), and (d). OMB Circular A&hyph;25 also calls for a periodic reassessment of costs, with related adjustment of fees, if necessary, and the establishment of new fees where none exists. 1 1 In a companion rulemaking proceeding Docket No. 94&hyph;15, New Filing Fees, the Commission is proposing implementing new fees for tariff and agreement filings; applications for filing alternate data, for extension of time to file, and for waiver of detailed filing of financial data in the domestic offshore trades; and the filing of general rate increases in the domestic offshore trades. The Commission's current filing and service fees have been in effect since 1983. The fees established at that time are no longer representative of the Commission's actual costs for providing such services. The Commission, accordingly, proposes to update its fees to reflect current costs to the Commission. The Commission has reviewed its current fees and developed data on the time and cost involved in providing particular services to arrive at the updated direct labor costs for those services. The direct labor costs included clerical, professional, supervisory, and executive time expended on an activity, plus a check processing cost of $1.00. Indirect costs (overhead and other assignable costs) were added to direct labor costs to arrive at fully distributed costs for providing each service. The indirect costs include Government overhead costs, which are fringe benefits and other wage-related Government contributions contained in OMB Circular A&hyph;76; 2 Commission general and administrative expenses; 3 and office general and administrative overhead expenses. 4 The sum of these indirect cost components gives an indirect cost factor that is added to the direct labor costs of an activity to arrive at the fully distributed cost. Appendix A is a detailed explanation of how the indirect cost factor was computed. 2 These include leave and holidays, retirement, workmen's compensation awards, health and life insurance, and Medicare. These are expressed as a percentage of basic pay. 3 These costs include all salaries and overhead, such as rent, utilities, supplies, and equipment, allocated to the Offices of the Commissioners, Managing Director, General Counsel, and the Bureau of Administration. The percentage of these costs to the total agency budget is allocated across all Commission programs. 4 These expenses are limited to the overhead expenses allocated to those bureaus and offices involved in fee-generating activities, and is derived from dividing allocated overhead expenses by the total funding for these fee-generating offices. All current fees, except as noted, are being revised to reflect the higher costs to the Commission in providing its services. A summary schedule of revised fees is provided in Appendix B. A detailed summary of the data used to arrive at the proposed fees is available from the Secretary of the Commission upon written request. Proposed Fees Part 502 Fees The Commission assesses a number of fees under its Rules of Practice and Procedure codified at 46 CFR Part 502. The fees contained in Part 502 are being revised to reflect the current cost to the Commission of providing particular services. General petitions and petitions for declaratory orders filed with the Commission are currently assessed a filing fee of $50. The Commission proposes to raise this amount to $162. 5 The formal complaint filing fee is increased to $166 from $50. The fee for filing special docket applications is increased to $86 from $25. The filing fee for informal complaints is increased to $68 from $25. Persons using the Commission's conciliation services will be assessed a $61 fee, up from $25. 5 All proposed revised fees have been rounded down to the nearest dollar. Part 503 Fees The Commission's rules on public information, 46 CFR Part 503, contain fees to be charged for certain services provided to the public. These fees also are being updated to reflect the current cost to the Commission. Record search services performed by Commission staff will be increased from $11 to $15 per hour for clerical staff, and from $23 to $30 per hour for professional staff; the minimum charge for a record search will increase from $11 to $15. The charge for reviewing documents to determine whether they are exempt from disclosure under the Freedom of Information Act is being increased to $63 per hour from $38. While the per-page copying charge of five cents per page (one side) is not being revised, the service charge for copying performed by Commission staff will increase to $15 per hour. The minimum service fee for copying remains unchanged at $3.50. The fee for validating and certifying documents is increased to $70 per certificate. Annual subscription services for Commission publications will be increased as follows: $278 for initial and final orders in all formal proceedings, and $223 for final orders only in all formal proceedings. Subscription fees for copies of Commission rules and regulations are increased as follows: $83 for initial set of the rules and regulations, and $7 for an annual subscription for all amendments to existing rules and new rules issued during the year. The latter fee is a decrease from the current fee of $8.25. The fee to have one's name placed on a mailing list of a specific docket to receive all issuances pertaining to the proceeding is increased to $7 per proceeding, up from $3. The fee for copies of the Commission Rules of Practice and Procedure will be $9 and an annual subscription to amendments will be $7; these are increased from $4.25 and $4, respectively. The fee for applications for admission to practice before the Commission for persons not attorneys at law will increase from $13 to $77.
