FR940428-2-00019 FR940428-2-00014 DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY Golden Field Office Solicitation for Financial Assistance Applications; Electrochromic Window Technologies Program AGENCY: Department of Energy. ACTION: Notice of solicitation for financial assistance applications number DE&hyph;PS36&hyph;94GO10001. SUMMARY: The U.S. Department of Energy (DOE), through the Electrochromic Window Technologies Program, announces its intention to issue a competitive solicitation and make multiple (at least two (2)) awards to accelerate commercialization of electrochromic window technologies. This action is subject to the DOE Financial Assistance Rules, which can be found in title 10 of the Code of Federal Regulations (10 CFR part 600). AVAILABILITY OF THE SOLICITATION: To obtain a copy of the solicitation once it is issued on or about May 12, 1994, write to the U.S. Department of Energy's Golden Field Office, 1617 Cole Blvd, Golden, CO 80401, Attn: Mr. John Meeker, Contract Specialist. Only written requests for the solicitation will be honored. For convenience, requests for the solicitation may be faxed to Mr. Meeker at (303) 275&hyph;4790. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The U.S. Department of Energy, Office of Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy, is planning to assist in the funding of the development and demonstration of an electrochromic window product that would be fully marketable within 4 years. Awards under the solicitation will be Cooperative Agreements administered in accordance with 10 CFR part 600, DOE's Financial Assistance Rules. DOE is interested in promoting and supporting innovative system approaches to the development of electrochromic windows for building applications. Electrochromic windows are expected to reduce energy and resource use, reduce environmental impacts, increase affordability, improve quality, increase productivity in the U.S. building sector and increase the competitiveness of the U.S. window industry. It is expected that multi-disciplinary teams would be organized to respond to the solicitation. It is desired that each team have sufficient breadth to include all the major types of companies involved in the manufacture and fabrication of electrochromic devices as well as commercial building windows. Each team must provide the expertise and proven capability to conduct the necessary electrochromic device development and window commercialization. Qualified prospective sources must demonstrate an electrochromic material development capability, glass or plastic film coating capability and window fabrication capability. The project is expected to be completed in three phases covering a four year period. The first phase, running for 1 to 1.5 years, will culminate with the production of several test specimens or prototypes. These specimens should be sufficient in number and size (e.g., 30 sq. ft. of samples greater than 1.0 sq. ft. each) to conduct a thorough test and evaluation of the technology, reasonably assuring success in phase 2. The second phase, running for 1.5 to 2 years, will result in demonstration prototypes, which when produced in limited quantities, would be suitable for niche markets. This Phase will require development of device manufacturing processes and market evaluation. Phase 3 will address demonstration and deployment activities and will not be specifically defined in the resulting agreement. However, Phase 3 will be subject to the commercial readiness of the electrochromic windows at the end of Phase 2 and availability of DOE funds. It is anticipated that requirements of the solicitation will include that: (1) All teams or applicants in projects shall include at least one for-profit entity; and (2) Projects selected shall require manufacture and reproduction substantially within the United States for any invention or product that may result from the project. In general, the solicitation will require cost sharing by applicants of at least 50% of the total project costs in order to receive an award under the solicitation. The Phase 1 award minimum cost share is 25% though a higher level is desirable. The level of cost sharing will be one criterion in selecting the winning teams. All participant cost sharing must come from non-Federal funding sources. It is anticipated that total DOE funding in the amount of $1,200,000 will be available for Phase 1 activities. It is anticipated that up to $5,000,000 of DOE funding will be available for Phase 2 activities. All DOE funding, however, is subject to availability of appropriations. The solicitation will be issued on or about May 12, 1994, and will contain detailed information on funding, cost sharing requirements, eligibility, application preparation, and evaluation. Responses to the solicitation will be due 45 days after solicitation release. However, applications are encouraged to be submitted prior to the closing date. All responsible sources are encouraged to submit an application and all applications will be considered. Issued in Golden, Colorado, on April 15, 1994. Christine A. Phoebe, Director, Administrative Division, Golden Field Office. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;10157 Filed 4&hyph;26&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6450&hyph;01&hyph;M
