FR940728-2-00050 FR940728-2-00041 Environmental auditing is a systematic, documented, periodic and objective review by regulated entities of facility operations and practices related to meeting environmental requirements. Audits can be designed to accomplish any or all of the following: verify compliance with environmental requirements; evaluate the effectiveness of environmental management systems already in place; or assess risks from regulated and unregulated materials and practices. An organization's auditing program will evolve according to its unique structures and circumstances. The 1986 Policy acknowledges this fact, and also states EPA's belief that effective environmental auditing programs appear to have certain discernible elements in common with other kinds of audit programs. EPA generally considers these elements important to ensure program effectiveness. This general description of effective, mature audit programs can help those starting audit programs, especially Federal agencies and smaller businesses. Regulatory agencies may also use these elements in negotiating environmental auditing provisions for consent decrees. Finally, these elements can help guide states and localities considering auditing initiatives. As stated in the 1986 Policy, an effective environmental auditing system will likely include the following general elements: I. Explicit top management support for environmental auditing and commitment to follow-up on audit findings. Management support may be demonstrated by a written policy articulating upper management support for the auditing program, and for compliance with all pertinent requirements, including corporate policies and permit requirements as well as Federal, state and local statutes and regulations. Management support for the auditing program also should be demonstrated by an explicit written commitment to follow-up on audit findings to correct identified problems and prevent their recurrence. II. An environmental auditing function independent of audited activities. The status or organizational locus of environmental auditors should be sufficient to ensure objective and unobstructed inquiry, observation and testing. Auditor objectivity should not be impaired by personal relationships, financial or other conflicts of interest, interference with free inquiry or judgment, or fear of potential retribution. III. Adequate team staffing and auditor training. Environmental auditors should possess or have ready access to the knowledge, skills, and disciplines needed to accomplish audit objectives. Each individual auditor should comply with the company's professional standards of conduct. Auditors, whether full-time or part-time, should maintain their technical and analytical competence through continuing education and training. IV. Explicit audit program objectives, scope, resources and frequency. At a minimum, audit objectives should include assessing compliance with applicable environmental laws and evaluating the adequacy of internal compliance policies, procedures, and personnel training programs to ensure continued compliance. Audits should be based on a process which provides auditors: all corporate policies, permits, and Federal, state, and local regulations pertinent to the facility; and checklists or protocols addressing specific features that should be evaluated by auditors. Explicit written audit procedures generally should be used for planning audits, establishing audit scope, establishing audit scope, examining and evaluating audit findings, communicating audit results, and following-up. V. A process that collects analyzes interprets and documents information sufficient to achieve audit objectives. Information should be collected before and during an on-site visit regarding environmental compliance (1) environmental management effectiveness (2) and other matters (3) related to audit objectives and scope. This information should be sufficient, reliable, relevant and useful to provide a sound basis for audit finds and recommendations. a. Sufficient information is factual, adequate and convincing so that a prudent, informed person would be likely to reach the same conclusions as the auditor. b. Reliable information is the best attainable through use of appropriate audit techniques. c. Relevant information supports audit findings and recommendations and is consistent with the objectives for the audit. d. Useful information helps the organization meet its goals. The audit process should include a periodic review of the reliability and integrity of this information and the means used to identify, measure, classify and report it. Audit procedures, including the testing and sampling techniques employed, should be selected in advance, to the extent practical, and expanded or altered if circumstances warrant. The process of collecting, analyzing, interpreting and documenting information should provide reasonable assurance that audit objectivity is maintained and audit goals are met. VI. A process that includes specific procedures to promptly prepare candid clear and appropriate written reports on audit finds corrective actions and schedules for implementation. Procedures should be in place to ensure that such information is communicated to managers, including facility and corporate management, who can evaluate the information and ensure correction of identified problems. Procedures also should be in place for determining what internal findings are reportable to state or Federal agencies. VII. A process that includes quality assurance procedures to assure the accuracy and thoroughness of environmental audits. Quality assurance may be accomplished through supervision, independent internal reviews, external reviews, or a combination of these approaches.
