FR940207-1-00026 FR940207-1-00002 (b) Compounding and Crediting Policies 1. General. Institutions that choose to compound interest may compound or credit interest annually, semi-annually, quarterly, monthly, daily, continuously, or on any other basis. 2. Withdrawals prior to crediting date. If consumers withdraw funds, without closing the account, prior to a scheduled crediting date, institutions may delay paying the accrued interest on the withdrawn amount until the scheduled crediting date, but may not avoid paying interest. 3. Closed accounts. If consumers close accounts prior to the date accrued interest is credited, institutions may choose not to pay accrued interest as long as they have disclosed that fact to the consumer. Whether (and the conditions under which) institutions are permitted to deem an account closed by a consumer is determined by state or other law, if any. 4. Dormant accounts. Subject to state or other law defining when an account becomes dormant, an institution may contract with a consumer not to pay accrued but uncredited interest if the account becomes dormant prior to the regular interest crediting date. (c) Date Interest Begins To Accrue 1. Relation to Regulation CC. Institutions may rely on the Expedited Funds Availability Act (EFAA) and Regulation CC (12 CFR part 229) to determine, for example, when a deposit is considered made for purposes of interest accrual, or when interest need not be paid on funds because a deposited check is later returned unpaid. 2. Ledger and collected balances. Institutions may calculate interest by using a ``ledger'' balance or ``collected'' balance method, as long as the crediting requirements of the EFAA are met. 3. Withdrawal of principal. Institutions must accrue interest on funds until the funds are withdrawn from the account. For example, if a check is debited to an account on a Tuesday, the institution must accrue interest on those funds through Monday. Section 230.8_Advertising (a) Misleading or Inaccurate Advertisements 1. General. All advertisements must comply with the rule against misleading or inaccurate advertisements, even though the disclosures applicable to various media differ. 2. Indoor signs. An indoor sign advertising an annual percentage yield is not misleading or inaccurate if: •For a tiered-rate account, it also provides the upper and lower dollar amounts of the advertised tier corresponding to the annual percentage yield •For a time account, it also provides the term required to obtain the advertised yield 3. ``Free'' or ``no cost'' accounts. For purposes of determining whether an account can be advertised as ``free'' or ``no cost,'' maintenance and activity fees include: •Any fee imposed if a minimum balance requirement is not met, or if the consumer exceeds a specified number of transactions •Transaction and service fees that consumers reasonably expect to be regularly imposed on an account Examples of maintenance and activity fees include: •A flat fee, such as a monthly service fee •Fees imposed to deposit, withdraw or transfer funds, including per-check or per-transaction charges (for example, $.25 for each withdrawal, whether by check, in person or at an ATM owned by the institution) Examples of fees that are not maintenance or activity fees include: •Fees that are not required to be disclosed under §230.4(b)(4) •Check printing fees of any type •Fees for obtaining copies of checks, whether the original checks have been truncated or returned to the consumer periodically •Balance inquiry fees •Fees assessed against a dormant account •Fees for using an ATM not owned by the account-issuing institution •Fees for electronic transfer services that are not required to obtain an account, such as preauthorized transfers or home banking services
