FR940524-1-00054 FR940524-1-00010 §84.77 Inhalation and exhalation valves; minimum requirements. (a) Inhalation and exhalation valves shall be provided where necessary and protected against damage and distortion. (b) Exhalation valves shall be: (1) Protected against external influence; and (2) Designed and constructed to prevent inward leakage of contaminated air. §84.78 Head harnesses; minimum requirements. (a) Facepieces shall be equipped with adjustable and replaceable head harnesses designed and constructed to provide adequate tension during suspension and an even distribution of pressure over the entire area in contact with the face. (b) Mouthpieces shall be equipped, where applicable, with adjustable and replaceable harnesses designed and constructed to hold the mouthpiece in place. §84.79 Breathing gas; minimum requirements. (a) Breathing gas used to supply apparatus shall be respirable and contain no less than 19.5 (dry atmosphere) volume percent of oxygen. (b) Oxygen, including liquid oxygen, shall meet the minimum requirements for medical or breathing oxygen set forth in the U.S. Pharmacopeia. (c) Compressed, gaseous breathing air shall meet the applicable minimum grade requirements for Type I gaseous air set forth in the Compressed Gas Association Commodity Specification for Air, G&hyph;7.1 (Grade D or higher quality). (d) Compressed, liquefied breathing air shall meet the applicable minimum grade requirements for Type II liquid air set forth in the Compressed Gas Association Commodity Specification for Air, G&hyph;7.1 (Grade B or higher quality). §84.80 Interchangeability of oxygen and air prohibited. Approvals shall not be issued by the Institute for any apparatus, combination of respirator assemblies, or any apparatus or respirator component which is designed or constructed to permit the interchangeable use of oxygen and air. §84.81 Compressed breathing gas and liquefied breathing gas containers; minimum requirements. (a) Compressed breathing gas and liquefied breathing gas containers shall meet the minimum requirements of the Department of Transportation for interstate shipment of such containers when fully charged. (b) Such containers shall be permanently and legibly marked to identify their contents, e.g., compressed breathing air, compressed breathing oxygen, liquefied breathing air, or liquefied breathing oxygen. (c) Containers normally removed from apparatus for refilling shall be equipped with a dial indicating gage which shows the pressure in the container. (d) Compressed breathing gas contained valves or a separate charging system or adapter provided with each apparatus shall be equipped with outlet threads specified for the service by the American National Standard for Compressed Gas Cylinder Valve Outlet and Inlet Connections, B57.1 (1965), obtainable from American National Standards Institute, Inc., 1430 Broadway, New York, NY 10018. §84.82 Gas pressure gages; minimum requirements. (a) Gas pressure gages employed on compressed breathing gas containers shall be calibrated in pounds per square inch. (b) Liquid-level gages shall be calibrated in fractions of total container capacity, or in units of liquid volume. (c) Gas pressure gages other than those specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section shall be calibrated in: (1) Pounds per square inch; or (2) In fractions of total container capacity; or (3) Both in pounds per square inch and fractions of total container capacity. (d)(1) Dial-indicating gages shall be reliable to within # 5 percent of full scale when tested both up and down the scale at each of 5 equal intervals. (2) The full-scale graduation of dial-indicating gages shall not exceed 150 percent of the maximum rated cylinder pressures specified for the container in applicable Department of Transportation specifications or permits. (e)(1) Stem-type gages shall be readable by sight and by touch and shall have a stem travel distance of not less than one-fourth inch between each graduation. (2) A minimum of five graduations shall be engraved on the stem of each gage and these graduations shall include readings for empty, one-quarter, one-half, three-quarters, and full. (3) Stem gage readings shall not vary from true readings by more than one-sixteenth inch per inch of stem travel. (f) The loss of gas through a broken gage or severed gage connection shall not exceed 70 liters per minute when the cylinder pressure is 6,900 kN/m.2 (1,000 pounds per square inch gage) or when the liquid level is at one-half. (g) Where gages are connected to the apparatus through a gage line, the gage and line shall be capable of being isolated from the apparatus except where the failure of the gage or line would not impair the performance or service life of the apparatus. (h) Oxygen pressure gages shall have the words ``Oxygen'' and ``Use No Oil'' marked prominently on the gage. (i)(1) Apparatus using compressed breathing gas, except apparatus classified for escape only, shall be equipped with gages visible to the wearer which indicate the remaining gas content in the container. (2) Apparatus using liquefied breathing gas, except apparatus classified for escape only, shall be equipped with gages visible to the wearer which indicate the remaining liquid content in the container; however, where the liquid content cannot be rapidly vented, and the service time of the device begins immediately after filling, a timer shall be provided in place of a visible gage. §84.83 Timers; elapsed time indicators; remaining service life indicators; minimum requirements. (a) Elapsed time indicators shall be provided for apparatus with a chemical oxygen source, except: (1) Apparatus used for escape only; or (2) Liquefied breathing gas apparatus equipped with gages visible to the wearer which indicate the remaining liquid content in the container. (b) The timer or other indicator shall be accurately calibrated in minutes of remaining service life. (c) Timers shall be readable by sight and by touch during use by the wearer. (d) Timers shall be equipped with automatically preset alarms which will warn the wearer for a period of 7 seconds or more after the preset time has elapsed. (e) Remaining service-life indicators or warning devices shall be provided in addition to a pressure gage on compressed gas self-contained breathing apparatus, except apparatus used for escape only, and shall operate automatically without preadjustment by the wearer. (f) Each remaining service-life indicator or warning device shall give an alarm when the remaining service life of the apparatus is reduced within a range of 20 to 25 percent of its rated service time. §84.84 Hand-operated valves; minimum requirements. (a) Hand-operated valves shall be designed and constructed to prevent removal of the stem from the valve body during normal usage to insure against a sudden release of the full pressure of the container when the valve is opened. (b) Valves shall be designed or positioned to prevent accidental opening and closing, and damage from external forces. (c) Valves operated during use of the apparatus shall be installed in locations where they can be readily adjusted by the wearer. (d) Main-line valves, designed and constructed to conserve gas in the event of a regulator or demand valve failure, shall be provided in addition to gas container valves, except when such failure will not affect performance.
