FR941222-0-00082 FR941222-0-00013 One comment suggested that the proposed definition of ``solid waste disposal site'' is so broad that it would encompass lands where the Exxon Valdez spilled oil. The Service agrees, and inserts language in the final definition of ``solid waste disposal site'' to make clear that 36 CFR part 6 does not govern discharges of materials, or substances into the environment that are covered by such laws as the Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. 1321(b)(3)) and the Comprehensive Environmental Response and Compensation and Liability Act (42 U.S.C. 9601 et seq. ). It was never the intent of the NPS to regulate such discharges or deposits as if they were ``solid waste disposal sites.'' One comment suggested that this rule also govern ``transfer stations,'' since they are places where solid waste is deposited, albeit temporarily. Because such stations may be places of significant degradation to park resources resulting from noise, litter, visual intrusion, runoff and traffic, the Service has decided to include transfer stations in the definition of a ``solid waste disposal site.'' Section 6.4␣Solid Waste Disposal Sites Not in Operation on September 1, 1984 Note that the EPA's definition of ``hazardous waste'' at 40 CFR part 261 excludes wastes generated by households (including single and multiple family residences, hotels and motels). In light of one comment, the Service reiterates that such waste is not ``legally'' hazardous. This ``household waste exclusion'' is mentioned here again because it is important to point out that the prohibition at §6.4(a)(6)(i) and at §6.5(c)(3)(i) does not prevent the NPS from accepting for disposal at NPS-operated solid waste disposal sites, solid wastes such as used oil, grease, paints, solvents, cleaning agents, or pesticides that are generated by ``households.'' Such materials are not ``legally'' hazardous waste when discarded by households (including hotels, motels, restaurants, single or multiple family residences). Thus, as long as such waste is generated by National Park Service activities, such as garbage collection from park/concessionaire employees, they may be disposed of in an NPS-operated solid waste disposal site. Section 6.5␣Solid Waste Disposal Sites in Operation on September 1, 1984 In response to comments from the NPS Alaska Region, the Service points out that both the proposed and the final rule recognize that some communities may lie wholly within the boundaries of a unit of the National Park System in Alaska. Such communities may exhaust the capacity of their existing solid waste disposal site. Such communities may request that the Regional Director permit them to expand an existing site within the unit. The Regional Director must normally judge such a request under the conditions in §6.4. However, the Regional Director will instead judge a request for expansion of an existing site under the approval conditions of §6.5(c), if the operator shows that the solid waste is generated solely from within the boundaries of the unit, the operator owns or leases the lands proposed for the expansion, and the solid waste disposal site lacks road, rail or adequate water access to any lands outside of the unit for all, or substantial, portions of the year. Section 6.6␣Solid Waste Disposal Sites Within New Additions to the National Park System One comment indicates that this section applies to units of the National Park System created in Alaska in 1980. Although the regulation plainly states it, the Service repeats that this section applies only to lands and waters that fall within the boundaries of a unit of the National Park System as a result of unit establishment or expansion after the effective date of the regulations as final. Section 6.7␣Mining Wastes One comment asked how this part applies to operations on mining claims. This section is intended to clarify the relationship between the final regulations governing solid waste disposal and existing regulations at 36 CFR part 9, Minerals Management, that govern mineral operations. Without this section, this final regulation would govern solid waste disposal sites by all mineral operators. The NPS now regulates solid waste disposal by many mineral operators and does not intend to create a duplicate regulatory scheme for such operators. Thus, this section excludes from the permit and financial assurance provisions of the final regulations solid waste disposal sites by operators that are, now or prospectively, governed by NPS regulations at 36 CFR part 9 or the terms of a Federal mineral lease. Section 6.8␣National Park Service Solid Waste Responsibilities One comment asked if the NPS would establish a household ``harmful'' waste collection program for its inholders. The answer is ``No.'' Inholders may not dispose of their waste in NPS operated solid waste disposal sites. Nor is the NPS in the business of collecting waste from inholders. Moreover, the NPS will establish collection programs for household waste that, though not legally hazardous, may be harmful, ONLY in those units where the NPS operates a solid waste disposal site. The same comment then seemed to suggest that since the regulations at 36 CFR 6.8(b) mandate the establishment of collection programs for ``household hazardous wastes'' ONLY for parks that operate solid waste disposal sites, then only such parks need have hazardous waste collection programs. This is incorrect. Every park that generates waste that is defined by 40 CFR part 261 as hazardous, must collect, store, handle and manage that waste under the regulations governing such waste prescribed under Subtitle D of RCRA. To eliminate confusion, the final rule at §6.8(b) no longer refers to ``household hazardous waste'' which legally is not ``hazardous'' but to ``harmful wastes generated by residential activities.''
