FR940105-2-00022 FR940105-2-00008 B. General Criterion (assigned weight_0.2) Application clearly states objectives that respond directly to the specialized tourism promotion needs of the affected area. (1) Application states clear and achievable objectives to be carried out over an appropriate length of time. (25 points) (2) Application demonstrates that project is aimed at markets that have been identified using credible market research. (25 points) (3) Application demonstrates that project is fully integrated (in terms of multiple activities) with a generally cohesive approach. (25 points) (4) Application demonstrates that applicant has the organizational quality and competence to effectively carry out the project. The application must include an organizational chart and a biographical sketch of the program director with the following information: name, address, phone number, background and other qualifying experience for the project; and a list of other key personnel, consultants, etc. engaged in the project, which includes names, training and background. Applications by non-profit organizations must include a copy of the articles of incorporation, charter, trust statement, or other similar documentation which sets forth the authorizing powers and purposes of the organization, together with bylaws or other code of regulations; a brief description of organizational arrangements for fiscal and managerial control, including the extent to which these overlap or are integrated with other organizations; a copy of a current financial statement of the organization; and a copy of the current Internal Revenue Service tax exemption letter which certifies the organization's not-for-profit status. (25 points) C. Project Criterion (assigned weight_0.4) Each application must include a project or projects from at least two of the six project areas set forth below. The project evaluation component score will be determined by adding the points awarded for the applicable project areas divided by the number of project areas prepared by the applicant. 1. Media Product Information Media product information projects are those that include the development of media familiarization tours and dissemination of product information on the destination. The applicable criteria are: a. Correlation of media programs with applicant's overall tourism marketing strategy. (20 points) b. Correlation with USTTA national public relations program. (20 points) c. Program timing and content, and potential acceptance by the target media. (15 points) d. Project cost versus media space/time return (a minimum 10 to 1 return on investment is suggested). (20 points) e. Measurement plan to assess program effectiveness, i.e., methodology to track readership or viewer response. (25 points) 2. Market Development Market development projects are those designed to generate increased travel to the impacted area from primary markets of opportunity. Criteria are set forth for the following three types of such projects:
