FR940725-1-00071 FR940725-1-00010 (3) For seaplanes and amphibians taking off from water, V R , may be any speed that is shown to be safe under all reasonably expected conditions, including turbulence and complete failure of the critical engine. (b) For normal, utility, and acrobatic category airplanes, the speed at 50 feet above the takeoff surface level must not be less than: (1) For multiengine airplanes, the highest of_ (i) A speed that is shown to be safe for continued flight (or emergency landing, if applicable) under all reasonably expected conditions, including turbulence and complete failure of the critical engine; (ii) 1.10 V MC ; or (iii) 1.20 V S1 . (2) For single-engine airplanes, the higher of_ (i) A speed that is shown to be safe under all reasonably expected conditions, including turbulence and complete engine failure; or (ii) 1.20 V S1 . (c) For commuter category airplanes, the following apply: (1) V 1 must be established in relation to V EF as follows: (i) V EF is the calibrated airspeed at which the critical engine is assumed to fail. V EF must be selected by the applicant but must not be less than 1.05 V MC determined under §23.149(b) or, at the option of the applicant, not less than V MCG determined under §23.149(f). (ii) The takeoff decision speed, V 1 , is the calibrated airspeed on the ground at which, as a result of engine failure or other reasons, the pilot is assumed to have made a decision to continue or discontinue the takeoff. The takeoff decision speed, V 1 , must be selected by the applicant but must not be less than V EF plus the speed gained with the critical engine inoperative during the time interval between the instant at which the critical engine is failed and the instant at which the pilot recognizes and reacts to the engine failure, as indicated by the pilot's application of the first retarding means during the accelerate-stop determination of §23.55. (2) The rotation speed, V R , in terms of calibrated airspeed, must be selected by the applicant and must not be less than the greatest of the following: (i) V 1 ; (ii) 1.05 V MC determined under §23.149(b); (iii) 1.10 V S1 ; or (iv) The speed that allows attaining the initial climb-out speed, V 2 , before reaching a height of 35 feet above the takeoff surface in accordance with §23.57(c)(2). (3) For any given set of conditions, such as weight, altitude, temperature, and configuration, a single value of V R must be used to show compliance with both the one-engine-inoperative takeoff and all-engines-operating takeoff requirements. (4) The takeoff safety speed, V 2 , in terms of calibrated airspeed, must be selected by the applicant so as to allow the gradient of climb required in §23.67(c)(1) and (c)(2) but must not be less than 1.10 V MC or less than 1.20 V s1 . (5) The one-engine-inoperative takeoff distance, using a normal rotation rate at a speed 5 knots less than V R , established in accordance with paragraph (c)(2) of this section, must be shown not to exceed the corresponding one-engine-inoperative takeoff distance, determined in accordance with §23.57 and §23.59(a)(1), using the established V R . The takeoff, otherwise performed in accordance with §23.57, must be continued safely from the point at which the airplane is 35 feet above the takeoff surface and at a speed not less than the established V 2 minus 5 knots. (6) The applicant must show, with all engines operating, that marked increases in the scheduled takeoff distances, determined in accordance with §23.59(a)(2), do not result from over-rotation of the airplane or out-of-trim conditions. 10. Section 23.53 is revised to read as follows: §23.53 Takeoff performance. (a) For normal, utility, and acrobatic category airplanes, the takeoff distance must be determined in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section, using speeds determined in accordance with §23.51(a) and (b). (b) For normal, utility, and acrobatic category airplanes, the distance required to takeoff and climb to a height of 50 feet above the takeoff surface must be determined for each weight, altitude, and temperature within the operational limits established for takeoff with_ (1) Takeoff power on each engine; (2) Wing flaps in the takeoff position(s); and (3) Landing gear extended. (c) For commuter category airplanes, takeoff performance, as required by §§23.55 through 23.59, must be determined with the operating engine(s) within approved operating limitations. 11. Section 23.55 is amended by revising paragraph (a) and the introductory text of paragraph (b) to read as follows: §23.55 Accelerate-stop distance. * * * * * (a) The accelerate-step distance is the sum of the distances necessary to_ (1) Accelerate the airplane from a standing start to V EF with all engines operating; (2) Accelerate the airplane from V EF , to V 1 , assuming the critical engine fails at V EF ; and (3) Come to a full stop from the point of which V 1 is reached. (b) Means other than wheel brakes may be used to determine the accelerate-stop distances if that means_ * * * * *
