FR940902-0-00121 FR940902-0-00010 (2) State education services. Of the funds allocated for any program year for sections 202(c)(1)(C) and 262(c)(1)(C) of the Act to carry out activities pursuant to section 123(d)(2)(B) of the Act_ (i) Not less than 50 percent shall be expended for the cost of direct training services; and (ii) Not more than 20 percent shall be expended for the cost of administration. (3) The limitations specified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section shall apply to the combined total of funds allocated for sections 202(c)(1)(C) and 262(c)(1)(C) of the Act. (b) SDA allocations. (1) In applying the title II&hyph;A and II&hyph;C cost limitations specified in section 108(b)(4) of the Act, the funds allocated to a service delivery area shall be net of any: (i) Transfers made in accordance with sections 206, 256, and 266 of the Act; and (ii) Reallocations made by the Governor in accordance with section 109(a) of the Act. (2) The limitations specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section shall apply separately to the funds allocated for title II&hyph;A and title II&hyph;C programs. (3) The title II&hyph;B administrative cost limitation of 15 percent shall be 15 percent of the funds allocated for any program year to a service delivery area, excluding any funds transferred to title II&hyph;C in accordance with section 256 of the Act (section 253(a)(3)). (c)(1) The State shall establish a system to regularly assess compliance with the cost limitations including periodic review and corrective action, as necessary. (2) States and service delivery areas shall have the 3-year period of fund availability to comply with the cost limitations in section 108 of the Act and paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section (section 161(b)). (d) Administrative costs incurred by a community-based organization or non-profit service provider shall not be included in the limitation described in section 108(b)(4)(A) of the Act if: (1) Such costs are incurred under an agreement that meets the requirements of section 141(d)(3)(C) (i) and (ii) of the Act; (2) The total administrative expenditures of the service delivery area, including the administrative expenditures of such community-based organizations or non-profit service providers, do not exceed 25 percent of the funds allocated to the service delivery area for the program year of allocation; and (3) The total direct training expenditures of the service delivery area, including the direct training expenditures of such community-based organizations or non-profit service providers, is equal to or exceeds 50 percent of the funds allocated to the service delivery area for the program year less one-half of the percentage by which the total administrative expenditures of the service delivery area exceeds 20 percent. For example, if the total administrative expenditures of the service delivery area is 24 percent, then the total direct training expenditures of the service delivery area must be at least 48 percent. (e) The provisions of this section do not apply to any title III programs. (f) The provisions of this section do not apply to any designated SDA which served as a concentrated employment program grantee for a rural area under the Comprehensive Employment and Training Act (section 108(d)). ยง627.450 Program income. (a) Definition of program income. (1) Program income means income received by the recipient or subrecipient that is directly generated by a grant or subgrant supported activity, or earned only as a result of the grant or subgrant. Program income includes: (i) Income from fees for services performed and from conferences; (ii) Income from the use or rental of real or personal property acquired with grant or subgrant funds; (iii) Income from the sale of commodities or items fabricated under a grant or subgrant;
