FR940128-1-00036 FR940128-1-00006 There is a strong view in the HACCP literature (see e.g., Ref. 51), which is reflected in one of NACMCF's seven principles listed above, that processors should actually have a plan describing how they will handle deviations, and that this plan should be part of the overall HACCP plan. FDA believes that there is merit in this view and encourages processors and importers to think through how they will handle deviations that may occur. The agency has tentatively concluded, however, that the proposed requirements in §123.7 represent the minimum requirements necessary to ensure that processors and importers respond effectively to deviations that could affect safety, and that given these provisions, it is not necessary to require that a specific plan be formulated and adopted. FDA requests comments on this tentative conclusion. E. Records As discussed above, maintenance of appropriate records is fundamental to the success of an HACCP system (see section IV.A.6. of this document). In recognition of this fact, FDA is proposing to require in §123.8 that HACCP records contain certain necessary information; that processors review records of monitoring and related activities before distributing the products to which the records pertain; that processors and importers retain records for specific periods of time; and that FDA investigators be given access to HACCP records. FDA is proposing in §123.8(a) that records involving observations or measurements during processing, corrective actions, and related activities, contain the identity of the product, product code, and date that the record was made. The purpose of this provision is to ensure that both the processor or importer and the regulator can readily link a record to a product and to the timeframe in which the product was manufactured. The linkage of the record to product is especially important when there has been a deviation at a critical control point. The agency has tentatively concluded that including the identity of the product, product code, and date of the activity that the record reflects provide the minimum necessary information to enable the processor or the importer and, ultimately, the regulator to determine what product may have been affected and to take appropriate action, such as withholding the product from distribution or recalling it from distribution. Dates also help discern trends over time. Even when no deviation has occurred, the information will enable both the processor and the regulator to identify factors that may help prevent problems in the future. In §123.8(a), FDA is also proposing to require that information be recorded at the time that it is observed, and that each record be signed by the operator or observer. It is important that information relating to observations be recorded immediately to ensure accuracy. The record should be signed by the individual who made the observation to ensure responsibility and accountability. Also, if there is a question about the record, a signature ensures that the source of the record will be known. FDA is proposing to require in §123.8(b) that records receive a second review by an individual trained in accordance with §123.9, for verification purposes, before the product is distributed into commerce. The purpose of this review is to ensure that the processor or importer verifies that employees are recording data in HACCP records, and that deviations from critical limits are being caught before products that may have been affected can enter commerce. The agency is proposing to require that this records verification be performed by a trained individual to ensure that the records are reviewed by a person who understands the HACCP system, understands the significance of a processing deviation, and knows how to respond if a deviation occurs. FDA is proposing in §123.8(c) to require that HACCP records be retained for at least 1 year after they are prepared for refrigerated products and for at least 2 years after they are prepared for frozen or preserved (i.e., shelf-stable) products. These timeframes are based on the length of time that these products can be expected to be in commercial distribution (Ref. 52; Ref. 53, pp. 72&hyph;73) plus a reasonable time thereafter to ensure that the records are there when the FDA inspector performs the next inspection. They are the same timeframes as now provided for in the Manual of Operations of the NSSP for the retention of records for raw molluscan shellfish.
