FR941027-1-00010 FR941027-1-00001 (ii) The proper routing of information to subscribers. (5) The Modernization Plan must provide for uniform deployment schedules to ensure that advanced services are deployed at the same time in rural and nonrural areas. (b) In addition to the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) of this section, minimum requirements are described in paragraphs (g) through (i) of this section and are grouped by timeframe, i.e., short-term, medium-term, and long-term. The Modernization Plan shall provide that such requirements be implemented as set forth in this section of the regulation except that the Modernization Plan may authorize the Plan Developer to approve extensions if the required investment is not economically reasonable or if the best available telecommunications technology lacks the capability to enable the Telecommunications Provider receiving the extension to comply with the Modernization Plan. Extensions shall be granted only on a case-by-case basis and shall not exceed a total of five years from the first extension except under unusual circumstances. (c) Each State's Modernization Plan shall include a strategic development proposal for rebuilding the Public Switched Network within the State. The strategic development proposal shall provide all Telecommunications Providers in the State the Plan Developer's vision of a State telecommunications structure for the future. Within the scope of paragraph (d) of ยง1751.101 of this subpart, the Modernization Plan shall state whether all Telecommunications Providers in the State are required to construct their systems in a manner consistent with the strategic development proposal. (d) The Modernization Plan must require that the design of the Public Switched Network allow for the expeditious deployment and integration of such emerging technologies as may from time to time become commercially feasible. (e) The Modernization Plan must provide guidelines to Telecommunications Providers for the development of affordable tariffs for medical links and distance learning services. (f) With regard to the uniform deployment requirement set forth in paragraph (a)(5) of this section, if services cannot be deployed at the same time, only the minimum feasible interval of time shall separate availability of the services in rural and nonrural areas. (g) Short-term requirements. (1) The ``short-term requirements start date'' is the date one year after the date REA approves the Modernization Plan for the State. (2) All facilities providing Wireline Service wholly or partially constructed or reconstructed after the short-term requirements start date, even if the construction began before such date, shall be constructed so that: (i) Every subscriber can be provided 1-party service. Existing party line subscribers would be allowed to maintain party line service only if they requested it and approval is granted by the PUC. (ii) Twisted-pair copper plant is non-loaded, unless the PUC, in the case of a PUC or State Legislature-developed Modernization Plan, or the REA, in the case of a REA Borrower-developed Modernization Plan, determines, on a case-by-case basis, after written request from a Telecommunications Provider, that the Telecommunications Provider should be granted additional time because either the best available telecommunications technology lacks the capability to enable the Telecommunications Provider to comply with this requirement or complying with this requirement would impose prohibitive cost on the Telecommunications Provider. (3) All switching equipment installed by a Telecommunications Provider after the short-term requirements start date shall contain the hardware, but not necessarily the software, to be capable of: (i) Switching 1.544 Mb/sec. traffic. (ii) Providing custom calling features. At a minimum, custom calling features must include call waiting, call forwarding, abbreviated dialing, and three-way calling. (iii) Providing E911 service when required by any local government for areas served by the Telecommunications Provider. (h) Medium-term requirements. (1) The ``medium-term requirements start date'' is the date six years after the date REA approves the Modernization Plan for the State, or such earlier date as the Modernization Plan shall provide. (2) All facilities providing Wireline Service wholly or partially constructed or reconstructed after the medium-term requirements start date, even if the construction began before such date, shall be constructed so that: (i) Switched 1.544 Mb/sec service is available to any subscriber. Available means the service will be provided on demand after a reasonable waiting period. (ii) The system does not rely exclusively on local power at the subscriber end. There must be sufficient system power to operate subscriber voice service during electric utility power outages. (3) No later than the medium-term start date, all switching equipment must be provisioned with the necessary hardware to be capable of providing E911 service when required by any local government for areas served by the Telecommunications Provider. (i) Long-term requirements. (1) The ``long-term requirements start date'' is the date eleven years after the date REA approves the Modernization Plan for the State, or such earlier date as the Modernization Plan shall provide. (2) After the long-term requirements start date, the following requirements shall apply to all Wireline Service provided by Telecommunications Providers: (i) Telecommunications Providers shall eliminate party line service. (ii) Telephone service shall be available to any subscriber at 1.544 Mb/sec. Available means the service will be provided on demand after a reasonable waiting period. (iii) No service lower than one digital voice circuit (56&hyph;64 kb/sec) shall be offered as a new service. (iv) The system must not rely exclusively on local power at the subscriber end. There must be sufficient system power to operate subscriber voice service during electric utility power outages. Dated: October 24, 1994. Bob J. Nash, Under Secretary, Small Community and Rural Development. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;26761 Filed 10&hyph;26&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3410&hyph;15&hyph;P
