FR941222-1-00029 FR941222-1-00008 •Wastewaters from the production of triarylmethane dyes and pigments (excluding triarylmethane pigments using aniline as a feedstock). •Wastewater treatment sludge from the production of triarylmethane pigments using aniline as a feedstock. •Wastewaters from the production of triarylmethane pigments using aniline as a feedstock. •Wastewaters from the production of anthraquinone dyes and pigments. •Wastewaters from the production of FD&C colorants. •Dusts and dust collector fines from the manufacture of dyes and pigments. The Agency requests comments on the proposal not to list the above wastes and on the option of listing these wastes. Because the Agency does not have sufficient sampling information on which to base a proposed listing determination, the Agency proposes to defer a determination of whether to list wastewater treatment sludge from the production of triarylmethane dyes and pigments (excluding triarylmethane pigments using aniline as a feedstock), as well as spent filter aids, diatomaceous earth, or adsorbents from azo, anthraquinone, or triarylmethane dyes, pigments, or FD&C colorants. The Agency intends to obtain such sampling information and issue a supplemental notice making a proposed determination on whether to list the wastes as hazardous. The Agency also is deferring a proposed listing determination for wastewater treatment sludge from the production of anthraquinone dyes and pigments due to lack of health effects information on two constituents, leucoquinizarine and 1-aminoanthraquinone, that were found in the wastestream. The Agency requests any information that commenters may have on the toxicology of these constituents, including the existence of any toxic analogs for leucoquinizarine and 1-aminoanthraquinone. EPA will evaluate carefully all public comments and information received in response to this notice. Particular notice will be paid to any data which tend to support or refute a finding of risk to human health and the environment. Based on comments received, EPA may choose, rather than deferring, to promulgate a final determination to either list or not list wastewater treatment sludge from the production of anthraquinone dyes and pigments as hazardous under RCRA. The Agency also requests comments on the data used in this proposal, the methodology and assumptions used in the risk assessment, the waste groupings chosen by the Agency and other analyses supporting the proposed listings. 3. Request for Comment on the Effect of Enforceable EPA/Industry Agreements on Plausible Mismanagement Analysis and Subsequent Listing Determinations The Agency is interested in innovative ways of conducting listing determinations that could assure environmental protection with less cost than full regulation as a hazardous waste. One approach on which the Agency seeks comment involves enforceable agreements between EPA and the regulated community.
