FR941216-1-00120 FR941216-1-00012 (1) Cotton undergarments and socks. (2) Conductive-soled safety shoes. (3) Flame retardant coveralls. (4) Hair coverings. (c) All employees exposed to hazardous quantities of pyrotechnic compositions shall wear the additional items described in ยง184.85 (c)(1) through (c)(3), or their equivalent. The definition of hazardous quantities will depend on the composition's energy output and sensitivity (as determined by hazard analysis or tests) and the nature of the operation. Required levels of protective apparel shall be specified in appropriate SOP steps. (1) Aluminized, thermally protective suit with hood and face plate. (2) Aluminized, thermally protective trousers. (3) Aluminized, thermally protective gloves or equivalent. (d) When the items described above are required, the design and wearing shall ensure that no areas of the body are exposed. Appropriate seals or joints shall be used to preclude flame intrusion where apparel items overlap or are joined. Particular attention shall be given to possible gaps in coverage provided by the hood in order to prevent flame or hot gas impingement on the face, head, or neck. ยง184.86 Additional controls. (a) Many materials used to produce pyrotechnics are toxic, represent fire hazards, or both. Operations shall provide protection from these threats. Vapor-and dust-removal and collection systems shall be provided where toxic or flammable dusts or gases are generated. Design and installation of such equipment shall meet safety requirements. (b) Blankets should be provided in easily opened containers within 25 feet of operations where they could be required for wrapping burned employees. Alternate means of achieving the same effect should be provided when blankets are not. (c) When required, conductive shoes shall be checked for conductivity daily before the beginning of work, and retested upon reentry into the building if the employee has walked over surfaces (grass, mud, oil, paint, etc.) which could render the shoes ineffective. A log of the testing shall be maintained. ยง184.87 Reworking pyrotechnic components. (a) All repair, reassembly, or similar operations on loaded pyrotechnic compositions shall take place in a separate bay used only for that purpose. (b) Consolidated or extruded pyrotechnic compositions shall normally be destroyed, not pulverized for reblending. While HC smoke and such compositions are reusable, more sensitive materials, such as IR flare compositions, are not. ยง184.88 Fire protection. When compatible with process materials, deluge systems may be used for the protection of mixing and blending operations, screening, granulation, drying, and pressing or extrusion operations. The response time of the deluge system should be selected to minimize the damage to process equipment and facilities. Hazard analysis of the operation may dictate other applications.
