FR941130-0-00033 FR941130-0-00003 To assist converting institutions who elect to include the LDP provision, the final rule continues to provide a definition of the ``local community.'' In response to comments, however, the final rule substantially revises the definition. First, the 100-mile standard is eliminated. In addition, the definition of local community has been revised to delete the reference to the ``standard metropolitan statistical area'' and the ``general metropolitan area.'' Finally, the definition also has been revised to include ``metropolitan statistical area'' (which replaced the SMSA), all zip code areas corresponding to the converting institution's delineated CRA service area, and such other area(s) or category as designated by the institution and provided for in the plan of conversion. 17 In this regard, the OTS will review, on a case by case basis, the proposals by converting associations to define local community other than as defined in the final rule. 17 For example, a number of commenters suggested other categories of depositors, such as retirees, who may be equivalent to local depositors in terms of their long-term relationship with the institution. OTS also specifically solicited comments as to whether a savings association, in anticipation of conversion, should be permitted to: (1) refuse to open accounts for potential depositors residing outside the local community, or (2) close accounts of depositors residing outside the local community. Of 18 commenters addressing this issue, 13 stated that a savings association should be able to refuse to open accounts for non-local depositors, with three of the 13 requesting that OTS confirm the association's right to refuse to accept deposits. Five commenters believed that associations should not be allowed to refuse to open accounts, with two of the five stating that OTS should prohibit associations from refusing to open or maintain accounts of non-local depositors. Of 18 commenters, 10 stated that savings associations should be allowed to close accounts of non-local depositors, with one commenter stating that an account should be required to be closed at least 6 months prior to the adoption of a plan of conversion. Two of the 10 stated that OTS should confirm an association's right, as a general matter, to close accounts of, and return monies to, depositors who do not reside in the community served by the association. Eight commenters opposed the closing of accounts in contemplation of conversion, with one stating that the closing would violate fundamental fairness and deprive valid property rights without due process. In the interim final rule, the OTS noted that federal associations generally have the authority to open and maintain savings accounts within their discretion. 18 State chartered savings associations are subject to state laws governing the opening and closing of deposit accounts. Based upon its review of the comments, the OTS has determined not to make any changes to the conversion rules in this area. It is the opinion of the OTS that federal associations have the authority to open and close deposit accounts, including those accounts of non-local depositors, provided they do not violate applicable laws that prohibit discrimination on the basis of age, race, sex, ethnic background, religion or any other impermissible category. 18 See 12 U.S.C. 1464(b) and 12 CFR 545.11(b); see also Appendix to 12 CFR Part 544 (model bylaws for federal associations provide that the board of directors has the explicit power to reject any application for a savings account). The OTS, however, would not consider it to be a legitimate exercise of that authority if a savings association, in anticipation of conversion, closed an account for the purpose of preventing a depositor from participating in a conversion as an account holder. The OTS believes that this could result in the perception that insiders were acting out of self-interest and not in the interests of the savings association. F. Revision to Policy Regarding Management Stock Benefit Plans
