FR940208-2-00094 FR940208-2-00071 The purpose of Rule 476A procedure is to provide for a response to a rule violation when a meaningful sanction is appropriate but when initiation of a disciplinary proceeding under Rule 476 is not suitable because such a proceeding would be more costly and time-consuming than would be warranted given the minor nature of the violation. 10 Rule 476A provides for an appropriate response to minor violations of certain Exchange rules while preserving the due process rights of the party accused through specified, required procedures. The list of rules which are eligible for 476A procedures specifies those rule violations which may be the subject of fines under the rule and also includes a schedule of fines. 10 NYSE Rule 476 sets forth procedures for disciplinary proceedings involving charges against members, member organizations, allied members, approved persons or employees. In SR&hyph;NYSE&hyph;84&hyph;27, which initially set forth the provisions and procedures of Rule 476A, the Exchange indicated it would amend the list of rules from time to time, as it considered appropriate, in order to phase-in the implementation of Rule 476A as experience with it was gained. 11 11 See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 21688, supra note 8. The Exchange is presently seeking approval to add the following Exchange Rules to the List of Rules subject to possible imposition of fines under Rule 476A procedures: •Rule 72(b) which establishes conditions under which ``clean'' agency crosses of 25,000 shares or more cannot be broken at the cross price; 12 12 As amended, the minor rule list would include only the section of Rule 72(b) which prohibits instances of proprietary participation with cross transaction. See supra notes 4 and 7. NYSE Rule 72(b) states that when a member has an order to buy and an order to sell an equivalent amount of the same security, and both orders are of 25,000 shares or more and are for the accounts of persons who are not members or member organizations, the member may ``cross'' those orders at a price at or within the prevailing quotation. The member's bid or offer shall be entitled to priority at such cross price, irrespective of pre-existing bids or offers at that price. The member shall follow the crossing procedures of Rule 76, and another member may trade with either the bid or offer side of the cross transaction only to provide a price which is better than the cross price as to all or part of such bid or offer. A member who is providing a better price to one side of the cross transaction must trade with all other market interest having priority at that price before trading with any part of the cross transaction. No member may break up the proposed cross transaction, in whole or in part, at the cross price. •Rule 410A which requires members and member organizations to submit certain information concerning transactions in an automated format as requested by the Exchange; 13 13 See NYSE Rule 410A for the list of trade data elements required to be submitted to the NYSE under this Rule. The purpose for the proposed change to Rule 476A is to facilitate the Exchange's ability to induce compliance with all aspects of the above-named Rules.
