FR940613-0-00106 FR940613-0-00015 Dollies. Every converter dolly certified on and after June 1, 1968, used to convert a semitrailer to a full trailer may have either single or tandem axles at the option of the permittee. Single-axle dollies may not utilize low profile tires. Combination vehicles with a gross weight in excess of 138,400 pounds must have a tandem-axle dolly to meet the nine-axle requirement. If the distance between two semitrailers is 10 feet or more, the dolly shall be equipped with a device or the trailers connected along the sides with suitable material to indicate they are in effect one unit. The devices or connection shall be approved by the NYSTA prior to use on a tandem trailer combination. The NYSTA tandem-trailer provisions require that converter dollies shall be coupled with one or more safety chains or cables to the frame or an extension of the frame of the motor vehicle by which it is towed. Each dolly converter must also be equipped with mud flaps. Tandem combinations using a sliding fifth wheel attached to the lead trailer, known as a ``B-Train'' combination, will require a separate Thruway Engineer Service approval prior to the initial tandem run. Special provisions regarding B-Trains will be reviewed at the time of the application or request for use on the Thruway. PERMIT: For operation on highways under the jurisdiction of the New York State DOT, cities not wholly included in one county, or the following highway sections under NYSTA jurisdiction; the full length of I&hyph;84 and that portion of I&hyph;287 from Thruway exit 8 to I&hyph;95, a permit to exceed the weight limits set forth in section 385(15) of the New York State Vehicle and Traffic Law must be obtained from the State DOT, city involved, or the NYSTA. A fee is charged for the permit. For operation on highways under the jurisdiction of the NYSTA, except for the full length of I&hyph;84 and that portion of I&hyph;287 from Thruway exit 8 to I&hyph;95, companies must file an application for a Tandem Trailer Permit with the NYSTA. Permits are issued to such companies upon meeting qualifications, including insurance, for tandem combinations over 65 feet in length. No permit fee is charged; however, Thruway tolls are charged for each use of the Thruway, and the equipment must be certified by the NYSTA annually. The annual re-certification of equipment is handled by: New York State Thruway Authority, Manager of Traffic Safety Services, P.O. Box 189, Albany, New York 12201&hyph;0189 Transportation of hazardous materials is subject to special restrictions plus 49 CFR part 397 of the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Regulations. ACCESS: For tandem trailer combinations with either trailer more than 28.5 feet long but not more than 48 feet long, the following access is available to authorized operating routes. I&hyph;87 (New York Thruway) Access provided at Thruway Exit 21B to or from a point 1,500 feet north of the Thruway on US 9W. I&hyph;90 (NYSTA-Berkshire Section) access provided at: (1) Thruway Exit B&hyph;1 to or from a point 0.8 mile north of the southern most access ramp on US 9. (2) Thruway Exit B&hyph;3 within a 2,000-foot radius of the Thruway ramps to NY 22.
