FR940204-1-00071 FR940204-1-00013 Periodic fires are an important factor in maintaining the grassland and coastal prairie habitat of the silverspot butterflies (Hammond and McCorkle 1984, Orsak 1980). Without fire, succession eliminates the foodplants of the larvae of the callippe and Behren's silverspot butterflies. Periodic ``cool,'' fast-moving fires seem important for the maintenance of the habitat of the two butterflies. Without fire, dead grass and other vegetation from previous years may not decay quickly enough and gradually accumulate to form a thick layer of thatch that smothers and crowds out the violets. The larvae of the silverspot butterflies may survive fires that move rapidly through grassland habitats, in contrast to hotter, slower-moving brush and woodland fires that may kill them (McCorkle and Hammond 1988, Orsak 1980). Under windy conditions, grassland fires also burn in patches, which leave ``islands'' of unburned habitat that may contain butterflies. In small populations, the breeding of closely related individuals can cause genetic problems, particularly the expression of deleterious genes (known as inbreeding depression). Individuals and populations possessing deleterious genetic material are less able to cope with environmental conditions and adapt to environmental changes, even those that are relatively minor. Further, small populations are subject to the effects of genetic drift (the loss of random genetic variability). This phenomenon also reduces the ability of individuals and populations to successfully respond to environmental stresses. Overall, these genetic factors could influence the survivability of the smaller, genetically isolated populations of each of the three species that are the subject of this proposed rule. The callippe silverspot butterfly, Behren's silverspot butterfly, and the Alameda whipsnake also may suffer from associated effects of habitat fragmentation. Subdivision of land into smaller blocks of habitat often is the result of human-related activities, such as livestock grazing, road construction, and urban development, and serves to exacerbate the isolation of extant populations. Most of the populations of the three species proposed for listing herein are isolated from other conspecific populations. Since recolonization from neighboring populations is unlikely or impossible, this isolation could have negative demographic effects, such as low reproductive success. Also, by further reducing population size and genetic interchange among populations, habitat fragmentation increases the probability of genetic drift and inbreeding depression. This may result in less vigorous and adaptable populations of the three species proposed for listing. Due to the existence of only small and fragmented populations, the three species proposed for listing also may be vulnerable to random fluctuations or variations (stochasticity), such as changes in annual weather patterns, availability of food, and other natural or human-induced environmental factors. For example, when the populations of the callippe and Behren's silverspot butterflies were large, the effects of a drought or a low abundance of foodplants would not cause the extinction of these species. However, given the current population status, events such as drought or low foodplant abundance could cause their extinction. The Service has carefully assessed the best scientific and commercial information regarding past, present, and future threats faced by these species to propose this rule. As described in more detail above under Factors A, B, C, D, and E, the available information indicates that the callippe silverspot butterfly, Behren's silverspot butterfly, and the Alameda whipsnake should be listed pursuant to section 4 of the Act. The limited range of these species makes them vulnerable to overcollecting, rapid urbanization, off-road vehicle use, inappropriate levels of grazing, and loss of habitat due to invasive exotic vegetation. Stochastic events, which commonly affect small isolated populations, also may result in extirpation of some populations of these species. Ongoing and proposed development projects pose an imminent threat to Behren's silverspot butterfly and the Alameda whipsnake throughout their ranges. Extraordinary increases in human populations and associated pressures for urban development have rendered existing mechanisms inadequate. Other alternatives to this action were considered but not preferred because not listing these species at all or listing them as threatened would not provide adequate protection and not be in keeping with the purposes of the Act. Based on this evaluation, the preferred action is to list the callippe silverspot butterfly ( Speyeria callippe callippe ), Behren's silverspot butterfly ( Speyeria zerene behrensii ), and Alameda whipsnake ( Masticophis lateralis euryxanthus ) as endangered. For reasons discussed below, the Service is not proposing to designate critical habitat for these animal species at this time.
