FR941122-2-00051 FR941122-2-00040 The Authority granted review, under ยง2422.17(c) of the Authority's Regulations, 5 CFR 2422.27(c), of the ARD's conclusions regarding both the second and third DOE factors. With regard to the second factor, the Authority found it unclear from precedent whether and/or how accretion principles are or should be applied to determine whether the appropriateness of bargaining units remains unimpaired as a result of a reorganization. The Authority questioned whether the continued appropriateness of a unit must be established before a finding is made as to whether other employees have accreted into it, or whether these determinations should be made in another way or sequence. With regard to the third DOE factor, the Authority found an absence of precedent on the issue of whether the filing of an RA petition raises a QCR so as to preclude a finding of successorship. The Authority directed the parties to file briefs addressing the following questions: 1. In considering the second factor for determining successorship set forth in DOE , what criteria should be applied to determine whether appropriateness of a bargaining unit remains unimpaired as a result of a reorganization when accretion is claimed? How do those criteria apply in this case? 2. In considering the third factor for determining successorship set forth in DOE , does the filing of an RA petition questioning the continued appropriateness of an existing bargaining unit raise a QCR so as to preclude a finding that a successor relationship exists between an established bargaining unit and the gaining agency? 3. Should the factors for determining successorship set forth in DOE be modified or clarified in any other respect? As these matters are likely to be of concern to agencies, labor organizations, and other interested persons, the Authority finds it appropriate to provide for the filing of amicus briefs addressing any or all of the aforementioned issues. Dated: November 17, 1994. For the Authority. Alicia N. Columna, Director, Case Control Office. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;28817 Filed 11&hyph;21&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 0267&hyph;01&hyph;M
