FR940816-1-00101 FR940816-1-00012 (i) Follow guidelines provided in the ``Testing People Who Have Handicapping Conditions'' section of the Standards for Educational and Psychological Testing; (ii) Provide documentation of the appropriateness and feasibility of the modifications relevant to test performance; and (iii) Recommend passing score(s) based on the performance of test-takers. (4) In the case of a computer-based test, the test publisher must_ (i) Provide documentation to the Secretary that the test complies with the basic principles of test construction and standards of reliability and validity as promulgated in the Standards for Educational and Psychological Testing, as well as specific guidelines set forth in the American Psychological Association's Guidelines for Computer-based Tests and Interpretations (1986) (Copies of these standards and guidelines may be obtained from the American Psychological Association, Inc., 1200 17th Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20036); (ii) Provide test administrators with instructions for familiarizing test-takers with computer hardware prior to test-taking; and (iii) Provide two or more parallel, equated forms of the test, or, if parallel forms are generated from an item pool, provide documentation of the methods of item selection for alternate forms. (b) If a test is designed solely to measure the English language competence of non-native speakers of English_ (1) The test must meet the criteria set forth in §668.145(b)(6), and §668.145(c)(1), (c)(2), and (c)(4); and (2) The test publisher must recommend a passing score based on the mean score of those test takers beyond the age of compulsory school attendance who entered U.S. high school equivalency programs over the previous five years. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1091(d)) §668.148 Special provisions for the approval of assessment procedures for special populations for whom no tests are reasonably available. If no test is reasonably available for persons with disabilities or students whose native language is not English and who are not fluent in English, so that no test can be approved under §§668.145, 668.146, and 668.147 for these students, the following procedures apply: (a) Persons with disabilities. (1) The Secretary considers a modified test or testing procedure, or instrument that has been scientifically developed specifically for the purpose of evaluating the ability to benefit from postsecondary training or education of disabled student to be an approved test for purposes of this subpart provided that the testing procedure or instrument measures both basic verbal and quantitative skills at the secondary school level. (2) The Secretary considers the passing scores for these testing procedures or instruments to be those recommended by the test developer provided that the test administrator, using such procedures or instruments, maintains appropriate documentation, including a description of the procedures or instruments, their content domains and technical properties, scoring procedures, and recommended passing scores. (b) Students whose native language is not English. The Secretary considers a test in a student's native language for a student whose native language is not English to be an approved test under this subpart if_ (1) The Secretary has not approved any test in that native language; (2) The test was not previously rejected for approval by the Secretary; (3) The test measures both basic verbal and quantitative skills at the secondary school level; and (4) The passing scores and the methods for determining the passing scores are fully documented. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1091(d)) §668.149 Agreement between the Secretary and a test publisher. (a) If the Secretary approves a test under this subpart, the test publisher must enter into an agreement with the Secretary containing the provisions in paragraph (b) of this section before an institution may use the test to determine the eligibility of a student for Title IV, HEA program funds.
