FR940128-2-00054 FR940128-2-00032 Corps of Engineers Engineering Circular Issued by the Corps of Engineers AGENCY: Army Corps of Engineers, DoD. ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: The purpose of this notice is to provide a copy of the Engineering Circular (EC) 1130&hyph;2&hyph;204 to all known interested parties. The EC provides Corps of Engineers agency policy and guidance regarding implementation of new recreation user fee authority conferred in the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1993 (Pub. L. 103&hyph;66). The legislation authorized the Corps to charge a fee of not more than $3.00 per vehicle per day for the use of certain developed day use recreation facilities. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mr. Darrell Lewis, Natural Resources Management Branch, Office of the Chief of Engineers at (202) 272&hyph;0247. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The five appendices to the EC are not included. Copies are available on request from HQUSACE, CECW&hyph;ON, 20 Massachusetts Avenue NW., Washington, DC 20314&hyph;1000, or by calling the above telephone number. Dated: January 21, 1994. John P. Elmore, Chief, Operations, Construction and Readiness Division, Directorate of Civil Works. Expires December 31, 1996 Project Operation Recreation User Fees for Day Use Facilities February 1, 1994. 1. Purpose. This circular provides information and guidance for the administration of a recreation user fee program for day use facilities at U.S. Army Corps of Engineers Civil Works water resource development projects. The guidance in this circular must be used in conjunction with the guidance in ER 1130&hyph;2&hyph;404. 2. Applicability. This circular applies to major subordinate commands, districts, laboratories and field operating activities having Civil Works responsibilities. 3. References. a. Public Law 103&hyph;66, Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1993. b. 5 CFR Part 1320, Code of Federal Regulations. Appendix B. 5. Policy. No fees will be charged for entrance to any Corps operated area. Fees will be charged for the use of developed day use recreation facilities provided by the Corps, as prescribed below and shown in Appendix C. a. General. Day user fees will be charged for the use of Corps operated day use facilities which meet the requirements described below. (1) Fees will be charged for the use of certain boat launching ramps and designated, developed swimming beaches in Corps operated day use recreation areas. Fees will not be charged for drinking water, wayside exhibits, roads, scenic drives, overlook sites, picnic tables, toilet facilities, surface water areas, undeveloped or lightly developed shoreland, or general visitor information. Day user fees will not be charged for the use of visitor centers. (2) Day user fees will be charged only where there is reasonable expectation that revenues will significantly exceed costs of collection, to include implementation costs. Estimates of annual revenue from a fee facility must exceed annual estimated cost to collect, including the cost of implementation amortized over the design life of the improvements, by 10% or $3,000, whichever is greater. The estimate should be reviewed periodically by Division Commanders to determine the justification for modifying the project fee collection program. b. Boat Launch User Fee. A day user fee of $2.00 will be charged to launch a boat at a ramp in a Corps operated day use recreation area, provided that the net revenue test in paragraph 5.a.(2) is met. (1) The fee will be charged at recreation areas having a boat ramp and one or more of the following facilities: restrooms, security lighting, picnicking facilities, swimming facilities, or other developed recreation facilities. The boat launch fee will not be charged at boat ramps located in recreation areas which are exclusively campgrounds and reserved exclusively for the use of campers, or in recreation areas which provide only a boat ramp and courtesy dock.
