FR940805-0-00030 FR940805-0-00011 Office of the Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner 24 CFR Part 204 [Docket No. R&hyph;94&hyph;1717; FR&hyph;3418&hyph;F&hyph;01] Termination of FHA Single Family Coinsurance Program AGENCY: Office of the Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner, HUD. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: This rule terminates the authority of the FHA Commissioner, to insure mortgage loans made for the financing of single family homes on a coinsurance basis. The purpose of the rule is to terminate a program found by the Department to be one whose usefulness and utilization by lenders is outweighed by the demands it makes on limited departmental resources. EFFECTIVE DATE: September 6, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Morris Carter, Director, Single Family Development Division, Room 9272, Department of Housing and Urban Development, 451 Seventh Street, SW., Washington, DC 20410; telephone (voice) (202) 708&hyph;2700; (TDD) (202) 708&hyph;4594. (These are not toll-free numbers.) SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: FHA Coinsurance was first authorized under the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1974 which added a new section 244 to the National Housing Act. In February of 1976, the Department implemented a program of coinsurance for the financing of single family homes_24 CFR part 204. The intent of this new coinsurance program was to improve the quality of mortgage originations and servicing, to streamline HUD insurance processing, and to improve the quality and timeliness of service to the mortgage applicants. This was to be achieved through the sharing of risk between HUD and the mortgagees and through the delegation of a significant portion of processing to mortgage originators, including the complete processing of appraisal and mortgage credit applications, and the disposition of property in the event of default and foreclosure. The two main incentives for participation in the program were to be a lender's ability to choose its own appraisers and to share the premium income with the Department depending on the performance of the lender's book of business for coinsured loans. Despite these incentives, the Department has endorsed very few coinsured single family mortgages. The combined volume for fiscal years 1990, 1991, 1992 and 1993 was 6,830 loans nationwide, with the bulk coming from one lender, Crown Mortgage, doing business in Illinois. The remainder of coinsured loans were originated by four lenders located in New York or Texas. Contributing to this lack of lender interest in the program has been the advent of Direct Endorsement which has blunted many of the benefits attributable to the coinsurance program, especially the delegation of processing to the lenders. While the sharing of premium income is a substantial benefit, most lenders, due to their financial situation, are in no position to share even a 10 percent risk exposure. (A lender is not permitted to obtain reinsurance of its potential or actual loss.) Also, few, if any lenders, wish to be burdened with the task of disposing of foreclosed property. A Secretarial task force on financial management has recommended that this coinsurance program be terminated giving the following reasons: 1. The demands the program makes on the Department's resources outweigh its usefulness and utilization by lenders. From a programmatic standpoint, it does not make sense to devote scarce staff resources to a program as rarely used as coinsurance. Mortgage Insurance and Accounting (MIAS) Staff spend about one half a staff year running this program. Coinsurance requires MIAS to maintain a separate computer system to track coinsurance reserves and administer claim payments. Reserve payouts must be calculated and processed each year as well. Furthermore, the Chicago Office, which handles most of the coinsurance program's volume, estimates that in FY 1991, one-half a staff year was used to run the program. At least this much staff time was consumed by the program for the remainder of the country. 2. One of the incentives for program participation, the lender's ability to choose its own appraisers, will be nullified when this feature is applied in the future to the Direct Endorsement program, through the Department's implementation of section 202(e)(3) of the National Housing Act. 3. Participating lenders tend to ``cherry pick'' loans for coinsurance processing, with the riskier loans assigned to the Direct Endorsement program. All participating coinsurance lenders are also participating in the Direct Endorsement program. 4. Elimination of this program will not result in a reduction of avenues of mortgage credit for first time and low-and -moderate income homebuyers. Issuance of a Proposed Rule and Public Comment On March 30, 1994, the Department published a proposed rule which would terminate FHA's single family coinsurance program (59 FR 14809). One written comment has been received by the public concerning this proposal. The Savings and Community Bankers of America, representing more than 1800 savings and community financial institutions, fully supported termination of the program citing essentially the same reasons as are set forth above under the heading Supplemental Information. Other Matters Regulatory Flexibility Act In accordance with the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. 605(b)), the Undersigned certifies that this rule does not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. Experience under the coinsurance programs affected by this rule has not demonstrated any substantial impact on small entities.
