FR940526-1-00011 FR940526-1-00006 6. OAC section 1501:13&hyph;9&hyph;13 paragraph (A)(7): Ohio is adding this new paragraph to clarify that areas that are backfilled and rough graded shall closely resemble the final ground surface configuration approved in the mining and reclamation plan but that these areas are not necessarily ready for resoiling or eligible for Phase I bond release. As part of and in support of proposed Program Amendment Number 68, Ohio has also submitted a draft Policy/Procedure Directive which provides additional clarification and guidance on the proposed Ohio rule requirements for contemporaneous reclamation. III. Public Comment Procedures In accordance with the provisions of 30 CFR 732.17(h), OSM is now seeking comment on whether the amendment proposed by Ohio satisfies the applicable program approval criteria of 30 CFR 732.15. If the amendment is deemed adequate, it will become part of the Ohio program. Written Comments Written comments should be specific, pertain only to the issues proposed in this rulemaking, and include explanations in support of the commenter's recommendations. Comments received after the time indicated under ``DATES'' or at locations other than the Columbus Field Office will not necessarily be considered in the final rulemaking or included in the Administrative Record. Public Hearing Persons wishing to speak at the public hearing should contact the person listed under FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT by 4 p.m., E.D.T., on June 10, 1994. The location and time of the hearing will be arranged with those persons requesting the hearing. If no one requests an opportunity to comment at a public hearing, the hearing will not be held. Filing of a written statement at the time of the hearing is requested as it will greatly assist the transcriber. Submission of written statements in advance of the hearing will allow OSM officials to prepare adequate responses and appropriate questions. The public hearing will continue on the specified date until all persons scheduled to speak have been heard. Persons in the audience who have not been scheduled to speak and who wish to do so will be heard following those who have been scheduled. The hearing will end after all persons scheduled to speak and persons present in the audience who wish to speak have been heard. Public Meeting If only one person requests an opportunity to speak at a hearing, a public meeting, rather than a public hearing, may be held. Persons wishing to meet with OSM representatives to discuss the proposed amendment may request a meeting by contacting the person listed under FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT . All such meetings will be open to the public and, if possible, notices of the meetings will be posted at the locations listed under ADDRESSES . A written summary of each meeting will be made a part of the Administrative Record. IV. Procedural Determinations Executive Order 12866 This rule is exempted from review by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) under Executive Order 12866 (Regulatory Planning and Review). Executive Order 12778
