FR940603-1-00078 FR940603-1-00009 The Proposal must be signed with the full name of the Bidder. If the Bidder is a partnership, the Proposal must be signed in the partnership name by a partner. If the Bidder is a corporation, the Proposal must be signed in the corporate name by a duly authorized officer and the corporate seal affixed and attested by the Secretary of the Corporation. Acceptance Subject to the approval of the Administrator, the Owner, XXXX , hereby accepts the Proposal of the above-named Bidder for the construction of the Project therein described for the Base Bid of $ XXXX and Alternate No. 1 $ XXXX Alternate No. 2 $ XXXX The total contract price is $ XXXX XXXX (Owner) By XXXX President Attest: XXXX (Secretary) XXXX Date of Contract [End of clause] ยง1726.321 Right-of-way clearing contract, REA Form 201. The contract form in this section shall be used when required by this part. This form refers to guide drawings, which do not contain requirements, and, hence, are not included in this part. The guide drawings are included in the printed form available from REA (See ยง1726.300.). Right-of-Way Clearing Contract Contractor's Proposal (Proposal shall be submitted in ink or typewritten) To: XXXX (Hereinafter called the ``Owner'') ARTICLE I_GENERAL Section 1. Offer to Clear. The undersigned (hereinafter called the ``Contractor'') hereby proposes to furnish all materials, equipment, machinery, tools, labor, transportation and other means required to clear rights-of-way for the rural electric system bearing the REA Designation XXXX in strict accordance with the Specifications and Drawings therefor, attached hereto and made a part hereof, for the prices hereinafter stated. Section 2. Description of Project. The Project will consist of approximately XXXX miles of right-of-way clearing. The Project is located in XXXX counties in the State of XXXX . Section 3. Description of Contract. The Description of Units, Specifications, Drawings and Plans attached hereto and made a part hereof, together with the Proposal and Acceptance constitute the Contract. The Plans consisting of maps and plan and profile sheets if transmission clearing is included, showing the number and types of right-of-way units that are to be cleared, along with other special drawings are identified as follows: Section 4. Familiarity with Conditions. The Contractor warrants that it has made careful examination of the site of the Project and of the Specifications, Drawings, and form of Contractors' Bond attached hereto, and has become informed as to the location and nature of the proposed work, the transportation facilities, the kind and character of soil and terrain to be encountered, and the kind of facilities required for undertaking and completing the Project, and has become acquainted with the labor conditions, state and local laws and regulations which would affect the proposed work. Section 5. License. The Contractor warrants that a Contractor's License is XX , is not XX , required, and if required, it possesses Contractor's license number XXXX for the State of XXXX in which the Project is located and said license expires on XXXX , 19 XX . Section 6. Contractor's Bond. If the estimated cost of the clearing of a Section shall exceed $100,000, the Contractor agrees to furnish, prior to the commencement of work on such Section, a bond in the penal sum of not less than the estimated cost of the Section in the form attached hereto with a Surety or Sureties listed by the United States Treasury Department as acceptable sureties. In the event that the Surety or Sureties on the performance bond delivered to the Owner shall at any time become unsatisfactory to the Owner, the Contractor agrees to deliver to the Owner another or an additional bond. Section 7. Taxes. The unit prices for Right-of-Way Clearing Units in this Proposal include any sums which are or may be payable by the Contractor on account of taxes imposed by any taxing authority on payments for materials furnished or services performed by the Contractor under the terms of this Contract. ARTICLE II_CONSTRUCTION
