FR940128-1-00048 FR940128-1-00006 Continuous monitoring ensures that temperature fluctuations above 40 ○F (4.4 ○C), if any, as a result of circumstances such as heavy cooler loading, frequent cooler entry, or power failures, are quickly detected. The guideline for cooked, ready-to-eat products, in Appendix A, section 6, describes alternative ways to continuously monitor the temperature. A temperature-recording device can show both the high temperature and the length of time that refrigeration unit was operating at that temperature. Maximum-indicating thermometers and high temperature alarms also show that the critical limit has been exceeded but cannot show the duration of the deviation. Consequently, when a maximum-indicating thermometer or high temperature alarm reveals a deviation, the processor will need to assume loss of control since the last time that the measurements displayed by the instruments were checked, unless reasonable evidence exists to the contrary. The more frequent such checks are made, the lower the risk to which the processor is exposed. During periods when the refrigeration unit is not frequently entered and the load is constant, such as overnight, it is reasonable to reduce the frequency. However, during periods of heavy use and frequent entry, the frequency should be increased. FDA is proposing to require in §123.10(a)(15) that the processor ensure that persons with sores or illnesses that present an increased risk for product contamination are excluded from those areas of processing where such contamination is likely. Employees can serve as a reservoir of foodborne diseases, such as salmonellosis, shigellosis, and hepatitis, that can be passed on to the consumer through the fecal-oral route. Additionally, open sores, boils, or infected wounds present the potential for contamination of the food with such pathogenic microorganisms as Staphylococcus aureus. Employees with suspicious illnesses or sores can be effectively screened upon arrival at the processing facility with minimal personal intrusion (Refs. 22, 74, and 84). In §123.10(c), the agency is proposing to require that such screening, and documentation of the screening, take place daily. This frequency will ensure that changing health conditions of the employees are not missed. In §123.10(a)(16), the agency is proposing to require that the processor ensure that toilet facilities are available and maintained in a sanitary condition and in good repair, and that these facilities provide for proper disposal of the sewage. Toilet facilities eliminate from the processing environment pathogenic microorganisms shed in fecal material. Where fecal material is not properly conveyed from the processing plant to an acceptable treatment facility, restroom floors and grounds around the processing facility can become contaminated with pathogens. Foot traffic over the affected areas can introduce pathogens to the processing room and cause product contamination. Insanitary toilet facilities can also increase the potential for contamination of employees' hands and, ultimately, the product (Refs. 64 and 74). FDA is proposing to require at §123.10(c) that the toilet facilities be inspected, and the inspection be documented, to ensure that they function properly and are in a sanitary condition at least every day. Ordinarily this inspection should be performed before each day's operation to ensure that the facility is ready at the beginning of the day. In §123.10(a)(17), the agency is proposing to require that the processor ensure that no pests are present in the processing area. Pests, such as rodents, birds, and insects carry a variety of human disease agents, which they can introduce to the processing environment (Refs. 63, 64, 73, and 84). Additionally, their feces constitutes filth which can contaminate the food. A daily inspection of the processing facility, as proposed in §123.10(c), serves to assess the effectiveness of the processor's pest control activities and redirect them where necessary. In §123.10(a)(18), the agency is proposing to require that the processor ensure that the plant is designed to minimize risk of contamination of the food. Proper construction is essential if the other sanitary measures that FDA is proposing to require are to be successful. It includes the isolation of incompatible operations, such as the handling of raw materials and the processing of cooked products (Refs. 71, 74, 87, and 88). A periodic inspection of the facility for structural defects, product flow, and general building condition is necessary to ensure that these attributes do not pose an increased potential for product contamination. In §123.10(c)(3), the agency is proposing to require that such controls be performed and documented with sufficient frequency to ensure control.
