FR940930-0-00101 FR940930-0-00017 (c) Minimum wage. During any calendar quarter of the preceding calendar year, the employer was required to pay the minimum wage specified in section 6 of the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938, or would have been required to pay that wage but for section 13(a) of that Act. (d) Federal assistance under section 317 of the PHS Act. The public entity has a pending application for, or is receiving, assistance under section 317 of the PHS Act. (e) Request for inclusion of qualified HMO. The employer or public entity has received, from at least one qualified HMO, a request to be included in the health benefits plan offered to employees, and the following conditions are met: (1) The request is in writing and meets the requirements of ยง417.152. (2) At least 25 of the employees of the employer or public entity reside within the HMO's service area. ยง417.152 Request for inclusion of the HMO in a health benefits plan; employing entity's response. (a) Time limitations . (1) Unless otherwise agreed to by the HMO and the employing entity or its designee, an HMO's request for inclusion in a health benefits plan must be received by the employing entity or designee_ (i) Not more than 365 nor less than 180 days before the expiration or renewal date of_ (A) A health benefits contract or employing entity-employee contract; or (B) A collective bargaining agreement; or (ii) In the case of a public entity, any longer period prescribed by State law. (2) For purposes of this paragraph, the dates are considered to be as follows: (i) For a collective bargaining agreement that is automatically renewable or without fixed term, the expiration or renewal date is the earliest anniversary date of the agreement. (ii) For a collective bargaining agreement that is for a fixed term of more than 1 year and provides that its health benefits terms may be renegotiated during the term of the agreement, the expiration date is the date provided by the agreement for discussion of health benefits changes. (b) To whom the request must be addressed. The HMO must direct its written request for inclusion to_ (1) The employer's managing official at the employer site being solicited or the employer's designee; or (2) The public entity's chief executive officer or designee. (c) Required information. The request must include the following: (1) Evidence showing that the HMO has been determined to be a qualified HMO in accordance with section 1310(d) of the PHS Act and subpart D of this part. (2) A description of the HMO's service area or proposed service area and the dates when the HMO will furnish basic and supplemental health services in the area. (3) Indication of whether the HMO furnishes the basic health services that are the services of health professionals_ (i) Through health professionals who are_ (A) Members of the HMO's staff; (B) Members of one or more medical groups; (C) Members of one or more individual practice associations (IPAs); or (D) Under direct contract with the HMO; or (ii) Through any combination of the foregoing. (4) If the HMO provides health services through IPAs, a listing of member physicians by name, specialty, and whether they are accepting new patients from the HMO enrollment. This listing must be current within 90 days of the date of the request for inclusion. (5) If the HMO provides health services other than through IPAs, for each ambulatory care facility the facility's address, days and hours of operation, a statement whether it is accepting new patients from the HMO enrollment, and the names and specialties of the facility's providers of basic and supplemental health services. This information must be current within 90 days of the date of the request for inclusion. (6) A list of the hospitals where HMO enrollees will be provided basic and supplemental health services. (7) Identification of the type of HMO entity specifying, for example, whether for profit or nonprofit, public or private, sole proprietorship, partnership or stock corporation; the members of the HMO's policymaking body; and the principal managing officer of the HMO. (8) A statement of the HMO's capacity to accept new enrollees and the likelihood of any future limitations on enrollment. (9) The HMO's most recently audited annual financial statement. (10) Proposed implementing agreements between the HMO and the employer, public entity, or designee for the HMO offering. (11) Sample copies of solicitation brochures and enrollment literature that will be used in the offer of the HMO option to employees.
