FR940428-2-00102 FR940428-2-00052 1a. Not involve a significant increase in the probability of an accident previously evaluated because no change is being made to any accident initiator. Automatic actuation of the PORV is not assumed to mitigate the consequences of a design basis accident as described in Chapter 15 of the USAR. The proposed changes will continue to ensure the PORV and block valves are available to perform their functions when required to do so. Therefore, it can be concluded that the proposed changes do not involve a significant increase in the probability of an accident previously evaluated. 1b. Not involve a significant increase in the consequences of an accident previously evaluated because the proposed changes do not invalidate accident conditions or assumptions used in evaluating the radiological consequences of an accident. 2a. Not create the possibility of a new kind of accident from any accident previously evaluated because the proposed changes do not delete any function previously provided by the PORV nor has the possibility of inadvertent opening been increased. No new types of failures or accident initiators are introduced by the proposed changes. 2b. Not create the possibility of a different kind of accident from any accident previously evaluated because no new failure modes have been defined for any plant system or component important to safety, nor has any new limiting single failure been identified as a result of the proposed changes. No different accident initiators or failure mechanisms are introduced by the proposed changes. 3. Not involve a significant reduction in a margin of safety because the proposed changes continue to ensure the availability of the PORV and block valve when called upon to perform their function and will not impact any safety analysis assumptions. The NRC staff has reviewed the licensee's analysis and, based on this review, it appears that the three standards of 10 CFR 50.92(c) are satisfied. Therefore, the NRC staff proposes to determine that the amendment request involves no significant hazards consideration. Local Public Document Room Location: University of Toledo Library, Documents Department, 2801 Bancroft Avenue, Toledo, Ohio 43606. Attorney for Licensee: Jay E. Silberg, Esquire, Shaw, Pittman, Potts and Trowbridge, 2300 N Street NW., Washington, DC 20037. NRC Project Director: John N. Hannon. TU Electric Company, Docket Nos. 50&hyph;445 and 50&hyph;446, Comanche Peak Steam Electric Station, Units 1 and 2, Somervell County, Texas Date of Amendment Request: February 14, 1994. Brief Description of Amendments: The proposed amendment would revise the Comanche Peak Steam Electric Station (CPSES) Units 1 and 2 technical specifications to increase the Unit 2 boron concentration for the refueling water storage tank (RWST) and the emergency core cooling system (ECCS) accumulators to support Unit 2 operation with extended fuel cycles. These changes are applicable to Unit 2 only and are identical to those previously approved for Unit 1. Basis for Proposed No Significant Hazards Consideration Determination: As required by 10 CFR 50.91(a), the licensee has provided its analysis of the issue of no significant hazards consideration. The NRC staff has reviewed the licensee's analysis against the standards of 10 CFR 50.92(c). The NRC staff's review is presented below: 1. The proposed change would not increase the probability or consequences of a previously evaluated accident. The proposed changes are related to the boron concentration in the RWST and ECCS accumulators. This increased concentration does not constitute a change expected to increase the probability of a previously evaluated accident. The means by which the proposed changes might result in increased radiological consequences of various accidents are discussed below.
