FR941028-2-00172 FR941028-2-00109 •The criteria used in these protocols should be based on the prevalence and characteristics of TB in the population served by the specific facility. These protocols should be evaluated periodically and revised according to the results of the evaluation. Review of medical records of patients who were examined in the facility and diagnosed as having TB may serve as a guide for developing or revising these protocols. •A diagnosis of TB may be considered for any patient who has a persistent cough (i.e., a cough lasting for "3 weeks) or other signs or symptoms compatible with active TB (e.g., bloody sputum, night sweats, weight loss, anorexia, or fever). However, the index of suspicion for TB will vary in different geographic areas and will depend on the prevalence of TB and other characteristics of the population served by the facility. The index of suspicion for TB should be very high in geographic areas or among groups of patients in which the prevalence of TB is high (Section I.B). Appropriate diagnostic measures should be conducted and TB precautions implemented for patients in whom active TB is suspected. 2. Diagnostic Evaluation for Active TB •Diagnostic measures for identifying TB should be conducted for patients in whom active TB is being considered. These measures include obtaining a medical history and performing a physical examination, PPD skin test, chest radiograph, and microscopic examination and culture of sputum or other appropriate specimens ( 6,34,35 ). Other diagnostic procedures (e.g., bronchoscopy or biopsy) may be indicated for some patients ( 36,37 ). •Prompt laboratory results are crucial to the proper treatment of the TB patient and to early initiation of infection control. To ensure timely results, laboratories performing mycobacteriologic tests should be proficient at both the laboratory and administrative aspects of specimen processing. Laboratories should use the most rapid methods available (e.g., fluorescent microscopy for AFB smears; radiometric culture methods for isolation of mycobacteria; r -nitro- -acetylamino- -hydroxy-proprophenone [NAP] test, nucleic acid probes, or high-pressure liquid chromatography [HPLC] for species identification; and radiometric methods for drug-susceptibility testing). As other more rapid or sensitive tests become available, practical, and affordable, such tests should be incorporated promptly into the mycobacteriology laboratory. Laboratories that rarely receive specimens for mycobacteriologic analysis should refer the specimens to a laboratory that more frequently performs these tests. •Results of AFB sputum smears should be available within 24 hours of specimen collection ( 38 ). •The probability of TB is greater among patients who have positive PPD test results or a history of positive PPD test results, who have previously had TB or have been exposed to M. tuberculosis, or who belong to a group at high risk for TB (Section I.B). Active TB is strongly suggested if the diagnostic evaluation reveals AFB in sputum, a chest radiograph suggestive of TB, or symptoms highly suggestive of TB. TB can occur simultaneously in immunosuppressed persons who have pulmonary infections caused by other organisms (e.g., Pneumocystis carinii or Mycobacterium avium complex) and should be considered in the diagnostic evaluation of all patients who have symptoms compatible with TB (Suppl. 1; Suppl. 2). •TB may be more difficult to diagnose among persons who have HIV infection (or other conditions associated with severe suppression of cell-mediated immunity) because of a nonclassical clinical or radiographic presentation and/or the simultaneous occurrence of other pulmonary infections (e.g., P. carinii pneumonia and M. avium complex). The difficulty in diagnosing TB in HIV-infected persons may be further compounded by impaired responses to PPD skin tests ( 39,40 ), the possibly lower sensitivity of sputum smears for detecting AFB ( 41 ), or the overgrowth of cultures with M. avium complex in specimens from patients infected with both M. avium complex and M. tuberculosis ( 42 ). •Immunosuppressed patients who have pulmonary signs or symptoms that are ascribed initially to infections or conditions other than TB should be evaluated initially for coexisting TB. The evaluation for TB should be repeated if the patient does not respond to appropriate therapy for the presumed cause(s) of the pulmonary abnormalities (Suppl. 1; Suppl. 2). •Patients with suspected or confirmed TB should be reported immediately to the appropriate public health department so that standard procedures for identifying and evaluating TB contacts can be initiated. 3. Initiation of Treatment for Suspected or Confirmed TB •Patients who have confirmed active TB or who are considered highly likely to have active TB should be started promptly on appropriate treatment in accordance with current guidelines (Suppl. 2) ( 43 ). In geographic areas or facilities that have a high prevalence of MDR-TB, the initial regimen used may need to be enhanced while the results of drug-susceptibility tests are pending. The decision should be based on analysis of surveillance data. •While the patient is in the health-care facility, anti-TB drugs should be administered by directly observed therapy (DOT), the process by which an HCW observes the patient swallowing the medications. Continuing DOT after the patient is discharged should be strongly considered. This decision and the arrangements for providing outpatient DOT should be made in collaboration with the public health department. D. Management of Patients Who May Have Active TB in Ambulatory-Care Settings and Emergency Departments •Triage of patients in ambulatory-care settings and emergency departments should include vigorous efforts to promptly identify patients who have active TB. HCWs who are the first points of contact in facilities that serve populations at risk for TB should be trained to ask questions that will facilitate identification of patients with signs and symptoms suggestive of TB. •Patients with signs or symptoms suggestive of TB should be evaluated promptly to minimize the amount of time they are in ambulatory-care areas. TB precautions should be followed while the diagnostic evaluation is being conducted for these patients. •TB precautions in the ambulatory-care setting should include (a) placing these patients in a separate area apart from other patients, and not in open waiting areas (ideally, in a room or enclosure meeting TB isolation requirements); (b) giving these patients surgical masks* to wear and instructing them to keep their masks on; and (c) giving these patients tissues and instructing them to cover their mouths and noses with the tissues when coughing or sneezing. *Surgical masks are designed to prevent the respiratory secretions of the person wearing the mask from entering the air. When not in a TB isolation room, patients suspected of having TB should wear surgical masks to reduce the expulsion of droplet nuclei into the air. These patients do not need to wear particulate respirators, which are designed to filter the air before it is inhaled by the person wearing the mask. Patients suspected of having or known to have TB should never wear a respirator that has an exhalation valve, because the device would provide no barrier to the expulsion of droplet nuclei into the air. •TB precautions should be followed for patients who are known to have active TB and who have not completed therapy until a determination has been made that they are noninfectious (Suppl. 1). •Patients with active TB who need to attend a health-care clinic should have appointments scheduled to avoid exposing HIV-infected or otherwise severely immunocompromised persons to M. tuberculosis. This recommendation could be accomplished by designating certain times of the day for appointments for these patients or by treating them in areas where immunocompromised persons are not treated. •Ventilation in ambulatory-care areas where patients at high risk for TB are treated should be designed and maintained to reduce the risk for transmission of M. tuberculosis. General-use areas (e.g., waiting rooms) and special areas (e.g., treatment or TB isolation rooms in ambulatory areas) should be ventilated in the same manner as described for similar inpatient areas (Sections II.E.3, II.F; Suppl. 3). Enhanced general ventilation or the use of air-disinfection techniques (e.g., UVGI or recirculation of air within the room through high-efficiency particulate air [HEPA] filters) may be useful in general-use areas of facilities where many infectious TB patients receive care (Section II.F; Suppl. 3). •Ideally, ambulatory-care settings in which patients with TB are frequently examined or treated should have a TB isolation room(s) available. Such rooms are not necessary in ambulatory-care settings in which patients who have confirmed or suspected TB are seen infrequently. However, these facilities should have a written protocol for early identification of patients with TB symptoms and referral to an area or a collaborating facility where the patient can be evaluated and managed appropriately. These protocols should be reviewed on a regular basis and revised as necessary. The additional guidelines in Section II.H should be followed in ambulatory-care settings where cough-inducing procedures are performed on patients who may have active TB.
