FR940324-2-00166 FR940324-2-00091 6. Project Narrative: The project narrative must address the specific concerns and requirements mentioned under Parts C and D of this announcement. After confirmation of eligibility (as required by Part B), the narrative should follow the order and respond to the content of the criteria detailed under Part D. Part G_Application Procedures 1. Availability of Forms Applications for awards under this OCS program must be submitted on Standard Forms (SF) 424, 424A, and 424B. Part F and Attachments B, C, and D to this Program Announcement contain all the instructions and forms required for submittal of applications. The forms may be reproduced for use in submitting applications. Copies of the Federal Register containing this Announcement are available at most local libraries and Congressional District Offices for reproduction. If copies are not available at these sources they may be obtained by writing or telephoning the office listed in the section entitled ``Contact'' at the beginning of this Announcement. 2. Application Submission The date by which applications must be submitted is indicated under ``Closing Date'' at the beginning of this Announcement. a. Applications may be mailed to: Administration For Children and Families, Division of Discretionary Grants, 370 L'Enfant Promenade, SW., 6th Floor, Washington, DC 20447. b. Hand delivered applications are accepted during normal working hours of 8 a.m. to 4:30 p.m., Monday through Friday, on or prior to the established closing date at the above listed address. Applications shall be considered as meeting an announced deadline if they are either: a. Received on or before the deadline date at a place specified in the program announcement, or b. Sent on or before the deadline date and received by ACF in time for the independent review. (Applicants are cautioned to request a legibly dated U.S. Postal Service postmark or to obtain a legibly dated receipt from a commercial carrier or U.S. Postal Service. Private Metered postmarks shall not be acceptable as proof of timely mailing.) Late applications: Applications which do not meet the criteria in paragraphs 1 and 2 above are considered late applications. ACF shall notify each late applicant that its application will not be considered in the current competition.
