FR941125-1-00028 FR941125-1-00008 The design specification testing requirements assume that apparatus used to conduct demonstrations is proper. Adequately rugged apparatus will assure the accuracy and rigor required at the specification frequency. The testing requirements for demonstrating conformance with the design specifications assume that the testing apparatus, used to conduct such tests, were properly chosen, adequately rugged, and sufficiently accurate. The 1989&hyph;1990 evaluation of procedures, conducted by the COMS manufacturers, found a broad spectrum of sophistication in demonstration apparatus. The detection limits of some equipment, used in the manufacturers' procedures, were found to be a limiting factor in the conduct of some tests. If manufacturers' operations are not sufficiently precise, accurate, or permanent, evaluations may indicate problems in repeatability. The 1983 monitor selection process for design demonstration testing did not clearly specify how to select a monitor if the manufacturing operation was not continuous or did not include large inventories. Most COMS manufacturing operations are likely to use off-the-shelf or imported components, and the COMS's are constructed and shipped as orders are received. Large inven tories generally do not exist, and production is demand-based. Today's proposed monitor selection process revises the 1983 process to recognize some of these typical manufacturing operations. The proposal requires that each COMS installed, pursuant to the requirements of an applicable standard, have a serial number assigned by the manufacturer. (Note: If a zero-jig is manufactured and provided for the COMS model type, a unique serial number for the zero-jig, corresponding to the installed COMS serial number, is required.) The proposed model selection process of section 6, Design Specification Verification Procedure, specifies that the COMS (per model) selection will be based on a randomly-selected COMS produced during the month or a randomly-selected COMS per 20 such monitors produced, whichever is more frequent. If 20 or more COMS's of a particular model are produced in a month, the manufacturer shall randomly select a COMS of that model from that month's production for conducting the design conformance tests in sections 6.2 through 6.6. Otherwise, the manufacturer shall select a COMS with a serial number in a distinct lot of 20 monitors of that model produced, or to be produced, and shall test that COMS for demonstrating conformance with the design specifications. The proposed specification does not require additional sampling and testing upon the finding of nonconformance with the design requirements. Upon such finding, however, the specifica tion requires the manufacturer to notify all sources who have purchased that model of COMS if the COMS was manufactured since the model's last successful demonstration of conformance. The manufacturer must send a copy of all such notifications to EPA. The design specification demonstration incorporates other requirements. 1. An outline of an example of a MCOC is provided to give direction on the presentation of supporting documentation for performance demonstration tests. 2. The current specifications do not require verification of supporting COMS component conformance documentation, such as lamp emissivity, which is used for the construction of a spectral response curve. Also, the 1983 specifications did not put any limit on the valid time period for certain supporting demonstra tions such as development of the spectral response curve. As a result, some MCOC's now reflect 5-year old data. The 1989&hyph;1990 evaluations of the COMS manufacturers identified incorrect calculation procedures as well as inclusion of a component that caused an unacceptable COMS response. The manufacturer in the latter case, who calculated the response curve, was unaware that the component's characteristics had changed. The proposed PS's require the manufacturer to measure the spectral response curve of the COMS. The specifications will no longer allow the manufacturer, or source owner or operator, to calculate the spectral response curve from lamp emissivity, detector response, and filter characteristics. The EPA has identified two acceptable systems and procedures for measuring the COMS spectral response curve at 10 nm intervals from 300 to 800 nm. Information, provided by the manufacturers, indicates that this requirement is not overly burdensome. This information is necessary because, from this information, both the peak and mean spectral response can be accurately determined.
