FR940318-0-00210 FR940318-0-00023 Refrigerants Pending Decisions 1Application 1Substitute 1Comments CFC&hyph;11, CFC&hyph;113, CFC&hyph;114 recirculating coolers Perfluoropropane EPA requests additional data on the use. of all substitutes for this end-use. ␣ Perfluorobutane EPA requests additional data on the use. of all substitutes for this end-use. ␣ Perfluoropentane EPA requests additional data on the use. of all substitutes for this end-use. ␣ Perfluorohexane EPA requests additional data on the use. of all substitutes for this end-use. ␣ Perfluoroheptane EPA requests additional data on the use. of all substitutes for this end-use. ␣ Perfluorooctane EPA requests additional data on the use. of all substitutes for this end-use. ␣ Perfluoro-N-methyl morphine EPA requests additional data on the use. of all substitutes for this end-use. ␣ Perfluoro-N-ethyl morphine EPA requests additional data on the use. of all substitutes for this end-use. ␣ Perfluoro-N-isopropyl morphine EPA requests additional data on the use. of all substitutes for this end-use. CFC&hyph;11, CFC&hyph;113, CFC&hyph;114 thermosyphons Perfluoropropane EPA requests additional data on the use. of all substitutes for this end-use. ␣ Perfluorobutane EPA requests additional data on the use. of all substitutes for this end-use. ␣ Perfluoropentane EPA requests additional data on the use. of all substitutes for this end-use. ␣ Perfluorohexane EPA requests additional data on the use. of all substitutes for this end-use. ␣ Perfluoroheptane EPA requests additional data on the use. of all substitutes for this end-use. ␣ Perfluorooctane EPA requests additional data on the use. of all substitutes for this end-use. ␣ Perfluoro-N-methyl morphine EPA requests additional data on the use. of all substitutes for this end-use. ␣ Perfluoro-N-ethyl morphine EPA requests additional data on the use. of all substitutes for this end-use. ␣ Perfluoro-N-isopropyl morphine EPA requests additional data on the use. of all substitutes for this end-use. CFC&hyph;12 Motor vehicle air conditioning HCFC Blend Beta EPA has requested additional data. CFC&hyph;12 Cold storage R200a EPA has requested additional data. CFC&hyph;12 Chillers, heat pumps and commercial refrigeration systems HFC&hyph;227ea EPA has not yet concluded review of the data. CFC&hyph;13, R&hyph;503 very low temperature refrigeration HFC&hyph;23 EPA requests additional data on the use. of all substitutes for this end-use. ␣ PFC Blend Alpha EPA has not yet concluded review of the data. ␣ PFC Blend Beta EPA has not yet concluded review of the data. CFC&hyph;114 Centrifugal chillers (new equipment/alternative substances) R200b EPA has not yet concluded review of the data. ␣ R200c EPA has not yet concluded review of the data. ␣ R200g EPA has not yet concluded review of the data. ␣ R200i EPA has not yet concluded review of the data. ␣ R200j EPA has not yet concluded review of the data. CFC&hyph;114 chillers, heat pumps and commercial refrigeration systems HFC&hyph;227ea EPA has not yet concluded review of the data. R&hyph;502 Cold storage R200a EPA has not yet concluded review of the data. HCFC&hyph;22 Heat pumps HFC&hyph;134a EPA has not yet evaluated Class II substitutes. ␣ HFC&hyph;152a EPA has not yet evaluated Class II substitutes. ␣ HFC&hyph;32 EPA has not yet evaluated Class II substitutes. ␣ HFC&hyph;125/HFC&hyph;134a/HFC&hyph;32 EPA has not yet evaluated Class II substitutes. ␣ R200a EPA has not yet evaluated Class II substitutes. HCFC&hyph;22 Conventional (house.hold) air conditioning HFC&hyph;125/HFC&hyph;134a/HFC&hyph;32 EPA has not yet evaluated Class II substitutes. ␣ R200a EPA has not yet evaluated Class II substitutes.
