FR940830-1-00114 FR940830-1-00015 (ii) General assistance (GA) vendor payments. Vendor payments made under a State or local GA program or a comparable basic assistance program are excluded from income except for some vendor payments for housing. A housing vendor payment is counted as income unless the payment is for: (A) assistance provided for utility costs; (B) energy assistance (as defined in paragraph (c)(11) of this section); (C) housing assistance from a State or local housing authority; (D) emergency assistance for migrant or seasonal farmworker households while they are in the job stream; (E) housing assistance for households living in transitional housing for the homeless; (F) emergency or special payments (as defined in paragraph (c)(1)(i)(F) of this section; or (G) assistance provided under a program in a State in which no GA payments may be made directly to the household in the form of cash. (iii) Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) vendor payments . Rent or mortgage payments made to landlords or mortgagees by HUD are excluded. (iv) Educational assistance vendor payments. Educational assistance provided to a third party on behalf of the household for living expenses shall be treated the same as educational assistance payable directly to the household. (v) Vendor payments that are reimbursements. Reimbursements made in the form of vendor payments are excluded on the same basis as reimbursements paid directly to the household in accordance with paragraph (c)(5) of this section. (vi) Demonstration project vendor payments. In-kind or vendor payments which would normally be excluded as income but are converted in whole or in part to a direct cash payment under a federally authorized demonstration project or waiver of provisions of Federal law shall be excluded from income. (vii) Other third-party payments. Other third-party payments shall be handled as follows: Moneys legally obligated and otherwise payable to the household which are diverted by the provider of the payment to a third party for a household expense shall be counted as income and not excluded. If a person or organization makes a payment to a third party on behalf of a household using funds that are not owed to the household, the payment shall be excluded from income. This distinction is illustrated by the following examples: (A) A friend or relative uses his or her own money to pay the household's rent directly to the landlord. This vendor payment shall be excluded. (B) A household member earns wages. However, the wages are garnished or diverted by the employer and paid to a third party for a household expense, such as rent. This vendor payment is counted as income. However, if the employer pays a household's rent directly to the landlord in addition to paying the household its regular wages, the rent payment shall be excluded from income. Similarly, if the employer provides housing to an employee in addition to wages, the value of the housing shall not be counted as income. (C) A household receives court-ordered monthly support payments in the amount of $400. Later, $200 is diverted by the provider and paid directly to a creditor for a household expense. The payment is counted as income. Money deducted or diverted from a court-ordered support or alimony payment (or other binding written support or alimony agreement) to a third party for a household's expense shall be included as income because the payment is taken from money that is owed to the household. However, payments specified by a court order or other legally binding agreement to go directly to a third party rather than the household are excluded from income because they are not otherwise payable to the household. For example, a court awards support payments in the amount of $400 a month and in addition orders $200 to be paid directly to a bank for repayment of a loan. The $400 payment is counted as income and the $200 payment is excluded from income. Support payments not required by a court order or other legally binding agreement (including payments in excess of the amount specified in a court order or written agreement) which are paid to a third party on the household's behalf shall be excluded from income. * * * * * (7) The earned income (as defined in paragraph (b)(1) of this section) of a student under age 22 who attends elementary or secondary school or classes to obtain a General Equivalency Diploma at least half-time and lives with a natural, adoptive or step-parent, is under the control of a household member other than a parent, or is certified in a separate food stamp household but lives with a natural, adoptive or step-parent. * * * * * * * * 7. In §273.10: a. The third sentence of paragraph (a)(1)(ii) is amended by adding the words ``of more than one month, fiscal or calendar depending on the State's issuance cycle,'' after the words ``following any period'', replacing the comma after the words ``not certified for participation'' with a period, and removing the remainder of the sentence. b. The fourth sentence of paragraph (a)(1)(ii) is removed. c. Paragraphs (a)(2)(ii) and (a)(2)(iii) are removed, and paragraph (a)(2)(i) is redesignated as paragraph (a)(2). f. Newly redesignated paragraph (a)(2) is further amended by adding the words ``more than one month'' after the words ``If an application for recertification is submitted'' in the third sentence, and by adding a new sentence at the beginning of the paragraph. g. The sixth sentence of paragraph (d)(1)(i) is amended by removing the word ``child'' the first time it appears and adding ``dependent'' in its place. h. Paragraph (e)(1)(i)(E) is amended by removing the words ``maximum amount of $160 per dependent'' and adding in their place the words ``maximum amount as specified under §273.9(d)(4) for each dependent''. i. A new paragraph (e)(2)(i)(E) is added. j. Paragraph (f)(2) is removed and reserved. * * * * * The additions read as follows: §273.10 Determining household eligibility and benefit levels. * * * * * (d) Determining deductions . *␣*␣* (4) Anticipating expenses . *␣*␣* If a child in the household reaches his or her second birthday during the certification period, the $200 maximum dependent care deduction shall be adjusted in accordance with this section not later than the household's next regularly scheduled recertification. * * * * *
