FR941110-2-00025 FR941110-2-00009 Sample sales fall outside the scope of the review when the respondent can demonstrate that no transfer of ownership has occurred between the exporter and the unrelated U.S. purchaser .␣.␣. the statute and the regulations require the Department to analyze all sales within the period of review. .␣.␣. Consequently, all U.S. zero-price sales have been included for the final margin calculation. In Granular PTFE from Japan we excluded certain U.S. sample sales from our analysis. In that case, however, sample goods were provided to customers for testing. Because of the nature of the product, once tested, the sample could not be returned. Although a transfer of ownership had occurred, the product had not been used for commercial consumption, and thus could not be said to have been ``sold'' (see Granular Polytetrafluoroethylene Resin from Japan; Final Results of Review , 58 FR 50345 (September 27, 1993)). In this case NSK states that its sample sales involve transfer of ownership and makes no claim that the samples are destroyed or rendered unusable, as in Granular PTFE from Japan . Accordingly, we have included all U.S. sample sales in our analysis for these final results of review. Comment 17: Timken argues that NSK's selling, general, and administrative expenses (SG&A) for U.S. sales are underreported. Timken notes that NSK excluded SG&A expenses which it claimed to be related to NSK's U.S. subsidiary's manufacturing operations. Timken argues that NSK has not provided evidence to support such a claim, and that the Department, in the 1974/80 reviews, rejected a similar claim. Timken contends that the Department should recalculate NSK's SG&A expenses to include the ``manufacturing-related'' expenses. NSK argues that expenses specifically related to U.S. manufacturing should not be included in SG&A expenses. NSK maintains that, in the administrative reviews of the AFB orders, the Department recognized that a portion of NSK's SG&A expenses are properly related to U.S. manufacturing. NSK contends that it would be unreasonable to deny NSK a similar allocation in these reviews. Department's Position: We agree with Timken. NSK has failed to support its claimed allocation in either these or previous segments of this proceeding. At verification we noted that while total SG&A expenses attributable to manufacturing-related expenses had been verified, ``NSK did not provide evidence to substantiate the amounts to be allocated to manufacturing only'' (see Verification Report , March 27, 1987, p. 10). Therefore, for these final results of review we have recalculated NSK's SG&A expenses to be deducted from USP to include the ``manufacturing-related'' expenses. Comment 18: Timken notes that NSK reported an export inspection fee applicable to exports to the United States in 1985/86, and Timken presumes that similar expenses were also incurred for other periods. Timken contends that the Department has not adjusted USP for these expenses in the 1980/85 reviews. NSK agrees with Timken's contention. Department's Position: In the preliminary results we did not adjust USP for export inspection fees. We have made the necessary changes to our calculations for these final results of review. Comment 19: Timken argues that for 1980 through 1982, NSK claims that it had no loans in the United States, and challenges the ``average lending rate'' methodology NSK used to determine credit expenses and inventory carrying costs. Timken claims that the ``average lending rate'' used by NSK is the rate charged on intra-company loans. Timken argues that the Department should recalculate the U.S. interest rate based on the formula used by NSK for the other periods ( i.e. , the U.S. prime lending rate plus a given factor). NSK argues that its reported ``average lending rate'' was in fact the average interest received on short-term deposits, and thus reflects NSK's true credit costs. NSK argues that, as verified by the Department, NSK had no loans for the period 1980 through 1982, and, therefore, its cost of credit is properly the opportunity cost of late payment, i.e. , unrealized interest from short-term deposits.
