FR940919-2-00033 FR940919-2-00030 (1) Calculating the Refund We have presumed that the pricing violations were dispersed equally throughout Sunset's motor gasoline sales during the audit period. We therefore proposed that each applicant's potential refund should be calculated on a volumetric basis. Under the volumetric approach, refunds are calculated by multiplying the gallons of refined product each applicant purchased by the per gallon refund amount (volumetric) established for this proceeding, plus accrued interest. Applicants believing they were disproportionately overcharged by the pricing violations may present documentation which supports that claim. Those who succeed in showing they were disproportionately overcharged by Sunset will be eligible to receive refunds calculated at a higher volumetric. The volumetric for this proceeding has been set at $.0868 per gallon. This figure was obtained by dividing the remedial order funds available for distribution by the volume of gasoline Sunset is believed to have sold during the audit period. 3 3 In the absence of precise figures indicating the amount of motor gasoline Sunset sold during the audit period, we estimated Sunset's total sales using the best available data. Based on sales of 200,000 gallons per month for 6 months, we believe Sunset sold 1,200,000 gallons of gasoline during the audit period. This figure will be used to calculate the volumetric refund amount unless the refund applications submitted pursuant to this Decision and Order indicate that our estimate is inaccurate. In the event the estimate proves to be inaccurate, it may be necessary to reestimate the volumetric. (2) Eligibility for a Refund In order to be eligible to receive a refund in this proceeding, each applicant must (1) document the volume of motor gasoline it purchased during the audit period; and (2) demonstrate that it was injured by Sunset's overcharges. The threshold requirement for any applicant is documenting the volume of product it purchased. This requirement is typically satisfied when the applicant successfully demonstrates ownership of the business for which the refund is sought and submits documentation which supports the volume claimed in its refund application. The injury showing, however, is a potentially more difficult requirement for applicants to satisfy, especially those seeking smaller refund amounts. This is true because an applicant must demonstrate that it was forced to absorb Sunset's overcharges. Our cases have often stated that an applicant accomplishes this by demonstrating that it maintained a ``bank'' of unrecovered product costs and showing that market conditions would not permit the applicant to pass through those increased costs. See, Quintana Energy Corp., 21 DOE ¶85,032 at 88,117 (1991). Unless simplified application procedures were provided, we recognized that the cost to the applicant of gathering evidence of injury to support a relatively small refund claim could exceed the expected refund and thereby cause some injured parties to be denied an opportunity to obtain a refund. Moreover, simplified procedures were needed to minimize the burden that would be placed on this Office if we found it necessary to analyze a detailed injury showing for large numbers of small refund applications. In view of these difficulties, we proposed adopting a number of injury presumptions which simplify and streamline the refund process. (3) Presumptions of Injury Each presumption of injury turns on the category of applicant. Set forth below is the presumption of injury that has been adopted for each class of applicant likely to submit a refund application in this proceeding. Small-claim Presumption . We have adopted a small claim presumption of injury for resellers, retailers and refiners whose claim is $10,000 or less, exclusive of interest. A small claim threshold of $10,000 has been adopted, even though we established a lower threshold amount of $5,000 in many prior proceedings. See, e.g., Gulf Oil Corporation , 16 DOE ¶85,381 (1987)(establishing a $5,000 threshold). The $10,000 threshold is more appropriate here because the volumetric for this proceeding is significantly higher than the volumetric set in Gulf and in most other proceedings. Id. If we were to adopt a lower threshold amount for this proceeding, then the high volumetric would increase substantially the number of very small firms that would be burdened with the requirement to make a detailed injury showing before they become eligible to receive their full allocable share.
