FR940921-0-00042 FR940921-0-00016 G. Fees Under section 217 of the Clean Air Act, EPA may establish fees to recover all reasonable costs incurred for activities associated with the Motor Vehicle and Engine Compliance Program (MVECP). The MVECP includes all compliance and enforcement activities performed by EPA which are associated with certification, fuel economy, Selective Enforcement Auditing (SEA), and in-use compliance activities. In July of 1992 EPA established these fees, to be effective with the 1993 model year. 14 These fees, as stated in the fees rule, cover all direct and indirect costs incurred by EPA for the MVECP, and automatically apply to gaseous-fueled vehicles and engines now that the MVECP applies to such vehicles and engines. Since the fees are based on the costs incurred by EPA, and since today's regulations are basically an extension of the current MVECP, the fees currently in effect for other vehicles apply to gaseous-fueled vehicles, without modification. No regulatory changes are needed and none are being made. The applicable fee must be paid, for each engine family, before the Certification Division can begin a review of the application for certification. 14 57 FR 30044, July 7, 1992. III. Public Participation A number of interested parties commented on EPA's November 5, 1992 NPRM. The comments include written submittals to the rulemaking docket and those presented at the December 3, 1992 public hearing, which was held in Ann Arbor, Michigan. The Agency has fully considered these comments in developing today's final rule. This section describes the major issues of the rulemaking, as reflected in the public comments. The discussion of each issue opens with a brief description of what was proposed followed by a summary of the significant comments and EPA's analysis of the issue. The reader is referred to the Summary and Analysis of Comments document for the complete details of EPA's analysis. That document is available in the rulemaking docket. (For information on access to the docket, see the `` Addresses '' section above.) A. Timing of Requirements Summary of the proposal: As was stated in the NPRM, the Agency believes that the proposed standards are not technology-forcing, and that they could be met largely through currently available technology. Thus, the only leadtime requirement for meeting the proposed standards would be that of actually going through the certification process itself, including the required durability showing. The Agency, therefore, proposed that the new vehicle emission standards be effective with the 1994 model year, and that the aftermarket conversions take effect on January 1, 1994. Additionally, the Agency proposed that manufacturers have the option of complying with these standards prior to the effective date in order to participate in any applicable emissions averaging, trading and banking programs, as well as the CAFE program in the case of natural gas-fueled light-duty vehicles and light-duty trucks. Summary of the comments: In general, the comments received in response to the issue of leadtime supported EPA's assessment that these standards are not technology-forcing in the sense that fundamentally new technology must be developed. However, a number of commenters raised concerns that, although the basic technology required to meet these standards has been demonstrated at low mileage, the durability of this technology in many cases remains to be proven. Additionally, one commenter pointed out that there are several mandated requirements taking effect in the next few years for new vehicles, including Tier 1 and cold CO standards, on-board diagnostics, and revised evaporative procedures, and that mandating gaseous-fueled vehicle certification with little leadtime may seriously impair the introduction of these vehicles into the marketplace. Most commenters suggested that, given the need for technology refinement and durability work, these requirements should not take effect until the 1996 or 1997 model year. In addition, the heavy-duty engine manufacturers asserted that, under section 202(a)(3)(C) of the Clean Air Act, EPA is required to provide four years leadtime in the case of any new emission standards. In most cases commenters stated that, regardless of what effective date EPA finalizes, they support the option of being able to certify prior to the effective date.
