FR940503-2-00155 FR940503-2-00100 Goal 4: The Nation's teaching force will have access to programs for the continued improvement of their professional skills and the opportunity to acquire the knowledge and skills needed to instruct and prepare all American students for the next century. Goal 5: United States students will be first in the world in mathematics and science achievement. Goal 6: Every adult American will be literate and will possess the knowledge and skills necessary to compete in a global economy and exercise the rights and responsibilities of citizenship. Goal 7: Every school in the United States will be free of drugs, violence, and the unauthorized presence of firearms and alcohol and will offer a disciplined environment conducive to learning. Goal 8: Every school will promote partnerships that will increase parental involvement and participation in promoting the social, emotional, and academic growth of children. For competitions that are still open for FY 1994, the Secretary encourages applicants under these programs to consider the eight National Education Goals in developing their applications. Applicability of Section 5301 of the Anti-Drug Abuse Act of 1988 A number of programs listed in the chart provide that a grant, fellowship, traineeship, or other monetary benefit may be awarded to an individual. This award may be made to the individual either directly by the Department or by a grantee that receives Federal funds for the purpose of providing, for example, fellowships, traineeships, or other awards to individuals. Section 5301 of the Anti-Drug Abuse Act of 1988 (Pub. L. 100&hyph;690; 21 U.S.C. 862) provides that a sentencing court may deny eligibility for certain Federal benefits to an individual convicted of drug trafficking or possession. Thus, an individual who applies for a grant, fellowship, or other monetary benefit under a program covered by this notice should understand that, if convicted of drug trafficking or possession, he or she is subject to denial of eligibility for that benefit if the sentencing court imposes such a sanction. This denial applies whether the Federal benefit is provided to the individual directly by the Department or is provided through a grant, fellowship, traineeship, or other award made available with Federal funds by a grantee. Any persons determined to be ineligible for Federal benefits under the provisions of section 5301 are listed in the General Services Administration's ``Lists of Parties Excluded from Federal Procurement or Nonprocurement Programs.'' Applicability of the Federal Debt Collection Procedures Act of 1990 The programs listed in the chart make discretionary awards subject to the eligibility requirements of the Federal Debt Collection Procedures Act of 1990 (Pub. L. 101&hyph;647; 28 U.S.C. 3201). The Act provides that if there is a judgment lien against a debtor's property for a debt to the United States, the debtor is not eligible to receive a Federal grant or loan, except direct payments to which the debtor is entitled as beneficiary, until the judgment is paid in full or otherwise satisfied.
