FR941004-0-00044 FR941004-0-00018 7. Essence further asserts that both these congressional measures and the steps taken by the Commission to improve minority access to capital have had limited success in reducing the barriers to entry for minority entrepreneurs. Therefore, Essence emphasizes that the Commission must do more to ensure the opportunity for minority participation in narrowband PCS. It states that the Commission's conclusion that bidding credits are the most cost effective and efficient means of achieving this congressional objective was mistaken and that the July 1994 narrowband auction proved that ``bidding credits do not and cannot sufficiently address financing obstacles nor provide a competitive advantage with regard to the national licenses.'' 12 Accordingly, Essence argues that the Commission should either adopt an ``entrepreneur block'' scheme for the upcoming regional narrowband PCS auction or raise the small business financial threshold for minority-owned companies. 12 Essence ex parte filing at 11&hyph;12. 8. Based on this additional information, our experience from the recent nationwide narrowband auctions and upon further reflection, we agree that the funding problems faced by minority and women-owned companies, combined with the potentially high cost of purchasing a narrowband PCS license at auction, erect a significant hurdle for these entrepreneurs. Because of these difficulties, we already have adopted a 40 percent bidding credit for businesses owned by women and minorities, 13 regardless of size, on two of the regional narrowband PCS licenses. 14 We think that allowing these applicants owned by women and minorities to pay for their licenses over time will go a long way toward overcoming this barrier to entry. It will also provide more meaningful opportunities for designated entities bidding in the upcoming regional auctions. Accordingly, we adopt an installment payment plan for women and/or minority-owned businesses that obtain a regional narrowband PCS license on Channel 13 and Channel 17. Similar to the installment payments for larger entities in the entrepreneurs' blocks for broadband PCS auctions, this plan provides for interest charges to be fixed at the time of licensing at a rate equal to the rate for ten-year U.S. treasury obligations, plus 2.5 percent. 15 Payments of interest only will be due for the first two years, with principal and interest payments amortized over the remaining years of the license. In addition, as we did for small businesses, we will permit businesses owned by minorities and women to pay only half of the down payment (or 10 percent of the bid price) five business days after close of the auction. The remaining 10 percent payment will be deferred until five days after grant of the license. 13 See 47 CFR 24.320(c). See also infra ¶¶9&hyph;13. 14 See 47 CFR 24.129(b), 24.309(b)(2). 15 Compare 47 CFR 24.711(a)(3). Standard installment payments_ at the 10-year treasury interest rate_remain available to small businesses, including small businesses owned by minorities and/or women, on all regional licenses. See Third Report and Order in PP Docket No. 93&hyph;253, FCC 94&hyph;98 at ¶¶86&hyph;89 (released May 10, 1994), 59 FR 26741 (May 24, 1994). II. Definition of Businesses Owned by Women and Minorities 9. In the rules adopted pursuant to the Third Memorandum Opinion and Order , we changed the definition of a business owned by women and minorities for purposes of the regional narrowband PCS auction. See 47 CFR 24.320(c). In particular, we departed from the definition adopted in the Second Report and Order , 59 FR 22980 (May 4, 1994) that required minorities and/or women to have at least 50.1 percent ownership and a 50.1 percent controlling interest in the applicant. 47 CFR 1.2110(b)(2). The new definition requires an applicant owned by women and/or minorities to establish a ``control group'' consisting entirely of women or minorities that has both de jure and de facto control of the applicant. It then gives the applicant two options for taking on passive investors. Under the first option, a single investor may hold as much as 49.9 percent of the applicant's passive equity if the control group holds at least 50.1 percent of the total equity. 16 The second option allows the control group to reduce its equity stake to 25 percent provided that no single other investor holds more than 25 percent of the applicant's passive equity. Under either option, the control group must control the applicant and, in the case of corporations, hold at least 50.1 percent of the voting stock. For partnerships, all general partnership interests will be considered to be part of the control group. 16 As provided in Section 24.320(g) of the Commission's rules, ``passive equity'' means ``(i) for corporations, non-voting stock or stock that includes no more than fifteen percent of the voting equity; (ii) for partnerships, joint ventures and other non-corporate entities, limited partnership interests and similar interests that do not afford the power to exercise control of the entity.'' 47 CFR 24.320(g). 10. In the Third Memorandum Opinion and Order we neglected, however, to explain this change in course. We take that opportunity here. We believe that the ``control group'' approach to defining a woman or minority-owned business provides these designated entities with greater flexibility to access capital than the rule adopted in the Second Report and Order. In particular, it allows these companies to reduce by 25 percent the amount of equity the minority or women principals must hold. This ability to sell more equity will help designated entities raise the capital necessary to participate in the auctions as well as to construct their systems. Moreover, like the definition set forth in the Second Report and Order, the new rule gives a minority or women-owned company the option to partner with one large company instead of seeking multiple investors so long as the control group retains 50.1 percent of the equity. This option meets the needs of designated entities that are able to attract investors that desire a more substantial equity stake in the venture. Thus, we believe that modification of the definition of minority and/or women-owned businesses more fully satisfies the congressional mandate that the Commission provide the opportunity for companies owned by these designated entities to participate in spectrum-based services.
