FR940610-1-00035 FR940610-1-00006 Proposed Action EPA proposes to approve the ozone maintenance plan for the Parkersburg, West Virginia area submitted by the State of West Virginia on November 13, 1992 as a revision to the West Virginia SIP because it meets the requirements of section 175A. In addition, EPA is proposing to redesignate the Parkersburg, West Virginia nonattainment area to attainment, subject to final approval of the maintenance plan, because the Agency has determined that the provisions of section 107(d)(3)(E) of the Act for redesignation of nonattainment areas to attainment have been met. EPA is soliciting public comments on this notice and on issues relevant to EPA's proposed action. Comments will be considered before taking final action. Interested parties may participate in the federal rulemaking procedure by submitting written comments to the person and address listed in the ADDRESSES section at the beginning of this notice. Nothing in this action should be construed as permitting or allowing or establishing a precedent for any future request for revision to any SIP. Each request for revision to the SIP shall be considered separately in light of specific technical, economic, and environmental factors and in relation to relevant statutory and regulatory requirements. Ozone State Implementation Plans (SIPs) are designed to satisfy the requirements of part D of the Clean Air Act and to provide for attainment and maintenance of the ozone NAAQS. Today's proposed redesignation action should not be interpreted as authorizing the State of West Virginia to delete, alter, or rescind any of the VOC emission limitations and restrictions contained in the currently approved ozone SIP. Changes to the ozone SIP's regulations rendering them less stringent than those contained in the EPA approved plan cannot be made unless a revised plan for attainment and maintenance is submitted to and approved by EPA. Unauthorized relaxations, deletions, and changes could result in both a finding of nonimplementation under section 173(b) of the Act and in a SIP deficiency call made pursuant to section 110(k)(5). Under the Regulatory Flexibility Act, 5 U.S.C. 600 et seq., EPA must prepare a regulatory flexibility analysis assessing the impact of any proposed or final rule on small entities. 5 U.S.C. 603 and 604. Alternatively, EPA may certify that the rule will not have a significant impact on a substantial number of small entities. Small entities include small businesses, small not-for-profit enterprises, and government entities with jurisdiction over populations of less than 50,000. SIP approvals under section 110 and subchapter I, part D of the CAA do not create any new requirements, but simply approve requirements that the State is already imposing. Therefore, because the federal SIP-approval does not impose any new requirements, it does not have any economic impact on any small entities. Redesignation of an area to attainment under section 107(d)(3)(E) of the Act does not impose any new requirements on small entities. Redesignation is an action that affects the status of a geographical area and does not impose any regulatory requirements on sources. Accordingly, I certify that EPA's approval of West Virginia's request to redesignate the Parkersburg ozone nonattainment area to attainment and the associated maintenance plan will not have an impact on any small entities. The Office of Management and Budget has exempted this rule from the requirements of section 6 of Executive Order 12866. List of Subjects 40 CFR Part 52 Air pollution control, Hydrocarbons, Intergovernmental relations, and Ozone. 40 CFR Part 81 Air pollution control, National Parks, Wilderness areas. Authority: 42 U.S.C. 7401&hyph;7671q. Dated: March 28, 1994. Stanley L. Laskowski, Acting Regional Administrator, Region III. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;14172 Filed 6&hyph;9&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;P
