FR940606-0-00049 FR940606-0-00019 (A) The tenant is not offered payment for all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred in connection with the temporary relocation, including the cost of moving to and from the temporarily occupied unit, any increased housing costs and incidental expenses; or (B) Other conditions of the temporary relocation are not reasonable; or (iii) A tenant-occupant of a dwelling who moves from the building/complex permanently after he or she has been required to move to another dwelling unit in the same building/complex in order to carry out the project, if either: (A) The tenant is not offered reimbursement for all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred in connection with the move; or (B) Other conditions of the move are not reasonable; or (iv) Any person, including a person who moves before the mortgagor's execution of the agreement covering the rehabilitation, demolition, or acquisition, if the mortgagor or HUD determines that the displacement resulted directly from rehabilitation, demolition or acquisition for the assisted project. (2) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (g)(1) of this section, a person does not qualify as a ``displaced person'' (and is not eligible for relocation assistance under the URA or this section), if: (i) The person has been evicted for serious or repeated violation of the terms and conditions of the lease or occupancy agreement, violation of applicable Federal, State or local law, or other good cause, and HUD determines that the eviction was not undertaken for the purpose of evading the obligation to provide relocation assistance; (ii) The person moved into the property after the execution of the agreement covering the rehabilitation, demolition or acquisition and, before signing a lease or commencing occupancy, was provided written notice of the project, its possible impact on the person (e.g., the person may be displaced, temporarily relocated or suffer a rent increase) and the fact that the person would not qualify as a ``displaced person'' (or for any assistance provided under this section) as a result of the project; (iii) The person is ineligible under 49 CFR 24.2(g)(2); or (iv) HUD determines that the person was not displaced as a direct result of acquisition, rehabilitation, or demolition for the project; (3) The mortgagor may request, at any time, HUD's determination of whether a displacement is or would be covered by this section. (h) Definition of initiation of negotiations. For purposes of determining the formula for computing the replacement housing assistance to be provided to a residential tenant displaced as a direct result of privately undertaken rehabilitation, demolition or acquisition of the real property, the term initiation of negotiations means the mortgagor's execution of the agreement covering the rehabilitation, demolition or acquisition. (Approved by Office of Management and Budget under OMB Control Number 2506&hyph;0121) PART 510_SECTION 312 REHABILITATION LOAN PROGRAM 9. The authority citation for part 510 is revised to read as follows: Authority: 42 U.S.C. 1452b, 3535(d). Sec. 510.106 is also issued under 42 U.S.C. 3543. 10. Section 510.52 is revised to read as follows: ยง510.52 Displacement and relocation. (a) Minimizing displacement. Consistent with the other goals and objectives of this part, the local processing agency must assure that it has taken all reasonable steps to minimize the displacement of persons (households, businesses, nonprofit organizations, and farms) as a result of a project assisted under this part. (b) Temporary relocation. The following policies cover residential tenants who will not be required to move permanently but who must relocate temporarily for the project. Such tenants must be provided: (1) Reimbursement for all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred in connection with the temporary relocation, including the cost of moving to and from the temporary housing, any increase in monthly rent/utility costs and any incidental costs. (2) Appropriate advisory services, including reasonable advance written notice of: (i) The date and approximate duration of the temporary relocation: (ii) The location of the suitable, decent, safe, and sanitary dwelling to be made available for the temporary period; (iii) The terms and conditions under which the tenant may lease and occupy a suitable, decent, safe, and sanitary dwelling in the building/complex following completion of the repairs; and (iv) The provisions of paragraph (b)(1) of this section. (c) Relocation assistance for displaced persons. A ``displaced person'' (defined in paragraph (h) of this section) must be provided relocation assistance at the levels described in, and in accordance with the requirements of, the Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act of 1970, as amended (URA) (42 U.S.C. 4601&hyph;4655), implementing regulations at 49 CFR part 24. A ``displaced person'' shall be advised of his or her rights under the Fair Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 3601&hyph;19), and, if the representative comparable replacement dwelling used to establish the amount of the replacement housing payment to be provided to a minority person is located in an area of minority concentration, such person also shall be given, if possible, referrals to comparable and suitable, decent, safe and sanitary replacement dwellings not located in such areas.
