FR941007-1-00078 FR941007-1-00009 (2) Certain special purpose banks. This part does not apply to a bankers bank that engages exclusively in providing services for other depository institutions and for their officers, directors and employees, or to other special purpose banks described in §25.101 of this part. (3) Federal branches and agencies. This part applies to insured Federal branches. References in this part to ``main office'' mean, in the case of insured Federal branches of foreign banks, the principal branch within the United States. The ``service area'' of an insured Federal branch refers to the community or communities located within the United States served by the branch as described in §25.41 of this part. The term ``branches'' refers to insured branches located within the United States. As provided in §28.102 of this chapter, this part does not apply to Federal agencies, limited Federal branches, and uninsured Federal branches. §25.12 Definitions. For purposes of this part, the following definitions apply: (a) Affiliate means any company that controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with another company. For purposes of this part, the term ``control'' has the meaning given to that term in 12 U.S.C. 1841(a)(2), and a company is under common control with another company if both companies are directly or indirectly controlled by the same company. (b) Area median income means the median family income for the MSA in which a person or geography is located or, in the case of a person or geography located outside an MSA, the higher of the county median family income or the statewide nonmetropolitan median family income. (c) Automated teller machine (ATM) means an automated, unstaffed banking facility with a fixed site owned or operated by or operated exclusively for the bank at which deposits are received, cash dispersed, or money lent. (d) Bank means a national bank. (e) Branch means a staffed banking facility (shared or unshared) licensed as a branch with a fixed site at which deposits are received, checks paid, or money lent, including a mini-branch in a grocery store or a branch operated in conjunction with any other local business or nonprofit organization. (f) Community development loan means a loan (including a line of credit, commitment, or letter of credit) that addresses affordable housing (including multifamily rental housing) or other community economic development needs not being met by the private market; provided the loan: (1) Primarily benefits low- or moderate-income individuals, businesses or farms with gross annual revenues less than or equal to $1 million, or businesses or farms that qualify as small businesses under a Small Business Administration program; (2) Has not been reported or collected by the bank or one of its affiliates as a home mortgage loan, small business loan, small farm loan, or a consumer loan pursuant to §25.42 of this part, unless it is a multifamily dwelling loan (as described in Appendix A to 12 CFR Part 203); and (3) Except in the case of a wholesale or limited purpose bank, benefits the bank's service area(s) or a broader statewide or regional area that includes the bank's service area(s).
