FR940602-1-00120 FR940602-1-00015 Requests for public hearings: Submit requests orally or in writing to the person and address specified under FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Douglas J. Growitz, P.G., Office of Surface Mining Reclamation and Enforcement, room 640 NC, 1951 Constitution Avenue, NW, Washington, DC 20240; Telephone: 202&hyph;343&hyph;1507. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: I. Public Comment Procedures II. Background III. Discussion of Proposed Rule IV. Procedural Matters I. Public Comment Procedures Written Comments: Written comments submitted on the proposed rule should be specific, should be confined to issues pertinent to the proposed rule, and should explain the reason for any recommended change. Where practicable, commenters should submit three copies of their comments. Comments received after the close of the comment period (see DATES ) or delivered to an address other than those listed above (see ADDRESSES ), may not be considered or included in the Administrative Record for the final rule. Public hearings: OSM will hold a public hearing on the proposed rule on request only. The time, date, and address for any hearing will be announced in the Federal Register at least 7 days prior to the hearing. Any person interested in participating at a hearing at a particular location should inform Mr. Growitz (see FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT ), either orally or in writing, of the desired hearing location by 5 p.m., Eastern time, on June 23, 1994. If no one has contacted Mr. Growitz to express an interest in participating in a hearing at a given location by that date, a hearing will not be held. If only one person expresses an interest, a public meeting rather than a hearing may be held and the results included in the Administrative Record. If a hearing is held, it will continue until all persons wishing to testify have been heard. The hearing will be transcribed. To assist the transcriber and ensure an accurate record, OSM requests that each person who testifies at a hearing provide the transcriber with a written copy of his or her testimony. To assist OSM in preparing appropriate questions, OSM also requests, if possible, that each person who plans to testify submit to OSM at the address previously specified for the submission of written comments (see ADDRESSES ) an advance copy of his or her testimony. II. Background The House of Representatives Report from the Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs on the Comprehensive National Energy Policy Act of 1992 ( H.R. Rep. 474, 102 Cong., 2d Session at 85 (1992)) contains the following statements: ``The [coal remining] provisions of this section seek to make coal available that otherwise would be bypassed by providing incentives for industry to extract and reprocess, in an environmentally sound manner, coal that remains in abandoned mine lands and refuse piles. Current law reclamation performance standards were devised to address surface coal mining on undisturbed lands; the unintended result is to discourage remining. Remining also serves to mitigate the health, safety, and environmental threats posed to coalfield residents from abandoned mine lands by augmenting the work done under the Abandoned Mine Reclamation Program.'' These statements succinctly characterize a basic and long-standing conflict associated with remining. On October 24, 1992, the President signed into law the Energy Policy Act of 1992, Public Law 102&hyph;486, section 2503, Coal Remining, which, in part, amended Sections 510, 515(b)(20), and 701 of SMCRA in order to provide the following initiatives to encourage remining in an environmentally-sound manner: 1. The revegetation success liability period for certain remining operations has been reduced to five years in the West and two years in the East; 2. Remined lands shall remain eligible for Title IV reclamation following bond release; and 3. The permittee of a remining operation shall not be subject to subsequent permit blocking under Section 510(c) of SMCRA for any violation resulting from an unanticipated event or condition occurring on the remining site. (Section 510(c) is implemented by 30 CFR 773.15.) III. Discussion of Proposed Rules A. Introduction Regarding the above-mentioned remining amendments to SMCRA which are the subject of this rulemaking, OSM sought input from environmental groups, industry, and State regulatory authorities concerning the extent to which new regulations would need to expand or clarify statutory language in order to effectively implement Congressional intent. Comments received during this outreach have been considered in developing this proposal. Other provisions in section 2503 of the Energy Policy Act prescribe specific regulatory initiatives regarding the removal or on-site reprocessing of abandoned coal refuse sites. These initiatives will be implemented under a separate rulemaking.
