FR941027-2-00064 FR941027-2-00036 [Docket No. 85D&hyph;0505] Guideline for Adverse Experience Reporting for Licensed Biological Products; Availability AGENCY: Food and Drug Administration, HHS. ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) is announcing the availability of a guideline entitled ``Guideline for Adverse Experience Reporting for Licensed Biological Products.'' The purpose of this guideline is to assist manufacturers of biological products in developing and implementing procedures to report to FDA adverse experiences associated with biological products. Elsewhere in this issue of the Federal Register , FDA is issuing a final rule amending the biologics regulations to which this guideline applies. ADDRESSES: Submit written requests for single copies of ``Guideline for Adverse Experience Reporting for Licensed Biological Products'' to the Congressional and Consumer Affairs Branch (HFM&hyph;12), Food and Drug Administration, 1401 Rockville Pike, suite 200 North, Rockville, MD 20852&hyph;1448, 301&hyph;594&hyph;2000. Send two self-addressed adhesive labels to assist that office in processing your requests. Persons with access to the INTERNET may request this document from ``CBER_INFO@A1.CBER.FDA.GOV.'' The document may also be obtained by calling the CBER FAX Information System at 301&hyph;594&hyph;1939 from a FAX machine with a touch tone phone attached or built in. Submit written comments on the guideline to the Dockets Management Branch (HFA&hyph;305), Food and Drug Administration, rm. 1&hyph;23, 12420 Parklawn Dr., Rockville, MD 20857. Requests and comments should be identified with the docket number found in brackets in the heading of this document. A copy of ``Guideline for Adverse Experience Reporting for Licensed Biological Products'' and received comments are available for public examination in the Docket Management Branch between 9 a.m. and 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Paula McKeever, Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research (HFM&hyph;635), Food and Drug Administration, suite 200 North, 1401 Rockville Pike, Rockville, MD 20852&hyph;1448, 301&hyph;594&hyph;3074. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: In the Federal Register of March 29, 1990 (55 FR 11611), FDA issued a proposed rule that would require manufacturers of licensed biological products to report to FDA certain adverse experiences associated with their products. In the same issue of the Federal Register (55 FR 11655), FDA published a notice announcing the availability of a draft guideline for reporting adverse experiences associated with licensed biological products, FDA offered the public 60 days for comment on the proposed rule and draft guideline. Elsewhere in this issue of the Federal Register , FDA is issuing a final rule which, upon the effective date, with require manufacturers of licensed biological products to report to FDA: (1) Within 15 working days all adverse experiences associated with the use of a biological product that are both serious and unexpected; (2) within 15 working days any significant increase in the frequency of a serious, but expected, adverse experience and any significant increase in frequency of therapeutic failures; and (3) periodically all other adverse experiences and product distribution and disposition data. This notice is to announce the availability of a guideline based on the draft guideline made available in 1990. The guideline offers guidance for meeting the reporting requirements of 21 CFR 600.80 and 600.81 and for meeting the vaccines adverse experience reporting requirements in accordance with section 2125 of the Public Health Service Act as amended by the National Childhood Vaccine Injury Act of 1986. The guidelines was prepared by the Division of Biostatistics and Epidemiology, Office of Establishment Licensing and Product Surveillance, Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research, FDA. In developing the guideline, consideration was given to the comments received on the proposed rule and on the draft guideline. Changes from the draft guideline are generally editorial in nature or made to conform to amendments made in the final rule discussed elsewhere in this issue of the Federal Register. The guideline has also been formatted to be more consistent with the similar guideline, ``Guideline for Postmarketing Reporting of Adverse Drug Experiences,'' applicable to reporting adverse experiences associated with human drugs. Elsewhere in this issue of the Federal Register, FDA is also issuing a proposed rule that would revise and update the reporting requirements for adverse experiences related to both biological products and human drugs. When FDA issues the final rule based on that proposed rule, FDA will also issue a notice of availability of revised guidelines relating to biological products and human drugs to be consistent with the final rule. Comments received in response to the proposed rule will be considered for the next revision of the guidelines applicable to biological products and human drugs. Guidelines provide general information to persons dealing with FDA and do not include decisions or advice on particular situations. A person may follow a guideline or may follow different procedures or practices. When different procedures or practices are chosen, a person may, but is not required to, discuss the matter in advance with FDA to prevent the expenditure of money and effort on an activity that may later be determined to be unacceptable. A guideline represents the position of FDA on a procedure or practice at the time of its issuance. However, a guideline does not bind the agency, and it does not create or confer any rights, privileges, or benefits for or on any person. FDA may, at its discretion, recommend or initiate legal or administrative action against a person or product with respect to an action taken in conformity with a guideline provided that the legal or administrative action is consistent with applicable statutes and regulations. Interested persons may submit written comments on the guideline to the Dockets Management Branch (address above). These comments will be considered in determining whether additional revision of the guideline is appropriate. Two copies of any comments are to be submitted, except individuals may submit one copy. Comments are to be identified with the docket number found in brackets in the heading of this document. The guideline and received comments may be seen in the Dockets Management Branch, between 9 a.m. and 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. Dated: October 13, 1994. William K. Hubbard, Interim Deputy Commissioner for Policy. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;26484 Filed 10&hyph;26&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4160&hyph;01&hyph;F&hyph;M
