FR941117-0-00108 FR941117-0-00011 (iv) Applications in a window filing group. Applications in a window filing group are processed in accordance with the procedures for a thirty-day notice and cut-off filing group in paragraph (b)(4)(ii) of this section. (c) Terminology. For the purposes of this section, terms have the following meanings: (1) The ``filing date'' of an application is the date on which that application was received in a condition acceptable for filing or the date on which the most recently filed major amendment to that application was received, whichever is later, excluding major amendments in the following circumstances: (i) The major amendment reflects only a change in ownership or control found by the FCC to be in the public interest; or, (ii) The major amendment as received is defective or otherwise found unacceptable for filing. (2) An ``application for initial authorization'' is: (i) Any application requesting an authorization for a new station; (ii) Any application requesting authorization for an existing station to operate on an additional channel; (iii) Any application requesting authorization for a new transmitter at a location more than 2 kilometers (1.2 miles) from any existing transmitters of the applicant licensee on the requested channel. (3) An ``application for modification'' is any application other than an application for initial authorization or renewal. §22.551 Nationwide network paging service. The rules in this section govern the application for and provision of nationwide network paging service on the channels reserved specifically for such service in §22.531(b). (a) Nationwide network organizers. If and when a nationwide network paging channel becomes available for assignment, the FCC will issue a Public Notice inviting applications from carriers seeking to organize a nationwide network paging service. The Public Notice will provide complete details regarding application requirements and procedures. (c) Affiliated local carriers. Parties seeking to become affiliated local carriers in a nationwide network paging service must have specific completed contracts with the network organizer with which they are proposing to affiliate. Applications may contain a letter, in lieu of the contracts, indicating that the applicant has a completed contract with the organizer. (d) Liability for technical operation. Nationwide network organizers and affiliated local carriers are jointly and severally liable for the technical operation of the local network stations. §22.559 One-way paging application requirements. In addition to information required by Subparts b and d of this part and §22.529, applications for authorization to operate a paging transmitter on the channels listed in §22.531 must contain the applicable supplementary information described in this section. (a) Interference exhibit. Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, an exhibit demonstrating compliance with §22.537 with regard to protected transmitters is required for applications to operate a transmitter on the VHF channels. This exhibit must: (1) Identify each protected transmitter located within 109 kilometers (68 miles) of the proposed transmitter in directions in which the distance to the interfering contour is 76.5 kilometers (47.5 miles) or less, and within 178 kilometers (111 miles) of the proposed transmitter in directions in which the distance to the interfering contour exceeds 76.5 kilometers (47.5 miles). (2) For each protected transmitter identified, show the results of distance calculations indicating that there would be no overlap of service and interfering contours, or alternatively, indicate that the licensee of or applicant for the protected transmitter and/or the applicant, as required, have agreed in writing to accept any interference resulting from operation of the proposed transmitter. (b) Encompassment exhibit. An exhibit showing that the area within the interfering contour of the proposed transmitter would be totally encompassed by interfering contours of operating co-channel base transmitters controlled by the applicant is required for applications to operate a transmitter with ERP exceeding the basic power and height-power limits of §22.535. For VHF transmitters, this encompassment exhibit may substitute for the interference exhibit required in paragraph (a) of this section. One-Way or Two-Way Mobile Operation §22.561 Channels for one-way or two-way mobile operation. The following channels are allocated for paired assignment to transmitters that provide (or support other transmitters that provide) one-way or two-way public land mobile service. These channels may be assigned for use by mobile or base transmitters as indicated, and to fixed transmitters (including control, repeater or other fixed transmitters). The mobile channels may also be assigned for use by base or fixed transmitters under certain circumstances (see §22.567(h)). Unless otherwise indicated, all channels have a bandwidth of 20 kHz and are designated by their center frequencies in MegaHertz.
