FR940705-2-00194 FR940705-2-00091 Appendix G-II-A&hyph;4-c. Laboratory furniture is sturdy. Spaces between benches, cabinets, and equipment are accessible for cleaning. Appendix G-II-A&hyph;4-d. Each laboratory contains a sink for hand washing. Appendix G-II-A&hyph;4-e. If the laboratory has windows that open, they are fitted with fly screens. Appendix G-II-B. Biosafety Level 2 (BL2) (see Appendix G-III-N) Appendix G-II-B&hyph;1. Standard Microbiological Practices (BL2). Appendix G-II-B&hyph;1-a. Access to the laboratory is limited or restricted by the Principal Investigator when work with organisms containing recombinant DNA molecules is in progress. Appendix G-II-B&hyph;1-b. Work surfaces are decontaminated at least once a day and after any spill of viable material. Appendix G-II-B&hyph;1-c. All contaminated liquid or solid wastes are decontaminated before disposal. Appendix G-II-B&hyph;1-d. Mechanical pipetting devices are used; mouth pipetting is prohibited. Appendix G-II-B&hyph;1-e. Eating, drinking, smoking, and applying cosmetics are not permitted in the work area. Food may be stored in cabinets or refrigerators designated and used for this purpose only. Appendix G-II-B&hyph;1-f. Persons wash their hands: (i) after handling materials involving organisms containing recombinant DNA molecules and animals, and (ii) when exiting the laboratory. Appendix G-II-B&hyph;1-g. All procedures are performed carefully to minimize the creation of aerosols. Appendix G-II-B&hyph;1-h. Experiments of lesser biohazard potential can be conducted concurrently in carefully demarcated areas of the same laboratory. Appendix G-II-B&hyph;2. Special Practices (BL2). Appendix G-II-B&hyph;2-a. Contaminated materials that are to be decontaminated at a site away from the laboratory are placed in a durable leak-proof container which is closed before being removed from the laboratory. Appendix G-II-B&hyph;2-b. The Principal Investigator limits access to the laboratory. The Principal Investigator has the final responsibility for assessing each circumstance and determining who may enter or work in the laboratory. Appendix G-II-B&hyph;2-c. The Principal Investigator establishes policies and procedures whereby only persons who have been advised of the potential hazard and meet any specific entry requirements (e.g., immunization) may enter the laboratory or animal rooms. Appendix G-II-B&hyph;2-d. When the organisms containing recombinant DNA molecules in use in the laboratory require special provisions for entry (e.g., vaccination), a hazard warning sign incorporating the universal biosafety symbol is posted on the access door to the laboratory work area. The hazard warning sign identifies the agent, lists the name and telephone number of the Principal Investigator or other responsible person(s), and indicates the special requirement(s) for entering the laboratory. Appendix G-II-B&hyph;2-e. An insect and rodent control program is in effect. Appendix G-II-B&hyph;2-f. Laboratory coats, gowns, smocks, or uniforms are worn while in the laboratory. Before exiting the laboratory for non-laboratory areas (e.g., cafeteria, library, administrative offices), this protective clothing is removed and left in the laboratory or covered with a clean coat not used in the laboratory. Appendix G-II-B&hyph;2-g. Animals not involved in the work being performed are not permitted in the laboratory. Appendix G-II-B&hyph;2-h. Special care is taken to avoid skin contamination with organisms containing recombinant DNA molecules; gloves should be worn when handling experimental animals and when skin contact with the agent is unavoidable. Appendix G-II-B&hyph;2-i. All wastes from laboratories and animal rooms are appropriately decontaminated before disposal. Appendix G-II-B&hyph;2-j. Hypodermic needles and syringes are used only for parenteral injection and aspiration of fluids from laboratory animals and diaphragm bottles. Only needle-locking syringes or disposable syringe-needle units (i.e., needle is integral to the syringe) are used for the injection or aspiration of fluids containing organisms that contain recombinant DNA molecules. Extreme caution should be used when handling needles and syringes to avoid autoinoculation and the generation of aerosols during use and disposal. Needles should not be bent, sheared, replaced in the needle sheath or guard, or removed from the syringe following use. The needle and syringe should be promptly placed in a puncture-resistant container and decontaminated, preferably autoclaved, before discard or reuse.
