FR941116-1-00015 FR941116-1-00004 In consideration of the foregoing, the FHWA proposes to add part 627 to 23 CFR chapter I to read as follows: PART 627_VALUE ENGINEERING Sec. 627.1␣Purpose and applicability. 627.3␣Definitions. 627.5␣General principles and procedures. 627.7␣Reports. Appendix A to Part 627_Annual Federal-aid Value Engineering (VE) Summary Report Authority: 23 U.S.C. 106(d), 302, 307, and 315; 49 CFR 18. §627.1 Purpose and applicability. (a) This part will improve project quality and productivity, foster innovation, eliminate unnecessary and costly design elements, and ensure efficient investments by requiring the application of value engineering (VE) to selected highway projects financed with Federal-aid highway funds. This part requires each State highway agency (SHA) to establish a VE program, outlines minimum VE program requirements, and provides guidance on establishing, administering, and monitoring VE programs. State programs shall be in effect no later than [one year after the effective date of the final rule]. (b) This part applies to contracts involving the early development, design, and construction of selected Federal-aid highway projects. States shall develop VE programs that will apply the VE review process to selected highway projects. States may exempt certain projects, such as railroad and utility work, projects financed with highway planning and research funds, certain projects authorized under the State's highway safety program, and emergency relief projects from the VE project selection phase. §627.3. Definitions. Contractor. The individual or firm providing material, supplies, personal property, nonpersonal services, or professional services as a party to the design or construction contract. Function. Any performance characteristic that a product or service accomplishes. Life-cycle cost. The total cost of an item's ownership, computed over its useful life. This includes initial capital costs (right-of-way, planning, design, construction), user costs, and the cost of operation, maintenance, modification, replacement, demolition, financing, taxes, and disposal associated with the facility as applicable. Value engineering. The systematic application of recognized techniques by a multidisciplined team to identify the function of a product or service; establish a worth for that function; generate alternatives through the use of creative thinking; and provide the needed functions, reliably, at the lowest life-cycle cost without sacrificing safety, necessary quality, and environmental project attributes. Value engineering change proposal (VECP). A proposal submitted by a contractor under a VE incentive clause included in the provisions of a construction contract that, through a change in the plans, design, or specifications would yield an improved or equal product and reduce the project cost (initial and/or life-cycle) to the contracting agency. The net savings from the proposal are shared with the contractor in accordance with the distribution provided in the VE or cost reduction incentive clause. Value engineering incentive clause. A construction contract provision which encourages the contractor to propose changes in the contract plans and/or requirements which will accomplish the project's functional requirements at less cost (without adversely affecting the project) and allows the contractor to share in the resultant cost savings. Value engineering job plan. An organized plan of action for accomplishing a VE study that divides the study into a distinct set of work phases. The phases normally found in a VE job plan include: Project selection, investigation, speculation, evaluation, development, presentation, implementation, and audit. Worth. An estimate of the least expensive way of performing a function, irrespective of its application to the project. §627.5 General principles and procedures. (a) State VE programs. Applying the VE process to projects will improve project quality and productivity, foster innovation, eliminate unnecessary and costly design elements, reduce impact costs on users, ensure the safe operation of the facility, advance environmental and ecological interests, and ensure economical construction costs on selected highway projects financed with Federal-aid highway funds. State highway agencies shall prepare written procedures establishing continuing VE programs. These procedures shall be acceptable to the FHWA and consistent with the American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials (AASHTO) ``Guidelines for Value Engineering.'' 1 1 AASHTO's ``Guidelines for Value Engineering,'' 1987, is available for inspection as prescribed in 49 CFR part 7, appendix D and may be purchased by writing to the American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials, 444 N. Capitol Street, NW., Suite 225, Washington, DC 20001. (1) The VE program shall include procedures to insure that the VE process is actively applied to applicable Federal-aid highway projects. The VE procedures shall require the identification of candidate projects for VE studies early in the development of the State's annual Federal-aid program. As a minimum, a sufficient number of projects representing at least 50 percent of the Federal-aid highway funds expended by the State shall be identified for VE studies each year. (2) The VE program should establish specific criteria and guidelines for selecting Federal-aid highway projects for a VE review. Consideration should be given to projects that have shown recent substantial cost increases; projects with complex designs or construction phases; projects involving major structures; projects with unique specifications, standards, or processes; multi-modal projects; projects with repetitive work elements; projects with high right-of-way costs; projects with unique or experimental features; projects with high maintenance, user impact, or traffic control costs; and projects specifically requested for review by State agency program offices or management. (3) The VE program should establish specific criteria and procedures for granting waivers of the VE study requirement on certain types of projects or programs. The agency's procedures may allow for certain types of projects to be eliminated from consideration for VE when there is little likelihood that they would yield any opportunity for improvements or savings.
