FR940328-2-00127 FR940328-2-00068 By July 1995, the Corporation would also like the T/TA provider(s) in this area to train approximately 30&hyph;35 groups of supervisors in key tasks including but not limited to: _Planning and managing service projects or internship placements; _Management and development of participants; _Creating good working relationships with service sponsors, and other community members and organizations; _Teambuilding at various levels among participants, with community partners, and among staff; _Communication at all levels, within the program, with media, with community through other vehicles _Facilitation of service-learning among participants that encourages their development into engaged, active citizens. Conflict resolution and mediation: developing strategies and providing trainings to program staff and participants on how to deal effectively with conflicts through conflict resolution and mediation techniques. Community Partnerships: developing strategies and providing trainings on ways to help programs build and maintain strong partnerships and engage in collaborative efforts with a broad range of organizations and individuals working to solve community problems. For each activity listed above, T/TA providers will be expected to:_Coordinate efforts with other T/TA providers, especially the ``National Priority Skills Development Centers'' and the ``National Service Resource Center''; _Provide hands-on training, consulting and other services on the subject; _Identify best practices in accomplishing these tasks, adapt as necessary and package for program use. Material might include management tools, training curricula, or other useful items; and _In the long term, lead the development and refinement of best practices in accomplishing high quality service projects. (C) Service and Citizenship Summary The Corporation will fund T/TA activities that help programs develop participants' understanding of the relationship between service and the rights and responsibilities that citizenship entails. Amount and Duration of Funding The Corporation expects to make approximately $100,000 total available for up to two grants or cooperative agreements. Grantees will develop and pilot a variety of training curricula with several AmeriCorps programs, with the aim of developing trainings that can meet the needs of many different participants and program types. The possibility of renewal is subject to performance, continuing need, and availability of funds. Description of T/TA Activities Desired Whether addressing immediate community problems or examining broader social needs, AmeriCorps participants take on a variety of civic responsibilities. The Corporation will fund the provision of technical assistance and training to enable AmeriCorps participants to constructively examine and explore larger issues associated with their service work and strengthen their understanding of their engagement in public life. (D) Strengthening Program Diversity Summary The Corporation will fund the development and implementation of a strategy to provide technical assistance and training to AmeriCorps programs and State Commissions on how to enhance their work, build stronger communities, and draw strength from diversity through full inclusion of diverse populations of participants in programs. This will include developing strategies which encourage mutual respect and cooperation among citizens of different races, ethnicities, socioeconomic backgrounds, educational levels, ages, and sexual orientations, including both men and women and individuals with both physical and cognitive disabilities. Amount and Duration of Funding The Corporation expects to make three or more grants or cooperative agreements in the first year. The amount of funds will be determined in light of need. The possibility of renewal is subject to performance, continuing need, and availability of funds. In its concept paper the applicant should present a proposed budget for the first and second years of activity. Description of T/TA Activities Desired The Corporation will fund the provision of technical assistance and training and development of resource materials for State Commissions and AmeriCorps programs to give them practical guidance on how to build diversity into programs and identify resources, especially local and regional resources, which they can tap for these purposes when needed. Possible activities include_ _Strategies to improve recruitment, retention, and training of diverse staff and program participants; _Strategies to find appropriate participant placements; _Ways to ensure that programs are sensitive to the specific cultural needs of the community in which the service is being performed; _Strategies specifically aimed at recruiting and ensuring full inclusion of people with physical and cognitive disabilities as participants in AmeriCorps programs; _Ways to help AmeriCorps programs comply with laws regarding accommodation of people with disabilities; and _Other strategies to assist programs in building diversity into their programs. T/TA providers will be expected to work closely with the National Service Resource Center. (E) Peer Exchange Visitation Program Summary The Corporation seeks to enhance the opportunities for program planners, staff and participants of AmeriCorps programs, and State Commission members to visit existing service programs in order to learn more about different approaches to accomplishing high quality service. To this end, the Corporation is making funds available to existing service programs to prepare for and host such visits. Eligible Applicants Only existing service programs may apply. While an applicant does not have to be a former or current grantee of the Corporation or the Commission on National and Community Service, the applicant should demonstrate that the program activities it will exhibit to visitors are consistent with the Corporation program requirements and ``Principles for High Quality Programs.'' Amount and Duration of Funding The Corporation expects to make up to ten grants totaling approximately $200,000. Grants will be for one year, with possibility of renewal subject to performance, continuing need, and availability of funds. Description of T/TA Activities Desired The applicant should accomplish activities including but not limited to_ _Making Corporation grantees aware of the opportunity to visit by being included in Corporation communications that list T/TA opportunities;
