FR940216-0-00240 FR940216-0-00010 (C) Unless each gallon of such gasoline that is subject to complex model standards has a VOC and NO x emissions reduction percentage which is above the applicable minimum specified in §80.41. (2) No refiner or importer may produce or import any gasoline represented as reformulated or RBOB, and intended for sale or use in any covered area: (i) Unless such gasoline meets the definition of reformulated gasoline or RBOB; and (ii) Unless the properties of such gasoline or RBOB correspond to the product transfer documents. (3) No person may manufacture and sell or distribute, or offer for sale or distribution, dispense, supply, or offer for supply, store, transport or cause the transportation of gasoline represented as conventional which does not contain at least the minimum concentration of the conventional gasoline marker specified in §80.82. (4) Gasoline shall be presumed to be intended for sale or use in a covered area unless: (i) Product transfer documentation as described in §80.77 accompanying such gasoline clearly indicates the gasoline is intended for sale and use only outside any covered area; or (ii) The gasoline is contained in the storage tank of a retailer or wholesale purchaser-consumer outside any covered area. (5) No person may combine any reformulated gasoline with any non-oxygenate blendstock except: (i) A person that meets each requirement specified for a refiner under this subpart; and (ii) The blendstock that is added to reformulated gasoline meets all reformulated gasoline standards without regard to the properties of the reformulated gasoline to which the blendstock is added. (6) No person may add any oxygenate to reformulated gasoline, except that oxygenate may be added to reformulated gasoline that is designated as OPRG provided that such gasoline is used in an oxygenated fuels program control area during an oxygenated fuels control period. (7) No person may combine any reformulated gasoline blendstock for oxygenate blending with any other gasoline, blendstock, or oxygenate except: (i) Oxygenate of the type and amount (or within the range of amounts) specified by the refiner or importer at the time the RBOB was produced or imported; or (ii) Other RBOB for which the same oxygenate type and amount (or range of amounts) was specified by the refiner or importer. (8) No person may combine any VOC-controlled reformulated gasoline that is produced using ethanol with any VOC-controlled reformulated gasoline that is produced using any other oxygenate during the period January 1 through September 15. (9) Prior to January 1, 1998: (i) No person may combine any reformulated gasoline or RBOB that is subject to the simple model standards with any reformulated gasoline or RBOB that is subject to the complex model standards, except that such gasolines may be combined at a retail outlet or wholesale purchaser-consumer facility; (ii) No person may combine any reformulated gasoline subject to the complex model standards that is produced at any refinery or is imported by any importer with any other reformulated gasoline that is produced at a different refinery or is imported by a different importer, unless the other refinery or importer has an identical baseline for meeting complex model standards during this period; and (iii) No person may combine any RBOB subject to the complex model standards that is produced at any refinery or is imported by any importer with any RBOB that is produced at a different refinery or is imported by a different importer, unless the other refinery or importer has an identical baseline for meeting complex model standards during this period. (10) No person may combine any reformulated gasoline with any conventional gasoline and sell the resulting mixture as reformulated gasoline. (b) Liability. Liability for violations of paragraph (a) of this section shall be determined according to the provisions of §80.79. (c) Determination of compliance. Compliance with the standards listed in paragraph (a) of this section shall be determined by use of one of the testing methodologies specified in §80.46, except that where test results using the testing methodologies specified in §80.46 are not available or where such test results are available but are in question, EPA may establish noncompliance with standards using any information, including the results of testing using methods that are not included in §80.46. (d) Dates controls and prohibitions begin. The controls and prohibitions specified in paragraph (a) of this section apply at any location other than retail outlets and wholesale purchaser-consumer facilities on or after December 1, 1994, at any location on or after January 1, 1995.
