FR940711-1-00048 FR940711-1-00012 Federal motor vehicle safety standard No. 121, Air brake systems, currently defines ``air brake system'' to mean a system that uses air as a medium for transmitting pressure or force from the driver control to the service brake, but does not include a system that uses compressed air or vacuum only to assist the driver in applying muscular force to hydraulic or mechanical components. (49 CFR §571.121) Part 570, Vehicle In Use Inspection Standards, defines ``Air-over-hydraulic brake system'' to mean a subsystem of the air brake that uses compressed air to transmit a force from the driver control to a hydraulic brake system to actuate the service brakes. (49 CFR Part 570, emphasis added) The italic portion of the definition of air-over-hydraulic subsystem explicitly states that an air-over-hydraulic brake subsystem means a subsystem of the air brake system. In initially issuing Standard No. 121, NHTSA stated that ``it should be noted that the term `air brake system' as defined in the standard applies to the brake configuration commonly referred to as `air-over-hydraulic,' in which failure of either medium can result in complete loss of braking ability.'' (36 FR 3817, February 27, 1971). The agency reiterated its position that an air-over-hydraulic brake system is subject to Standard No. 121, stating that ``Standard No. 105a [Hydraulic Brake Systems] does not apply to vehicles equipped with `air-over-hydraulic' systems, which remain within the purview of Standard No. 121*␣*␣*.'' (37 FR 17970, September 2, 1972.) Moreover, NHTSA has issued several interpretations stating that a vehicle equipped with an air-over-hydraulic brake system must comply with the requirements in Standard No. 121. NHTSA received a petition from Mr. John Kourik, requesting that the agency amend Standard No. 121 to specify that an air-over-hydraulic brake subsystem is subject to that Standard. The petitioner stated that such an amendment would avoid the need for manufacturers to request interpretations about air-over-hydraulic brake systems. After reviewing the petition, NHTSA has decided to propose amending Standard No. 121 by expanding the current definition of air brake system to incorporate the definition of air-over-hydraulic brake subsystem. The agency notes that even though the definition of an air brake system currently includes a description of an air-over-hydraulic subsystem, it is not explicitly clear on the face of the standard that such a subsystem is classified as an air-braked system and that a vehicle equipped with such a subsystem would thus have to comply with the requirements in Standard No. 121. NHTSA believes that it would be appropriate to clarify the classification of air-over-hydraulic brake systems. By amending the definition of an air brake system to state explicitly that an air-over-hydraulic brake subsystem is classified as an air brake system, the agency would eliminate the need felt by some manufacturers to request interpretations regarding the standard's applicability to vehicles equipped with air-over-hydraulic brake subsystems. Rulemaking Analyses and Notices 1. Executive Order 12866 (Federal Regulation Planning and Review) and DOT Regulatory Policies and Procedures This proposal was not reviewed under E.O. 12866. NHTSA has analyzed this proposal and determined that it is not ``significant'' within the meaning of the Department of Transportation's regulatory policies and procedures. A full regulatory evaluation is not required because the rule, if adopted, would have no mandatory effects. Instead, the proposal would only codify a longstanding agency interpretation. Therefore, this rulemaking would not have any cost impacts. 2. Regulatory Flexibility Act In accordance with the Regulatory Flexibility Act, NHTSA has evaluated the effects of this action on small entities. Based upon this evaluation, I certify that the proposed amendment would not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. Vehicle and brake manufacturers typically would not qualify as small entities. This amendment would affect small businesses, small organizations, and small governmental units to the extent that these entities purchase vehicles. However, this amendment would have no significant cost impact on vehicles. For these reasons, vehicle manufacturers, small businesses, small organizations, and small governmental units which purchase motor vehicles would not be significantly affected by the proposed requirements. Accordingly, no regulatory flexibility analysis has been prepared.
