FR940810-1-00048 FR940810-1-00009 The Department requests comments on this proposed provision that explain how the benefits of using revolving funds as they are under current rules might be considered to outweigh the costs to the U.S. Treasury. Comments are particularly solicited that would identify the advantages of the current system that go beyond the obvious ones of administrative convenience and the additional interest income earned by a grantee as a result of the investment of program income while sheltered in a revolving account. Specifically, the Department would be interested in determining the amount of any additional program costs that might result from administering revolving fund activities under this proposed rule so that cost could be compared with the likely savings to the Treasury. Therefore, the changes proposed in this rule would remove the language at §§570.504(b)(2)(i) and (ii) that permits recipients to shelter program income in revolving funds. The proposed rule would require all program income to be substantially disbursed before additional cash withdrawals were made. The reference at §570.500(a)(1)(viii) to interest earned in revolving funds would be removed, and the subparagraph would be reserved. The definition of revolving fund at §570.500(b) would be removed and the paragraph reserved. Income Earned on Grant Funds The proposed rule includes a change at §570.500(a)(2) concerning interest earned on ineligible loans and reimbursed funds. This change is one of several in this rule resulting from the HUD Inspector General's review of the CDBG program. It also reflects a recent decision by the Comptroller General of the United States (issued May 11, 1992) with respect to interest earned on unauthorized loans of Federal grant funds. This proposed rule specifies three situations in which income earned on grant funds must be remitted to HUD for transmittal to the U.S. Treasury. The first is interest earned from the investment of the initial proceeds of a grant advance by the U.S. Treasury (e.g., funds wire-transferred to a recipient pursuant to a withdrawal from its line of credit for a grant). The second situation is income (e.g., interest) earned on loans or forms of assistance made with CDBG funds that are used for activities determined by HUD either to be ineligible or to fail to meet a national objective in accordance with the requirements of subpart C of this part, or fail substantially to meet any other requirement of this part. The third situation is interest earned on amounts that have been reimbursed pursuant to §570.910(b)(5) prior to the funds being used for eligible purposes. Return of Excess Program Income This portion of the proposed rule includes changes at §570.504(b)(2) and §570.503(b)(3). Under the current rules, there is an incentive for a recipient to make quick turnaround loans_even if the recipient does not earn interest on the loans. By making such a loan, the recipient, in effect, quickly changes the nature of the funds to program income. It may then place them in its program account and earn interest pending the use of the funds to meet cash needs of the program. The proposed changes would remove an incentive for recipients to make loans to earn income rather than using the funds strictly for community development purposes. The rule does this by requiring all program income held by an entitlement recipient that is in excess of one-twelfth of the most recent grant made pursuant to §570.304 to be remitted to HUD to be restored to the recipient's line of credit, and by requiring that each subrecipient agreement specify that any program income held by the subrecipient that is in excess of one-twelfth of its estimated annual expenditure of CDBG funds be remitted to the recipient (thus, if the subrecipient agreement is for a twelve-month period, the amount of program income would be one-twelfth of the agreement amount).
