FR941219-1-00062 FR941219-1-00018 (ii) Set low enough to ensure that potentially unallowable costs will not be reimbursed. (d) False certification. The contracting officer should consult with legal counsel to determine appropriate action when a contractor certificate of indirect costs is thought to be false. (e) Penalties for unallowable costs. 10 U.S.C. 2324(a) through (d) and 41 U.S.C. 256(a) through (d) prescribe penalties for submission of unallowable costs in final indirect cost rate proposals (see Subpart 42.709 for penalties and contracting officer responsibilities). (f) Contract clause. The clause at 52.242&hyph;XX (or a similar clause from an executive agency's supplement) shall be incorporated into all solicitations and contracts which provide for_ (1) Interim reimbursement of indirect costs; (2) Establishment of final indirect cost rates; or (3) Contract financing that includes interim payment of indirect costs, e.g., progress payments based on cost (48 CFR part 32, subpart 32.5) or progress payments based on percentage or stage of completion. PART 52_SOLICITATION PROVISIONS AND CONTRACT CLAUSES 7. Section 52.242&hyph;XX is added to read as follows: 52.242&hyph;XX Certification of Indirect Costs. As prescribed in 42.703&hyph;2(f), insert the following clause: Certification of Indirect Costs (Date) (a) The Contractor shall_ (1) Certify any proposal to establish or modify billing rates or to establish final indirect cost rates; (2) Use the format in paragraph (c) of this clause to certify; and (3) Have the certificate signed by an individual of the Contractor's organization at a level no lower than a vice president or chief financial officer of the business segment of the Contractor that submits the proposal. (b) Failure by the Contractor to submit a signed certificate, as described in this clause, shall result in payment of indirect costs at rates unilaterally established by the Government. (c) The certificate of indirect costs shall read as follows: Certificate of Indirect Costs (Date) This is to certify that to the best of my knowledge and belief: 1. I have reviewed this indirect cost proposal; 2. All costs included in this proposal __ (identify proposal and date) __ to establish billing or final indirect cost rates for __ (identify period covered by rate) __ are allowable in accordance with the requirements of contracts to which they apply and with the cost principles of the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) and its supplements applicable to those contracts; 3. This proposal does not include any costs which are unallowable under applicable cost principles of the FAR or its supplements, including, but not limited to: advertising and public relations costs, contributions and donations, entertainment costs, fines and penalties, lobbying costs, defense of fraud proceedings, and goodwill; and 4. All costs included in this proposal are properly allocable to Government contracts on the basis of a beneficial or causal relationship between the expenses incurred and the contracts to which they are allocated in accordance with applicable acquisition regulations. I declare under penalty of perjury that the foregoing is true and correct. Firm: Signature: Name of Certifying Official: Title: Date of Execution: (End of clause) [FR Doc. 94&hyph;31020 Filed 12&hyph;16&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6820&hyph;34&hyph;P
