FR940505-1-00455 FR940505-1-00012 (I) Making records available to EPA or the oversight contractor during periodic station audits. (2) Emission test data . The requirements for data collection and transmission shall be as specified in the agreement between the Administrator and the test provider(s). (3) Repair performance monitoring . The test provider(s) shall be responsible for collecting and maintaining emission repair information concerning subject vehicles that have failed the emission inspection and have been returned for a retest. The particulars of this requirement will be detailed in the agreement between the EPA Administrator and the test provider(s). (w) Quality control . (1) Quality control requirements for test provider(s) . Quality control measures shall be implemented by the test provider(s) and shall ensure that emission measurement equipment is calibrated and maintained according to the procedures in this section and in the agreement between the EPA Administrator and the test provider(s). Inspection, calibration records and control charts shall be accurately created and recorded and maintained as prescribed in this section and in the agreement between the Administrator and the test provider(s). (2) General requirements . General requirements for quality control practices for test equipment shall be as follows: (i) The practices described in this section, in the agreement and in 40 CFR part 51, subpart S, appendix A (relating to calibrations, adjustments and quality control), and EPA's high-tech procedures document shall be followed. (ii) Preventive maintenance on inspection equipment shall be performed on a periodic basis, as provided by in the agreement between the Administrator and the test provider(s) consistent with the equipment manufacturer's requirements. (iii) To assure quality control, computerized analyzers shall automatically record quality control check information, lockouts, attempted tampering with test equipment and circumstances which require a service representative to work on the equipment. (iv) To assure test accuracy, equipment shall be maintained according to demonstrated good engineering practices. (v) Computer control of quality assurance checks and quality control charts shall be used whenever possible. (3) Requirements for transient exhaust emission testing equipment . Calibration and maintenance procedures for transient exhaust emission testing equipment shall be conducted as specified in EPA guidance and regulation. (4) Requirements for the purge analysis system . Calibration and maintenance procedures for the purge analysis system shall be conducted as specified in EPA guidance and regulation. (5) Requirements for evaporative system pressure test equipment . Calibration and maintenance procedures for evaporative system pressure test equipment shall be conducted as specified in EPA guidance and regulation. (x) Quality assurance . (1) Performance audits . The oversight contractor(s) will conduct performance audits on a periodic basis to determine whether inspectors are correctly performing the tests and other required functions. (i) Performance audits shall be of two types: (A) Overt performance audits which shall include the following: ( 1 ) A check for appropriate document security. ( 2 ) A check to see that required recordkeeping practices are being followed. ( 3 ) A check for licenses or certificates and other required display information. ( 4 ) Observation and written evaluation of each inspector's ability to properly perform an inspection. (B) Covert performance audits which shall include the following: ( 1 ) Remote visual observation of inspector and inspection station personnel performance, which may include the use of binoculars or video cameras. ( 2 ) Site visits using covert vehicles presented for inspection. ( 3 ) Other activities deemed appropriate by the EPA Administrator. (ii) The test provider(s) and the employees of the test provider(s) shall make available information requested by the oversight contractor(s) and shall fully cooperate with the oversight contractor's personnel who conduct the audits and other authorized EPA representatives or agents.
