FR940919-2-00189 FR940919-2-00081 B. Formulating an Expanded Definition of Universal Service 25. As the nation decides whether and how to redefine universal service, it is important to remember that, to a large extent, the current debate represents but a new phase in a continuing process. Although universal service has traditionally been defined as voice-grade POTS, the minimally-acceptable characteristics of that service have changed over the past sixty years. Thus, direct dialing became popular as it obviated the need to make more expensive operator-assisted calls in many instances and regulators mandated lower rates for directly-dialed calls. Party-line service has been replaced in recent decades by single-line service. Some states have directed local exchange carriers to incorporate touch-tone capability into their basic service offerings because of its importance in accessing many information services. In short, the current interest in redefining universal service is consistent with past practice. The principal differences are the ever-expanding range of services that could be incorporated into a revised concept of universal service and the quicker pace at which policymakers must make their decisions. 26. As noted above, there appears to be strong public support for expanding the existing definition of universal service. There is, however, little consensus about what services, features, and capabilities should be included within a new definition. Witnesses at the NTIA field hearings suggested that universal service encompass a host of different services, including: access to a basic set of information and telecommunications services; multiple languages, including Spanish and Native American languages that require special, non-ASCII 38 characters; set-aside resources, facilities, and capacity for public, education, and government training and use; new technologies such as video link and cellular telephone service; and services defined as characteristics or features, rather than technologies. 39 A random survey of 1,000 likely voters conducted by the Benton Foundation found that Americans are very interested in educational and informational services. 40 38 ASCII is a uniform code used in computer and data communications systems. It employs seven binary digits (bits) to represent a specific set of letters, numbers, punctuation and special characters, plus a parity bit used in checking for transmission errors. 39 Comments of KNME&hyph;TV (Channel 5); Prodigy Services Co.; University of New Mexico, Department of Engineering; Alliance for Community Media; Virtual City Network Project; Citizens Action Coalition of Indiana; Casey Luna, Lt. Governor, State of New Mexico; Valley Telephone; Chinese for Affirmative Action; State Senator Douglas Hunt, Indiana. Cf. Comments of The National Regulatory Research Institute; Hudson Institute, and GTE East Area Telephone Operations. 40 Mellman Lazarus Lake, What People Think About New Communications Technologies, Communications Policy Briefing 2, at 4 (Benton Foundation 1994). 27. If universal service is to be redefined as a group of services or capabilities, some mechanism or set of principles must be found to help select from the wealth of possible alternatives. We therefore request comment on whether there is an organizing principle or set of principles that can be used to determine whether a particular service or feature should be included within a modern concept of universal service. This is essential because redefinition is not without potential pitfalls. Adding each new component to the package deemed universally necessary increases both the societal costs of making that package universally available as well as the chances of prematurely mandating services or features that are ultimately proven to be commercially undesirable. 41 41 Defining universal service to include certain services may also raise constitutional and regulatory issues. For example, government designation of certain information services as part of a universal service package could be challenged as violative of the First Amendment on the ground that it compels providers to ``speak'' or because it discriminates against other information services. Moreover, inclusion of information services within a redefined universal service could lead to regulation of currently unregulated services. We seek comment on these issues as well. 28. One approach could be to allow the marketplace to identify, at least in the first instance, services and features that warrant inclusion in an expanded definition of universal service. 42 Under this approach, private firms would offer services to consumers in competition with other companies. If some service were subscribed to by a predesignated minimum percentage of U.S. households, government regulators would either have the authority to consider whether to make that service universally available or be required to do so. 43 We seek comment on whether government should select services to be included in an expanded definition of universal service and, if so, on what basis such services should be chosen? What role should the market play in determining that mix? Should there be some threshold of market penetration before a capability or service is added to the definition of universal service? If so, what should the threshold be and why? Are there disadvantages in relying on market forces even in the first instance? 42 See, e.g., Comments of Neil Pickett, Director of Research and Programs, the Hudson Institute, Indianapolis field hearing. 43 Cf. S. 1822, 103d Cong., 2d Sess. §102(a) (1994), which would add a new section 201A(b) to the Communications Act requiring the FCC to incorporate within universal service ``any telecommunications and information services which .␣.␣. have, through the operation of market choices by customers, been subscribed to by a substantial majority of residential customers.'' 29. An alternative to identifying particular services to be incorporated into an expanded concept of universal service would be to define universal service in terms of a network connection that would enable customers to access any service available via such network. If universal service were to be defined in such a fashion, the cost of making it available throughout the country would likely be reduced. Moreover, government officials would not be required to make difficult determinations about the relative value of different services or equipment; instead, it should allow the market to determine customer valuation of each service or equipment item. On the other hand, government officials may have to make equally difficult decisions as to the type of network connection that should be provided. 30. We request comment on the notion of defining universal service in terms of a network connection. Would such an approach effectively spur deployment of an advanced telecommunications infrastructure? Would it give all sectors of society a chance to participate in the information revolution? If this approach were adopted, what sort of connection should be specified ( e.g., in terms of capacity, transmission speed, signalling, etc.)? 31. The notion of defining universal service as customer access to a telecommunications network raises the issue of access to the Internet, which began in 1969 as a Pentagon experiment to aid researchers in trading information by computer. Today the Internet is a worldwide network linking over 21,000 separately administered computer networks. Each computer network connects tens of thousands of computers with ten million users in the United States and fifteen million users in sixty countries around the world. 44 One observer recently asserted: 44 About the Internet, The InfoLetter: A Monthly Roadmap to the Information Superhighway, May 1994, at 5. Parts of the Internet are growing at an exponential rate of 15 percent per month. See Testimony of Dr. Vinton G. Cerf, President, Internet Society, before the House Science Committee, March 22, 1994.
