FR940907-0-00033 FR940907-0-00015 (12) MDNR has added the definition of ``Extreme environmental conditions'' to mean any of the following: (i) Outdoor weather; (ii) temperatures consistently above 95 degrees celsius (203 degrees fahrenheit); (iii) detergents; (iv) abrasive and scouring agents; (v) solvents; (vi) corrosive atmospheres; (vii) other similar harsh conditions. (13) MDNR has revised the definition of ``Extreme performance coating'' to mean a coating which is designed to protect a coated part from extreme environmental conditions and which is applied to a part that, in its use as a finished product, is intended to be subjected to extreme environmental conditions. (14) MDNR has removed the definition of ``Pneumatic tire manufacturing''. (15) MDNR has added the definition of ``Vapor collection system'' which means, as it pertains to the provisions of R 336.1627, all piping, seals, hoses, connections, pressure-vacuum vents, and any other equipment between and including the delivery vessel and a stationary vessel, vapor processing unit, or vapor holder. (16) MDNR has revised the definition of ``Volatile organic compound'' to mean any compound of carbon or mixture of compounds of carbon that has a vapor pressure of more than 0.1 millimeter of mercury at standard conditions, excluding a number of listed compounds. The definition also includes compounds of carbon or mixtures of compounds of carbon with a vapor pressure less than or equal to 0.1 millimeter of mercury at standard conditions and which participates in atmospheric photochemical reactions. (17) The following definitions have undergone minor word changes (for example, changing the word ``which'' to ``that''): Allowable emissions, Coating of automobiles and light-duty trucks, Coating of large appliances, Component, Condenser, Contemporaneous, Creditable, Electrostatic prep coat, Equivalent method, Potential emissions, Potential to emit, Printed interior panel, Publication rotogravure printing, Pushside, Very large precipitator. B. Rule 602␣(General Provisions for Existing Sources of Volatile Organic Compound Emissions) MDNR has listed items which can deviate from the Part 6 regulations given State approval. However, in addition to needing State approval for any equivalent emission rate, alternate emission rate, or compliance method, any provision listed under 602(2) must, generally, be sent to EPA as a SIP revision and will not become federally enforceable until the SIP revision request is approved by the EPA. Two minor exceptions to the above provisions which do not need to be submitted as site-specific SIP revisions but must still have State approval are discussed in the Technical Support Document. 6 6 The term ``Director's discretion'', as it is being used in this notice, is defined as a State making a decision which would be federally enforceable without EPA review. There are two instances in which Director's discretion language is being approved without need of U.S. EPA approval are as follows: (1) Director's discretion for the use of an alternate base starting level in R 336.1624(2)(a)(i) will be allowed because this is only applicable in areas attaining the ozone standard. Since these areas are not subject to RACT requirements Director's discretion language, in this instance, is allowable. (2) Director's discretion language is also acceptable for alternate condenser temperature in R 336.1625(4) because this alternate temperature will be based on the physical properties of chemicals passing through the condenser. These chemical properties are readily available in many chemistry and physics handbooks. The temperature at which these chemicals condense is not truly Director's discretion because the Director cannot influence a chemical's condensation temperature. In this rule the State also clarifies that for rules 336.1610, 336.1621 and 336.1632 the phrase ``minus water'' shall also include compounds which are used as organic solvents and which are excluded from the definition of volatile organic compound. In other rules, the limits are based on emission rates, usually in pounds per hour, so the phrase ``minus water'' is only used in rules 336.1610, 336.1621 and 336.1632 whose applicable limits are based on VOC content. C. Rule 610␣(Existing Coating Lines; Emission of Volatile Organic Compounds From Existing Automobile, Light-duty Truck, and Other Product and Material Coating Lines) In this rule the State sets forth the limits which shall be applied to the following coating line categories: automobiles and light-duty trucks, cons, coils, large appliances, metal furniture, magnet wire, and the nonmetallic surfaces of fabrics, vinyl, or paper. In addition to meeting the applicable emission limits, sources covered by this rule must also submit a written program to demonstrate compliance with the emission limits. Recordkeeping requirements are also contained within this rule. Exemptions based on, e.g., emission cutpoints (15 pounds per day), are listed in this rule. D. Rule 611␣(Existing Cold Cleaners) In this rule MDNR sets forth provisions for operating procedures for cold cleaners. Written procedures for compliance with these provisions must be developed and posted. Units that were previously exempt under the older version of these rules will have until 6 months after the date these rules become effective, in the State, to comply. E. Rule 619␣(Perchloroethylene; Emission From Existing Dry Cleaning Equipment) In this rule MDNR sets forth provisions to control the emissions of perchloroethylene from existing dry cleaners. In all instances, save one, where a comment was made by EPA on this rule, either the State made the change suggested by EPA or EPA withdrew the comment. Even though one comment has not been addressed, EPA finds this rule approvable. Moreover, EPA notes that it has issued a maximum available control technology or ``MACT'' rule for this emission source category with which sources will need to comply. F. Rule 620␣(Emission of Volatile Organic Compounds From Existing Flat Wood Paneling Coating Lines)
