FR940712-2-00083 FR940712-2-00059 The Index will be calculated continuously and will be disseminated to OPRA every 15 seconds by the CBOE, based on the last-sale prices of the component REITs. 12 OPRA, in turn, will disseminate the Index value to other financial vendors such as Reuters, Telerate, and Quotron. 12 For purposes of the daily dissemination of the Index value, if a REIT included in the Index has not opened for trading, the CBOE will use the closing value of that stock on the prior trading day when calculating the value of the Index, until the stock opens for trading. F. Contract Specifications The proposed options on the Index will be cash-settled, European-style options. 13 Standard options trading hours (8:30 a.m. to 3:10 p.m. Central Standard Time) will apply to the contracts. The Index multiplier will be 100. The strike price interval will be $5.00 for full-value Index options with a duration of one year or less to expiration. 14 In addition, pursuant to CBOE Rule 24.9, there may be up to six expiration months outstanding at any given time. Specifically, there may be up to three expiration months from the March, June, September, and December cycle, plus up to three additional near-term months so that the two nearest-term months will always be available. As described in more detail below, the Exchange also intends to list several Index LEAPS series that expire from 12 to 36 months from the date of issuance. 13 A European-style option can be exercised only during a specified period before the option expires. 14 For a description of the strike price intervals for regular and reduced-value Index LEAPS, see infra Section II.H. G. Settlement of Index Options Options on the Index will expire on the Saturday following the third Friday of the expiration month (``Expiration Friday''), and the last trading day for an expiring Index option series will normally be the second to last business day before Expiration Friday (normally a Thursday). The Index value for purposes of settling outstanding regular Index options and Index LEAPS contracts upon expiration will be calculated based upon the regular way opening sale prices for each of the Index's component securities in their primary market on the last trading day prior to expiration ( i.e., Expiration Friday). Once all of the component REITs have opened, the value of the Index will be determined and that value will be used as the final settlement value for expiring Index options contracts. If any of the component REITs do not open for trading on the last trading day before expiration, then the prior trading day's ( i.e., normally a Thursday) last sale price will be used in the Index calculation. In this regard, before deciding to use Thursday's closing value of a component security for purposes of determining the settlement value of the Index, the CBOE will wait until the end of the trading day on Expiration Friday. H. Listing of Long-Term Options on the Full-Value or Reduced-Value REIT Index The Exchange's proposal provides that the Exchange may list LEAPS that expire from 12 to 36 months from the listing based on the full-value REIT Index or a reduced-value REIT Index that will be computed at one-tenth the value of the full-value Index, subject to existing Exchange requirements applicable to full-value and reduced-value LEAPS. 15 The current and closing Index value for reduced-value REIT Index LEAPS will be computed by dividing the value of the full-value Index by ten and rounding the resulting figure to the nearest one-hundredth. For example, an Index value of 212.55 would be 21.26 for the reduced-value Index LEAPS, and 212.54 would become 21.25. The reduced-value Index LEAPS will have a European-style exercise and will be subject to the same rules that govern the trading of all of the Exchange's index options, including sales practice rules, margin requirements, and floor trading procedures. Pursuant to CBOE Rule 24.9, the strike price interval for the reduced-value Index LEAPS will be no less than $2.50, instead of $5.00. 15 See CBOE Rule 24.9(b).
