FR941006-1-00102 FR941006-1-00015 (iv) If any individual, including a candidate, uses accommodations, including lodging and meeting rooms, during campaign-related travel, and the accommodations are paid for by a government entity, the candidate's authorized committee shall pay the appropriate government entity an amount equal to the usual and normal charge for the accommodations, and shall maintain documentation supporting the amount paid. (v) For travel by airplane, the committee shall maintain documentation for the lowest unrestricted nondiscounted air fare available for the time traveled, including the airline or travel service providing that fare. For travel by other conveyances, the committee shall maintain documentation of the commercial rental rate for a comparable conveyance, including the provider of the conveyance and the size, model and make of the conveyance. For travel under paragraph (b)(5)(ii) of this section, the committee shall maintain documentation of fuel and crew costs. (6) Travel expenses of a candidate's spouse and family when accompanying the candidate on campaign-related travel may be treated as qualified campaign expenses and reportable expenditures. If the spouse or family members conduct campaign-related activities, their travel expenses will be treated as qualified campaign expenses and reportable expenditures. (7) If any individual, including a candidate, incurs expenses for campaign-related travel, other than by use of government conveyance or accommodations, an amount equal to that portion of the actual cost of the conveyance or accommodations which is allocable to all passengers, including the candidate, who are traveling for campaign purposes will be a qualified campaign expense and shall be reported by the committee as an expenditure. (i) If the trip is by charter, the actual cost for each passenger shall be determined by dividing the total operating cost for the charter by the total number of passengers transported. The amount which is a qualified campaign expense and a reportable expenditure shall be calculated in accordance with the formula set forth at 11 CFR 9034.7(b)(2) on the basis of the actual cost per passenger multiplied by the number of passengers traveling for campaign purposes. (ii) If the trip is by non-charter commercial transportation, the actual cost shall be calculated in accordance with the formula set forth at 11 CFR 9034.7(b)(2) on the basis of the commercial fare. Such actual cost shall be a qualified campaign expense and a reportable expenditure. (8) Travel on corporate airplanes and other corporate conveyances is governed by 11 CFR 114.9(e). PART 9037_PAYMENTS AND REPORTING 25. The authority citation for Part 9037 would continue to read as follows: Authority: 26 U.S.C. 9037 and 9039(b). Section 9037.4 would be added to read as follows: ยง9037.4 Alphabetized schedules. If the authorized committee(s) of a candidate file a schedule of itemized receipts, disbursements or debts and obligations pursuant to 11 CFR 104.3 that was generated directly or indirectly from computerized files or records, the schedule shall list in alphabetical order the sources of he receipts, the payees, or the creditors, as appropriate. Such schedule shall list all individuals, including contributors, payees and creditors, in alphabetical order by surname.
