FR940603-2-00051 FR940603-2-00038 2. Proposed Study_25% The adequacy of the proposal relevant to: (a) The study purpose, objectives, and rationale; (b) the quality of program objectives in terms of specificity, measurability, and feasibility; (c) the specificity and feasibility of the applicant's timetable for implementing program activities and timely completion of the study; and (d) the likelihood of the applicant agency completing proposed program activities and attaining proposed objectives based on the thoroughness and clarity of the overall program. 3. Relationship to Initiative_15% The extent to which the application addresses the areas of investigation outlined by ATSDR. 4. Quality of Data Collection_15% The extent to which: (a) The study ascertains the information necessary to meet the objectives, including (but not limited to) information on pathways of exposure, confounding factors, and biomedical testing; (b) the quality control and quality assurance of questionnaire data are provided, including (but not limited to) interviewer training and consistency checks of data; (c) the laboratory tests (if applicable) are sensitive and specific for the analyte or disease outcome of interest; and d) the quality control, quality assurance, precision and accuracy of information for the proposed tests are provided and acceptable. 5. Applicant Capability and Coordination Efforts_10% The extent to which the proposal has described: (a) The capability of the applicant's administrative structure to foster successful scientific and administrative management of a study; (b) the capability of the applicant to demonstrate an appropriate plan for interaction with the community; and (c) the suitability of facilities and equipment available or to be purchased for the project. 6. Program Personnel_10% The extent to which the proposed program staff is qualified and appropriate, and the time allocated for them to accomplish program activities is adequate. 7. Program Budget_(Not Scored) The extent to which the budget is reasonable, clearly justified, and consistent with intended use of cooperative agreement/grant funds. B. Review of Continuation Applications Continuation awards within the project period will be made on the basis of the following criteria: 1. Satisfactory progress has been made in meeting project objectives; 2. Objectives for the new budget period are realistic, specific, and measurable; 3. Proposed changes in described long-term objectives, methods of operation, need for grant support, and/or evaluation procedures will lead to achievement of project objectives; and 4. The budget request is clearly justified and consistent with the intended use of grant funds. Executive Order 12372 Applications are subject to the Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs as governed by Executive Order (E.O.) 12372. E.O. 12372 sets up a system for State and local government review of proposed Federal assistance applications. Applicants (other than federally-recognized Indian tribal governments) should contact their State Single Point of Contact (SPOC) as early as possible to alert them to the prospective applications and receive any necessary instructions on the State process. For proposed projects serving more than one State, the applicant is advised to contact the SPOC for each affected State. A current list of SPOCs is included in the application kit. If SPOCs have any State process recommendations on applications submitted to CDC, they should forward them to Henry S. Cassell, III, Grants Management Officer, Grants Management Branch, Procurement and Grants Office, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), 255 East Paces Ferry Road, NE., room 300, Mailstop E&hyph;13, Atlanta, GA 30305, no later than 60 days after the application deadline. (By formal agreement, the CDC Procurement and Grants Office will act on behalf of and for ATSDR on this matter.) The granting agency does not guarantee to ``accommodate or explain'' for State process recommendations it receives after that date. Indian tribes are strongly encouraged to request tribal government review of the proposed application. If tribal governments have any tribal process recommendations on applications submitted to CDC, they should forward them to Henry S. Cassell, III, Grants Management Officer, Grants Management Branch, Procurement and Grants Office, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), 255 East Paces Ferry Road, NE., Mailstop E&hyph;13, Atlanta, GA 30305. This should be done no later than 60 days after the application deadline date. The granting agency does not guarantee to ``accommodate or explain'' for tribal process recommendations it receives after that date. Public Health System Reporting Requirements This program is not subject to the Public Health System Reporting Requirements. Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance Number The Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance number is 93.161.
