FR940617-0-00194 FR940617-0-00026 (e) Any variation from the specifications in this subpart including performance specifications and emission detection methods may be used only with prior approval by the Administrator. (f) Additional components, such as instruments, valves, solenoids, pumps, switches, and so forth, may be employed to provide additional information and coordinate the functions of the component systems. (g) The following requirements must be incorporated in each system used for raw testing under this subpart. (1) The sample for all components shall be taken with one sample probe, except as allowed under §89.413&hyph;96, and internally split to the different analyzers. (2) The sample transport system from the engine exhaust pipe to the HC analyzer and the NO X analyzer must be heated as indicated in Figure 1 in appendix B of subpart D. §89.413&hyph;96 Raw sampling procedures. Follow these procedures when sampling for gaseous emissions. (a) The gaseous emission sampling probe must be installed at least 0.5 m or 3 times the diameter of the exhaust pipe_whichever is the larger_upstream of the exit of the exhaust gas system. (b) In the case of a multi-cylinder engine with a branched exhaust manifold, the inlet of the probe shall be located sufficiently far downstream so as to ensure that the sample is representative of the average exhaust emissions from all cylinders. (c) In multi-cylinder engines having distinct groups of manifolds, such as in a ``Vee'' engine configuration, it is permissible to: (1) Sample after all exhaust pipes have been connected together into a single exhaust pipe. (2) For each mode, sample from each exhaust pipe and average the gaseous concentrations to determine a value for each mode. (3) Sample from all exhaust pipes simultaneously with the sample lines connected to a common manifold prior to the analyzer. It must be demonstrated that the flow rate through each individual sample line is # 4 percent of the average flow rate through all the sample lines. (4) Use another method, if it has been approved in advance by the Administrator. (d) All heated sampling lines shall be fitted with a heated filter to extract solid particles from the flow of gas required for analysis. The sample line for CO, CO 2 , and O 2 analysis may be heated or unheated. (e) If the composition of the exhaust gas is influenced by any treatment such as heat exchanger or air injection (except catalysts and soot filters) then the exhaust probe must be taken upstream of this device. §89.414&hyph;96 Air flow measurement specifications. (a) The air flow measurement method used must have a range large enough to accurately measure the air flow over the engine operating range during the test. Overall measurement accuracy must be # 2 percent of the reading for all modes except the idle mode. For the idle mode, the measurement accuracy shall be # 5 percent or less of the reading. The Administrator must be advised of the method used prior to testing. (b) When an engine system incorporates devices that affect the air flow measurement (such as air bleeds) that result in understated exhaust emission results, corrections to the exhaust emission results shall be made to account for such effects. §89.415&hyph;96 Fuel flow measurement specifications. The fuel flow rate measurement instrument must have a minimum accuracy of # 1 percent of full-scale flow rate for each measurement range used. An exception is allowed at the idle point. For this mode (idle), the minimum accuracy is # 2 percent of full-scale flow rate for the measurement range used. The controlling parameters are the elapsed time measurement of the event and the weight or volume measurement. §89.416&hyph;96 Raw exhaust gas flow. The exhaust gas flow shall be determined by one of the methods described in this section and conform to the tolerances of Table 3 in appendix A to subpart D:
