FR940505-1-00357 FR940505-1-00012 (3) If anywhere on the container of any coating listed in the Table of Standards, on any sticker or label affixed thereto, or in any sales or advertising literature, any representation is made that the coating may be used as, or is suitable for use as a coating for which a lower VOC standard is specified in the Table of Standards or in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, then the lowest VOC standard shall apply. This requirement does not apply to the representation of the following coatings in the manner specified: (i) High-temperature industrial maintenance coatings, which may be represented as metallic pigmented coatings for use consistent with the definition of high temperature industrial maintenance coatings; (ii) Metallic pigmented coatings, which may be recommended for use as primers, sealers, undercoaters, roof coatings, or industrial maintenance coatings; and (iii) Shellacs. (4) Sale or application of a coating manufactured prior to the effective date of the corresponding standard in the Table of Standards, and not complying with that standard, shall not constitute a violation of paragraph (c)(2) of this section until eighteen months after the effective date of the standard. (5) Sale or application of a coating in a container of one quart capacity or less shall not constitute a violation of paragraph (c)(1) or (c)(2) of this section until January 1, 2003. (6) All VOC-containing materials shall be stored in closed containers when not in use. In use includes, but is not limited to: being accessed, filled, emptied, or repaired. (d) Administrative Requirements. (1) Containers for all coatings subject to this section shall display the date of manufacture of the contents or a code indicating the date of manufacture. The manufacturers of such coatings shall file with the EPA an explanation of each code. (2) Containers for all coatings subject to the requirements of this section shall carry a statement of the manufacturer's recommendation regarding thinning of the coating. This recommendation shall not apply to the thinning of architectural coatings with water. The recommendation shall specify that the coating, is to be employed without thinning or diluting under normal environmental and application conditions, unless any thinning recommended on the label for normal environmental and application conditions does not cause a coating to exceed its applicable standard. (3) Each container of any coating subject to this section shall display the maximum VOC content of the coating, as applied, and after any thinning as recommended by the manufacturer. VOC content shall also be displayed as grams of VOC per liter of coating (less water and exempt solvent, and excluding any colorant added to tint bases). VOC content displayed may be calculated using product formulation data, or may be determined using the test method in paragraph (e) of this section. (4) The labels of all industrial maintenance coatings shall include the statement ``Not for Residential Use,'' or ``Not for Residential Use in California,'' prominently displayed. (e) Test Method. The VOC content of a coating subject to the provisions of this section shall be determined using the following procedures: (1) Method 24 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, shall be used in the determination of volatile matter content, water content, and density, volume solids, and weight solids of paint, varnish, lacquer or related surface coatings. (2) To determine the volatile matter content, water content, and density, volume solids, and weight solids of paint, varnish, lacquer or related surface coatings which are multi-component coatings, the following procedures shall be used in addition to Method 24 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A: (i) The components shall be mixed in a storage container in proportions the same as those in the coating, as applied. The mixing shall be accomplished by weighing the components in the proper proportion into a container which is closed between additions and during mixing. About 100 ml of coating shall be prepared in a container just large enough to hold the mixture prior to withdrawing a sample. (ii) A sample shall be withdrawn from the mixed coating, and then transferred to a dish where the sample shall stand for at least 1 hour, but no more than 24 hours prior to being oven dried at 100 ○ C for 1 hour. (3) The measurement of exempt solvents shall be determined using ASTM Test Method 4457&hyph;85 (re-approved 1992). (4) Calculation of volatile organic compound content of coatings less water and exempt solvents shall be performed in accordance with ASTM Test Method D 3960&hyph;92. (f) Exemptions. (1) The provisions of this section shall not apply to: (i) Until January 1, 2003, architectural coatings in containers having capacities of one quart; or (ii) Architectural coatings sold in California for shipment outside of the state or for shipment to other manufacturers for repackaging; or (iii) Emulsion type bituminous pavement sealers.
