FR940906-2-00056 FR940906-2-00049 Health Care Financing Administration [BPO&hyph;117&hyph;GN] Medicare Program; Criteria and Standards for Evaluating Intermediary and Carrier Performance During FY 1994 AGENCY: Health Care Financing Administration (HCFA), HHS. ACTION: General notice. SUMMARY: In the September 30, 1993 issue of the Federal Register , we published a general notice with comment period describing the criteria and standards for evaluating intermediary and carrier performance in administering the Medicare program during FY 1994. This notice amends that document to require that contractors certify the accuracy and completeness of the information submitted to HCFA with respect to the evaluation process. DATES: This notice is effective September 6, 1994 and does not alter the criteria and standards that were effective October 1, 1993. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Larry Pratt, (410) 966&hyph;7403. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: I. Background On September 30, 1993, we published in the Federal Register (58 FR 51085) the criteria and standards to be used for evaluating the performance of fiscal intermediaries and carriers in the administration of the Medicare program beginning October 1, 1993 under the Contractor Performance Evaluation Program (CPEP). We publish a similar notice annually in accordance with sections 1816(f) and 1842(b) of the Social Security Act. CPEP measures contractor compliance with program requirements; promotes contractor initiatives to improve administrative processes; provides comparable data on customer satisfaction; and serves as a basis of information for contract management activities. The results of the CPEP are considered whenever HCFA enters into, renews, or terminates an intermediary agreement or carrier contract or takes other contract actions. The 1994 CPEP was structured into three criteria, designed to meet the above objectives. Criterion one, titled Program Requirements, measures contractor performance against basic program requirements. Within this criterion, we identified performance standards which, when measured, evidence how well each contractor is performing the basic requirements of administering the Medicare program. Criterion two, titled Process Improvement, recognizes contractor performance improvement (compared to the previous review period) and contractor efforts to achieve program efficiencies by evaluating and improving the processes with which it administers the Medicare program. Criterion three, titled Customer Satisfaction, assesses the degree to which the contractor's customers are satisfied with the services provided by the contractor in its administration of the Medicare program. We also developed separate criteria and standards that measure only the activities of regional home health intermediaries and Common Working File hosts. II. Amendment to the FY 1994 CPEP Notice The notice published on September 30, 1993 (58 FR 51085), in addition to providing detailed descriptions of the specific CPEP criteria, standards, and procedures, included a summary of how the performance evaluations and assessments affect individual contract action decisions. The summary was contained on page 50190 and was entitled ``Action Based on Performance Evaluations.'' In our discussion of action to be taken based on performance, we did not address a situation that could arise if we did not receive accurate information from our contractors. We have discovered a number of instances where information has been manipulated or falsified by contractor personnel in an effort to receive a more favorable evaluation under CPEP. On October 28, 1993, we issued notices to each of the Medicare contractors that they must certify that all information submitted to HCFA with respect to CPEP for fiscal year 1993 was accurate and complete to the best of their knowledge and belief. We also informed the Medicare contractors that we would modify the annual CPEP notice to include mention of the requirement that they certify, under penalty of perjury, the accuracy of the information reviewed and data submitted to HCFA with respect to CPEP. The modification does not alter the criteria and standards that were effective October 1, 1993. So that our public notice relating to CPEP accurately reflects our administration of the evaluation program, we are revising Section H. Action Based on Performance Evaluations (page 50190 of the 1994 CPEP notice published September 30, 1993) by adding the following: Each contractor must certify that all information submitted to HCFA related to CPEP, including without limitation all records, reports, files, papers and other information, whether in written, electronic, or other form, are accurate and complete to the best of the contractor's knowledge and belief. A contractor will also be required to certify that its files, records, documents, and data have not been manipulated or falsified in an effort to receive a more favorable performance evaluation. A contractor must further certify that, to the best of its knowledge and belief, the contractor has submitted, without withholding any relevant information, all information required to be submitted with respect to CPEP under the authority of applicable law(s), regulation(s), contracts, or HCFA manual provision(s). Any contractor that makes a false, fictitious, or fraudulent certification may be subject to criminal and/or civil prosecution, as well as appropriate administrative action. Such administrative action may include debarment or suspension of the contractor, as well as the termination or nonrenewal of a contract. For the convenience of the reader, the full text of Section H is republished below with the addition found in the first paragraph. H. Action Based on Performance Evaluations
