FR940207-2-00066 FR940207-2-00028 Calculation of Interest During Construction Comment: Western should reexamine the procedure for utilizing the interest rates in effect at the inception of the project and change the regulation accordingly. Western's definition of start of construction and charging of IDC should be revised to reflect FERC policy. Comment: Western is using the wrong interest rates on replacements and additions. The interest rate in effect for each year of a project's appropriation should be used and a weighted average rate established on completion of the project. Response: Western's policy is to utilize the interest rate in effect at the inception of the project and Western believes this accurately reflects FERC policy and is in accordance with DOE Order No. RA 6120.2. IDC accumulates at the appropriate effective interest rate for a replacement or addition when the first direct cost (FERC Accounts 350 and above) is incurred to initiate construction or replacement. This interest rate remains constant with the investment. IDC terminates at the end of the FY in which the facility is placed in service. DOE Order No. RA 6120.2 states that the interest rate to be used for computing interest during construction shall be the yield rate during the FY in which construction is initiated. Therefore, Western does not believe that a weighted average reflects FERC policy or is in accordance with DOE Order No. RA 6120.2. Comment: Western is using the wrong interest rates on replacements and additions. Response: Western uses the most current yield interest rates as defined by the Department of the Treasury for each FY. This is in accordance with the formula set forth in DOE Order No. RA 6120.2, paragraph 11(b). Comment: It was suggested that Western use the most current interest rate. Response: At the time of the comment forum, Western was using the most current interest rate of 8.5 percent as defined by the Department of the Treasury. Since then, Western has revised the Ratesetting PRS to reflect the interest rate calculated for FY 1992, which is 7.875 percent. As a result, interest expense in future years has decreased. Rate Design Comment: In its revised PRS of June 1993, Western has continued to use the wheeled kW from early 1992 in the design of its currently proposed transmission rate. However, there have been increases to Western's transmission capacity under contract, and further increases are currently known. Response: Western will use the most current contractual amount of firm transmission in kW for the design of the firm transmission rate. Therefore, the number of kW will increase from 1,411,228 to 1,508,676 in step one of the P-DP transmission rate. The number of kW will increase to 1,584,150 in step two of the P-DP transmission rate. Comment: It is improper to burden the existing transmission customers with the cost of new capacity, and an allowance for increased contracted kW would remedy somewhat this inappropriate burden. Response: The only additional transmission facility being added to the system is the Mead-Basic # 2 line. Further studies need to be completed to determine what, if any, additional transmission capability is available to the system as a result of the installation of this transmission line. In the event Western adds additional transmission capability to the system and contracts for the additional capacity, this would be reflected in the Apportionment of Cost Study for future PRSs. Comment: Western should implement multistep rates, designed to meet annual financial obligations without prepayment of debt. A multistep rate would be designed to meet annual financial obligations. Response: FERC approves rates for a 5-year period. These rates have to produce adequate revenues that will recover all annual costs and will repay project investments in no longer than a 50-year period. Rates cannot be approved by FERC beyond the 5-year window. If multistep rates were designed outside the 5-year window, then the rates within the 5-year window would not adequately recover all costs and repay project investment over a 50-year period. Thus, the requirements of DOE Order No. RA 6120.2 would not be met. However, within the 5-year period, Western has decided to implement a two-step rate process, so the customers can phase-in the significant rate increase.
