FR940304-1-00176 FR940304-1-00014 2. Conduct of Hearing The Department reserves the right to select the persons to be heard at the hearing, to schedule the respective presentations, and to establish the procedures governing the conduct of the hearing. The length of each presentation is limited to 15 minutes. A DOE official will be designated to preside at the hearing. The hearing will not be a judicial or an evidentiary-type hearing, but will be conducted in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 533 and section 336 of the Act. At the conclusion of all initial oral statements at each day of the hearing, each person who has made an oral statement will be given the opportunity to make a rebuttal statement, subject to time limitations. The rebuttal statement will be given in the order in which the initial statements were made. The official conducting the hearing will accept additional comments or questions from those attending, as time permits. Any interested person may submit, to the presiding official, written questions to be asked of any person making a statement at the hearing. The presiding official will determine whether the question is relevant, and whether time limitations permit it to be presented for answer. Further questioning of speakers will be permitted by DOE. The presiding official will afford any interested person an opportunity to question other interested persons who made oral presentations, and employees of the United States who have made written or oral presentations with respect to disputed issues of material fact relating to the proposed rule. This opportunity will be afforded after any rebuttal statements, to the extent that the presiding official determines that such questioning is likely to result in a more timely and effective resolution of such issues. If the time provided is insufficient, DOE will consider affording an additional opportunity for questioning at a mutually convenient time. Persons interested in making use of this opportunity must submit their request to the presiding official no later than shortly after the completion of any rebuttal statements and be prepared to state specific justification, including why the issue is one of disputed fact and how the proposed questions would expedite their resolution. Any further procedural rules regarding proper conduct of the hearing will be announced by the presiding official. A transcript of the hearing will be made, and the entire record of this rulemaking, including the transcript, will be retained by DOE and made available for inspection at the DOE Freedom of Information Reading Room as provided at the beginning of this notice. Any person may purchase a copy of the transcript from the transcribing reporter. d. Issues Requested for Comment As discussed above in today's notice, DOE has identified a number of issues where comments are requested. These issues include, but are not limited to, the following: •The baseline units and the base cases; •Consideration of incremental impacts of various standard levels; •Market share elasticities; •Usage elasticities, i.e., rebound effect; •Appropriate discount rates, including those for residential and commercial consumer analyses (life-cycle cost and Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory-Residential Energy Model) and the use of a social discount rate (Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory-Residential Energy Model); •Energy price forecasts; •The characterization of prototypical firms for the manufacturer impact analysis (Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory-Manufacturer Impact Model); •Efficiency forecasts for these products; •Any lessening of product utility resulting from the addition of the design options identified; •The effects on forecasts due to the use of national average energy prices and usage rates; •The effects of standards on manufacturers' incentives to develop innovative products and product features; •Any uncertainties in modeling, especially with regard to product usage, e.g., changes in usage rates as shown by survey data or changes in usage of features; •Location of water heaters with respect to conditioned space; •Lifetimes of appliances; •Maintenance costs and failure rates of appliances and components; •The possible expansion of DOE's economic analysis to include the variable effects of standards on identifiable sub-groups of consumers, and/or the incremental effects of standards relative to lower or higher standard levels; and •Possible modifications or alternatives to LBL's Manufacturer Impact Model.
