FR941222-0-00024 FR941222-0-00003 The vendor analyzed the DSC and the HSM for rigid body response (i.e., sliding and overturning) to seismic accelerations. The resultant peak horizontal ground acceleration is 0.37g and the peak vertical acceleration is 0.17g. The margin of safety against sliding is 1.35. Similarly, the design seismic force will not cause the HSM to tip over because the stabilizing moment of the HSM is greater than the seismic overturning moment. The margin of safety against overturning is 1.26. Thus, no sliding or overturning of the HSM or DSC will occur from the design earthquake. Because the pad is not considered a safety-related item, a specific pad design is not being approved in this rulemaking for the Standardized NUHOMS. F.8. Comment. A few commenters had questions pertaining to the operation of and procedures for the Standardized NUHOMS. One commenter inquired whether just one module of the Standardized NUHOMS could be purchased by a utility, or whatever number of modules desired could be procured and easily added like singular casks. One commenter expressed concern about snow removal procedures to prevent blockage of the bottom vents by drifting snow. Another commenter wanted NRC to establish a procedure and criteria for dose rates discussed on pages A&hyph;15 and A&hyph;16 in the draft Certificate of Compliance. Several commenters noted that a procedure for opening a storage cask and removing the fuel has not been tried before nor documented in the rulemaking. They were also concerned that unloading of a cask would place workers at higher risk. Response. The NRC Certificate of Compliance does not permit or limit the number of NUHOMS modules that may be purchased by a general license. The NRC does not regulate the commercial arrangements between the cask vendor and the users including any provisions on the number of casks that can be purchased or added to the Standardized NUHOMS. Under the Certificate of Compliance, Section 1.3, the user of the Standardized NUHOMS (general licensee) is required to conduct a visual surveillance of the exterior of air inlets and outlets. If the surveillance shows blockage of air vents, they must be cleaned in accordance with proper procedures. These procedures will minimize the potential impact to the health and safety of workers. The daily temperature measurements indicate proper thermal performance. The Certificate of Compliance requires each licensee to develop procedures to implement the dose criteria prescribed on pages A&hyph;15 and A&hyph;16. On page A&hyph;15 of the Certificate of Compliance, Section 1.26, the dose rate criteria to be met is equal to or less than: (a) 200 mrem/hr. at the top shield plug surface at centerline with water in the cavity; and (b) 400 mrem/hr. at the top cover plate surface at centerline without water in the cavity. On page A&hyph;16 of the Certificate of Compliance the dose rate criteria is less than or equal to: (a) 400 mrem/hr. at 3 feet from the HSM surface; (b) 100 mrem/hr. outside of the HSM door on center line of the DSC; and (c) 20 mrem/hr. at the end shield wall exterior. Each licensee is required to develop its own procedures to implement these criteria. In addition, each licensee must develop operational procedures for the ISFSI for workers' radiation exposure to be ALARA. For the Standardized NUHOMS, removal of spent fuel from the DSC is addressed in Chapter 5 of the SAR and in Chapter 11 of the SER. The process is essentially the reverse of loading operations and would be performed under the reactor license radiation protection program. The Certificate of Compliance requires each user to develop written procedures for these operations and includes precautions to be considered for unloading. ALARA is required to be addressed by 10 CFR Part 20. Specification 1.1.6 of the Certificate of Compliance requires that pre-operational testing and training exercises include the opening of a DSC and returning the DSC and transfer cask to the spent fuel pool. The Certificate of Compliance also requires the training program to include off-normal events. F.9. Comment. One commenter, citing the May 1993 study prepared for the NRC by the Center for Nuclear Waste Regulatory Analyses of San Antonio, Texas, questioned the relatively higher temperature consequences of dry storage on fuel cladding. The report states that, ``the dry environment has the potential of producing such problems as further fuel cladding oxidation, increased cladding stresses, and creep deformation as a result of rod internal pressure *␣*␣*. These possible spent fuel and cladding alteration modes could be quite accelerated under dry storage conditions, since temperatures are much higher than in wet storage.'' The commenter does not believe that NRC is fulfilling its obligation in 10 CFR 72.122(h) to see that ``spent fuel cladding must be protected during storage against degradation that leads to gross rupture.''
