FR940830-2-00116 FR940830-2-00057 July 11, 1994. Mr. Richard Liefesbind, Assistant Chief Communications & Finance Section, U.S. Department of Justice, Antitrust Division, Room 8104, 555 Fourth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20001. Re: United States v. Electronic Payment Services, Inc. (EPS) Dear Mr. Liefesbind: On behalf of Meridian Bancorp, Inc., ``Meridian,'' a bank & financial services holding company headquartered in Reading, Pennsylvania, I would like to make the following comments to the Consent Decree relating to the branding of electronic stored value cards (smart cards). It is our opinion that the provision in Section IV (H) which would allow EPS to ``restrict the branding of access cards that contain an integrated circuit computer chip with stored value function'' is contrary to the competitive provisions being decreed in the balance of paragraph H. This exemption implies that EPS would be able to regulate the market by mandating that it's member institutions only issue smart cards that carry the EPS brand, and that only cards that carry the sole EPS brand would be capable of accessing accounts at an EPS certified ATM machine. An issuer that belongs to other networks would have to issue secondary cards, at additional expenses, to allow it's customers access via non-EPA networks. Additionally, we would also like to point out the inconsistency in the implied assumption that a smart card is different from an ordinary ATM card which carries a magnetic stripe. It is quite likely that both features would have to co-exist on the same card to allow account access as well as ``refueling'' of the electronic chip at nationally branded terminals such as CIRRUS and PLUS outside of the EPS market area. By allowing EPS to dictate the non-branding of these cards a loophole has been created which would allow EPS to control network access of it's member banks and restrict the competitive potential of other regional networks. We feel that this exception should be removed from the Consent Decree and in fact specific language should indicate that smart card and smart card technology are included within the scope of the decree. Sincerely, Peter L. Andersen, Vice President, Electronic Banking.
