FR940527-1-00040 FR940527-1-00014 The proposed recalibrated DRG relative weights are constructed from FY 1993 MedPAR data, received by HCFA through December 1993, from all hospitals subject to the prospective payment system and short-term acute care hospitals in waiver States. The FY 1993 MedPAR file includes data for approximately 10.5 million Medicare discharges. The methodology used to calculate the proposed DRG relative weights from the FY 1993 MedPAR file is as follows: •To the extent possible, all the claims were regrouped using the proposed DRG classification revisions discussed above in section II.B of this preamble. As noted in section II.B.4, due to the unavailability of revised GROUPER software, we simulate most major classification changes to approximate the placement of cases under the proposed reclassification. However, there are some changes that cannot be modeled. •Charges were standardized to remove the effects of differences in area wage levels, indirect medical education costs, disproportionate share payments, and, for hospitals in Alaska and Hawaii, the applicable cost-of-living adjustment. •The average standardized charge per DRG was calculated by summing the standardized charges for all cases in the DRG and dividing that amount by the number of cases classified in the DRG. •We then eliminated statistical outliers using the same criterion as was used in computing the current weights. That is, all cases outside of 3.0 standard deviations from the mean of the log distribution of charges per case for each DRG were eliminated. •The average charge for each DRG was then recomputed (excluding the statistical outliers) and divided by the national average standardized charge per case to determine the relative weight. •We established the relative weight for heart transplants (DRG 103) in a manner consistent with the methodology for all other DRGs except that the heart transplant cases that were used to establish the weight were limited to those Medicare-approved heart transplant centers that have cases in the FY 1993 MedPAR file. Similarly, we limited the liver transplant cases that were used to establish the weight for DRG 480 (Liver Transplant) to those hospitals that are Medicare-approved liver transplant centers. •Acquisition costs for kidney, heart, and liver transplants continue to be paid on a reasonable cost basis. Unlike other excluded costs, the acquisition costs are concentrated in specific DRGs (DRG 302 (Kidney Transplant); DRG 103 (Heart Transplant); and DRG 480 (Liver Transplant)). Because these costs are paid separately from the prospective payment rate, it is necessary to make an adjustment to prevent the relative weights for these DRGs from including the effect of the acquisition costs. Therefore, we subtracted the acquisition charges from the total charges on each transplant bill that showed acquisition charges before computing the average charge for the DRG and before eliminating statistical outliers. When we recalibrated the DRG weights for previous years, we set a threshold of 10 cases as the minimum number of cases required to compute a reasonable weight. We propose to use that same case threshold in recalibrating the DRG weights for FY 1995. Using the FY 1993 MedPAR data set, there are 35 DRGs that contain fewer than 10 cases. We computed the weight for the 35 low-volume DRGs by adjusting the original weights of these DRGs by the percentage change in the average weight of the cases in the remaining DRGs. The weights developed according to the methodology described above, using the proposed DRG classification changes, result in an average case weight that is different from the average case weight before recalibration. Therefore, the new weights are normalized by an adjustment factor, so that the average case weight after recalibration is equal to the average case weight before recalibration. This adjustment is intended to ensure that recalibration by itself neither increases nor decreases total payments under the prospective payment system. Section 1886(d)(4)(C)(iii) of the Act requires that beginning with FY 1991, reclassification and recalibration changes be made in a manner that assures that the aggregate payments are neither greater than nor less than the aggregate payments that would have been made without the changes. Although normalization is intended to achieve this effect, equating the average case weight after recalibration to the average case weight before recalibration does not necessarily achieve budget neutrality with respect to aggregate payments to hospitals because payment to hospitals is affected by factors other than average case weight. Therefore, as discussed in section II.A.4.b. of the Addendum to this proposed rule, we are proposing to make a budget neutrality adjustment to assure the requirement of section 1886(d)(4)(C)(iii) of the Act is met.
