FR940325-0-00066 FR940325-0-00015 The Assistant Administrator for Fisheries, NOAA (AA) has determined that this rule is necessary to promote compliance with the Magnuson Act prohibition of stripping pollock of its roe and discarding the flesh of the pollock (16 U.S.C. 1857(1)(N)). The Alaska Region, NMFS, prepared a final regulatory flexibility analysis as part of the EA/RIR/FRFA prepared for final rulemaking, which concludes that this rule will have significant effects on a substantial number of small entities. The FRFA concludes that reducing the allowable proportion to 0.07 for retained pollock roe is superior to the status quo alternative in which the allowable proportion is 0.10. In 1992, actual roe recovery rates achieved by shore-based and at-sea processors were 0.037 and 0.034, respectively. In 1993, the actual roe recovery rate achieved by shorebased processors was 0.026. Some at-sea processors achieved roe recoveries of 0.072 during a time when roe maturation was likely optimum. The recovery rate of 0.07 is not expected to be constraining and will better achieve the intent of the Council and the Magnuson Act to prohibit pollock roe stripping. A copy of the EA/RIR/FRFA may be obtained from NMFS (see ADDRESSES ). This rule is not subject to review under E.O. 12866. List of Subjects in 50 CFR Parts 672 and 675 Fisheries, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. Dated: March 21, 1994. Charles Karnella, Acting Program Management Officer, National Marine Fisheries Service. For the reasons set out in the preamble, 50 CFR parts 672 and 675 are amended as follows: PART 672_GROUNDFISH OF THE GULF OF ALASKA 1. The authority citation for part 672 continues to read as follows: Authority: 16 U.S.C. 1801 et seq. 2. In §672.20, paragraphs (i)(1) and (i)(6) are revised to read as follows: §672.20 General limitations. * * * * * (i) *␣*␣* (1) For purposes of this paragraph (i), pollock roe means product comprised of pollock eggs, either loose or in sacs or skeins. Pollock roe retained onboard a vessel at any time during a fishing trip must not exceed 7 percent of the total round-weight equivalent of pollock, as calculated from the primary pollock product onboard the vessel during the same fishing trip as defined in this paragraph (i). Determinations of allowable retention of pollock roe will be based on amounts of pollock harvested, received, or processed during a single fishing trip. Pollock or pollock products from previous fishing trips that are retained onboard a vessel may not be used to determine the allowable retention of pollock roe for that vessel. * * * * * (6) Calculation of the amount of retainable pollock roe. To calculate the amount of pollock roe that can be retained onboard during a fishing trip, first calculate the round-weight equivalent by dividing the total amount of primary product onboard by the appropriate product-recovery rate. To determine the amount of pollock roe that can be retained during the same fishing trip, multiply the round-weight equivalent by 0.07. The result is the maximum amount of pollock roe that can be retained onboard during that fishing trip. Pollock roe retained onboard from previous fishing trips will not be counted, for purposes of this paragraph (i)(6). If two or more products, other than roe, are made from different fish, then round-weight equivalents are calculated separately for each product. Round-weight equivalents are then added together, and the sum multiplied by 0.07 to determine the maximum amount of pollock roe that can be retained onboard a vessel during a fishing trip. However, if two or more products, other than roe, are made from the same fish, then the maximum amount of pollock roe that can be retained during a fishing trip is determined from the primary product. * * * * *
