FR941227-2-00062 FR941227-2-00046 Add line items to collect quarterly gross sales of mutual funds (by type of fund) and annuities, including sales of proprietary mutual funds and annuities, and the fee income generated from the sale and servicing of mutual funds and annuities in domestic offices. Gross Redemptions of Mutual Funds and Annuities Add a line item to collect the total amount of gross redemptions of mutual funds and annuities during the quarter. B. Minor clarifications to the existing report forms and instructions: Revise the wording of Schedule HC&hyph;J, Part 3, line item 3 to conform with the intent of the existing instructions. The current wording of this line item ``unsecured commitments,'' will be revised to read as ``unutilized commitments.'' In addition, minor instructional clarifications will be implemented based on comments received from the industry and Reserve Banks. Proposal to approve under OMB delegated authority the extension, with revision, of the following reports: 1. Report Title: Annual Report of Bank Holding Companies Agency Form Number: FR Y&hyph;6 OMB Docket Number: 7100&hyph;0124 Frequency: Annual Reporters: Bank Holding Companies Annual Reporting Hours: 21,972 Estimated Average Hours per Response: Range from 1.3 to 101 hours per response Number of Respondents: 5,493 Small businesses are affected. The information collection is mandatory [12 U.S.C. 1844(b) and (c)] and 12 CFR 225.5 of Regulation Y. Confidential treatment is not routinely given to the information in these reports. However, confidential treatment for the report information can be requested, in whole or part, in accordance with the instructions to the form. The FR Y&hyph;6 is an annual report filed by the top-tier bank holding companies. Foreign banking organizations as defined by section 211.23(b) of Regulation K are not required to file this form. The FR Y&hyph;6 consists of consolidated and parent company financial statements in the company's own format. Additionally, financial statements for the nonbank subsidiaries of the holding company and information on the identity, percentage ownership, and business interests of principal shareholders, directors, and executive officers are included in the report. Amendments to the organizational documents, information on insider loans, and an organization chart are also currently required. The Federal Reserve proposes the following revisions to the FR Y&hyph;6: (1) Eliminate the requirement to submit consolidated and parent company financial statements.
