FR940617-1-00011 FR940617-1-00003 Proposed Revision The Commission proposes to delete the single sentence that discusses ``risk scores'' in comment 7 to section 609 of the FCRA Commentary, and to add a separate comment 12 to read as follows: 12. Risk scores. A consumer reporting agency must disclose to a consumer in response to a consumer's disclosure request: (a) risk scores (or other numerical evaluations, however named), calculated at the time of the consumer's request; and (b) a brief statement that explains what the risk score predicts, how the score may be applied by its user, and how the consumer ranks against other consumers under the scoring model. The agency must disclose this information for each type of score, regardless of who developed the score, that the agency has reported to its clients within the six months preceding the date of the consumer's disclosure request (or within two years, if for employment purposes). Questions for Public Comment The Commission requests public comment on this proposed revision to the FCRA Commentary, and is particularly interested in receiving comments on the questions that follow. Legal and policy analysis of these questions would be particularly useful. The Commission specifically requests comments based on reasoned analysis of provisions of the FCRA that discuss the impact of the proposal on consumers and the marketplace. (1) What type of risk score disclosure is mandated under section 609 of the FCRA? (2) Consumer reporting agencies generally calculate risk scores only when they receive a request for such a score from a client. Is a consumer entitled to a risk score disclosure if the consumer reporting agency has never reported a score on that individual? Assuming some prior risk score report is necessary to trigger the disclosure requirement, does a risk score provided by a consumer reporting agency only in the context of ``prescreening'' provide an appropriate trigger? (3) If provision of a risk score to a client is an appropriate trigger for the disclosure requirement, in what time frame, if any, must that score have been provided? Are each of the proposed time frames, which are based on sections 609(a)(3) and 611(d) of the FCRA, proper and sensible? Are they unduly burdensome on credit bureaus or insufficient to provide adequate disclosure to consumers? (4) Risk scoring systems can be created by or for consumer reporting agencies themselves (``generic models''), or they can be created by or for one or more of the agency's clients (``custom models''). Should the disclosure requirement for risk scores based on generic models and custom models be the same? (5) Credit files are constantly changing. New items are added while older items become statutorily obsolete and are dropped. Because of the dynamic nature of consumer reports, the risk score that is reported to a creditor at any given time may differ from the score that would be assigned to that report at a time shortly thereafter. Should ``historical'' risk scores (those actually provided to the agency's clients) or ``current'' risk scores (calculated at the time of the disclosure) be disclosed to consumers? (6) A consumer reporting agency may produce a variety of different risk scores, such as a bankruptcy risk score, a default risk score, or other types of scores. Should the consumer reporting agency be required to disclose to consumers each type of risk score it offers its clients the option of purchasing, or only those scores that have actually been provided about that consumer to one or more clients? (7) What explanation, if any, should a consumer reporting agency provide consumers about their risk scores? Should agencies discuss how the score may be used by their clients? Should agencies specify how the individual consumer ranks in regard to others? If so, should the ranking be done by percentile or other technique? Should the Commentary specify the precise form of explanation, or contain expanded requirements as to the details of the explanation? Is the proposal to require an explanation of the risk score too narrow or too broad? If so, in what way should it be expanded or contracted? (8) Is there some approach other than disclosure of actual risk scores that would better inform consumers of the information about them being reported by consumer reporting agencies? For example, might it be more useful for a consumer reporting agency to provide a single score to all consumers designed to show the likelihood of obtaining credit? Would it be more helpful for the consumer to receive a list of the elements on which the calculation of such a ``score'' is based, rather than the actual score and explanation required by the proposal? List of Subjects in 16 CFR Part 600 Credit, Trade practices. For the reasons set out in the preamble, the Commission proposes to amend title 16, chapter I, part 600 of the Code of Federal Regulations as follows: PART 600_STATEMENT OF GENERAL POLICY OR INTERPRETATIONS
