FR940323-2-00168 FR940323-2-00120 Safeguards: 1. Access to VA working and storage areas is restricted to VA employees on a ``need-to-know'' basis; strict control measures are enforced to ensure that disclosure to these individuals is also based on this same principle. Generally, VA file areas are locked after normal duty hours and the facilities are protected from outside access by the Federal Protective Service or other security personnel. 2. All chaplains and other VA employees who enter or use data in the data base will do so by direct access into the system, or by means of the national VA communications network (VADATS/IDCU). All users must have access and verify codes maintained by the National Chaplain Center. All staff access to the system data will be restricted to only that data required on a ``need-to-know'' basis consistent with the routine performance of their duties. Access to individual work stations will be protected under security protocols established at the user's facility. Computers will be maintained in the locked environment in the main computer room of the VA Medical Center, Hampton, Virginia. Retention and disposal: Paper records and information stored on electronic storage media are maintained and disposed of in accordance with records disposition authority approved by the Archivist of the United States. System manager(s) and address: Director, Chaplain Service (301/111K), National VA Chaplain Center, VA Medical Center, 100 Emancipation Road, Hampton, Virginia 23667. Notification procedure: Individuals who wish to determine whether this system of records contains information about them should write to the System Manager at the above address. Inquiries should include the individual's name, address, and social security number. Record access procedure: Individuals seeking information regarding access to and contesting of records in this system may write, call or visit the System Manager at the above address. Contesting record procedures: (See Record Access Procedures above.) Record source categories: Information in this system of records is provided by the applicant/employee, or obtained from current or previous employers, references, educational institutions, religious bodies and/or their representatives and VA staff. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;6734 Filed 3&hyph;22&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8320&hyph;01&hyph;M
