FR940602-2-00075 FR940602-2-00038 (1) Include the statement: ``Check at our centers for details about our maintenance record''; (2) For a period of time beginning with the date of the first broadcast advertisement of any such advertisement and ending no sooner than thirty days after the last broadcast advertisement, comply with the following procedures for information from a potential client: (a) Give to each potential customer a separate document that includes the maintenance information disclosures discussed above; (b) Require each potential customer to sign this document; and (c) Give each customer a copy of the document, and retain a copy of the document (¶I.D.) When proposed respondents use advertisements containing the endorsement or testimonial of one of their customers about weight loss success or weight loss maintenance success, and the success depicted in the advertisement is not representative of what their customers generally achieve, the proposed orders also require proposed respondents to disclose what the generally expected success would be for customers of proposed respondents in losing weight or maintaining weight loss, or one of several alternative statements that disclaim the typicality of the success depicted. (¶I.E.) Rate of Weight Loss The Commission's three complaints also charge that all of the proposed respondents claimed that an appreciable number of customers following their diet programs typically lose weight at an average rate of six or more pounds per week, when they did not have a reasonable basis for those claims. The Commission's complaints against (1) DMLWC/DWLC and Schuman and (2) QWLC&hyph;Tex., Gearheart, and Schuman also charge that these proposed respondents claimed that customers following their diet programs typically lose weight at an average rate of thirty pounds in thirty days, or three to eight pounds per week, when they did not have a reasonable basis for doing so. To remedy these practices, the proposed orders prohibit representations that customers will reach a specified weight within a specified period of time, without having and relying upon competent and reliable scientific evidence to support those claims. (¶I.I.) The proposed orders also prohibit representations about the average or typical rate or speed at which customers have lost or will lose weight, without having and relying upon competent and reliable scientific evidence to support those claims. (¶I.J.) Price The complaints further allege that proposed respondents falsely claimed that the prices they advertised for their diet programs were the only costs associated with losing weight on their diet programs, and that their failure in such advertisements to disclose the existence and amount of all mandatory expenses was a deceptive practice. The proposed orders seek to remedy these charges in several ways. First, the proposed orders prohibit untrue claims that any price is the only the cost associated with losing weight on their diet programs. (¶I.F.) Second, when representing the price of their diet programs, the proposed orders also require proposed respondents either (1) to disclose the existence and amount of all mandatory fees associated with the advertised diet programs, or (2) to state in one of two ways that customers are required to purchase additional products or services. (¶I.G.) Finally, the proposed orders require telephone disclosures to all prospective customers who ask, or are otherwise told about, the price of their weight loss programs, about the existence and amount of all mandatory fees. (¶I.H.) Monitoring Practices The complaints also charge that proposed respondents engaged in deceptive monitoring practices. Proposed respondents instructed their customers to check in with the weight loss centers three to six times per week so that proposed respondents could monitor the weight loss progress of their customers. Sometimes, when the customers checked in, they presented the proposed respondents with weight loss results indicating that they may not have been consuming all of the food recommended by proposed respondents. The Commission's complaints charge that proposed respondents' failure to disclose that this conduct could result in serious health complications was a deceptive practice. The proposed orders seek to remedy this practice by requiring proposed respondents to disclose that failure to eat all of the food recommended may involve developing serious health complications. The proposed orders require proposed respondents to make this disclosure either (1) to all customers in writing when they start the weight loss program, or (2) to those customers who, after their first two weeks on the diet program, average a weekly weight loss that exceeds 2% of their initial body weight, or three pounds, whichever is less, for two consecutive weeks. (¶I.K.) Medical Supervision Finally, the Commission's complaint against QWLC-Tex., Gearhart, and Schuman charges that these proposed respondents falsely claimed that customers who participated in their diet programs were monitored by health professionals. The proposed order addresses this allegation by prohibiting untrue representations that any weight loss program is supervised or monitored by health care professionals, or other misrepresentations about the extent to which any weight loss program is supervised or monitored by health care professionals. (¶I.L.) The purpose of this analysis is to facilitate public comment on the three proposed orders. This analysis is not intended to constitute an official interpretation of any of the agreements and proposed orders, or to modify in any way their terms. Donald S. Clark, Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;13286 Filed 6&hyph;1&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6750&hyph;01&hyph;M
