FR940620-1-00091 FR940620-1-00009 (16) Noncommercial computer software means software that does not qualify as commercial computer software under (a)(1) of this clause. (17) Restricted rights apply only to noncommercial computer software and mean the Government's rights to_ (i) Use a computer program with one computer at one time. The program may not be accessed by more than one terminal or central processing unit or time shared unless otherwise permitted by this contract; (ii) Transfer a computer program to another Government agency without the further permission of the contractor if the transferor destroys all copies of the program and related computer software documentation in its possession and notifies the licensor of the transfer. Transferred programs remain subject to the provisions of this clause. (iii) Make the minimum number of copies of the computer software required for safekeeping (archive), backup, or modification purposes; (iv) Modify computer software provided that the Government may_ (A) Use the modified software only as provided in subparagraphs (a)(17) (i) and (iii) of this clause; (B) Not release or disclose the modified software except as provided in subparagraphs (a)(17)(ii), (v) and (vi) of this clause. (v) Permit contractors or subcontractors performing service contracts (see FAR 37.101) in support of this or a related contract to use computer software to diagnose and correct deficiencies in a computer program, to modify computer software to enable a computer program to be combined with, adapted to, or merged with other computer programs or when necessary to respond to urgent tactical situations, provided that_ (A) The Government notifies the party which has granted restricted rights that a release or disclosure to particular contractors or subcontractors was made. (B) Such contractors or subcontractors are subject to the non-disclosure agreements at 227.403&hyph;7 or are Government contractors receiving access to the software for performance of a Government contract that contains the clause at 252.227&hyph;7025, ``Limitations on the Use or Disclosure of Government Furnished Information Marked with Restrictive Legends''; (C) The Government shall not permit the recipient to decompile, disassemble, or reverse engineer the software, or use software decompiled, disassembled, or reverse engineered by the Government pursuant to subparagraph (a)(17)(iv) of this clause, for any other purpose; and, (D) Such use is subject to the limitation in subparagraph (a)(17)(i) of this clause. (vi) Permit contractors or subcontractors performing emergency repairs or overhaul of items or components of items procured under this or a related contract to use the computer software when necessary to perform the repairs or overhaul, or to modify the computer software to reflect the repairs or overhaul made, provided that_ (A) The intended recipient is subject to the non-disclosure agreement at 227.403&hyph;7 or is a Government contractor receiving access to the software for performance of a Government contract that contains the clause at 252.227&hyph;7025, ``Limitations on the Use or Disclosure of Government Furnished Information Marked with Restrictive Legends''; and, (B) The Government shall not permit the recipient to decompile, disassemble, or reverse engineer the software, or use software decompiled, disassembled, or reverse engineered by the Government pursuant to subparagraph (a)(17)(iv) of this clause, for any other purpose. (18) SBIR data rights mean a royalty free license for the Government, including its support service contractors, to use, modify, reproduce, release, perform, display, or disclose technical data or computer software generated and delivered under this contract for any United States government purpose. (19) Technical data means recorded information, regardless of the form or method of the recording, of a scientific or technical nature (including computer software documentation). The term does not include computer software or data incidental to contract administration, such as financial and/or management information. (20) Unlimited rights, means rights to use, modify, reproduce, release, perform, display, or disclose, technical data or computer software in whole or in part, in any manner and for any purpose whatsoever, and to have or authorize others to do so. (b) Rights in technical data and computer software. The contractor grants or shall obtain for the government the following royalty free, worldwide, nonexclusive, irrevocable license rights in technical data or non-commercial computer software. All rights not granted to the Government are retained by the contractor. (1) Unlimited rights. The Government shall have unlimited rights in technical data, including computer software documentation, or computer software generated under this contract that are_ (i) Form, fit, and function data;
