FR941227-1-00035 FR941227-1-00008 Ford's petition indicates that its proposed change to the language of S6.2(d) would consistently locate the test place one inch forward of the rearmost edge of the front windshield opening, thereby reducing test variability and ensuring that the test plate is positioned ahead of the roof's leading edge. NHTSA notes that while this would position the test plate over the leading edge of the roof, it would not necessarily load the roof at the rearmost windshield opening. Ford's proposed change retained the same test plate angles currently specified in Standard No. 216, which means the initial contact point for the test plate on the roof would be the same as at present. In other words, it appears to NHTSA that Ford's proposal would ensure the consistent orientation of the test plate over the front of the roof, but would not ensure that area of the roof would be tested. Further, the agency is uncertain whether the proposed test plate positioning one inch forward of the rearmost edge of the front windshield opening would be an improved test for all vehicles with uncommon roof shapes or whether it would reduce the stringency of the current test procedure. Areas in Which the Public's Ideas and Information Are Requested The agency is interested in comments on the changes requested in both the Ford and RVIA petitions. Therefore, the agency is seeking from all interested parties comments on the two proposals along with any available test data to substantiate or refute those proposals. The agency is also interested in other ways to accommodate aerodynamically sloped and raised roof vehicles. For instance, should the angles at which the test plate is applied and/or the size and shape of the test plate itself be changed? If the plate size were reduced or if the plate shape were changed to circular, the test plate could be placed over the A-pillar region on raised roof vehicles. Standard No. 216 currently provides that the test plate shall be angled 5 ○ toward the front of the vehicle, when viewed from the side of the test vehicle. This angle could be changed sufficiently to ensure the test plate would contact the A-pillar region, with the new angle based on an analysis of real world crashes and roof geometries. The agency is also interested in any other approaches the public might wish to suggest in this area. As always, the most helpful comments will be those that set forth data to substantiate the position taken in the comment. NHTSA would like to alert commenters that the agency will not propose any changes to Standard No. 216 test procedures until the agency is satisfied that data and analysis show the changes will not reduce real world safety protection for vehicle occupants. Submission of Comments Interested persons are invited to submit comments in response to this request for comments. It is requested but not required that 10 copies be submitted. All comments must not exceed 15 pages in length (49 CFR 553.21). Necessary attachments may be appended to these submissions without regard to the 15-page limit. This limitation is intended to encourage commenters to state their positions and arguments concisely. If a commenter wishes to submit certain information under a claim of confidentiality, three copies of the complete submission, including purportedly confidential business information, should be submitted to the NHTSA Chief Counsel, Room 5219, 400 Seventh Street, SW., Washington DC 20590, and seven copies from which the purportedly confidential information has been deleted should be submitted to the Docket Section at the street address given above. A request for confidentiality should be accompanied by a cover letter setting forth the information specified in the agency's confidential business information regulation (49 CFR part 512). Comments on this notice will be available for inspection in the docket. NHTSA will continue to file relevant information as it becomes available in the docket after the closing date. Those persons desiring to be notified upon receipt of their written comments in the Docket Section should enclose, in the envelope with their comments, a self-addressed stamped postcard. Upon receipt, the docket supervisor will return the postcard by mail. Authority: 49 U.S.C. 30111, 30168, delegations of authority at 49 CFR 1.50 and 49 CFR 501.8. Issued on December 20, 1994. Barry Felrice, Associate Administrator for Rulemaking. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;31739 Filed 12&hyph;23&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;59&hyph;P&hyph;M
