FR940512-2-00187 FR940512-2-00078 4. Describe facilities, equipment, and other resources that would be available to the project. 5. Describe the administrative and organizational structure and linkages established with other relevant organizations (e.g. subcontractors, other projects). Provide charts summarizing these structures and linkages and written agreements defining them (include in appendices). Budget Appropriateness 1. Discuss and justify the cost of the proposed project in terms of types and quantities of services to be provided. 2. Describe the fiscal control and accounting procedures that will be used to ensure the prudent use, proper disbursement, and accurate accounting of funds received. 3. Describe how additional resources necessary to carry out this project would be obtained and integrated into the work of the project. 4. Provide assurance that one key person from the project would attend an annual 2&hyph;3 day FYSB sponsored meeting in Washington, DC. Duration of Project: This announcement solicits applications for Training and Technical Assistance cooperative agreements of up to five years in duration (60-month project periods). Initial awards, made on a competitive basis, will be for one-year (12-month) budget periods. Applications for continuation cooperative agreements beyond the one-year budget period, but within the 60-month project period, will be entertained in subsequent years on a non-competitive basis, subject to the availability of funds, satisfactory progress of the grantee, and determination that continued funding would be in the best interest of the government. Federal Share of Project Costs: The maximum Federal share is not to exceed $150,000 per Federal Region for the first 12-month budget period, or a maximum of $750,000 per Federal Region for the 5-year project period. (For example, a project covering two Regions may receive up to $300,000 for the first 12-month budget period. Conversely, a project serving less than a Federal Region (e.g., a Statewide system) would receive less than $150,000 for the first 12-month budget period.) Matching Requirement: The minimum non-Federal matching requirement in proportion to the maximum Federal share of $750,000 is $75,000 for a 5-year project period. This constitutes 10 percent of the total Federal share. Anticipated number of projects to be funded: It is anticipated that up to ten projects will be funded. Part IV. Application Process A. Assistance to Prospective Grantees Potential grantees can receive informational assistance in developing applications from the appropriate ACF Regional Youth Contacts listed in Part VI, Appendix F or from the Administration on Children, Youth and Families in Washington, DC (see address at the beginning of this announcement). Organizations may also receive information and technical assistance in preparing applications from the appropriate Training and Technical Assistance Provider grantee listed in Part VI, Appendix G. B. Application Requirements To be considered for a Runaway and Homeless Youth grant, each application must be submitted on the forms provided at the end of this announcement (see Part VI, section I of this announcement) and in accordance with the guidance provided herein. The application must be signed by an individual authorized both to act for the applicant agency and to assume responsibility for the obligations imposed by the terms and conditions of the grant award. Applicants applying for grants under more than one program (Basic Center Program, Drug Abuse Prevention Program, Transitional Living Program, and/or Training and Technical Assistance grants) must submit a separate and complete application for each program and must identify the relevant Priority Area on Form 424, Item # 11. Although coordination among program components is encouraged, applications that combine an application for more than one grant program in a single proposal will not be reviewed. All applicants must indicate in their applications their willingness to fully cooperate in any data collection and research efforts mandated by the Administration for Children and Families. If more than one agency is involved in submitting a single application, one entity must be identified as the applicant organization which will have legal responsibility for the grant. C. Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980 Under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980, Pub. L. 96&hyph;511, the Department is required to submit to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) for review and approval any reporting and record-keeping requirements in regulations, including program announcements. This program announcement does not contain information collection requirements beyond those approved for ACF grant applications by OMB.
