FR940627-2-00132 FR940627-2-00054 SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION [Release No. 34&hyph;34238; File No. SR&hyph;NASD&hyph;94&hyph;28] Self-Regulatory Organizations; Filing of Proposed Rule Change by the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. Relating to Clearance and Settlement Requirements for NASD Member Firms That Are Market Makers in the Nasdaq Stock Market or the OTC Bulletin Board ® Service June 20, 1994. Pursusant to Section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act''), 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1), notice is hereby given that on May 23, 1994, the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. (``NASD'' or ``Association'') filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``Commission'' or ``SEC'') the proposed rule change as described in Items I, II, and III below, which Items have been prepared by the NASD. The Commission is publishing this notice to solicit comments on the proposed rule change from interested persons. I. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Terms of Substance of the Proposed Rule Change Pursuant to Section 19(b)(1) of the Act, the NASD hereby files a proposed rule change that deals with clearance and settlement requirements applicable to NASD member firms functioning as market makers in The Nasdaq Stock Market (``Nasdaq'') or the OTC Bulletin Board ® Service (``OTCBB''). Below is the text of the proposed rule change. (Additions are italicized and deletions are bracketed.) Scheduled D_Part V: Requirements Applicable to NASDAQ Market Makers Sec. 7␣Clearance and Settlement (a) A market maker shall clear and settle transaction in Nasdaq securities [other than securities in SOES] through the facilities of a registered clearing agency [where clearing facilities are located within 25 miles of the market maker.] that uses a continuous net settlement system. This requirement may be satisfied by direct participation, use of direct clearing services, or by entry into a correspondent clearing arrangement with another member that clears trades through such an agency. (b) [Notwithstanding its proximity to a particular clearing facility, a market maker may also clear and settle its transactions in a security that is not a SOES security through any registered clearing facility using a continuous net settlement system; enter into a correspondent clearing arrangement with a member that clears through a continuous net settlement clearing facility; settle transactions ``ex-clearing'' provided both parties to the transaction agree; or use direct clearing services.] Notwithstanding paragraph (a), transactions in Nasdaq securities may be settled ``ex-clearing'' provided that both parties to the transaction agree. (c) No change. OTC Bulletin Board Service Rules Section 4.␣Requirements Applicable to Market Makers (d) Clearance and Settlement (1) A market maker shall clear and settle transactions in OTCBB-quoted securities through the facilities of a registered clearing agency that uses a continuous net settlement system. This requirement applies only to transactions in OTCBB securities that are clearing eligible. (2) The foregoing requirement may be satisfied by direct participation, use of direct clearing services, or by entry into a correspondent clearing arrangement with another member that clears trades through such an agency. (3) Notwithstanding paragraph (d)(1), transactions in OTCBB-quoted securities may be settled ``ex-clearing'' provided that both parties to the transaction agree. II. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change In its filing with the Commission, the NASD included statements concerning the purpose of and basis for the proposed rule change and discussed any comments it received on the proposed rule change. The text of these statements may be examined at the places specified in Item IV below. The NASD has prepared summaries, set forth in Sections (A), (B), and (C) below, of the most significant aspects of such statements. A. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change The purpose of this rule change is to mandate market maker utilization of the facilities of a registered clearing agency to ensure efficient clearance and settlement of securities transactions. For securities listed on Nasdaq, this will be accomplished by eliminating the ``25 mile exception''' from Section 7(a) in Part V of Schedule D to the NASD By-Laws. (Part V articulates the basic requirements applicable to Nasdaq market makers.) Even today, this exception is quite limited in that it is only available to market makers who are located more than 25 miles from a clearing facility, limit their Nasdaq market making activity to Nasdaq SmallCap SM securities, and do not participate in the Small Order Execution System (``SOES''). 1 With respect to equity securities quoted in the OTCBB, a new requirement is being proposed to mandate market maker participation in a registered clearing agency for clearance and settlement of transactions in OTCBB securities that are clearing eligible. 2 As a result, parallel requirements will exist for the two largest equity market segments in which NASD members function as market makers and utilize the Automated Confirmation Transaction Service (``ACT'') for trade reporting and comparison purposes. 3 1 Although registered market makers in Nasdaq National Market securities must be SOES participants, SOES participation is voluntary with respect to market makers in SmallCap issues. 2 As of April 30, 1994, approximately 87% of all securities quoted in the OTCBB were clearing eligible. Clearing eligible status is noted in the OTCBB symbol directory and in the electronic directory accessible via Nasdaq Workstation PCs. 3 The NASD estimates that fewer than 10 member firms that function as market makers would be required to establish clearing arrangements as a result of this rule proposal. ACT is the primary facility for collecting, processing, and disseminating transaction reports on Nasdaq securities as well as equity issues quoted in the OTCBB. ACT also facilitates the clearance and settlement of inter-member transactions by locking-in trade details for transmission to the National Securities Clearing Corporation (``NSCC''). The generation of locked-in trades by ACT enhances the overall efficiency of the clearance and settlement process and virtually eliminates a members risk exposure respecting uncompared trades. These benefits cannot be realized, however, unless the broker-dealers on both sides of the trade have some form of participation in a registered clearing agency. This rule proposal is believed to be consistent with the provisions of Sections 11A(a)(1), 15A(b)(6), and 17A(a)(1) of the Act. Section 11A(a)(1) contains the Congressional findings that have guided development of the National Market System. These findings include a directive to apply state-of-the-art data processing and communications techniques to achieve more efficient and effective market operations and to ensure the economical execution of securities orders. Similarly, Section 15A(b)(6) requires, among other things, that the rules of a national securities association be designed to prevent fraudulent and manipulative acts and practices, to promote just and equitable principles of trade, and to foster cooperation and coordination with persons engaged in regulating, clearing, settling, and processing information with respect to and facilitating transactions in securities. Finally, Section 17A(a)(1) reflects the statutory goals of a national system for clearance and settlement of securities transactions. These goals include the application of new data processing and communications techniques to create the opportunity for more efficient, effective, and safe procedures for clearance and settlement. The NASD believes that this proposed rule change is fully consistent with these statutory requirements. In sum, the primary objectives of this rule change are to minimize risk exposure from uncompared trades and foster optimal usage of ACT to lock-in the details of individual trades prior to their submission to a registered clearing agency. B. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Burden on Competition The NASD believes that the rule change will not result in any burden on competition that is not necessary or appropriate in furtherance of the purposes of the Act. C. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received From Members, Participants, or Others The NASD did not solicit or receive written comments on this rule proposal. III. Date of Effectiveness of the Proposed Rule Change and Timing for Commission Action Within 35 days of the date of publication of this notice in the Federal Register or within such longer period (i) as the Commission may designate up to 90 days of such date if it finds such longer period to be appropriate and publishes its reasons for so finding or (ii) as to which the NASD consents, the Commission will: A. By order approve such proposed rule change, or B. Institute proceedings to determine whether the proposed rule change should be disapproved. IV. Solicitation of Comments Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views, and arguments concerning the foregoing. Persons making written submissions should file six copies thereof with the Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of the submission, all subsequent amendments, all written statements with respect to the proposed rule change that are filed with the Commission, and all written communications relating to the proposed rule change between the Commission and any person, other than those that may be withheld from the public in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552, will be available for inspection and copying in the Commission's Public Reference Room. Copies of such filing will also be available for inspection and copying at the principal office of the NASD. All submissions should refer to file number SR&hyph;NASD&hyph;94&hyph;28 and should be submitted by July 18, 1994. For the Commission, by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. 4 4 17 CFR 200.30&hyph;3(a)(12). Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;15491 Filed 6&hyph;24&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
