FR940503-1-00044 FR940503-1-00010 EPA believes the proposed part 59 procedures faithfully implement Congressional intent for the field citation program, and satisfy procedural due process concerns. This belief is bolstered by judicial acceptance of similar procedures in a variety of related situations. See Chemical Waste Management, Inc. (court upheld EPA's non-APA hearing procedures for issuance of administrative orders concerning corrective action orders under section 3008(h) of RCRA); United States v. Independent Bulk Transport, Inc. , 480 F. Supp. 474 (S.D. NY 1979) (court upheld non-APA hearing held by Coast Guard in assessing less than the maximum $5,000 civil penalty per unlawful discharge under the Federal Water Pollution Control Act). H. Design of Field Citations Field citations will be of a standardized format nationwide, and will be issued in triplicate. The following information shall be included on the field citation: (1) Date and time of violation(s); (2) Inspector's name, title, and office; (3) Name and address of source; (4) Name and telephone number of owner/operator or his/her representative; (5) Specific violation(s); (6) Location/source/description of violation(s); (7) Proposed penalty; (8) Notification of the 30-day deadline to either pay the penalty or request a hearing; (9) Address to which payment must be sent; (10) Address to which a request for a hearing must be sent; (11) Inspector's signature; (12) Space for signature indicating receipt; and (13) Citation number. The actual format of the citation will be published in the Agency's guidance document. V. Section-by-Section Analysis A. Section 59.1␣Purpose and Scope This section of the proposed rule states EPA's authority to develop a field citation program and explains that procedures developed in this part will be used in administering the field citation program. The section acknowledges the twin goals of the field citation program: ensuring compliance with the Act and providing for expedited enforcement. B. Section 59.2␣Use of Number and Gender This section clarifies that words in the singular also include the plural, and those in the masculine gender also include the feminine, and vice versa. C. Section 59.3␣Computation of Time This section provides that any time period specified in these rules shall begin the day following the event from which the period begins, and shall include Saturdays, Sundays, and Federal legal holidays. D. Section 59.4␣Definitions This section provides definitions of terms used in part 59. E. Section 59.5␣Determination of Minor Violation and Maximum Proposed Penalty This section describes the process that will be used to determine whether a violation is minor. Each violation will be evaluated according to the proposed list of factors provided. A violation will be determined as minor through evaluation of the factors, considered as a whole. Criminal violations will not be addressed under the field citations program. Criminal enforcement action may be pursued for the violations described in section 113(c). These violations include ``knowing'' violations such as knowing endangerment, in which a person knowingly releases a hazardous air pollutant, with the knowledge that the release is placing another person in imminent danger of death or serious bodily injury. This section also provides the proposed maximum civil penalty for a minor violation as $5,000 per day of violation, and defines a field citation's total proposed penalty as the sum of each individual minor violation's proposed penalty. Subpart B_Rules Governing Hearings on Field Citations F. Section 59.6␣Scope of These Rules This section outlines the purpose of Subpart B, which is to establish streamlined administrative procedures for conducting hearings under section §113(d)(3) of the Act. G. Section 59.7␣Issuance and Service of Field Citations This section describes who may issue field citations and what should be contained therein. The section also details requirements for service of a field citation. The statute limits the authority to issue field citations to EPA officers or employees.
