FR940314-2-00127 FR940314-2-00068 [Rel. No. IC&hyph;20121; File No. 812&hyph;8748] Century Life of America, et al.; Application March 8, 1994. AGENCY: Securities and Exchange Commission (``SEC'' or the ``Commission''). ACTION: Notice of application for exemption under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the ``1940 Act''). APPLICANTS: Century Life of America (``Century Life''), Century Variable Annuity Account (the ``Account'') and CUNA Brokerage Services, Inc. (collectively, ``Applicants''). RELEVANT 1940 ACT SECTIONS: Order requested under section 6(c) of the 1940 Act for exemptions from sections 26(a)(2) and 27(c)(2) of the 1940 Act. SUMMARY OF APPLICATION: Applicants seek an order permitting them to deduct a daily charge from the assets of the Account for mortality and expense risks in connection with the offering of certain variable annuity contracts. FILING DATE: The application was filed on December 30, 1993. HEARING OR NOTIFICATION OF HEARING: An order granting the application will be issued unless the Commission orders a hearing. Interested persons may request a hearing on this application by writing to the Secretary of the SEC and serving Applicants with a copy of the request, personally or by mail. Hearing requests must be received by the Commission by 5:30 p.m. on April 4, 1994 and should be accompanied by proof of service on Applicants in the form of an affidavit or, for lawyers, by certificate of service. Hearing requests should state the nature of the interest, the reason for the request and the issues contested. Persons may request notification of the date of a hearing by writing to the Secretary of the SEC. ADDRESSES: Secretary, SEC, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549. Applicants: Century Life of America, 2000 Heritage Way, Waverly, Iowa 50677. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Barbara J. Whisler, Senior Attorney, or Wendell M. Faria, Deputy Chief, both at (202) 272&hyph;2060, Office of Insurance Products, Division of Investment Management. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Following is a summary of the application. The complete application is available for a fee from the Public Reference Branch of the SEC. Applicant's Representations 1. Century Life, a mutual life insurance company organized under the laws of Iowa, entered into a permanent affiliation with CUNA Mutual Life Insurance Society (``CUNA Mutual'') on July 1, 1990. Applicants state that the terms of the ``Agreement of Permanent Affiliation'' provide for the following: Financial sharing between Century Life and CUNA Mutual of future individual life insurance business through reinsurance arrangements; joint development of business plans and systems for the distribution of individual insurance and other financial service products within the credit union movement; and, sharing of certain resources and facilities. All of the directors of Century Life are also directors of CUNA Mutual and many of the senior executive officers of Century Life hold similar positions with CUNA Mutual. Applicants state that the affiliation is not a merger or a consolidation and that both Century Life and CUNA Mutual remain separately owned by their respective contract owners who retain voting rights. 2. The Account, established by Century Life on December 14, 1993 as a separate investment account under Iowa law, serves as a funding medium for certain flexible premium individual deferred variable annuity contracts (the ``Contracts''). Applicants state that the Account meets the definition of a ``separate account'' under the federal securities laws. The Account is registered with the Commission under the 1940 Act as a unit investment trust. The application incorporates by reference the registration statement, currently on file with the Commission (File No. 33&hyph;73738), for the Account. 3. The Account currently has five subaccounts, each of which invests exclusively in the shares of a designated investment portfolio of the Ultra Series Fund (the ``Fund''). The Fund, a Massachusetts business trust, is registered under the 1940 Act as an open-end diversified management investment company. The Fund currently has six investment portfolios, five of which offer their shares to the Account. 4. The Contracts may be purchased on a nontax qualified basis (the ``Nonqualified Contracts'') or they may be purchased in connection with retirement plans, including retirement programs described in sections 401(a) or 403(b) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the ``Code''), or as individual retirement annuities that qualify for favorable federal income tax treatment under section 409 of the Code (together, the ``Qualified Contracts''). 5. CUNA Brokerage Services, Inc. (``CUNA Brokerage'') acts as the principal underwriter, as defined in the 1940 Act, of the Contracts pursuant to the terms of an underwriting agreement between Century Life and CUNA Brokerage. The principal business address of CUNA Brokerage is the same as that of CUNA Mutual.
