FR940124-1-00078 FR940124-1-00008 Ability and experience_§602.21&hyph;§602.22. Participants discussed what standards the Secretary should use to determine whether an accrediting agency demonstrates sufficient ability and experience in operating as an accrediting agency. Most favored retention of the language contained in the current regulations on these issues, but a minority expressed concern that these requirements placed undue burden on new agencies seeking initial recognition. Unannounced site visits by accrediting agencies_§602.24. Participants discussed whether the proposed regulations should contain specific guidance on how and when accrediting agencies were to conduct unannounced site visits to institutions that offer vocational education and training and also what institutions were to be visited. They were in agreement that the agency should have discretion to decide how and when the visits took place; they were divided on the definition of institutions that offer vocational education, so they were divided on what institutions should be visited. Required accreditation standards_§602.26. Participants discussed the standards that accrediting agencies must have for 13 specific areas. They felt that programmatic accrediting agencies and those agencies that do not accredit for purposes of Title IV should be exempt from the standards that address default rates, institutional compliance with its program responsibilities under Title IV, and refund policies. Their comments on specific standards were as follows: Program length and tuition and fees_§602.26(b)(7). Participants felt that accrediting agencies should assess these in relation to the subject matter taught and the objectives of the degrees or credentials offered. They also felt that the proposed regulations should protect agencies against lawsuits alleging violation of anti-trust laws. Measures of program length in clock hours or credit hours_§602.26(b)(8). Participants felt that accrediting agencies should be expected to evaluate program length at non-degree granting institutions for consistency with the time required to develop the knowledge base and skills necessary for entry level to the vocation for which the students are being prepared. In the case of degree-granting institutions, participants felt that agencies should evaluate program length for consistency with usual practice in higher education. Success with respect to student achievement_§602.26(b)(9). Participants felt that accrediting agencies should be required to consider completion rates, job placement rates, and State licensing examination pass rates for institutions or programs that purport to train individuals for occupations, vocations, or professions. Most participants felt that agencies should be given the flexibility to establish standards for these areas, but a minority felt that the proposed regulations should contain specific requirements. Default rates_§602.26(b)(10). Most participants felt that accrediting agencies should review schools for compliance with agency standards if their default rate exceeded a certain rate, but some felt that agencies should have to remove accreditation if the default rate exceeded a certain value. Due process for institutions and programs_§602.28. Participants felt that accrediting agencies should be expected to adhere to principles of fundamental procedural fairness in dealing with institutions or programs. They also felt that any opportunity for a hearing that an agency might provide did not necessarily imply a personal appearance by representatives of the institution or program. Implementation of the regulations. Participants felt that accrediting agencies should have 8&hyph;12 months from the effective date of the regulations to come into compliance. Preamble. Participants felt that a preamble should be included to establish the context for the interpretation of the regulations. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;1459 Filed 1&hyph;21&hyph;94; 10:00 am] BILLING CODE 4000&hyph;01&hyph;P
