FR940404-2-00154 FR940404-2-00092 United States Delegation to the Ministerial Meetings of the North Atlantic Council and North Atlantic Cooperation Council, Brussels, December 17&hyph;18, 1992 Representative The Honorable Lawrence S. Eagleburger, Secretary of State Permanent Representative The Honorable Reginald Bartholomew, Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary, United States Permanent Representative to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, Brussels Senior Advisers Richard A. Boucher, Acting Assistant Secretary, Bureau of Public Affairs, Department of State William Burns, Deputy Director, Policy Planning Staff, Department of State David C. Gompert, Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for Europe and Eurasian Affairs, National Security Council The Honorable Stephen J. Hadley, Assistant Secretary of Defense, International Security Policy, Department of Defense Kenneth I. Juster, Acting Counselor, Department of State Barry R. McCaffrey, Lieutenant General, USA, Assistant to the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Department of Defense William Montgomery, Executive Assistant to the Secretary, Department of State The Honorable Thomas M. T. Niles, Assistant Secretary, Bureau of European and Canadian Affairs, Department of State Advisers Robert Beecroft, Political Advisers, United States Mission to NATO, Brussels Richard Bruno, M.D., Office of Medical Services, Department of State James B. Cunningham, Deputy Director, Office of European Security and Political Affairs, Bureau of European and Canadian Affairs, Department of State James Foley, Political Adviser to the Secretary, Department of State Claire Gilbert, Special Assistant to the Secretary, Department of State James F. Jeffrey, Coordinator for the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe, Office of European Security and Political Affairs, Bureau of European and Canadian Affairs, Department of State Nicholas Land, Economic Adviser, United States Mission to NATO, Brussels David R. Nicholas, Defense Adviser, United States Mission to NATO, Brussels Henry M. Reed, II, Administrative Adviser, United States Mission to NATO, Brussels Robert Simmons, Deputy Political Adviser, United States Mission to NATO, Brussels Sandra Ulmer, Special Assistant to the Secretary, Department of State Alexander Vershbow, Deputy Chief of Mission, United States Mission to NATO, Brussels Kurt Volker, Special Assistant to the Counselor, Department of State Richard Wallace, Colonel USA, Special Assistant to the Assistant to the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Department of Defense Ross Wilson, Deputy Executive Secretary, Department of State United States Delegation to the Thirty-Seventh Session of the Sub-Committee on Stability and Load Lines and on Fishing Vessels Safety (SLF), International Maritime Organization (IMO), London, England, January 11&hyph;15, 1993 Representative H.P. Cojeen, Chief, Naval Architecture Branch, Marine Technical and Hazardous Materials Division, Office of Marine Safety, Security and Environmental Protection, United States Coast Guard, Department of Transportation Alternate Representative Lieutenant Commander G. R. Nolan, Chief, Stability and Subdivision Section, Naval Architecture Branch, Marine Technical and Hazardous Materials Division, Office of Marine Safety, Security and Environmental Protection, United States Coast Guard, Department of Transportation Advisers P.A. Alman, Structures and Load Lines Section, Naval Architecture Branch, Marine Technical and Hazardous Materials Division, Office of Marine Safety, Security and Environmental Protection, United States Coast Guard, Department of Transportation P.L. Carrigan, Stability and Subdivision Section, Naval Architecture Branch, Marine Technical and Hazardous Materials Division, Office of Marine Safety, Security and Environmental Protection, United States Coast Guard, Department of Transporation
