FR940106-0-00082 FR940106-0-00021 E. Operating Experience On December 6, 1990, an interim final rule was published in the Federal Register to implement the Department's responsibilities relating to attestations by facilities seeking to use nonimmigrant aliens as registered nurses. 55 FR 50500. This interim final rule incorporated many of the comments the Department received on the Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (NPRM) which was published in the July 6, 1990, Federal Register . 55 FR 27992; see also 55 FR 30720 (July 27, 1990). The interim final rule went into effect on the date it was published and established a comment period that ended February 4, 1991. The rulemaking was the Department's first experience with defining and implementing an attestation process. The interim final rule required attestations to be filed in the ETA National Office to allow it to gain operating experience in this new process. The final rule published below decentralizes the processing of H&hyph;1A attestations to four ETA regional offices. The attestation includes a completed Form ETA 9029 and accompanying statements that explain briefly how the facility complies with the various attestation elements and describe the documentation available at the facility that demonstrates compliance. In the case of facilities attesting to ``other'' indicators of substantial disruption, ``other'' timely and significant steps, the unreasonableness of taking more than one timely and significant step, and/or a bona fide medical emergency, the attestation must also include more detailed information describing how the prescribed standards are being met. Attesting facilities are required to maintain sufficient documentation to demonstrate compliance with the statutory and regulatory standards for each of the attestation elements. The attestation, along with supporting documentation, must be maintained by the facility on site in a separate file. The file shall also contain visa petitions supported by the attestation. Any interested party may request to see this file. The facility is required to make all of the information in the file available within 72 hours of receiving a request. ETA has provided for a 30-day time period to determine whether an attestation can be accepted for filing. All attestations are examined to ensure that the Form ETA 9029 is properly completed and that the explanatory statements contain the required information. In the case of facilities attesting to ``other'' indicators of substantial disruption, ``other'' timely and significant steps, the unreasonableness of taking more than one timely and significant step, or a bona fide medical emergency, the explanatory information is reviewed to ensure that the prescribed standards are being met. Attestations which meet the established criteria are accepted for filing. At the time the interim final rule was promulgated, ETA estimated that approximately 1,000 facilities per year would be submitting attestations. Experience has proven this estimate to be too low. Approximately 1,500 facilities submitted attestations the first year the H&hyph;1A attestation process was in effect. Approximately 1,400 facilities submitted attestations during the 1992 fiscal year. It should be noted, however, that the number of attestations received was substantially larger than the number of facilities submitting attestations, because many facilities submitted attestations that were returned as unacceptable. As employers' experience with the ␣␣H&hyph;1A program has increased, the proportion of attestations that ETA returns because they are unacceptable for filing has decreased from 43 percent to the current level of 23 percent. The two most common reasons why ETA is not able to accept attestations for filing are that the Form ETA 9029 is not properly completed and the required explanatory statements are not included with the submission. ETA returns unacceptable attestations to the facility with a letter explaining why the attestation cannot be accepted for filing. The facility may file a new attestation which corrects the deficiencies. There are no restrictions on how frequently they may be refiled. Most facilities which have submitted attestations not accepted for filing continue to refile their attestations until they are accepted for filing. Over 70 percent of the attestations have been submitted by health care facilities located in six States_California, New York, New Jersey, Texas, Illinois, and Florida. Approximately 90 percent of the attestations received have been submitted by three types of facilities: about 62 percent by acute care facilities; 22 percent by long-term care facilities; and 6 percent by nursing contractors. It was estimated in the interim final rule that 10 notices of strikes or lockouts and 10 annual State plans would be submitted per year. However, ETA has received notice from an attesting facility of a strike that lasted 1 day. ETA has not received any annual State plans. F. Comments on Interim Final Rule
