FR940830-2-00016 FR940830-2-00007 The RP/EIS will also include other elements and address other concerns as needed to complete a fully responsive NEPA and SEPA document. The format recommended by CEQ regulations (40 CFR 1502.10 et seq. and SEPA Rules (WAC 197&hyph;11&hyph;430) will be followed as appropriate. Cooperating Agencies Several agencies have been identified as cooperating agencies. They are: The Puyallup Tribe of Indians, the Muckleshoot Indian Tribe, the Washington Department of Ecology, the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, and the Environmental Protection Agency. The Seattle District Corps of Engineers has been designated by the lead agencies as the primary agent for preparing the RP/EIS. Study Area The study area for the RP/EIS includes Commencement Bay (that portion of Puget Sound enclosed within a line extending from Brown's Point to Point Defiance); the watershed of Commencement Bay and its main tributaries (the Puyallup/Carbon River, the White River, Hylebos Creek, Wapato Creek, Puget Creek); and Puget Sound coastal areas adjacent to Commencement Bay (southern Vashon and Maury Islands, Dumas Bay). Within the study area, the RP/EIS will focus on those areas that serve as habitat for or otherwise support the natural resources of Commencement Bay potentially injured as a result of releases of CERCLA hazardous substances and discharges of oil. Request for Comments Your views as to the scope and content of the environmental information needed for the RP/EIS are important to the preparation of the study report. To be most helpful, the scoping comments should clearly describe specific environmental issues or topics which the commenter believes the document should address. This Notice of Intent will be mailed to Federal, state, and local agencies, organizations, groups and individuals identified during the CB/NRDA process. Scoping meetings will be scheduled to provide the public with an opportunity to engage in discussions regarding the RP/EIS. The times and locations of the scoping meetings will be announced at a later date. Notices will be sent to all agencies, organizations, and individuals on the RP/EIS mailing list. The lead agencies expect to complete preparation of the draft RP/EIS and have review copies of it available by March 1995. Kenneth L. Denton, Army Federal Register Liaison Officer. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;21320 Filed 8&hyph;29&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3710&hyph;92&hyph;M
