FR941216-1-00081 FR941216-1-00012 (b) Periodic inspection shall be provided during the operating life of the mixer. The inspection program shall be based on manufacturer's recommendations, operating history of like mixers, and any items identified in hazards analysis of the particular mixer and its operation. The inspection program shall include: (1) Tests and visual inspection criteria to be performed prior to each use to include associated equipment which might come loose and fall into the mixer. (2) Periodic inspections of clearances between blades and bowl at sufficient points to detect any distortion of the bowl or kettle. (3) Inspection and test for drive system wear, bearings condition and gear alignment with loading to establish operation within tolerances when applicable. (4) Inspection and test of proper function of operating subsystems such as bowl handling, safety and fire and control, including computer software selfcheck. (c) It is recommended that large (over 80 gallon) vertical blade mixers in high torque applications have a dye penetrant check of the blades annually or after every 300 hours of operation. Melt-cast kettles are not considered high torque mixers. Also, it is recommended that an inspection of clearances and operating systems be performed after any maintenance, unusual even such as severe weather exposure mishandling of bowl or mixer or long idle period. (d) A log of the maintenance and inspection shall be maintained. Trend analysis of clearances should be used to detect wear which might become hazardous. Subpart D_Principles and Application of Quantity/Distance (Q/D), Standard Explosives Facilities, and Siting Requirements ยง184.40 General. Explosives classes and divisions identified in this subpart are defined in TB 700&hyph;2, 1 Explosives Hazard Classification Procedures, and more fully explained in subpart F of this part. This subpart D sets forth the following: 1 Copies may be obtained from Superintendent of Documents, U.S. Government Printing Office, Washington, DC 20402. (a) Rules for establishing quantities of explosives; (b) Computations and determinations of quantity distance; (c) Assessment of the explosion effects, such as facility damage and personnel injury expected at specific scaled distances for Hazard Division 1.1, explosives; (d) Recommended methods for controlling the effects of Hazard Division 1.1, explosions; (e) Acceptable exposures at specific scaled distances; (f) Types and general specifications of various ammunition and explosives facilities; and (g) Siting requirements for specific facilities. ยง184.41 Quantity/distance (Q/D). (a) Quantity distances are determined by establishing a net explosive weight (NEW) at a point and measuring from that point to an exposure. The source of a Q/D measurement is called a potential explosion site, or PES. For Q/D purposes, one considers the total net explosives weight that will be involved in an accidental explosion at the PES. A PES may be a round of ammunition, a vehicle, an operating building, or simply a location where explosives are stacked. (b) Any building, vehicle, location, or ammunition that shall be protected from an accidental explosion at another source, is called the exposed site, or ES. An ES may contain explosives requiring protection from a secondary explosive source located a distance away. An ES may also be a home, stadium, high-rise apartment, a public highway or any other facility or location requiring protection from an accidental explosion. (c) Separation distances for Q/D purposes are measured in straight lines from the nearest part of the room, bay or structure containing explosives (PES) to the nearest point of the exposed structure. ยง184.42 Establishment of quantity of explosives and distances. (a) Quantity of explosives. The Quantity/Distance tables are used to provide appropriate distances from potential explosion sites (PES). The hazard classification of the A&E and the weight of explosives involved are primary characteristics governing the use of Q/D tables. The definitions and methods for determining hazard classifications are in subpart F of this part. Methods for determining the net explosives weight (NEW) is explained in the following: (1) Mass-detonating explosives (Hazard Division 1.1). The total weight of explosives (NEW). (2) Nonmass-detonating explosives _(i) Propellants (Hazard Division 1.3). The total weight of the propellants alone is the net propellant weight. (ii) Pyrotechnic items (Hazard Division 1.1 and Hazard Division 1.3). The sum of the net weights of the pyrotechnic composition and the explosives involved. (iii) Bulk metal powder and pyrotechnic compositions. The sum of the net weights of metal powders and pyrotechnic compositions in the containers. (iv) Other ammunition. The net weight of high explosives (Hazard Division 1.1), plus any blast contribution determined by test, if any, from propellant, pyrotechnic components, or expelling charges (percent of Hazard Division 1.3). (3) Combinations of mass-detonating and nonmass-detonating A&E (excluding Hazard Division 1.4). The total net weight of the mass-detonating and the nonmass-detonating A&E. If the nonmass-detonating items, alone, require a greater distance than the total explosives so computed, then this greater distance is mandatory.
