FR941004-1-00072 FR941004-1-00018 •Assisting children and families to resolve crises, connect with necessary and appropriate services, and remain safely together in their homes whenever possible; and •Avoiding unnecessary out-of-home placement of children, and helping children already in out-of-home care to be returned to and be maintained with their families or in another planned, permanent living arrangement. Family support services are primarily community-based preventive activities designed to alleviate stress and promote parental competencies and behaviors that will increase the ability of families to successfully nurture their children; enable families to use other resources and opportunities available in the community; and create supportive networks to enhance child-rearing abilities of parents and help compensate for the increased social isolation and vulnerability of families. Examples of community-based family support services and activities include: •Respite care for parents and other caregivers; •Early developmental screening of children to assess the needs of these children and assistance in obtaining specific services to meet their needs; •Mentoring, tutoring, and health education for youth; and •A range of center-based activities (informal interactions in drop-in centers, parent support groups) and home visiting activities. Family preservation services typically are services designed to help families alleviate crises that might lead to out-of-home placement of children; maintain the safety of children (and other family members) in their own homes; support families preparing to reunite or adopt; and assist families in obtaining services and other supports necessary to address their needs in a culturally sensitive manner. (If a child cannot be protected from harm without placement, family preservation services are not appropriate). Examples of family preservation activities and services include: •Intensive preplacement preventive services; •Respite care for parents and other caregivers (including foster parents); •Services to improve parenting skills and support child development; •Follow-up services to support adopting and reunifying families; •Services for youth and families at risk or in crisis; and •Community-based intervention and advocacy services for victims of domestic violence and their dependents. Guiding Principles Both family support and family preservation services are based on a common set of principles or characteristics which help assure their responsiveness and effectiveness for children and their families. Focus group participants frequently pointed out that, while various models of services or programs are available, it is an approach based on these principles that should provide an organizing framework for planning for these new services. The principles emphasize safety for all family members; a family-focused approach while allowing for individual needs; and a service delivery approach that stresses flexibility, accessibility, coordination, and respect for cultural and community strengths. (See 45 CFR 1355.25) E. Development of Family Support and Family Preservation Services Family support and family preservation services are not new. They date back to the turn of the century, e.g., Hull House and the settlement house movement. Recently, however, there has been increased interest in such programs. Over the last several years, State and local governments, foundations, national organizations, nonprofit agencies, and professional organizations have begun to develop and implement family support and family preservation programs; push for change in child welfare programs, including reform of State laws and policies to support ``family-centered practice;'' and experiment with changing the way child welfare services are organized and delivered, including strengthening linkages with other agencies and resources and moving toward greater community direction and control of services.
