FR941116-0-00137 FR941116-0-00022 (d) Appeals of IAM's. The IAM for a farm may be appealed in accordance with ยง1413.6 when it is first established for the farm, if the farm had an irrigated farm program payment yield for a crop established for 1990. The farm IAM established for 1994 and later years cannot be increased by appeal, except to correct errors in calculation or transferring data. The crop IAM established for 1994 and later years, which includes the allocation of farm IAM, can be appealed if the CCC&hyph;507A was not properly executed. (e) Effects of terminating CRP contracts. When a CRP contract for a farm expires or is otherwise terminated, the original IAM shall be restored by multiplying the difference between the original IAM and effective IAM by the result of dividing the total cropland that is being released from CRP by the total cropland that was originally in CRP. ยง1413.19 Submitting production evidence. (a)(1) Producers shall submit reports of production evidence in accordance with this paragraph for crops of wheat, feed grains, upland cotton, and rice enrolled in a production adjustment program. Production evidence for program crops may be accepted by county committees at any time throughout the crop year. Producer certification shall not be accepted as proof of production. (2) Certification of such production evidence shall be on form ASCS&hyph;658, Record of Production and Yield, for feed grains, rice, soybeans, and wheat. Production evidence for upland cotton shall be certified on either form ASCS&hyph;658&hyph;1, Certification of Deliveries to Handlers, or Form ASCS&hyph;503, Identification of Cotton Production, at the option of the county Committee. Producers who have an interest in program crops on more than one farm shall submit production evidence for all farms. (3) County committees shall determine whether the production evidence submitted includes production from any other acreage for each year the evidence has been provided by the producer for the crop. (4) Producers may have actual crop yields calculated for program crops and soybeans by paying a service fee of $15 for each crop on a farm and for each crop of the same commodity which is the subject of a different cropping practice. (b)(1) When production has been disposed of through commercial channels, the county committee may require the operator or other producers to furnish documentary evidence in order to verify the information provided on the report. Acceptable evidence may include such items as the original or a copy of: (i) Commercial receipts, (ii) Gin records, (iii) CCC loan documents, (iv) Farm-stored loan documents, if the quantity of the grain has been determined by measurement, (v) Evidence from harvested or appraised acreage, approved for FCIC or multiple-peril crop insurance loss adjustment settlement, (vi) Settlement sheets, (vii) Warehouse ledger sheets, (viii) Elevator receipts or load summaries, supported by other evidence showing disposition, such as sales documents. (2) Such production evidence must show: (i) Producer's name, (ii) Commodity, (iii) Buyer's or storer's name, and (iv) The date of the transaction. (3) Production evidence shall be reviewed by the county committee for moisture content and applicable dockage, according to part 1421 of this title. (c)(1) Farm-stored production shall be measured at the expense of the producer. Scale tickets or weight slips may be accepted for farm-stored production evidence instead of the measured quantity, if such scale tickets or weight slips show:
