FR940110-1-00010 FR940110-1-00001 §701.27 Assignments. Any participant who may be entitled to any cost-share assistance under these programs may assign the right thereto, in whole or in part, according to the regulations governing the assignment of payments at 7 CFR part 1404. §701.28 Environmental considerations. All actions implemented under the programs in this part shall be in compliance with regulations issued at part 799 of this chapter, which includes the procedures for complying with the National Environmental Policy Act, Floodplain Management and Wetland Protection and other environmental concerns. §701.29 Information collection requirements. Information collection requirements contained in this part have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget under the provisions at 44 U.S.C. Chapter 35 and have been assigned OMB Number 0560&hyph;0082. §§701.30&hyph;701.99 [Reserved] Subpart B_Agricultural Conservation Program §701.100 Program objective. (a) The objective of the ACP is to restore and protect the Nation's land and water resources. This objective will be accomplished through a program that considers: (1) The need to control erosion and sedimentation from agricultural land and conserve the water resources on such land. (2) The need to control pollution from animal wastes. (3) The need to facilitate sound resource management systems through soil and water conservation. (4) The need to encourage voluntary compliance by agricultural producers with Federal and State requirements to solve point and nonpoint sources of pollution. (5) National priorities reflected in the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, the Resource Conservation Act of 1977, and other congressional and administrative actions. (6) The degrees to which the measures contribute to the national objective of ensuring a continuous supply of food and fiber necessary for the maintenance of a strong and healthy people and economy. (7) The type of conservation measures needed to improve water quality. (8) The need to improve water quality. (b) These objectives will ensure the continued supply of food and fiber necessary for the maintenance of a strong and healthy people and economy and provide for environmental conservation or enhancement. §701.101 State funds. Funds available for practices to be performed under the ACP will be distributed among the States as determined by the Deputy Administrator. §701.102 County funds. The STC will allocate the funds available for practices among the counties within the State consistent with the ACP's objective, and will give particular consideration to the furtherance of special projects, watershed conservation projects, resource conservation development projects, approved State water quality plans, and other conservation and pollution abatement projects sponsored locally. §701.103 Availability of funds. (a) The paying of the cost-share assistance provided herein is contingent upon such appropriation as the Congress may provide for such purpose; and the amounts of such cost shares shall be within the limits authorized by such appropriation. (b) Funds available for the ACP may be made available as needed for practices to be performed under the Naval Stores Conservation Program, according to instructions issued by the Deputy Administrator. §701.104 Eligible person. An eligible person is a farmer or rancher who as an individual, partnership, association, corporation, estate, trust, other business enterprise, or other legal entity (excluding districts which have taxing authority, Federal agencies, States and State agencies, including political subdivisions of a State) and, as an owner, landlord, tenant, or sharecropper, participates or has an interest in the operation of a farm or ranch for which cost share assistance has been requested. §701.105 Eligible land. (a) The program is applicable to: (1) Privately-owned lands; (2) Land owned by a State or political subdivision of a State; (3) Lands owned by corporations which are partly owned by the United States; (4) Lands temporarily owned by the United States or a corporation wholly owned by it, which were not acquired or reserved for conservation purposes, including lands administered by the Farmers Home Administration, the U.S. Department of Defense, or by any other Government agency designated by the Deputy Administrator. (5) Any cropland operated by private persons which is owned by the United States or a corporation wholly owned by it; (6) Native American lands, except that where grazing operations are carried out on Native American lands administered by the DOI, such lands are within the scope of the program only if covered by a written agreement approved by the DOI giving the operator an interest in the grazing and forage growing on the land and a right to occupy the land in order to carry out the grazing operations; and (7) Noncropland owned by the United States on which practices are performed by private persons where such practices directly conserve or benefit nearby or adjoining privately owned lands of the persons performing the practices and such persons maintain and use such federally owned noncropland under agreement with the Federal agency having jurisdiction thereof.
