FR940602-0-00010 FR940602-0-00002 The OTS has determined, in general, not to require additional assurances from domestic applicants. The OTS currently seeks all information needed to consider holding company applications, 3 has promulgated regulations and issued forms that require savings and loan holding companies to file information with the OTS on a regular basis, 4 and has broad authority under section 10(b) of the HOLA to examine savings and loan holding companies and their affiliates. In addition, the OTS has broad authority to investigate and bring enforcement actions against holding companies and other affiliates of savings associations under section 10(g) of the HOLA, as well as other statutory provisions, including section 8 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act. Nevertheless, section 10(e)(2)(C) gives the OTS broad discretion with respect to the circumstances under which additional assurances may be required, as well as the nature of such assurances, and the OTS may, where appropriate, seek additional assurances regarding the availability of information from an applicant and its affiliates. 3 See OTS Form H-(e) XXX . 4 See 12 CFR 584.1 and OTS Forms H-(b)10 and H-(b)11. With respect to holding company applications submitted by foreign acquirors, the OTS has, as a matter of policy, required foreign acquirors to enter into a foreign acquiror agreement. 5 Foreign acquiror agreements generally state, inter alia, that the foreign acquiror (i) voluntarily consents to United States jurisdiction for purposes of laws relating to United States depository institutions, (ii) shall designate agents in the United States for service of process, and (iii) shall permit the OTS to examine it to such extent as the Director may prescribe. In addition, as a policy matter, the OTS and its predecessor, the Federal Home Loan Bank Board, have generally required foreign acquirors to establish a United States holding company as the direct holding company of the acquired savings association. 5 In addition, the OTS has required foreign acquirors that attempt to rebut a rebuttable determination of control under 12 CFR 574.4(b) and 574.4(e) to file a foreign acquiror agreement. The OTS will continue to require foreign acquirors to enter into foreign acquiror agreements, but will not require further assurances as a general matter. As noted above, the OTS, where appropriate in the context of a particular application, may seek additional assurances from a foreign acquiror that it will make information available to the OTS concerning itself or its affiliates. In the case of applications involving a foreign bank, the OTS will consider whether the bank is subject to comprehensive supervision on a consolidated basis by the appropriate authorities in the foreign bank's home country. In the proposal, the OTS requested comment on the standards to be applied in this area, and on whether the OTS should subject foreign bank holding companies to the same requirement. As the statute refers only to foreign banks, the final rule, as was the case with the proposal, refers only to foreign banks. The regulations of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Federal Reserve Board) implementing section 202(a) of the FDICIA set forth the basis on which the Federal Reserve Board will determine whether a foreign bank is subject to ``comprehensive supervision or regulation on a consolidated basis.'' 6 The Federal Reserve Board regulation provides that the Federal Reserve Board will determine whether the foreign bank is supervised or regulated in such a manner that its home country supervisor receives sufficient information on the worldwide operations of the foreign bank (including the relationships of the bank to any affiliate) to assess the foreign bank's overall financial condition and compliance with law and regulation. 7 6 See 58 FR 6348, 6360&hyph;6361 (12 CFR 211.24(c)(1)(ii)). 7 Id. The regulation sets forth certain factors that the Federal Reserve Board will assess, including the extent to which the home country supervisor: Ensures that the foreign bank has adequate procedures for monitoring and controlling its activities worldwide; obtains information on the foreign bank and its subsidiaries and offices outside the home country through regular reports of examination, audit reports, or otherwise; obtains information on the dealings and relationships between the foreign bank and its foreign and domestic affiliates; receives from the foreign bank financial reports that are consolidated on a worldwide basis, or comparable information; and evaluates prudential standards, such as capital adequacy and risk asset exposure, on a worldwide basis.
