FR940830-2-00048 FR940830-2-00023 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY [FRL&hyph;5061&hyph;9] Agency Information Collection Activities Under OMB Review AGENCY: Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: In compliance with the Paperwork Reduction Act (44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq. ), this notice announces that the Information Collection Request (ICR) abstracted below has been forwarded to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) for review and comment. The ICR describes the nature of the information collection and its expected cost and burden; where appropriate, it includes the actual data collection instrument. DATES: Comments must be submitted on or before September 29, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: For further information, or to obtain a copy of this ICR, contact Sandy Farmer at EPA, (202) 260&hyph;2740. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Office of Water Title: Facility and Well Inventory Information for the UIC Program. (EPA ICR No:370.12) this ICR requests approval of an amendment to an existing information collection activity. Abstract: EPA will reinstate the ``Inventory of Injection Wells'' form which will be used by all 36 Primacy States and each of the ten Regions to collect and maintain inventory information for each newly permitted and rule-authorized injection well within its jurisdiction. Under Section 1445 of the Safe Drinking Water Act (SDWA), persons subject to the Underground Injection Control (UIC) program must: ``establish and maintain such records, make such reports, conduct such monitoring, and provide such information as the Administrator may reasonably require by regulation to assist her in establishing regulations under this title *␣*␣*.'' The specific UIC program requirements applicable to reinstating the ``Inventory of Injection Wells'' form are codified at 40 CFR part 144_Underground Injection Control Program, and 40 CFR part 145_State UIC Program Requirements. The Inventory of Injection Wells information is entered on a one page form that has six areas of information: the first five sections are concerned with facility identifier information such as name and location, facility ID number, transaction type, geographical coordinates, and legal contact person. The sixth form area gathers information on well class and type, number of wells and operational status. Regional and Headquarters' staff will use the inventory information collected from this form to make decisions on resources and funding for State and Regional UIC programs, levels of enforcement activity, and strategic and policy issues related to UIC program objectives. Primacy States (where primary enforcement responsibility is vested in States that have EPA-approved UIC programs) will also use the injection well and facility information to target field inspections and enforcement activity and to track well performance. In addition, Primacy States and Regions can use the summary reports they supply to EPA Headquarters to evaluate their own program activities, such as the number and operating characteristics of injection wells within their jurisdiction. Information on this form is completed by the Primacy State or the Region, using information available either from inspection reports, the facility's permit file, or (in instances where the facility is rule authorized) from its existing inventory file. The UIC well operator is not required to submit any additional information as a result of this information collection request, and therefore, will not incur any of the burden. The existing UIC Program ICR, which is approved by OMB through March, 1995, (OMB # 2040&hyph;0042) includes the burden and cost incurred by well operators complying with 40 CFR 144.26 and applying for either permits or rule-authorized status. This ICR under review details only the information and burden required as a result of reinstating the ``Inventory of Injection Wells'' form. Burden Statement: Public reporting burden for this collection of information is estimated to average approximately one half hour per response per year. This includes time for reading the instructions, searching existing data sources, gathering and maintaining the needed data and completing the inventory form. Respondents: 36 Primacy States_SIC 951 (government environmental protection agencies). Estimated No. of Responses per Respondent: 813. Estimated Total Annual Burden on Respondents: 14,600 hours. Frequency of Collection: annually. Send comments regarding the burden estimate, or any other aspect of this information collection, including suggestions for reducing the burden, to: Sandy Farmer, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Information Policy Branch (Mail Code: 2136), 401 M Street, S.W., Washington, D.C. 20406, and Matt Mitchell, Office of Management and Budget, Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, 725 17th Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20530 Dated: August 24, 1994. Paul Lapsley, Director Regulatory Management Division. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;21368 Filed 8&hyph;29&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;M
