FR940516-1-00106 FR940516-1-00006 EPA solicits comment on the proposed definition of handheld equipment and on the potential process for handling those types of equipment that may pose difficulties to classification. EPA also requests comment on the specific cases discussed. Finally, EPA solicits comment on alternative definitions that may be appropriate. Alternative definitions of ``handheld equipment'' might include, but need not be limited to, the following elements: •Lack of wheels or other means of support (other than operator), I11•Overall weight below some limit such as 10 kg or 20 kg, and •Portion of overall weight attributable to current engine above some minimum, such as 75 percent. Conversely, alternative definitions of ``nonhandheld equipment'' could include elements such as: •Presence of wheels or other means of support other than operator, •Overall weight above some minimum such as 10 kg or 20 kg, and •Portion of overall weight attributable to current engine below some limit such as 75 percent. It should be recognized that recent engineering developments may eventually obviate the need to provide different standards for handheld and nonhandheld equipment engines. Future technical solutions may provide engines used in all applications with comparable emission performance capability. For example, one firm has recently announced plans to begin marketing portable string trimmers, traditionally powered by either electricity or 2-stroke gasoline engines, that are instead powered by lightweight, high-speed 4-stroke engines. This company claims to achieve emission rates much lower than either current 2-stroke engines or engines that would meet the handheld standards proposed in this rulemaking. Numerous efforts are also under way to develop direct injection systems applicable to larger 2-stroke engine-systems that may be able to bring emissions from engines such as those used for outboard marine engines down to levels equivalent to a well-calibrated 4-stroke engine in the same power range. However, the applicability of direct injection systems to small engines used in handheld applications has not yet been investigated. In developing Phase 2 standards, EPA intends to revisit this issue in its entirety and may combine all engines under one set of standards, modify the definitions of nonhandheld and handheld equipment, as well as the applicable standards, or may promulgate an entirely different regulatory structure. H. Requirements Applicable to Vehicle and Equipment Manufacturers EPA is proposing to require that vehicle and equipment manufacturers and importers use the appropriate handheld or nonhandheld certified engine in their vehicles and equipment. Section 213 gives EPA the authority to require nonroad vehicle and equipment manufacturers and importers to use certified nonroad engines. EPA has determined that the most effective way to ensure that certified engines are used in nonroad vehicles and equipment is to require that manufacturers and importers use such engines. Without such a requirement, there would be no penalty for vehicle and equipment manufacturers that knowingly purchase noncomplying engines, thus undercutting the entire program. EPA is proposing that vehicle and equipment manufacturers and importers be subject to the prohibition, injunction, and penalty provisions of CAA sections 203, 204, and 205, except that only the nonroad engine in the vehicle or equipment, rather than the vehicle or equipment itself, would need to be certified for compliance. Although engine manufacturers will bear the burden of certification under this proposal, the focus of enforcement will fall to some extent on vehicle and equipment manufacturers because they determine whether a handheld or nonhandheld engine is appropriate for use in their vehicle or equipment and will ensure that those engines are certified. No federal paperwork or reporting burden would be imposed on vehicle and equipment manufacturers by the requirement that certified nonroad engines be used. This is consistent with the nonroad large CI engine proposal (58 FR 28809 at 28815 (May 17, 1993) and 58 FR 51595 at 51597 (October 4, 1993)). Only new engines manufactured on or after the effective date of this rule would be subject to the provisions of this rule. For example, rebuilt engines originally manufactured prior to the effective date of this rule would not be subject to this rule. Rebuilt engines originally manufactured after the effective date of this rule would be subject only to the tampering provisions. New replacement engines manufactured after the effective date would be subject to this rule. EPA requests comment on whether there is any need for manufacturers to produce replacement engines for use in pre-1996 equipment, and the extent of such a need, if any. Labeling requirements proposed in this notice may also impact nonroad vehicle and equipment manufacturers and importers. I. Effective Date EPA is proposing an effective date of August 1, 1996 for this rulemaking. This midyear effective date coincides with model changeover in the small SI engine industry. Engines manufactured on or after August 1, 1996 for use within the United States would have to meet the standards and requirements included in this rulemaking.
