FR940317-2-00126 FR940317-2-00078 ADDRESSES: Applicants must submit one signed original plus two copies of the proposal along with Standard Form 424 and Form CD&hyph;511 to: Manufacturing Extension Partnership, Polymers Building (Bldg. 224), room B&hyph;115, National Institute of Standards and Technology, Gaithersburg, Maryland, 20899&hyph;0001. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: For clarification of the content of this notice telephone: Roger Kilmer at (301) 975&hyph;3423. Copies of SF&hyph;424 (Rev 4&hyph;88) Form CD&hyph;511, and other required forms may be obtained from the NIST Grants Office (301) 975&hyph;6394. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance The catalog number for the award of ``State Technology Extension Program'' funds in the Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance is 11.613. Program Description In accordance with the provisions of the National Institute of Standards and Technology Act (15 U.S.C. 2781), as amended, NIST will provide assistance in fiscal year 1994 to help States develop manufacturing assistance programs aimed at small and medium-sized manufacturers and help bring those State programs to a level of performance where they can provide the full range of manufacturing extension services required by their manufacturers. Under the NIST Manufacturing Extension Partnership (MEP), which includes the State Technology Extension Program (STEP), NIST will make merit-based awards to States to help improve their planning, coordination, and implementation of their technology extension activities. This funding will also be available to multi-state partnerships which seek to expand the scope of technology assistance related services regionally available to small- and medium-sized manufacturers. MEP assumes a broad definition of manufacturing, and recognizes a wide range of technology and concepts, including durable goods production; chemical, biotechnology, and other materials processing; electronic component and system fabrication; and engineering services associated with manufacturing, as lying within the definition of manufacturing. Funding Availability Approximately, $2,500,000 will be available to support cooperative agreements on a matching funds basis under this program. Funding size will vary according to the project category and scope of work. For example, Program Planning projects have typically averaged less than $100,000 in past years. Program Planning projects that include pilot testing of the proposed extension plan or planning for multiple intrastate regions will be eligible for NIST funding up to $150,000. For Program Implementation projects and Regional Linkage projects, awards will also vary, but NIST funds may not exceed $250,000 per project. States will be able to submit proposals for each of the three project categories. Award Period The cooperative agreements entered into under this program will be available for one year. If an application is selected for funding, DOC has no obligation to provide any additional future funding in connection with that award. Renewal of an award to increase funding or extend the period of performance is at the total discretion of DOC. Indirect Costs The total dollar amount of the indirect costs proposed in an application under this program must not exceed the indirect cost rate negotiated and approved by a cognizant Federal agency prior to the proposed effective date of the award or 100 percent of the total proposed direct costs dollar amount in the application, whichever is less. Proposal Format
