FR940419-2-00045 FR940419-2-00033 Non-Federal share contributions may exceed the minimum specified when the applicant is able to do so. An applicant should ensure the availability of any amount proposed as match prior to including it in the budget. The non-Federal share must be met by a grantee during the life of the project. Otherwise, ACF will disallow any unmatched Federal funds. Project Duration: The length of the project may not exceed 36 months. Anticipated Number of Projects to be Funded: It is anticipated that approximately 30 projects, 15 under each priority area, 1.01A and 1.01B, will be funded. Length of Proposal: The length of the proposal should not exceed 60 pages, including all preprinted forms and appendices. Refer to Part IV for additional information regarding proposal requirements and limitations. CDFA: 93.656 Temporary Child Care for Children With Disabilities and Crisis Nurseries Act of 1986, as amended, Title II, Public Law 102&hyph;295, 42 U.S.C. 5117a, 5117b, 5117c 1.02␣National Resource Center for Respite and Crisis Care Services Eligible Applicants: Only State agencies designated by the Governor of the State to carry out programs funded under Sections 5117a and 5117b of the Temporary Child Care for Children With Disabilities and Crisis Nurseries Act (the Act), including current grantees under the Act, are eligible to apply. Other State agencies carrying out similar programs are ineligible to apply. Purpose: The purpose of this Resource Center is to assist in the coordination, exchange of information, continuing development and improvement of the types of services described in Sections 5117a and 5117b of the Temporary Child Care for Children With Disabilities and Crisis Nurseries Act. The Resource Center will also assist programs providing respite care services pursuant to the Family Preservation and Family Support program authorized in Title IV&hyph;B, Subpart 2 of the Social Security Act. The Resource Center will assist in the coordination, the dissemination of information about, and the continuing development and improvement of these respite care services. These services will be provided by the Resource Center whether or not the service providers receive Federal funds from the programs authorized under these Acts. The services to be provided are: (1) In-home or out-of-home temporary non-medical child care (respite care) for children with disabilities and children with chronic or terminal illnesses (Section 5117a), including children with AIDS or AIDS-related conditions and drug-affected infants and children; (2) Crisis nurseries for abused and neglected children, children at risk of abuse and neglect, and children in families receiving protective services, (Section 5117b), including drug-affected infants and children; (3) Respite care as part of a system of family preservation services designed to assist families in crisis or at risk of having their children placed in foster care; and, (4) Respite care as a part of a system of family support services designed to work with families before a crisis occurs to enhance child development and increase family stability.
