FR940725-1-00047 FR940725-1-00009 28. Paragraph (h) in §31.303 is amended by adding the following sentence at the end thereof: §31.303 Performance Report. (h) *␣*␣* The annual performance report must be submitted to OJJDP no later than June 30 and address all formula grant activities carried out during the previous complete calendar year, federal fiscal year, or State fiscal year for which information is available, regardless of which year's formula grant funds were used to support the activities being reported on, e.g., during a reporting period, activities may have been funded from two or more formula grant awards. * * * * * 29. Paragraph (j) in §31.303 is revised to read as follows: §31.303 Disproportionate Minority Confinement. (j) Minority Detention and Confinement. Pursuant to section 223(a)(23) of the JJDP Act, States must demonstrate specific efforts to reduce the proportion of juveniles detained or confined in secure detention facilities, secure correctional facilities, jails and lockups who are members of minority groups if such proportion exceeds the proportion such groups represent in the general population, viz., in most States, youth between 10&hyph;17 are subject to secure custody. It is essential that States approach this statutory mandate in a comprehensive manner. Compliance with this provision is achieved when a State meets the requirements set forth in paragraphs (1) through (3) of this section: (1) Identification. Provide quantifiable documentation (State, county and local level) in the State's FY 1994 Formula Grant Plan (and all subsequent Multi-Year Plans) Juvenile Crime Analysis and Needs Assessment to determine whether minority juveniles are disproportionately detained or confined in secure detention and correctional facilities, jails and lockups in relation to their proportion of the State juvenile population. Guidelines are provided in the OJJDP Disproportionate Minority Confinement Technical Assistance Manual (see Phase I Matrix). Where quantifiable documentation is not available to determine if disproportionate minority confinement exists in secure detention and correctional facilities, jails and lockups, the State must provide a time-limited plan of action, not to exceed six months, for developing and implementing a system for the ongoing collection, analysis and dissemination of information regarding minorities for those facilities where documentation does not exist. (2) Assessment. Each State's FY 1994 Formula Grant Plan must provide a completed assessment of disproportionate minority confinement. Assessments must, at minimum, identify and explain differences in arrest, diversion and adjudication rates, court dispositions other than incarceration, the rates and periods of prehearing detention in and dispositional commitments to secure facilities of minority youth and non-minority youth in the juvenile justice system, and transfers to adult court (see Phase II Matrix). If a completed assessment is not available, the State must submit a time-limited plan (not to exceed 12 months from submission of the Formula Grant Application) for completing the assessment. (3) Intervention. Each State's FY 1995 Formula Grant Plan must, where disproportionate confinement has been demonstrated, provide a time-limited plan of action for reducing the disproportionate confinement of minority juveniles in secure facilities. The intervention plan shall be based on the results of the assessment, and must include, but not be limited to the following: (i) Diversion. Increasing the availability and improving the quality of diversion programs for minorities who come in contact with the juvenile justice system, such as police diversion programs; (ii) Prevention. Providing developmental, operational, and assessment assistance (financial and/or technical) for prevention programs in communities with a high percentage of minority residents with emphasis upon support for community-based organizations (including non-traditional organizations) that serve minority youth; (iii) Reintegration. Providing developmental, operational, and assessment assistance (financial and/or technical) for programs designed to reduce recidivism by facilitating the reintegration of minority youth in the community following release from dispositional commitments to reduce recidivism; (iv) Policies and Procedures. Providing financial and/or technical assistance that addresses necessary changes in statewide and local, executive, judicial, and legal representation policies and procedures.
