FR940128-1-00046 FR940128-1-00006 The agency is proposing to require single-service towels or suitable hand drying devices to ensure that microbiological contamination does not occur though the repeated use of the same towel by several individuals. A hot-air blower is an example of a suitable hand drying device because contamination from individual to individual is eliminated. In §123.10(c)(3), the agency is proposing to require that inspection and documentation of the location of hand washing facilities be performed at sufficient frequency to ensure that there is compliance with §123.10(a)(8)(i). Generally, this procedure will be necessary only after construction or any significant building or process modification. FDA is proposing to require in §123.10(c) that the processor inspect, and document that it has inspected, the hand washing and hand sanitizing facilities to ensure that they are properly equipped no less than once per day. This procedure will ensure that cleaning and sanitizing preparations, as well as towels or hand drying devices, are present whenever needed by employees. FDA is proposing to require at §123.10 (a)(9) and (a)(10) that the processor protect the food, food-contact surfaces, and food packaging materials against adulteration by chemical and physical contaminants. Such protection is necessary to ensure that the food produced by the processor is safe. The use of toxic compounds (e.g., pesticides, cleaning and sanitizing agents, and lubricants) is frequently necessary in the processing environment. For example, lubricants and fuel are necessary to operate equipment. Improper use of these compounds is a frequent cause of product adulteration throughout the food industry (Ref. 74). Thus, it is necessary to ensure that food, food-contact surfaces, and food packaging materials are not contaminated by these toxic compounds. Food and food packaging material should be protected or removed from areas where pesticides are used, and caustic cleaning compounds should be thoroughly removed from food-contact surfaces before processing begins. Finally, as an additional protection, FDA is proposing to require in §123.10(a)(10) that toxic compounds be labeled, held, and used in a manner that minimizes the risk of contamination of the product. FDA is proposing to require in §123.10(c) that the processing plant be inspected daily to ensure that the food is protected from toxic compounds, and that this inspection be documented. This check should normally be performed before the start of operations, at a time when the equipment can be effectively inspected, and in time to prevent adulteration of the product. Because processing conditions vary on a day-to-day basis, FDA has tentatively concluded that daily inspection is necessary. FDA is proposing to require at §123.10(a)(11) that the processor ensure that products are not exposed to contaminants that may drip, drain, or be drawn into the food. An example of such a contaminant is condensate, which may form on the ceilings and equipment in a processing plant. If the condensate forms on an insanitary surface and then falls on the product, it may carry with it filth and microbiological contaminants from that surface to the food (Ref. 65, pp. 24 and 25). In §123.10(c), the agency is proposing to require that the processing plant be inspected daily to ensure that the potential for such contamination is minimized, and that this inspection be documented. This check should normally be performed during the actual operations, at a time when condensate or other such contaminating conditions are likely to be present. As explained above, the agency has tentatively concluded that daily variations in processing and climatic conditions necessitate daily inspection. In §123.10(a)(12), the agency is proposing to require that the processor ensure that compressed gases that contact food or food-contact surfaces of equipment are filtered or treated in such a way that the food is not contaminated with unapproved indirect food additives or other chemical, physical, or microbiological contaminants. Compressed gases can be contaminated with oil from the compressor, filth and microbiological contaminants from the air intake, and rust or other physical contaminants from the compression, storage, and distribution equipment. Filtration at the air intake and after compression, storage, and distribution is an effective means of reducing the risk of such contaminants entering the food (Ref. 89).
