FR940616-0-00128 FR940616-0-00013 (iii) The date on which the borrower completed the year of service. (g) Borrower eligibility; nursing profession loan forgiveness. (1) To qualify for the nursing profession loan forgiveness under this paragraph, a borrower must have been employed as a full-time nurse for a public hospital, a rural health clinic, a migrant health center, an Indian Health Service Health Center, an Indian Health Center, a Native Hawaiian Health Center or for an acute care or long-term care facility. (2) To qualify for loan forgiveness under this paragraph, a borrower, in the time frame provided under paragraph (c) of this section, for the year of service for which forgiveness is requested, must provide to the Secretary or his designee_ (i) A statement from an authorized official where the borrower was employed certifying that the borrower was employed as a full-time nurse for a facility described in this section and served for the term of at least one year (defined as twelve consecutive months); (ii) The date on which the borrower's service began; and (iii) The date on which the borrower's year of service ended. (h) Forgiveness amounts. (1) The Secretary repays the holder a percentage of the total amount of Stafford loans owed by the eligible borrower for_ (i) The borrower's last 2 years of undergraduate education; or (ii) The 2 academic years in which a borrower who was not already participating in loan repayment pursuant to this section returned to an institution of higher education for the purpose of obtaining a post graduate teaching certificate or additional teacher certification. (2) The Secretary repays loans on the following basis: (i) 15 percent of the total original principal amount of Federal Stafford loans for each of the first two years in which the borrower is awarded the benefit and meets the requirements of this section. (ii) 20 percent of the total original principal amount for each of the third and fourth years. (iii) 30 percent of the total original principal amount for the fifth year. (3) The Secretary repays the holder for the amount of interest, including capitalized interest, which accrued on the loan or loans subject to forgiveness over the year. (4) Payments made by the Secretary must be applied first to the unsubsidized Federal Stafford portion of the loan, followed by the subsidized Federal Stafford portion, and then the nonsubsidized Federal Stafford portion. (5) The amount of payments made by the Secretary under paragraphs (h)(2)(i), (h)(2)(ii), and (h)(2)(iii) of this section may not exceed the sum of the outstanding principal balance of the loan or loans subject to forgiveness plus all interest payments made in accordance with paragraph (h)(3) of this section. (6) Payments received from a borrower who qualifies for loan forgiveness under this section may not be refunded. (i) Definitions. The following definitions apply to this section: Acute care facility means either a short-term care hospital in which the average length of patient stay is less than 30 days, or a short-term care hospital in which over 50% of all patients are admitted to units where the average length of patient stay is less than 30 days. Elementary school means a public or nonprofit private day or residential school that provides elementary education, as determined under State law. Indian Health Service Health Center means a health care facility (whether operated directly by the Indian Health Service or operated by a tribal contractor or grantee under the Indian Self-Determination Act), that is physically separated from a hospital and that provides one or more clinical treatment services, such as physician, dentist or nursing services, available at least 40 hours a week for outpatient care to persons of Indian or Alaska Native descent. Long-term care facility means a facility that offers services designed to provide diagnostic, preventive, therapeutic, rehabilitative, supportive and maintenance services for individuals who have chronic physical or mental impairments. This facility may have a variety of institutional and non-institutional health settings, including the home, and the goal of the service is to promote the optimum level of physical, social and psychological functioning. Native Hawaiian Health Center means an entity (as defined in section 8 of the Native Hawaiian Health Care Act of 1988 (Pub.L. 100&hyph;579)_ (1) That is organized under the laws of the State of Hawaii; (2) That provides or arranges for health care services through practitioners licensed by the State of Hawaii, if licensure requirements are applicable; (3) That is a public or private nonprofit entity; and (4) In which Native Hawaiian health practitioners significantly participate in the planning, management, monitoring, and evaluation of health services. Public hospital means a facility (as defined in 24 CFR 242.1)_ (1) Owned by a State or unit of local government or by an instrumentality thereof, or owned by a public benefit corporation established by a State or unit of local government or by an instrumentality thereof;
