FR940202-0-00037 FR940202-0-00006 A commentator requested that an immediate deduction be allowed for a repurchase premium in a debt-for-debt exchange even if the issue price of the debt instrument received in the exchange is determined under section 1274. The IRS and Treasury, however, believe that taxpayers could inappropriately accelerate deductions in these situations because of the flexibility inherent in section 1274 for determining the issue price of a debt instrument. Thus, the final regulations retain the rule in the proposed regulations. Section 1.446&hyph;2␣Method of Accounting for Interest The proposed regulations provide a special payment allocation rule for certain small transactions. Because of the rule's limited scope and uncertainty regarding its application, the IRS and Treasury believe that the rule should not be finalized. However, to allow further comment on the need for this rule, §1.446&hyph;2(e)(3) is reserved in the final regulations and remains in proposed form. Section 1.483&hyph;1 Through 1.483&hyph;3␣Unstated Interest The proposed regulations provide that stated or unstated interest under a contract subject to section 483 is taken into account under a taxpayer's regular method of accounting. One commentator suggested that an accrual method taxpayer should account for unstated interest in the year a payment is due, which was the rule in previous final regulations under section 483. The IRS and Treasury, however, believe that it is appropriate to treat stated and unstated interest consistently. Thus, the final regulations retain the rule in the proposed regulations. Sections 1.1001&hyph;1(g) and 1.1012&hyph;1(g)␣Amount Realized and Basis If a debt instrument is issued in exchange for property, the proposed regulations provide that the issue price of the debt instrument is used to determine the seller's amount realized and the buyer's basis. The final regulations adopt the rules of the proposed regulations, but clarify the treatment of a debt instrument with an issue price determined under section 1273(b)(4). Section 1.1271&hyph;1␣Special Rules Applicable to Amounts Received on Retirement, Sale, or Exchange of Debt Instruments As requested by a commentator, the final regulations provide that the intention to call rules do not apply to debt instruments sold pursuant to a private placement memorandum that is distributed to more than ten offerees and that is subject to certain sanctions of the Securities Act of 1933 or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Section 1.1272&hyph;1␣Current Inclusion of OID in Income The proposed regulations provide that accrual periods may be of any length and may vary in length over the term of the debt instrument, provided that each accrual period is not longer than one year and that all payments are made at the end of an accrual period. In response to one comment, the final regulations provide that payments also may be made on the first day of an accrual period. The rule permitting accrual periods to vary in length was provided in response to commentators who criticized the prior proposed regulations as too mechanical and inflexible. While commentators commended the flexibility of the rule, they noted that the rule raised several technical issues: (1) the accrual periods used to determine whether an instrument is an applicable high yield debt obligation under section 163(i); (2) the accrual periods used by a subsequent holder to determine adjusted issue price for purposes of OID accruals, market discount, and acquisition premium; and (3) the accrual periods used for Form 1099 reporting. As noted above, §1.163&hyph;7 of the final regulations provides that the issuer's determination of accrual periods controls for purposes of determining whether a debt instrument is an applicable high yield debt obligation. In addition, §1.1275&hyph;1(b)(2) of the final regulations provides that a subsequent holder determines adjusted issue price for purposes of OID accruals, market discount, and acquisition premium in any manner consistent with these final regulations. Rules on Form 1099 reporting will be addressed in a separate project. Until guidance regarding Form 1099 reporting is issued, however, an issuer should use the same accrual periods for Form 1099 purposes as it uses for computing OID deductions. The proposed regulations provide rules to determine the yield and maturity of a debt instrument with a stated contingency that could result in the acceleration or deferral of payments if the timing and amounts payable upon occurrence of the contingency are fixed. The contingency is ignored unless, based on all the facts and circumstances, the contingency is more likely than not to occur. The final regulations clarify that this rule applies when the contingency, if triggered, would result in an alternative payment schedule as long as the timing and amounts of the payments comprising the alternative payment schedule are known as of the issue date. The final regulations also clarify that these rules apply if the debt instrument is subject to multiple contingencies that result in alternative payment schedules. The final regulations retain the rule in the proposed regulations for determining the yield and the maturity of a debt instrument in the case of a put or call option.
