FR940505-1-00436 FR940505-1-00012 (4) Exemptions. The requirements of paragraph (v)(3)(i) of this section shall not apply to any owner or operator of a unit operated on non-gaseous fuel under the following conditions: (i) Non-gaseous fuel use is required due to the curtailment of natural gas service to the individual unit by the natural gas supplier. Non-gaseous fuel use in this case shall not exceed the period of natural gas curtailment. (ii) Non-gaseous fuel use is required to maintain the non-gaseous fuel system. Non-gaseous fuel use in this case shall not exceed 50 hours per year. (iii) Any owner or operator that claims an exemption under paragraph (v)(4) of this section shall comply with the recordkeeping requirements specified under paragraph (v)(6)(ii)(I) of this section. (5) Compliance schedule. (i) Any owner or operator of a unit in existence prior to the [Insert date of publication of the final rule ] that does not need to retrofit the unit or install new control equipment to comply with the requirements of paragraph (v)(3) of this section shall demonstrate compliance with all of the applicable requirements of paragraph (v) of this section by May 15, 1995. (ii) Any owner or operator of a unit in existence prior to [ Insert date of publication of the final rule ] that must retrofit the unit and/or install new control equipment to comply with the requirements of paragraph (v)(3) of this section shall demonstrate compliance with all of the applicable requirements of this paragraph (v) of this section by May 15, 1997. Any owner or operator of a unit to which paragraph (v) of this section is applicable shall meet the following increments of progress: (A) By January 1, 1996, apply for all authority-to-construct permits required by the local Air Pollution Control District for all retrofits and/or additions of new control equipment, and (B) By January 1, 1997, commence construction of all retrofits and/or additions of new control equipment, as approved by the local Air Pollution Control District, to demonstrate compliance by May 15, 1997. (iii) Any owner or operator of a new unit that is constructed on and after [ Insert date of publication of the final rule ] shall apply for, and receive approval of, all authority-to-construct permits required by the local Air Pollution Control District prior to beginning construction of the unit. The owner or operator shall demonstrate that the unit will be operated in compliance with all of the applicable requirements of paragraph (v) of this section within 60 days after the date of the initial startup of the unit. (iv) On and after [ Insert date of publication of the final rule ], any owner or operator of a unit exempt from requirements of paragraph (v)(3)(i) of this section that becomes subject to requirements of paragraph (v)(3)(i) of this section because the unit's rolling 12 calendar month annual heat input rate equals or exceeds 1.8×10 9 Btu/yr shall meet the following increments of progress: (A) Within 7 months after the day that the unit is operated equal to or greater than 1.8×10 9 Btu/yr, apply for all authority-to-construct permits required by the local Air Pollution Control District for all retrofits and/or additions of new control equipment, and (B) Within 19 months after the day that the unit is operated equal to or greater than 1.8×10 9 Btu/yr, commence construction of all retrofits and/or additions of new control equipment, as approved by the local Air Pollution Control District, to demonstrate compliance within 24 months after the day that the unit is operated equal to or greater than 1.8×10 9 Btu/yr. (v) On and after [ Insert date of publication of the final rule ], any owner or operator of a unit exempt from the requirements of paragraph (v)(3)(ii) of this section that becomes subject to requirements of paragraph (v)(3)(ii) of this section because the unit's rolling 12 calendar month annual heat input rate equals or exceeds 0.3×10 9 Btu/yr shall meet the following increments of progress: (A) Within 7 months after the day that the unit is operated equal to or greater than 0.3×10 9 Btu/yr, apply for all authority-to-construct permits required by the local Air Pollution Control District for all retrofits and/or additions of new control equipment, and (B) Within 19 months after the day that the unit is operated equal to or greater than 0.3×10 9 Btu/yr, commence construction of all retrofits and/or additions of new control equipment, as approved by the local Air Pollution Control District, to demonstrate compliance within 24 months after the day that the unit is operated equal to or greater than 0.3×10 9 Btu/yr. (6) Reporting, monitoring, and recordkeeping. (i) Reporting requirements. Any owner or operator subject to the requirements of paragraph (v)(3) of this section shall comply with the applicable notification requirements of §60.7, and shall also comply with the following requirements: (A) By May 15, 1995, submit to the Administrator the identification number and type of each unit subject to the section, the name and address of the plant where the unit is located, and the name and telephone number of the person responsible for demonstrating compliance with paragraph (v) of this section. For each unit identified, the following information shall be submitted to the Administrator: ( 1 ) The rated heat input capacity, hours of operation during the previous one-year period, anticipated annual operating time and annual heat input for 1995, type of gaseous and/or liquid fuel(s) that will be burned in the unit, and age and manufacturer of the unit. ( 2 ) Identification of the NO X standard in paragraph (v)(3)(i) or (v)(3)(ii) of this section with which the unit will comply, and the control and compliance method selected for demonstrating compliance. (B) Any owner or operator subject to the compliance schedule specified in paragraph (v)(5) (ii), (iii), (iv), or (v) of this section shall notify the Administrator in writing of the following:
