FR940620-1-00111 FR940620-1-00012 As required by sections 203 and 204(b) of the ADA, the proposed enforcement procedures are the procedures for enforcement of section 504, which, in turn, adopt the enforcement procedures for title VI. Title VI, which prohibits discrimination on the basis of race, color, or national origin in federally assisted programs and activities, is enforced by the federal agencies that provide the federal financial assistance to the covered programs and activities in question. If voluntary compliance cannot be achieved, federal agencies enforce title VI either by the termination of federal funds to a program or activity that is found to discriminate, following an administrative hearing, or by a referral to the Department of Justice for judicial enforcement. Title II of the ADA extended the requirements of section 504 to all services, programs, and activities of state and local governments, not only those that receive federal financial assistance. Subpart F of the Department's original regulation establishes basic procedures to be followed by the agencies designated in subpart G for processing complaints against state and local government entities when the designated agency does not have jurisdiction under section 504. As required by section 204(b) of the ADA, these procedures are consistent with the Department's coordination regulation for section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act, 28 CFR 41.5(a)(1), which directs agencies to adopt the enforcement procedures of their title VI regulations for enforcement of section 504. Although section 203 of the ADA mandates that the title II procedures be the same as the section 504 procedures, the final rule did not detail procedures for investigations other than those based on individual complaints. Nor did it include requirements for cooperation by public entities in investigations, as required under title VI. This proposed rule would clarify §§35.172 and 35.174 of subpart F by specifically incorporating the language of the regulations implementing title VI and section 504 for federally assisted programs with respect to those provisions. Section 35.172 of the Department's current regulation requires designated agencies to investigate all complete complaints for which they were responsible as determined under §35.171. It requires the designated agency to issue a Letter of Findings at the conclusion of the investigation if the complaint was not resolved informally, and to attempt to negotiate a voluntary compliance agreement if a violation was found. It does not, however, include specific procedural requirements for investigations, and does not address compliance reviews that are not based on individual complaints. Proposed §35.172, captioned Investigations and Compliance reviews, makes clear that the same procedures that apply to complaint investigations also apply to compliance reviews that are not initiated by receipt of a complaint, but rather are based on other information indicating that discrimination exists in a service, program, or activity covered by this part. This provision is consistent with the Department's procedures for enforcing title VI at 28 CFR 42.107, as required by the section 504 coordination regulation at 28 CFR 41.5(a)(1). Paragraph (e) of proposed §35.172 explicitly spells out the agency's authority to require a public entity to cooperate in the investigation by permitting access by the designated agency to its records and other sources of information and to its facilities. It also makes clear that access by the designated agency may not be barred on the basis of considerations of privacy or confidentiality and that confidential information obtained by the designated agency shall not be disclosed except where necessary in formal enforcement proceedings or where otherwise required by law. These provisions of the proposed rule are based on the enforcement procedures for title VI and section 504 in federally assisted programs, e.g. , 28 CFR 42.106 (Department of Justice title VI regulation, as incorporated in the Department of Justice section 504 regulation by 28 CFR 42.530); 45 CFR 80.6, 80.7 (Department of Health and Human Services). Section 35.173 of the current regulation establishes requirements for voluntary compliance agreements and would not be changed by the proposed rule. Section 35.174 of the current regulation and §35.174(a) of the proposed regulation provide for referral of a matter to the Department of Justice when a public entity declines to enter into voluntary compliance negotiations or when negotiations are unsuccessful. The proposed rule adds a new §35.174(b), which provides that the designated agency may refer the matter to the Department with a recommendation for appropriate action or use any other means authorized by law to achieve compliance when there appears to be a failure or threatened failure to comply with this part that cannot be corrected by informal means. This provision is taken from language in existing title VI and section 504 regulations for federally assisted programs. See , e.g. , 28 CFR 42.108; 45 CFR 80.8. ADA Standards for Accessible Design This proposed rule would amend the regulations of the Department of Justice implementing titles II and III of the ADA to incorporate, as the ADA Standards for Accessible Design, the ADA Accessibility Guidelines for Buildings and Facilities, currently Appendix A to 28 CFR Part 36, as they are revised in the Access Board's interim rule published elsewhere in this issue of the Federal Register . (The guidelines set forth in the Access Board's interim rule are effective only as guidance for the Departments of Justice and Transportation; they have no effect on the public and should not be used by the public until such time as the Department of Justice and the Department of Transportation adopt them as standards.) The ADA Standards will be set forth in full in the new part 37 of 28 CFR when this rule is printed in final.
