FR940707-2-00139 FR940707-2-00065 Availability of a Technical/Agency Draft Recovery Plan for Puerto Rican Endangered Ferns for Review and Comment AGENCY: Fish and Wildlife Service, Interior. ACTION: Notice of document availability. SUMMARY: The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service announces availability for public review of a technical/agency draft recovery plan for Puerto Rican endangered ferns. They occur in the limestone or karst region of northwestern Puerto Rico and in the central mountains. Deforestation and fragmentation of habitat may have restricted these species to their present locations. The Service solicits review and comments from the public on this draft plan. DATES: Comments on the draft recovery plan must be received on or before (September 6, 1994) to receive consideration by the Service. ADDRESSES: Persons wishing to review the draft recovery plan may obtain a copy by contacting Ms. Marelisa Rivera, Caribbean Field Office, P.O. Box 491, Boquerón, Puerto Rico 00622. Comments and materials received are available on request for public inspection, by appointment, during normal business hours at the above address. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Ms. Marelisa Rivera, Caribbean Field Office, P.O. Box 491, Boquerón, P.R. 00622, Tel. 809&hyph;851&hyph;7297. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background Restoring an endangered or threatened animal or plant to the point where it is again a secure, self-sustaining member of its ecosystem is a primary goal of the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service's endangered species program. To help guide the recovery effort, the Service is working to prepare recovery plans for most of the listed species native to the United States. Recovery plans describe actions considered necessary for conservation of the species, establish them, and estimate time and cost for implementing the recovery measures needed. The Endangered Species Act of 1973 (Act), as amended (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq .) requires the development of recovery plans for listed species unless such a plan would not promote the conservation of a particular species. Section 4(f) of the Act, as amended in 1988, requires that public notice and an opportunity for public review and comment be provided during recovery plan development. The Service and other Federal agencies will also take these comments into account in the course of implementing approved recovery plans. This Technical/Agency Draft is for seven Puerto Rican endangered ferns, all endemic to the island of Puerto Rico. These ferns are currently restricted to one, two or three locations each. Adiantum vivesii, Tectaria estremerana and Thelypteris verecunda are found in the limestone or karst region of northwestern Puerto Rico. Adiantum vivesii and Tectaria estremerana are only known from one locality each in Quebradillas and Arecibo, respectively. Thelypteris verecunda is known from Quebradillas, Hatillo and San Sebastian. Elaphoglossum serpens, Polystichum calderonense, Thelypteris inabonensis, and Thelypteris yaucoensis are found in the mountains of the central region of Puerto Rico. Elaphoglossum serpens and Thelypteris inabonensis are known from the Toro Negro commonwealth Forest and Polystichum calderonense is known from Monte Guilarte Commonwealth Forest. Thelypteris yaucoensis is known from Yauco and Ciales. The seven species face extinction due to the extreme rarity and restricted distribution, habitat destruction and modification, forest management practices, hurricane damage and possible collection. Public Comments Solicited The Service solicits written comments on the recovery plan described. All comments received by the date specified above will be considered prior to approval of the plan. Authority The authority for this action is Section 4(f) of the Endangered Species Act, 16 U.S.C. 1533(f). Dated: June 24, 1994. Susan Silander, Acting Field Supervisor, Caribbean Field Office, Puerto Rico. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;16344 Filed 7&hyph;6&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4310&hyph;55&hyph;M
