FR940628-2-00129 FR940628-2-00096 (H) Task 1 Subtask 8_Crime Prevention Programs. The grantee shall work with public housing police departments in 11 cities to develop and implement crime prevention programs. This task is to include programs to counter crime and fear of crime, programs to enlist and maintain public cooperation, police officer programs, use of residents and training of residents. (I) Task 1 Subtask 9_Technical and Physical Security Programs. The grantee shall work with public housing police departments in 11 cities to develop and implement technical security programs in public housing buildings to include the use of closed circuit television cameras, monitors, sensors, fencing, locks, access control, lighting, parking and other state of the art programs. This task is to include recommendations on staffing buildings with guards and the anticipated costs by building or development. (J) Task 1 Subtask 10_Accreditation for Law Enforcement Agencies. The grantee shall work with 11 public housing police departments to become accredited police departments, or to elevate their professional capacity to the point that the housing authority police department meets all the standards promulgated by the Commission on Accreditation for Law Enforcement Agencies (CALEA) relative to the work provided by the respective public housing police departments. (K) Task 1 Subtask 11_Community Policing Programs. The grantee shall work with public housing police departments in 11 cities to design, develop and implement community policing programs that are tailored to public housing. This Task is to include the development and implementation of training programs for public housing police department officers, municipal police department officers, housing authority officials and residents in the 11 cities. (ii) Task 2_Additional Law Enforcement Service Agreements Between Housing Authorities and Local Police Departments for Police Services. The grantee shall work with public housing departments and local governments in a minimum of 15 cities, to be identified after the grant award , without public housing police departments to negotiate and implement additional law enforcement service agreements, beyond the HA cooperation agreement, between local police departments and public housing officials. The anticipated agreements would relate to the provision of police services to public housing residents by municipal police, access to emergency services, baseline services provided to public housing residents, reporting of crimes city-wide and in public housing, and other items that may be of mutual interest to the city and/or housing authority. In this task, the cities would be selected through joint discussion between HUD and the vendor. (iii) Task 3_Technical Assistance. The grantee shall work with the designated housing authorities and local governments to provide technical assistance to each of the housing authorities to facilitate effective relationships and improve law enforcement service delivery. The grantee will provide technical assistance to housing authorities to assist in implementing the recommendations identified in the course of implementing Tasks 1 and 2. (iv) Task 4_Required Reports. The grantee shall provide HUD a written report on the proposed implementation plan for each public housing police department, and the 15 HAs without police departments where the grantee is to provide technical assistance between the HA and local government, prior to implementing any activities. It is understood that the recommendations for one public housing police department may apply in another public housing police department; however, each housing police department is to have a separate report with recommendations, costs, suggested sources of funding, staffing implications, and timelines. (e) Application submission requirements. (1) Applicants must submit a completed application for Federal Assistance (Standard Form 424). The SF&hyph;424 is the face sheet for the application. The applicant will provide budget information on Standard Form 424A, including a program narrative, a detailed budget narrative with supporting cost analysis. The applicant will identify their legal and accounting services that will be used. (2) Application format requirements: (i) Applicant's cover letter. (ii) TAB 1_Standard Form 424, Application for Federal Assistance. (iii) TAB 2_Standard Form 424A, Budget Information with attached program narrative, a detailed budget with budget narrative with supporting cost analysis and legal and accounting services. The narrative must include the applicant's financial capability, i.e., the fiscal controls and accounting procedures which assure that Federal funds will be accounted for properly. The applicant must demonstrate that it has the management and financial capability to effectively implement a project of this size and scope. The applicant must submit a five year strategy which includes the first year budget of $1.5 million with 4 option years of comparable funding amounts.
