FR940602-2-00047 FR940602-2-00038 2. Proposed respondent admits all the jurisdictional facts set forth in the attached draft complaint. 3. Proposed respondent waives: (a) Any further procedural steps; (b) The requirement that the Commission's decision contain a statement of findings of fact and conclusions of law; (c) All rights to seek judicial review or otherwise to challenge or contest the validity of the Order entered pursuant to this agreement; and (d) Any claim under the Equal Access to Justice Act, 5 U.S.C. 504. 4. This agreement shall not become part of the public record of the proceeding unless and until it is accepted by the Commission. If this agreement is accepted by the Commission, it, together with the attached draft complaint, will be placed on the public record for a period of sixty (60) days and information in respect thereto publicly released. The Commission thereafter may either withdraw its acceptance of this agreement and so notify the proposed respondent, in which event it will take such action as it may consider appropriate, or issue and serve its complaint (in such form as the circumstances may require) and decision, in disposition of the proceeding. 5. This agreement is for settlement purposes only and does not constitute an admission by proposed respondent of facts, other than jurisdictional facts, or of violations of law as alleged in the draft of complaint here attached. 6. This agreement contemplates that, if it is accepted by the Commission, and if such acceptance is not subsequently withdrawn by the Commission pursuant to the provisions of ยง2.34 of the Commission's Rules, the Commission may, without further notice to proposed respondent: (a) Issue its complaint corresponding in form and substance with the attached draft complaint and its decision containing the following order to cease and desist in disposition of the proceeding; and (b) make information pubic in respect thereto. When so entered, the order to cease and desist shall have the same force and effect and may be altered, modified or set aside in the same manner and within the same time provided by statute for other orders. The order shall become final upon service. Delivery by the U.S. Postal Service of the complaint and decision containing the agreed-to order to proposed respondent's address as stated in this agreement shall constitute service. Proposed respondent waives any right it may have to any other manner of service. The complaint may be used in construing the terms of the order, and no agreement, understanding, representation, or interpretation not contained in the order or the agreement may be used to vary or contradict the terms of the order. 7. Proposed respondent has read the attached draft complaint and the following order. Proposed respondent understands that once the order has been issued, it was be required to file one or more compliance reports showing that it has fully complied with the order. Proposed respondent further understands that it may be liable for civil penalties in the amount provided by law for each violation of the order after it becomes final. Order Definitions For the purposes of this Order, the following definitions shall apply: A. Competent and reliable scientific evidence shall mean those tests, analyses, research, studies, or other evidence conducted and evaluated in an objective manner by persons qualified to do so, using procedures generally accepted in the relevant profession or science to yield accurate and reliable results; B. Weight loss program shall mean any program designed to aid consumers in weight loss or weight maintenance; C. A broadcast medium shall mean any radio or television broadcast, cablecast, home video or theatrical release;
