FR940506-1-00051 FR940506-1-00012 (9) Move the vessel to such places and at such times as may be designated by the contractor, as instructed by the Regional Director, for purposes of embarking and debarking observers. (10) Ensure that transfers of observers at sea via small boat or raft are carried out during daylight hours, under safe conditions, and with the agreement of observers involved. (11) Notify observers at least 3 hours before observers are transferred, such that the observers can collect personal belongings, equipment, and scientific samples. (12) Provide a safe pilot ladder and conduct the transfer to ensure the safety of observers during transfers. (13) Provide an experienced crew member to assist observers in the small boat or raft in which any transfer is made. (d) Shoreside processor responsibilities. A manager of a shoreside processing facility must: (1) Maintain safe conditions at the processing facility for the protection of observers by adhering to all applicable rules, regulations, or statutes pertaining to safe operation and maintenance of the processing facility. (2) Notify the observers, as requested, of the planned facility operations and expected receipt of groundfish, crab, or halibut prior to receipt of those fish. (3) Allow the observers to use the processing facility's communication equipment, on request, for the entry, transmission, and receipt of work-related messages at no cost to the observers or the United States. (4) Allow observers free and unobstructed access to the processing facility's holding bins, processing areas, freezer spaces, weight scales, warehouses, and any other space that may be used to hold, process, weigh, or store fish or fish products at any time. (5) Allow observers to inspect and copy the shoreside processing facility's daily cumulative production logbook, transfer logbook, any other logbook or document required by regulations; printouts or tallies of scale weights; scale calibration records; bin sensor readouts; and production records. (6) Provide all other reasonable assistance to enable the observer to carry out his or her duties, including, but not limited to, assisting the observer in moving and weighing totes of fish, cooperating with product recovery tests, and providing a secure place to store baskets of sampling gear. (e) Notification of observer contractors by processors and operators of vessels required to carry observers. Processors and operators of vessels required to carry observers under the Research Plan are responsible for meeting their observer coverage requirements. Processors and vessel operators must notify the appropriate observer contractor, as identified by NMFS, in writing or facsimile copy, no less than 60 days prior to the need for an observer, to ensure that an observer will be available. Processors and vessel operators must notify the appropriate observer contractor again, in writing, facsimile copy, or by telephone, no less than 10 days prior to the need for an observer, to make final arrangements for observer deployment. Names of observer contractors, information for contacting contractors, and a list of embarkment/disembarkment ports for observers will be published in the Federal Register annually prior to the beginning of the calendar year (see ยง677.11). (f) Release of observer data to the public_ (1) The following information collected by observers for each catcher processor and catcher vessel during any weekly reporting period may be made available to the public: (i) Vessel name and Federal permit number; (ii) Number of chinook salmon and ``other salmon'' observed; (iii) The ratio of total round weight of halibut or Pacific herring to the total round weight of groundfish in sampled catch; (iv) The ratio of number of king crab or C. bairdi Tanner crab to the total round weight of groundfish in sampled hauls; (v) The number of observed trawl hauls or fixed gear sets; (vi) The number of trawl hauls that were basket sampled; and (vii) The total weight of basket samples taken from sampled trawl hauls. (2) The information listed in paragraphs (f)(2) (i) through (xiii) of this section and collected by observers from observed hauls onboard vessels using trawl gear to participate in a directed fishery for groundfish other than rockfish, Greenland turbot, or Atka mackerel may be made available to the public. The identity of the vessels from which these data are collected will not be released. The information consists of the following: (i) Date; (ii) Time of day gear is deployed; (iii) Latitude and longitude at beginning of haul; (iv) Bottom depth; (v) Fishing depth of trawl; (vi) The ratio of the number of chinook salmon to the total round weight of groundfish; (vii) The ratio of the number of other salmon to the total round weight of groundfish; (viii) The ratio of total round weight of halibut to the total round weight of groundfish; (ix) The ratio of total round weight of herring to the total round weight of groundfish; (x) The ratio of the number of king crab to the total round weight of groundfish; (xi) The ratio of the number of C. bairdi Tanner crab to the total round weight of groundfish; (xii) Sea surface temperature (where available); and (xiii) Sea temperature at fishing depth of trawl (where available). (3) In exceptional circumstances, the owners and operators of vessels may provide to the Regional Director written justification at the time observer data are submitted, or within a reasonable time thereafter, that disclosure of the information listed in paragraphs (f) (1) and (2) of this section could reasonably be expected to cause substantial competitive harm. The determination whether to disclose the information will be made pursuant to 15 CFR 4.7. ยง677.11 Annual Research Plan specifications. (a) Proposed Research Plan specifications. Annually, after consultation between the Regional Director, the Council, and, in the case of observer coverage levels in the crab fisheries, the State of Alaska, NMFS will publish in the Federal Register , with opportunity for public comment: Proposed standard exvessel prices, total exvessel value, fee percentage, levels of observer coverage for Research Plan fisheries, standardized cost(s) of an observer day, and embarkment/disembarkment ports for observers, for the calendar year. (1) Standard exvessel prices. Standard exvessel prices will be used in determining the annual fee percentage for the calendar year and will be the basis for calculating bimonthly fee assessments. Standard exvessel prices for species harvested in Research Plan fisheries for each calendar year will be based on: (i) Exvessel price information for the most recent 12-month period for which data are available; (ii) Factors that are expected to change exvessel prices in the calendar year; and (iii) Any other relevant information that may affect expected exvessel prices during the calendar year.
