FR940506-1-00022 FR940506-1-00010 The requirement for a COO may also result in additional requirements for small entities. Since a COO is unique to the vessel to which it is assigned, there may be some additional requirements associated with assuring that the proper COO accompanies each vessel, particularly for importers of inflatables and similar, high volume, low cost vessels which are shipped in bulk containers. As a result, the COO requirement in the proposed regulations may require changes in the manner in which small, high volume vessels are packaged for shipment. However, a preliminary analysis indicates that the COO requirement will not result in a significant impact on a substantial number of small entities. Therefore, the Coast Guard certifies under 5 U.S.C. 605(b) that this proposal, if adopted, will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. If, however, you think that your business or organization qualifies as a small entity and that this proposal will have a significant economic impact on your business or organization, please submit a comment (see ADDRESSES ) explaining why you think it qualifies and in what way and to what degree this proposal will economically affect it. Collection of Information Under the Paperwork Reduction Act (44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq. ), the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) reviews each proposed rule that contains a collection of information requirement to determine whether the practical value of the information is worth the burden imposed by its collection. Collection of information requirements include reporting, recordkeeping, notification, labeling and other, similar requirements. This proposal contains collection of information requirements in the following sections: 181.23, 181.31 and 181.43. The following particulars apply: DOT: 2115. OMB CONTROL No.: 2115&hyph;XXXX. Administration: U.S. Coast Guard Title: Expanded Hull Identification Number and New Requirements for Certificates of Origin. Need for Information: The information collection requirements contained in this proposal are necessary to meet statutory requirements of 46 U.S.C. chapter 125 regarding the establishment of a national vessel identification system for recreational vessel owners. Proposed Use of Information: To be used by State agencies, local law enforcement, the Coast Guard and other Federal agencies and be available, on a fee basis, to private businesses involved in the maritime industry (such as banking firms and insurance companies) as a centralized data base regarding recreational vessels. Burden Estimate: See discussion below. Respondents: Boat manufacturers and importers (4,000), individuals building their own vessels (17,000) and issuing authorities in States and territories of the United States (56). Forms: Hull Identification Number and Certificate of Origin Average Burden Hours Per Respondent: Variable. There is no practical way to estimate the burden per respondent for the Hull Identification Number regulations. The respondents are vessel manufacturers and importers and State vessel registration and numbering authorities and members of the public who build their own vessels. Some manufacturers produce thousands of vessels annually, while others may produce only a single vessel annually.
