FR941107-1-00046 FR941107-1-00009 FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION 47 CFR Part 73 [MM Docket No. 94&hyph;123; FCC 94&hyph;266] Radio Broadcast Services; Television Program Practices AGENCY: Federal Communications Commission. ACTION: Proposed rule. SUMMARY: The Commission invites comments on its initiation of a rulemaking proceeding to assess the legal and policy justifications, in light of current economic and technological conditions, for the Prime Time Access Rule, and to consider the continued need for the rule in its current form. DATES: Comments are due on or before January 6, 1995, and reply comments are due on or before February 6, 1995. ADDRESSES: Federal Communications Commission, Washington, D.C. 20554. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: David E. Horowitz and Alan E. Aronowitz, Mass Media Bureau, Policy and Rules Division, (202) 632&hyph;7792. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: This is a synopsis of the Commission's Notice of Proposed Rule Making, MM Docket No. 94&hyph;123, adopted October 20, 1994, and released October 25, 1994. The complete text of this document is available for inspection and copying during normal business hours in the FCC Reference Center (Room 239), 1919 M Street NW., Washington, D.C. 20554, and may be purchased from the Commission's copy contractor, International Transcription Service, (202) 857&hyph;3800, 2100 M Street NW., Washington, D.C. 20037. Synopsis of the Notice of Proposed Rule Making 1. The Commission initiated a rulemaking proceeding to assess, in light of current economic and technological conditions, the legal and policy justifications for the Prime Time Access Rule (``PTAR''), Section 73.658(k) of the Commission's Rules, and to consider the continued need for the rule in its current form. The rule generally prohibits network-affiliated stations in the top 50 television markets from broadcasting more than three hours of network or former network (``off-network'') programs during the four prime time viewing hours ( i.e., 7 to 11 p.m. Eastern and Pacific times; 6 to 11 p.m. Central and Mountain times). The rule also contains exemptions for certain types of programming ( e.g., special news, documentary, children's and sports programming). 2. PTAR was initially promulgated in 1970 in response to the concern that the three major television networks_ABC, CBS and NBC_dominated the program production market, controlled much of the video fare presented to the public, and inhibited the development of competing program sources. The Commission believed that PTAR would increase the level of competition in the independent production of programs, reduce the networks' control over their affiliates' programming decisions, and increase the diversity of programs available to the public. 3. The Commission believes that as the video marketplace has developed and the major networks' power has declined in the years since PTAR was established, an overall review of the rule is now appropriate. In this regard, on April 12, 1994, the Commission issued a Public Notice soliciting public comment on various filings seeking modification or elimination of PTAR. Parties filing comments thus far, however, have failed to present a rigorous economic framework for analysis, supported by adequate data, that will enable the Commission to assess the competitive effects of the rule and its efficacy in achieving both competition and non-competition-based public interest goals. Therefore, this Notice of Proposed Rule Making proposes a framework to evaluate the continued efficacy of the rule. 4. The analytical framework set forth by the Commission recognizes that in 1970, there was a strong cast for taking government action to correct the effects of a competitively unbalanced market. Accordingly, the FCC established PTAR. However, with the development of alternative forms of video distribution, the growth of the broadcast industry (including increased competition among networks for affiliates), and the increase in the number and types of entities creating nationally distributed video programming, the case for PTAR must be revisited. The analytical framework proposed in this Notice provides a means for evaluating the factual and economic assumptions underlying PTAR, to ascertain whether the rule operates to achieve its intended effects, and what unintended effects it may also cause. In addition, the Commission will use the framework to evaluate whether the intended and unintended effects further the attainment of legitimate goals in today's world. The ultimate decision to retain, modify or eliminate the rule will turn on a weighing of its costs against its benefits. 5. More specifically, the analytical framework seeks comment on the validity of the following three basic ways PTAR is said to alter the competitive opportunities in the relevant markets for the public good. First, by carving out a portion of prime time to be used for non-network use, the rule made it easier for independent producers to sell their programming to the more successful stations in the top markets ( i.e., affiliates of the three major networks). Among the intended effects was the goal of strengthening existing independent producers and encouraging entry of new ones. From an economic perspective, the Commission had anticipated that the decrease in supply of programming available to affiliates (caused by PTAR's ban on network and off-network programming) would increase prices paid for independently produced programming, thus acting as a spur for greater production and new entry. Thus, the Commission had predicted that the rule would increase the net amount of diverse programming available to the viewing public and create new competitors to the existing three networks. The Notice asks commenters to assess this dynamic, raising such questions as: (1) Whether this enhanced opportunity increases the net amount of independently produced programs available to the public; (2) whether this opportunity increases the net number of independent program producers serving the market; and (3) whether the limit placed by this opportunity on an affiliate's ability to carry network or off-network programming during the access period reduces the economic value of network programming aired during the other parts of prime time, by limiting the potential buyers for these programs after the network run is complete, thereby depressing the total return on these programs. 6. Second, the rule sought to reduce the networks' role in dictating their affiliates' programming choices, by forbidding the affiliates in the top 50 markets from running more than three hours of network or off-network programming during the four-hour prime time period. Thus, the rule was viewed as a way to increase affiliate autonomy and reduce network dominance. The immediate effect was to ensure that not all of an affiliate's prime time programming came through the same network filter. The Notice asks commenters to provide evidence regarding the bargaining positions of affiliates vis-a-vis their networks. For example, during hours other than the PTAR access period, do affiliates in the top 50 markets carry programs other than network programs? To what extent does the market dynamic in the top 50 markets dictate performance in the less populated markets? Are the recent affiliation switches indicative of a change in the relative bargaining power of the networks and their affiliates, or are these switches due to other factors? To the extent that the behavior of affiliates might change in some way if PTAR were modified or repealed, how would that affect the programs ultimately available to viewers? The Notice solicits comment on these and other related issues.
