FR940830-2-00123 FR940830-2-00057 If the smart-card exception could be interpreted in the manner just suggested, the potential for exclusion of competing networks through the exception is not an imaginary concern. A recent article in the trade press has reported that Delaware financial institutions accounting for over 90% of the state's DDA base will issue EPS smart cards. 9 As the Complaint notes, the MAC network already has a monopoly position in Delaware; virtually all Delaware financial institutions belong to MAC. Given MAC's dominance, the smart-card exception will offer MAC another vehicle for erecting a barrier to entry into the state. If the exception means that EPS can tell its financial institution members that they cannot put the NYCE brand on any MAC-branded cards because those cards also happen to contain an integrated computer chip for stored value functionality, those institutions will have to issue (at considerable cost) separate cards if they wish to offer access to NYCE. In those states where MAC already has a monopoly, it is difficult to see what possible incentive the financial institutions would have for joining NYCE at all. 9 Card FAX, May 23, 1994, at 1. Furthermore, the smart-card exception is ambiguous not only with respect to exclusive branding of cards but also with respect to exclusive branding of ATMs. Under the decree, EPS is barred from restricting its members' multiple branding of ATMs and from restricting ``any depository institution ATM deployer from enabling ATMs to function in multiple ATM networks.'' NYS is concerned, however, about ambiguity in the Competitive Impact Statement, where it says, ``EPS must permit MAC members to display multiple network marks on ATMs and ATM card, except for electronic stored value cards.'' 10 It is NYS' understanding that EPS' smart cards will be used in its existing ATMs which will be retrofitted to handle the additional smart-card functionality. If EPS is permitted, through an evasive interpretation of the smart-card exception, to refuse acceptance of smart cards bearing any brand other than its own at ATMs in its network the decree's objective of facilitating competitive access by other networks to customers in states where EPS has ATM dominance will be seriously undermined. This issue also requires clarification. 10 59 Fed. Reg. 2471 (emphasis added). The Smart Card Exception Will Not Encourage Innovation and Competition In the Competitive Impact Statement, the Department acknowledges the following justification for the smart-card exception: ``allowing restrictive branding of electronic stored value cards will encourage innovation and competition in services among firms marketing such cards.'' 11 In NYS' judgment, this is not correct and does not justify the smart-card exception, even if the exception is meant to apply only to stand-alone smart cards; this reason certainly does not justify application of the exception to a combined ATM/smart card. 11 59 Fed. Reg. at 24721, n.10. It is clear that the Department concurs with this contention of EPS, but this reason appears to be offered as an explanation for the Department's lack of concern about the smart-card loophole. First, smart-card technology is not in any sense ``new'' or ``unique''; it has been deployed widely in Europe and Japan for several years and is now being used in various applications in this country as well. 12 12 Smart cards are used in both ``closed system'' and ``open system'' environments. ``Closed systems'' include both single-vendor stored value systems and systems designed for single-site use, such as a public transit system or a university campus. An ``open system'' refers to a multiple-vendor, multiple-site system, similar to a POS network in which the value stored on the card can be used at a wide range of participating vendors. Second, EPS is not truly an ``innovator'' with respect to smart-card technology_rather, it is a single customer of the technology. The actual producers and innovators of smart-card technology are data-technology firms such as Schlumberger, GemPlus, Microcard, IBM and AT&T. To the extent the EPS' application of the technology makes any contribution to technological innovation or development, many other entities, including individual banks and the national credit card networks, are also actively engaged in the development of various payment-systems applications of smart-card technology. 13 13 For example, NYS is aware that Chemical Bank has developed and is pilot-testing a card with an embedded, integrated circuit chip and a co-resident magnetic stripe, which allows holders to do regular ATM transactions and to pay for purchases with stored cash value. Chemical Bank's cards will be used in ATMs equipped with smart-card reader/writer capability. Citicorp is also reported to be testing a smart card. Bank Network News , Vol. 12, No. 16, January 12, 1994, at 1.
