FR941102-1-00075 FR941102-1-00018 The level of protein in milk does have a measurable affect on the value of milk used for manufacturing. This value varies among the diverse manufactured products because of differences in the market values of manufactured dairy products and in the contribution made by protein to various finished products. For instance, testimony at the hearing showed that for a one-pound change in protein in the manufacture of cheddar cheese there is a 1.32 pound change in the quantity of cheese produced, whereas in the production of milk powder a one-pound change in the level of protein would change the amount of powder produced by approximately one pound. Since the vast majority of milk in the five orders included in this hearing is used to manufacture cheese, the protein price will be based on the contribution made by protein in the manufacture of cheese. The 1.32 factor used in both methods proposed for the computation of the protein price for these five orders is derived from a modified Van Slyke cheese yield formula, where the casein is assumed to be 75 percent of the protein and the moisture content of the cheese is 38 percent. Assuming the butterfat is constant, a change of protein by one pound in this formula will change cheese yield by 1.32 pounds. Therefore, the 1.32 factor is appropriate for determining the order protein price. In determining the level of the protein price, the question of whether to use the average block price versus the average barrel price is a lesser issue than the question of whether or not whey protein should be included in the computation of the protein price, as proposed by NAJ. The average difference between the Green Bay Cheese Exchange average block price and average barrel price during 1992 and 1993 was $.0388 per pound. Multiplying this difference by the 1.32 factor results in an average difference of $.05 per pound of protein between the protein prices derived from the barrel and the block cheese prices. Over the same 2 years the inclusion of whey protein in the computation of the protein price would have increased the protein price by an average of $.4265. The principal issues that must be addressed in determining the computation of the protein price are the factors that must be included to arrive at a price that most accurately reflects the value of protein in milk. In addition, the effect of the level of the protein price on the other nonfat solids price must be considered. Since the other nonfat solids price is computed as a residual of the Minnesota-Wisconsin price, the other nonfat solids price is inversely related to the protein price. In determining an appropriate protein price and other nonfat solids price, the effects of both prices on payments to producers and margins to handlers buying milk must be determined. Inclusion of a protein price and an other solids price in determining payments to producers gives producers an incentive to increase their production of nonfat solids, especially protein. There was no evidence in the hearing record to indicate the cost to producers of increasing the protein content of milk. It is therefore difficult to determine what the absolute level of the protein price, or its relative level to the butterfat and other solids prices, must be to encourage producers to increase the protein content of milk.
