FR941028-2-00227 FR941028-2-00110 Communities who are designated under the Empowerment Zone and Enterprise Community program will already have demonstrated a capacity for the type of cooperative planning that allows communities to use, where appropriate, methods and materials developed in gifted and talented programs to improve the educational opportunities for all children. Note: This notice of proposed priorities does not solicit applications. A notice inviting applications under these priorities for fiscal year 1995 will be published in the Federal Register concurrent with or following publication of the notice of final priorities. Priorities The Secretary proposes that at least 75 percent of available funds will support model projects in schools developed under absolute priority number one, and 25 percent of available funds will support technical assistance and dissemination projects developed under absolute priority number 2. Under 34 CFR 75.105(c)(3) the Secretary proposes to give an absolute preference to applications that meet one of the following two priorities. The Secretary proposes to fund under this competition only applications that meet one of these absolute priorities: Proposed Absolute Priority 1_Model Programs Projects that establish and operate model programs for serving gifted and talented students in schools in which at least 50 percent of the students enrolled are from low-income families. Projects must include students who may not be served by traditional gifted and talented programs, including economically disadvantaged students, individuals of limited English proficiency and individuals with disabilities. The projects must incorporate high-level content and performance standards in one or more of the core subject areas as well as utilize innovative teaching strategies. The projects must provide comprehensive ongoing professional development opportunities for staff. The projects must incorporate training for parents in ways to support their children's educational progress. There must also be a comprehensive evaluation of the projects' activities. Proposed Competitive Preference Priority_Empowerment Zone or Enterprise Community Within this proposed absolute priority concerning model projects, the Secretary, under 34 CFR 75.105(c)(2)(i), proposes to give preference to applications that meet the following competitive priority. The Secretary proposes to award five (5) points to an application that meets this competitive priority. These points would be in addition to any points the application earns under the selection criteria for the program. Projects that implement model programs in one or more schools in an Empowerment Zone or Enterprise Community. Applicants must ensure that the proposed program relates to the strategic plan and will be an integral part of the Empowerment Zone or Enterprise Community program. Proposed Absolute Priority 2_Technical Assistance and Information Dissemination Throughout a State or Region Projects to provide technical assistance and disseminate information throughout a State or region to improve the capability of schools to plan, conduct and improve programs for serving gifted and talented students. Projects must include assistance and information on how programs and methods for teaching gifted and talented students can be adapted, where appropriate, to improve instruction for all students in schools. These projects must be based on challenging content and performance standards in one or more of the core subject areas, and incorporate innovative teaching strategies. The projects must involve cooperative efforts among State and local education agencies, institutions of higher education, and/or other public and private agencies and organizations (including business, industry, and labor). Intergovernmental Review This program is subject to the requirements of Executive Order 12372 and the regulations in 34 CFR Part 79. The objective of the Executive Order is to foster an intergovernmental partnership and a strengthened federalism by relying on processes developed by State and local governments for coordination and review of proposed Federal financial assistance. In accordance with the order, this document is intended to provide early notification of the Department's specific plans and actions for this program. Invitation to Comment Interested persons are invited to submit comments and recommendations regarding these proposed priorities. All comments submitted in response to this notice will be available for public inspection, during and after the comment period, in Room 504, 555 New Jersey Avenue, N.W., Washington, D.C., between the hours of 8:30 a.m. and 4:00 p.m., Monday through Friday of each week except Federal holidays. Applicable Regulations: 34 CFR Part 791, Javits Gifted and Talented Students Education Grant Program. Program Authority: Part B of Title III of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965, as amended. (Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance Number 84.073A, Jacob K. Javits Gifted and Talented Students Education Program). Dated: October 21, 1994. Sharon P. Robinson, Assistant Secretary for Educational Research and Improvement. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;26759 Filed 10&hyph;27&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4000&hyph;01&hyph;P
