FR941028-2-00085 FR941028-2-00063 Fish and Wildlife Service Receipt of Applications for Permits Under Section 10(a)(1)(A) of the Endangered Species Act AGENCY: Fish and Wildlife Service, Interior. ACTION: Notice of receipt of applications for permits. The following applicants have applied for a permit to conduct certain activities with endangered species. This notice is provided pursuant to section 10(c) of the Endangered Species Act of 1973, as amended (16 U.S.C., et seq .). Permit No. PRT&hyph;795928 Applicant: Wetlands Research Associates Inc., San Rafael, California. The applicant requests a permit to take (harass by surveying nests, band) the California clapper rail ( Sterna antillarum [= albifrons ] browni ) in San Diego County, California, to determine the reproductive success of nests and monitor individuals of the species for the purpose of enhancement of the survival of the species. Permit No. PRT&hyph;787037 Applicant: Branchiopod Research Group, University of San Diego, San Diego, California. The applicant requests amendment of their permit to include take (harass by survey, collect and sacrifice) of eggs and hatched individuals of the conservancy fairy shrimp ( Branchinecta conservatio ), longhorn fairy shrimp ( Branchinecta longiantenna ), and vernal pool tadpole shrimp ( Lepidurus packardi ) to determine presence or absence of the species, and conduct genetic, life history, development, physiology, and behavior studies on the species from vernal pools throughout the species' range in California for the purpose of scientific research. Permit No. PRT&hyph;795932 Applicant: Mr. David P. Muth, Martinez, California. The applicant requests a permit to take (harass by survey, collect and sacrifice) eggs and hatched individuals of the conservancy fairy shrimp ( Branchinecta conservatio ), longhorn fairy shrimp ( Branchinecta longiantenna ), vernal pool tadpole shrimp ( Lepidurus packardi ), and Riverside fairy shrimp ( Streptocephalus woottoni ) to determine presence or absence of the species in vernal pools throughout the species' range in California for the purpose of enhancement of survival of the species. Permit No. PRT&hyph;795929 Applicant: Simpson Environmental, Stockton, California The applicant requests a permit to take (harass by survey, collect and sacrifice) hatched individuals of the conservancy fairy shrimp ( Branchinecta conservatio ), longhorn fairy shrimp ( Branchinecta longiantenna ), and vernal pool tadpole shrimp ( Lepidurus packardi ), to determine presence or absence of the species in vernal pools throughout the species' range in California for the purpose of enhancement of survival of the species. Permit No. PRT&hyph;795930 Applicant: Mr. Brent P. Helm, Sacramento, California. The applicant requests a permit to take (harass by survey, collect and sacrifice) hatched individuals of the conservancy fairy shrimp ( Branchinecta conservatio ), longhorn fairy shrimp ( Branchinecta longiantenna ), vernal pool tadpole shrimp ( Lepidurus packardi ), and Riverside fairy shrimp ( Streptocephalus woottoni ) to determine presence or absence of the species in vernal pools throughout the species' range in California for the purpose of enhancement of survival of the species. Permit No. PRT&hyph;795931 Applicant: Biota Biological Consulting, Sacramento, California. The applicant requests a permit to take (harass by survey, collect and sacrifice) eggs and hatched individuals of the vernal pool tadpole shrimp ( Lepidurus packardi ) to determine presence or absence of the species in vernal pools throughout the species range in California for the purpose of enhancement of survival of the species. Permit No. PRT&hyph;795934 Applicant: Jones and Stokes Associates, Sacramento, California. The applicant requests a permit to take (harass by survey, collect and sacrifice) eggs and hatched individuals of the conservancy fairy shrimp ( Branchinecta conservatio ), longhorn fairy shrimp ( Branchinecta longiantenna ), vernal pool tadpole shrimp ( Lepidurus packardi ), and Riverside fairy shrimp ( Streptocephalus woottoni ) to determine presence or absence of the species in vernal pools throughout the species' range in California for the purpose of enhancement of survival of the species. Permit No. PRT&hyph;795935 Applicant: Gibson & Sordal Wetland Consultants, Sacramento, California. The applicant requests a permit to take (harass by survey, collect and sacrifice) hatched individuals of the conservancy fairy shrimp ( Branchinecta conservatio ), longhorn fairy shrimp ( Branchinecta longiantenna ), and vernal pool tadpole shrimp ( Lepidurus packardi ) to determine presence or absence of the species in vernal pools in Butte, Placer, Sacramento, and Solano Counties, California for the purpose of enhancement of survival of the species. Permit No. PRT&hyph;795933 Applicant: Sugnet & Associates, Roseville, California The applicant requests a permit to take (harass by survey, collect and sacrifice) eggs and hatched individuals of the conservancy fairy shrimp ( Branchinecta conservatio ), longhorn fairy shrimp ( Branchinecta longiantenna ), vernal pool tadpole shrimp ( Lepidurus packardi ), and Riverside fairy shrimp ( Streptocephalus woottoni ) to determine presence or absence of the species in vernal pools throughout the species' range in California for the purpose of enhancement of survival of the species.
