FR940630-1-00033 FR940630-1-00010 DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR Fish and Wildlife Service 50 CFR Part 17 RIN 1018&hyph;AC53 Endangered and Threatened Wildlife and Plants; Extension of Comment Period and Notice of Public Hearing on Proposed Threatened Status for the Virgin Spinedace (Lepidomeda Mollispinis Mollispinis) AGENCY: Fish and Wildlife Service, Interior. ACTION: Proposed rule; notice of public hearing and extension of comment period. SUMMARY: The Fish and Wildlife Service (Service) provides notice that a public hearing will be held on the proposed determination of threatened status for the Virgin spinedace ( Lepidomeda mollispinis mollispinis ) and that the comment period on the proposal is extended. This small fish in the minnow family ( Cyprinidae ) is endemic to the Virgin River drainage, a tributary to the Colorado River of southwestern Utah, northwestern Arizona, and southeastern Nevada. All interested parties are invited to submit comments on this proposal. DATES: The public hearing will be held from 4 p.m. to 6 p.m. and 7 p.m. to 9 p.m., with registration beginning at 3:30 p.m., on Wednesday, July 13, 1994. The comment period, which originally closed on July 18, 1994, now closes on August 17, 1994. ADDRESSES: The public hearing will be held at the St. George Hilton Inn, 1450 South Hilton Drive, St. George, Utah. The hearing will be held in the Garden Room of the hotel. Written comments and materials should be sent to the Field Supervisor, Fish and Wildlife Service, Suite 404, Lincoln Plaza, 145 East 1300 South, Salt Lake City, Utah 84115. Comments and materials received will be available for public inspection, by appointment, during normal business hours, at the above address. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Robert D. Williams, Assistant Field Supervisor, telephone 801/524&hyph;5001 (See ADDRESSES Section). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background The Virgin spinedace ( Lepidomeda mollispinis mollispinis ) is endemic to the Virgin River drainage, a tributary to the Colorado River of southwestern Utah, northwestern Arizona, and southeastern Nevada. Approximately 40 percent of the historical habitat of the Virgin spinedace has been lost due to human impacts, which include habitat fragmentation; introduction of nonnative fishes; and dewatering due to agriculture, mining, and urbanization. These impacts continue to threaten the Virgin spinedace. Listing this species as threatened would afford the Virgin spinedace protection under the Endangered Species Act (Act) of 1973, as amended (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq. ). On May 18, 1994, the Fish and Wildlife Service (Service) published a proposed rule (59 FR 25875) to list the Virgin spinedace as threatened under the Act. Section 4(b)(5)(E) of the Act requires that a public hearing be held if requested within 45 days of publication of the proposal in the Federal Register . A public hearing request was received within the allotted time period from Ronald W. Thompson, District Manager, St. George, Utah, representing the Washington County Water Conservancy District. The Service has scheduled this hearing on Wednesday, July 13, 1994, from 4 p.m. to 6 p.m. and 7 p.m. to 9 p.m., with registration beginning at 3:30 p.m. mountain daylight time (see ADDRESSES above). Anyone wishing to make an oral statement for the record is encouraged to provide a written copy of their statement to be presented to the Service at the start of the hearing. In the event there is a large attendance, the time allotted for oral statements may have to be limited. An adjacent room also will be provided for those who wish to ask questions and to obtain additional information during and after the formal hearing. Oral and written statements concerning the proposed rule that are presented at the hearing will receive equal consideration by the Service. There are no limits to the length of written comments presented at this hearing or mailed to the service. Comments particularly are sought concerning: (1) Biological, commercial trade, or other relevant data concerning any threat (or lack thereof) to this species; (2) The location of any additional populations of this species and the reasons why any habitat should or should not be determined to be critical habitat as provided by section 4 of the Act; (3) Additional information concerning the range, distribution, and population size of this species; and (4) Current or planned activities in the subject area and their possible impacts on this species.
