FR940505-1-00482 FR940505-1-00012 (2) Exemptions. An employer that meets any of the criteria described in paragraph (d)(2) (i) or (ii) of this section may apply to the Administrator for an exemption from the requirements of this section. Requests for exemptions shall be made in writing and shall be signed by the highest ranking responsible officer at the work location. (i) Any employer that employs 100 or more employees at a single work location, but has fewer than 33 employees reporting to work during the peak travel period may apply to the Administrator for an exemption from the requirements of this section. (ii) Any employer whose employee population at a work location decreases to fewer than 100 employees for a 12 month period, calculated as a monthly average, may apply to the Administrator for an exemption from the requirements of this section. The employer must submit documentation demonstrating an employee population of less than 100. (e) Employer notification. The Administrator will notify employers individually and by published notice of the requirements of this section. (1) Individual notification of employers. By May 1, 1995 or 90 days after final promulgation of this section whichever is later, the Administrator shall notify employers known to be subject to this section by certified mail of their obligations under this section. The notification letter shall outline the procedure for employer registration and be accompanied by a standard registration form described in paragraph (f) of this section. In each year after the initial notices are mailed, The Administrator shall send notices to any employer known to be added to the employer list since the previous notification mailing. (2) General notification of employers. Not later than May 1, 1995 or 90 days after final publication of this section whichever is later and annually thereafter, the Administrator shall publish notice and information concerning Sacramento employers' obligations under this section. The notice shall provide information on how employers can obtain required forms from EPA and shall establish a date by which employers must return a completed form to the Administrator. The Administrator shall publish the notice beginning on the date of the first individual notification mailings and shall run the notice for at least three days over a two week period in Sacramento regional newspapers. Also, the Administrator shall publish the notice in the first Federal Register released after the date of the first notification mailings. (3) Failure to receive an individual notification as provided for in paragraph (e)(1) of this section shall not relieve any employer of the obligation to meet all applicable requirements of this section. (f) Employer registration. (1) Registration deadlines. (i) By the due date specified in the notification mailing and as published in the public notice (see paragraph (e) of this section), each employer who received by certified mail the standard registration form shall submit a completed standard registration form to the Administrator. Notwithstanding that an employer may not have been mailed or received notice from the Administrator, an employer is required to complete the registration form and submit the completed form to the Administrator by the deadline specified in the published notice. Copies of the registration form may be obtained upon request from the EPA. (ii) Any employer that receives a notification packet must respond even if the employer believes it is not subject to this section. An employer that does not meet the definition of employer under this section is not required to submit the standard registration form, but instead must submit an ECO program return card included in the notification packet indicating the reason for non-applicability. The Administrator may request the employer to submit additional documentation to verify an employer's non-applicable status. (iii) An employer who is not subject to this section at the time the first notices are mailed, but subsequently becomes an employer subject to this section, shall submit a registration form to the Administrator within 60 days of becoming subject to this section. (iv) An employer that moves its work location within the Sacramento ECO program area after registering with the Administrator must submit a new registration form within 60 days after the date of the relocation. (2) Completion and submittal of registration form.
