FR940526-2-00100 FR940526-2-00063 Examples of Subcategories and Items Surveyed in the Four Major Goods & Services Categories 1␣ 1␣ 1␣ 1␣ Goods and services category 3 Subcategories and items surveyed (examples) 0 s Food at Home Meats Cereals & Breads Groceries. ␣ ␣Pork Chops ␣Cookies ␣Coffee. ␣ ␣Whole Chicken ␣Spaghetti ␣Ketchup. ␣ ␣Ground Beef ␣Cake ␣Margarine. ␣ ␣Dairy Fruits & Vegetables ␣ ␣ ␣Milk ␣Apples ␣ ␣ ␣Cheddar Cheese ␣Frozen Peas ␣ ␣ ␣ ␣Fresh Oranges ␣ Furnishing and Household Operations Services Furniture Misc. Household Eqpt. ␣ ␣Appliance Repair ␣Living Room Chair ␣ ␣ Supplies Major Appliances ␣Hammer. ␣ ␣Toilet Tissue ␣Kitchen Range ␣Electric Drill. ␣ ␣Laundry Soap ␣Refrigerator ␣Lawn Trimmer. ␣ Household Textiles Housewares & ␣ ␣ ␣Bath Towel ␣Small Appliance ␣ ␣ ␣ ␣Two-slice Toaster ␣ Clothing Men's and Boy's Infant's ␣ ␣Boy's Jeans ␣Disposable Diapers ␣ ␣ ␣Man's Jeans Footwear ␣ ␣ ␣Women's and Girl's ␣Man's Shoes ␣ ␣ ␣Woman's Slacks ␣Apparel Products and Services ␣ ␣ ␣Girl's Blouse ␣Coin Laundry ␣ ␣ ␣Girl's Jeans ␣ ␣ Recreation Fees and Admissions TV, Radio and Eqpt Entertainment. ␣ ␣Bowling ␣Video Rental ␣Board game. ␣ ␣Golf ␣Pets Reading. ␣ ␣ ␣Pet Food ␣Magazine. From its ten categories of expense (which include the four subdivided categories above), Runzheimer selected a marketbasket of items on which to base its goods and services analysis. A ``marketbasket'' is a selected group of products and services that represent hundred or even thousands of other items. Pricing every item available to consumers in a given locale would be unnecessary and inefficient. Runzheimer selected typically purchased items and weighted these according to their relative importance in terms of consumer expenditure patterns. Each marketbasket item represented a specific group of related expense items. Using CES data, we determined the relative importance (weight) of each item. We compared the average price of each marketbasket item in each allowance area with the average price in the Washington, D.C., area. The price differences (expressed as indexes) were aggregated based on the item, subcategory and category weighting, resulting in a total Goods & Services component index at each income level. In 1991, OPM directed Runzheimer to include catalog pricing (including applicable shipping costs) to reflect this common purchasing option in allowance areas. OPM identified items to survey based on comments received on the 1990 survey. Runzheimer identified items to survey that were either unavailable or difficult to find in each allowance area. Together, OPM and Runzheimer agreed to survey five marketbasket items by catalog: For the 1992&hyph;1993 survey, OPM asked Runzheimer to survey additional items by catalog; for example, furniture. For this year's survey, Runzheimer has added additional catalog items. For the 1992&hyph;1993 survey, Runzheimer found that the cost to ship certain catalog items to Guam varied between catalog outlets. With OPM's approval Runzheimer continued to price a private freight company that specializes in shipments to Guam for shipping costs. In each survey area, Runzheimer generally requested three price quotes for each item (and sometimes more than three) from the local economy_one from each of three different outlets. It should be remembered that Hawaii County, Hawaii; Puerto Rico; and the Virgin Islands each have two separate survey areas. Therefore, Runzheimer generally doubled the number of price quotes obtained in these allowance areas. 3.2␣Marketbasket Research 3.2.1␣Expenditure Research_Category Weightings Ruzheimer tabulated the expense data from the 1988 Consumer Expenditure Survey according to the ten categories of goods and services. As in the component analysis, Runzheimer used the expense data from the seven most appropriate income ranges as input into a linear regression analysis. From that analysis, Runzheimer calculated the category weightings for each income level as listed belows:
