FR940805-2-00110 FR940805-2-00056 C. The following are examples of situations where NRC would consider initiating formal procedures to terminate an agreement. This list is not inclusive and other situations may require consideration by the Commission at the recommendation of the Management Review Board. 1. Significant loss of staff which includes number of staff or those with critical skills, coupled with a State's inability to hire appropriate replacements 2. Continual management problems which manifest in the State's inability to perform adequate inspections or issue appropriate licenses 3. State's inability to adopt compatible program elements over significant period of time 4. Continued probationary or suspension status for a State program. V. Management Review Board Role A. The Management Review Board (MRB) is responsible for making the adequacy assessment of each Agreement State's program based on the reviews of the program, using both common performance indicators and non-common performance indicators, and the compatibility determination. The management review board consists of senior NRC managers, or their designees, to include: Executive Director for Operations Director, Office of Nuclear Material Safety and Safeguards Director, Office of State Programs Director, Office of Analysis and Evaluation of Operational Data General Counsel B. The MRB will consider the results of the Agreement State review and any other appropriate information in making a determination of adequacy and compatibility with respect to an Agreement State. MRB meetings to discuss specific program review findings normally will be open and Agreement State representatives will be invited to attend. MRB internal deliberation regarding the overall Agreement State program rating may be closed, given the predecisional nature of those discussions. C. If it is the recommendation of the MRB that NRC initiate the proceedings to terminate an Agreement, the Office of State Programs will be assigned the lead for preparation of the Commission paper. The Commission paper will contain the information supporting the termination. The Commission paper will be coordinated with OGC, NMSS and the region.
