FR940826-2-00136 FR940826-2-00069 Exchange Rules Applicable Except as modified in the proposal, the Rules in Chapter XXIV of the Exchange's Rules regarding narrow-based indexes will be applicable to Index options. 8 Pursuant to Exchange Rule 24.4A, Index option contracts based on the Emerging Markets Index will be subject to the position limits of 10,500 contracts. 9 For purposes of position and exercise limits, Index LEAPS will be aggregated with Index options on a one for one basis. Under the proposal, ten reduced-value Index LEAPS contracts will equal one full-value Index option or Index LEAP for purposes of aggregating positions. The Exchange represents that it has the necessary systems capacity to support new options series that would result from the introduction of Index options and Index LEAPS. 8 See Amendment No. 1, supra note 3. 9 Id. The Exchange believes that the proposed rule change is consistent with Section 6 of the Act, in general, and furthers the objectives of Section 6(b)(5) of the Act, 10 in particular, in that it will provide investors with an opportunity to invest in options based upon the Emerging Markets Index pursuant to rules designed to prevent fraudulent and manipulative acts and practices, promote just and equitable principles of trade, foster cooperation and coordination with persons facilitating transactions in securities, remove impediments to and perfect the mechanism of a free and open market, and protect investors and the public interest. 10 15 U.S.C. 78f(b)(5) (1988). (B) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Burden on Competition The Exchange does not believe that the proposed rule change will impose any inappropriate burden on competition. (C) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received From Members, Participants, or Others Written comments on the proposed rule change were neither solicited nor received. III. Date of Effectiveness of the Proposed Rule Change and Timing for Commission Action Within 35 days of the date of publication of this notice in the Federal Register or within such longer period (i) As the Commission may designate up to 90 days of such date if it finds such longer period to be appropriate and publishes it reasons for so finding or (ii) as to which the Exchange consents, the Commission will: (a) by order approve such proposed rule change, or (b) institute proceedings to determine whether the proposed rule change should be disapproved. IV. Solicitation of Comments Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views and arguments concerning the foregoing. Persons making written submissions should file six copies thereof with the Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549. Copies of the submission, all subsequent amendments, all written statements with respect to the proposed rule change that are filed with the Commission, and all written communications relating to the proposed rule change between the Commission and any person, other than those that may be withheld from the public in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552, will be available for inspection and copying in the Commission's Public Reference Section, 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. Copies of such filing will also be available for inspection and copying at the principal office of the CBOE. All submissions should refer to File No. SR&hyph;CBOE&hyph;94&hyph;19 and should be submitted by September 16, 1994. For the Commission, by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. 11 11 17 CFR 200.30&hyph;3(a)(12) (1993). Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;21007 Filed 8&hyph;25&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
