FR940523-2-00129 FR940523-2-00073 Federal Highway Administration Environmental Impact Statement: Washington, Kent, and Providence Counties, RI AGENCY: Federal Highway Administration (FHWA), DOT. ACTION: Notice of intent. SUMMARY: The FHWA is issuing this notice to advise the public that an environmental impact statement will be prepared for the proposed construction of a third track for freight rail service between Central Falls and North Kingston, Rhode Island. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Gordon G. Hoxie, Division Administrator, Federal Highway Administration, 380 Westminster Mall, room 547, Providence, Rhode Island, Telephone: (401) 528&hyph;4541, or Thomas J. Queenan, Project Manager, Rhode Island Department of Transportation, Two Capitol Hill_room 372, Providence, RI 02903, telephone: (401) 277&hyph;2694. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The FHWA, in cooperation with the Rhode Island Department of Transportation (RIDOT), will prepare an environmental impact statement (EIS) on a proposal to improve freight rail service along the Northeast Corridor (NEC) between Central Falls and North Kingston, Rhode Island. The proposed improvement would involve the construction of a new third track parallel to the NEC mainline along the entire corridor for a distance of about 35 kilometers (22 miles). Improvements to the corridor are considered necessary to alleviate impacts to freight rail service resulting from the proposed Amtrak Northeast Corridor electrification project. Construction of electrification facilities and associated changes in intercity passenger operations are expected to reduce vertical and horizontal clearances at overhead bridges along the corridor, limit daytime freight movements to existing levels, and restrict additional freight movements to nighttime hours. Alternatives under consideration include (1) Taking no action; (2) construction of a continuous third track parallel to the NEC mainline including ancillary modifications to overhead bridge structures; and (3) other reasonable alternatives identified during the scoping process. Public scoping meeting(s) will be held in Cranston, RI between June and July 1994. In addition, a public hearing will be held. Public notice will be given of the time and place of the meetings and hearing. The draft EIS will be available for public and agency review prior to the public hearing. To ensure that the full range of issues related to this proposed action are addressed and all significant issues identified, comments and suggestions are invited from all interested parties. Comments or questions concerning this proposed action and the EIS should be directed to FHWA at the address provided above. (Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance Program Number 20.205 , Highway Research, Planning and Construction. The regulations implementing Executive Order 12372 regarding intergovernmental consultation of Federal programs and other activities apply to this program) Issued on: May 17, 1994. Gordon G. Hoxie, Division Administrator, Providence, Rhode Island. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;12487 Filed 5&hyph;20&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;22&hyph;M
