FR941206-0-00161 FR941206-0-00019 The EPA may choose to amend the final subpart CC tank standards such that stabilization tanks could comply with alternative air emission controls to those included in today's promulgation. The EPA will determine the appropriateness of such an amendment based on the evaluation of: (1) Information that is submitted relating to industry's comments that it is not feasible to comply with the technical requirements of today's final rule or to pretreat waste prior to stabilization; (2) Information related to alternative emission controls that could be applied to stabilization tanks for effective organic emission reduction; (3) Data related to the specific characteristics of hazardous waste that is stabilized at TSDF; (4) Detailed information regarding the stabilization processes performed in TSDF tanks; and (5) Other related information. For a given stabilization tank to qualify for certain compliance options, the EPA could require the facility owner or operator to demonstrate (through specified testing, monitoring, sampling, or other means) that organic constituents are not volatilized during the hazardous waste stabilization operations performed in that tank. A similar requirement for biological treatment performed in tanks and surface impoundments is included in the final subpart CC standards (for example see 40 CFR 264.1085(a)(2)) as well as other air standards developed by the EPA under the Clean Air Act (e.g., the Hazardous Organic NESHAP (59 FR 19402, April 22, 1994) and the proposed Off-Site Waste and Recovery Operations NESHAP (59 FR 51919, October 13, 1994)). For biological treatment processes, which are generally acknowledged by the EPA as appropriate treatment for organic constituents in waste with respect to controlling organic emissions, the EPA considers such a demonstration to be a reasonable requirement for certain compliance options. Therefore, the EPA also could consider it reasonable to require that stabilization operations, which the EPA does not consider appropriate treatment for organic constituents in waste with respect to controlling organic emissions, perform at least an equivalent demonstration for certain compliance options. If the EPA were to amend today's promulgated subpart CC tank standards to include such a demonstration, the required procedure could include any of the following, or possibly other procedures: whole waste analyses, full-scale analyses, specified emissions monitoring, material balance calculations, temperature monitoring, and water content information. In light of this supplemental comment opportunity, the EPA considers it appropriate to extend the effective date of the final rules for tanks that could be affected if the EPA chooses to modify the standards. Therefore, a separate compliance schedule is applicable to tanks in which waste stabilization activities are performed as of December 6, 1994. It is important to note that all applicable requirements with respect to other units at a facility subject to the subpart CC standards will be effective June 5, 1995. For these stabilization tanks, the effective date of the final rules will be December 6, 1995. As of the extended effective date for stabilization tanks, each TSDF owner or operator and each hazardous waste generator subject to the final rules must either install and operate the specified air emission control requirements on all affected tanks used for stabilization, or begin performing the specified waste determinations and recordkeeping to indicate that a stabilization tank is exempted from these requirements. Under circumstances where required air emission control equipment cannot be operational by December 6, 1995, an implementation schedule for installation of the required air emission controls must be developed and placed in the facility operating records no later than December 6, 1995. In such cases, the facility must have all air emission controls required by the final rules in operation no later than June 8, 1998. VII. Requirements of Final Rule A. TSDF Tank, Surface Impoundment, and Container Requirements Today's action by the EPA promulgates air emission standards for TSDF tanks, surface impoundments, and containers as a new subpart CC in both 40 CFR parts 264 and 265. Subpart CC under 40 CFR part 265 establishes standards for owners and operators of interim-status TSDF. As discussed in section VIII.A of this preamble, owners and operators of permitted TSDF that have been issued final permits prior to June 5, 1995, are required to comply with subpart CC under 40 CFR part 265 until the facility's permit is reviewed or reissued by the EPA. The air emission control requirements of the final subpart CC standards in 40 CFR part 264 and 40 CFR part 265 are identical with the exception of the reporting requirements. There are no reporting requirements in subpart CC under 40 CFR part 265. 1. Applicability
