FR941026-0-00010 FR941026-0-00004 DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION Federal Aviation Administration 14 CFR Part 93 [Docket No. 27664] The High Density Rule AGENCY: Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), DOT. ACTION: Notice of meeting. SUMMARY: On September 20, 1994, the FAA published a notice of public meeting in the Federal Register , announcing that public meetings on the High Density rule would be held in Washington, DC, New York, and Chicago. On October 11, 1994, the FAA published a notice announcing the locations of the public meetings in Washington, DC and New York. This notice announces the location of the Chicago meeting. DATES: The public meeting in Chicago will be held on November 17, 1994, from 12 p.m. to 4 p.m. and from 6 p.m. to 8 p.m. Pursuant to the September 20, 1994, Notice of public meeting, written comments are also invited and must be received on or before November 23, 1994. ADDRESSES: The public meeting in Chicago will be held at the Holiday Inn O'Hare International, 5440 N. River Road, Rosemont, IL 60018. Persons unable to attend the meeting may mail their comments in triplicate to: Federal Aviation Administration, Office of the Chief Counsel, Rules Docket (AGC&hyph;200), Docket No. 27664, 800 Independence Avenue SW., Washington, DC 20591. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Requests to present a statement at the Chicago meeting or questions regarding the logistics of the meeting should be directed to Cindy Herman, Office of Rulemaking, 800 Independence Avenue, SW., Washington, DC 20591; telephone (202) 267&hyph;7627. Questions concerning the subject matter of the meeting should be directed to Larry Barry, Federal Aviation Administration, Office of Aviation Policy, Plans, and Management Analysis, 800 Independence Avenue SW., Washington, DC 20591; telephone (202) 267&hyph;3305 SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Participation at the Meeting Pursuant to the September 20, 1994, Notice of public meeting, requests from persons who wish to present oral statements at the Chicago public meeting should be received by the FAA no later than November 1, 1994. Requests received after the date specified above will be scheduled if there is time available during the meeting. Such requests should be submitted to Cindy Herman as listed in the section titled FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT , should include a written summary of oral remarks to be presented, and should include an estimate of time needed for the presentation. Requests to present oral statements may be made on the day of the public meeting during the registration period, although time constraints may not permit the accommodation of such requests. The DOT will prepare an agenda of speakers that will be available at the meeting. The names of those individuals whose requests to present oral statements are received after the date specified above may not appear on the written agenda. To accommodate as many speakers as possible, the amount of time allocated to each speaker may be less than the amount of time requested. Background On September 20, 1994, the FAA published in the Federal Register a notice of public meeting regarding the High Density Rule (59 FR 48165). Specifically, the DOT seeks comment on the following key issues: [1] The economic, environmental, competitive, and operational aspects of the High Density Rule at the four airports. [2] The projected air traffic environment. [3] The process for allocating domestic and international slots. [4] Access for small communities at High Density Rule airports. [5] Potential alternatives to the current regulatory scheme at the High Density Rule airports. These issues are intended to help focus public comments on areas that will be useful to the DOT in completing its review of the High Density Rule. The comments at the meetings need not be limited to these issues, and the DOT invites comments on any other aspect of the High Density Rule. Meeting Procedures The following meeting procedures, as established in the September 20, 1994, Federal Register are to facilitate the meetings: (1) There will be no admission fee or other charge to attend or to participate in the meetings. The meetings will be open to all persons who are scheduled to present statements or who register on the day of the meeting (between 10:45 a.m. and 11:45 a.m.) subject to availability of space in the meeting rooms. The meetings may adjourn early if scheduled speakers complete their statements in less time than is scheduled for the meetings. (2) An individual, whether speaking in a personal or a representative capacity on behalf of an organization, may be limited to a 10-minute statement. If possible, we will notify the speaker if additional time is available. (3) The DOT will try to accommodate all speakers. If the available time does not permit this, speakers generally will be scheduled on a first-come-first-served basis. However, the DOT reserves the right to exclude some speakers if necessary to present a balance of viewpoints and issues. (4) Sign and oral interpretation can be made available at the meeting, as well as an assistive listening device, if requested 10 calendar days before the meeting. (5) Representatives of the DOT will preside over the meeting. A panel of DOT and FAA personnel involved in this issue will be present. (6) The meeting will be recorded by a court reporter. A transcript of the meeting and any material accepted by the DOT representatives during the meeting will be included in the public docket. Any person who is interested in purchasing a copy of the transcript should contact the court reporter directly. Additional transcript purchase information will be available at the meeting. (7) The DOT will review and consider all material presented by participants at the meeting. Position papers or material presenting views or arguments related to the High Density Rule may be accepted at the discretion of the presiding officer and subsequently placed in the public docket. The DOT requests that persons participating in the meeting provide five copies of all materials to be presented for distribution to the DOT representatives; other copies may be provided to the audience at the discretion of the participant. (8) Statements made by DOT representatives are intended to facilitate discussion of the issues or to clarify issues. Any statement made during the meeting by a DOT representative is not intended to be, and should not be construed as, a position of the DOT. (9) The meetings are designed to solicit public views and more complete information on the High Density Rule. Therefore, the meetings will be conducted in an informal and nonadversarial manner. No individual will be subject to cross-examination by any other participant; however, DOT representatives may ask questions to clarify a statement and to ensure a complete and accurate record. Issued in Washington, DC, on October 20, 1994. Dale E. McDaniel, Deputy Assistant Administrator for Policy, Planning & International Aviation. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;26496 Filed 10&hyph;25&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;13&hyph;M
