FR940725-0-00053 FR940725-0-00008 (i) An inability to learn that cannot be explained by intellectual, sensory, or health factors. (ii) An inability to build or maintain satisfactory interpersonal relationships with peers and teachers. (iii) Inappropriate types of behavior under normal circumstances. (iv) A tendency to develop physical symptoms or fears associated with personal or school problems. (v) A general, pervasive mood of unhappiness or depression. (2) Schizophrenia, but does not include children who are socially maladjusted, unless it is determined that they are otherwise seriously emotionally disturbed. (vv) Service provider. Any individual who provides services listed in an IEP or an IFSP. (ww) Social work services. This term includes: (1) Preparing a social or developmental history on an infant, toddler, preschool child or child with a disability. (2) Counseling with the infant, toddler, preschool child or child and family in a group or individual capacity. (3) Working with individuals with disabilities (0&hyph;21 inclusive) in the home school, and/or community environment to ameliorate those conditions that adversely affect development or educational performance. (4) Using school and community resources to enable the child to receive maximum benefit from his or her educational program or for the infant, toddler, and family to receive maximum benefit from early intervention services. (xx) Special education. Specially designed instruction, at no cost to the parent, to meet the unique needs of a preschool child or child with a disability, including instruction conducted in the classroom, in the home, in hospitals and institutions, and in other settings, and instruction in physical education. The term includes speech pathology or any other related service, if the service consists of specially designed instruction, at no cost to the parents, to meet the unique needs of a preschool child or child with a disability, and is considered ``special education'' rather than a ``related service.'' The term also includes vocational education if it consists of specially designed instruction, at no cost to the parents, to meet the unique needs of a child with a disability. (1) At no cost. With regard to a preschool child or child eligible to attend Section 6 School Arrangements, specially designed instruction and related services are provided without charge, but incidental fees that are normally charged to nondisabled students, or their parents, as a part of the regular educational program may be imposed. (2) Physical education. The development of: (1) Physical and motor fitness. (ii) Fundamental motor skills and patterns. (iii) Skills in aquatics, dance, and individual and group games and sports (including intramural and lifetime sports). (iv) A program that includes special physical education, adapted physical education, movement education, and motor development. (3) Vocational education. This term means organized educational programs that are directly related to the preparation of individuals for paid or unpaid employment, or for additional preparation for a career requiring other than a baccalaureate or advanced degree.
