FR940429-0-00037 FR940429-0-00009 (d) Anti-lobbying certification. Section 319 of Public Law 101&hyph;121 prohibits recipients of Federal contracts, grants and loans from using appropriated funds for lobbying the Executive or Legislative Branches of the Federal Government. Indian tribes, tribal organizations and Indian Housing Authorities created under Tribal Law are excluded from coverage under Section 319. A common rule governing the restrictions on lobbying was published by the Department of Agriculture at 7 CFR part 3018 and by the Department of Housing and Urban Development at 24 CFR part 87. The rule requires applicants, grantees, and subgrantees of assistance exceeding $100,000 in budget authority to certify that no Federal funds have been or will be spent on lobbying activities in connection with the assistance. The rule also requires disclosures from applicants, among others, if nonappropriated funds have been spent or committed for lobbying activities if those activities would be prohibited if paid with appropriated funds. The law provides substantial monetary penalties for failure to file the required certification or disclosure. (e) Debarred or suspended contractors. The provisions of 24 CFR part 24 and 7 CFR part 3017 apply to the employment, engagement of services, awarding of contracts, or funding of any contractors or subcontractors during any period of debarment, suspension, or placement in ineligibility status. (f) Conflict of interest. In addition to the conflict of interest requirements in OMB Circular A&hyph;87 and 24 CFR part 85, no person who is an employee, agent, consultant, officer, or elected or appointed official of the applicant, and who exercises or has exercised any function or responsibilities with respect to activities assisted with congregate housing services program grant funds, or who is in a position to participate in a decision-making process or gain inside information with regard to such activities, may obtain a personal or financial interest or benefit from the activity, or have an interest in any contract, subcontract, or agreement with respect thereto, or any proceeds thereunder, either for himself or herself or for those with whom he or she has family or business ties during his or her tenure, or for one year thereafter. (g) Disclosures required by Reform Act. Section 102(c) of the HUD Reform Act of 1989, Public Law 101&hyph;235 (December 15,1980) requires disclosure concerning other government assistance to be made available with respect to the program and parties with a pecuniary interest in the Congregate Housing Services Program and submission of a report on expected sources and uses of funds to be made available for CHSP. Each applicant shall include information required by 24 CFR part 12 on form HUD&hyph;2880 ``Applicant/Recipient Disclosure/Update Report.'' § XXX .300 Application. The application must contain all of the information required by the Notice of Funding Availability (NOFA). § XXX .305 Application evaluation and selection. Each application shall be reviewed and screened for technical deficiencies in accordance with the guidelines and procedures published in the NOFA. Applications will be selected in accordance with the procedures set forth in the NOFA. § XXX .325 Monitoring of project sites by Governmental units. States, Indian tribes and units of general local government with a grant for multiple projects shall be responsible for monitoring the performance of all project sites for compliance with CHSP regulations and procedures in such manner as prescribed by HUD/FmHA. § XXX .330 Evaluation of provision of congregate services programs. (a) States, Indian tribes and units of general local government receiving assistance annually shall review and evaluate the performance of the congregate services programs at eligible housing projects receiving assistance in their respective jurisdictions. (b) Grantees annually shall submit to the Secretary concerned, a report evaluating the impact and effectiveness of congregate services programs in the jurisdiction of the grantee, in such form as the Secretary concerned shall require. (c) The Secretary of Housing and Urban Development and the Secretary of Agriculture shall review and evaluate the performance of the congregate services programs of eligible housing projects receiving assistance under this section. (d) Each state, Indian tribe, unit of general local government and nonprofit housing sponsor receiving assistance shall submit a certification with its application, agreeing to cooperate with and to provide requested data to the entity responsible for the program evaluation, if requested to do so by the Secretary concerned. § XXX .335 Renewal of grants. (a) Grantees funded initially under this part shall be eligible to receive continued, non-competitive renewals after the initial five-year term of the grant, if funds are appropriated and available. (b) Grantees will receive priority funding within time periods prescribed by the Secretary concerned, subject to the availability of funding, satisfactory performance, and compliance with these regulations. (c) Renewal of these grants shall be within the time periods and in the form as prescribed by the Secretary concerned.
