FR941128-0-00014 FR941128-0-00005 The Corporation is of the opinion that the regulatory scheme represented in the final regulation is consistent with the views expressed by the commenters as described immediately above. In its proposal, the FDIC explicitly requested interested parties to describe activities which, even though they are not permissible for federal branches, clearly pose no significant risk to the BIF when conducted by an insured state branch. (58 FR 11994, column two). The FDIC went on to request that commenters discuss the proposed application process as it related to such activities and whether a more limited notice procedure might be more appropriate in such cases. Id. After carefully considering the comments and referring to its recently enacted regulation concerning ``Activities and Investments of Insured State Banks'', 12 CFR part 362 (58 FR 64462, December 8, 1993), the FDIC has concluded that there are certain activities which, even though they may not be permissible for a federal branch, clearly pose no significant risk to the BIF when conducted by an insured state branch. Thus, in the event that an insured state-licensed branch is conducting or desires to conduct such an activity, no application or notice to the FDIC will be required. The precise nature of these activities is discussed below. Joint Application Procedure The FDIC is sensitive to the administrative burden on applicants of gathering the requested information and preparing an application. Since section 202 of the Improvement Act requires all state branches and state agencies that desire to engage in, or to continue to engage in, any activity which is not permissible for a federal branch to secure the approval of the Board, the FDIC will permit insured state branches to submit a copy of their application to the Board to the FDIC instead of preparing a completely separate submission. The FDIC and the Board will review such applications simultaneously. The commenters urged the FDIC to reduce the scope of the information required to be submitted in a foreign bank's application in view of the fact that some of this information may already be available to the FDIC through the general examination and supervisory process. After careful consideration, the FDIC has decided to accept this recommendation. Therefore, §346.101(b) of the proposed regulation has been revised to delete paragraphs (b)(3), (b)(4) and (b)(5). Applicants will not be required to submit a current statement of the applicant's assets, liabilities and capital, a current statement of the branch's assets and liabilities or a copy of the applicant's most recent audited financial statements. (Final §346.101(d)). Permissible Activities Section 346.101(a) of the final regulation is identical to §346.101(a) of the proposed regulation. It provides that a state-licensed insured branch which desires to engage in or continue to engage in certain activities not permissible for a federal branch must obtain the FDIC's permission. More specifically, it refers to ``any type of activity that is not permissible for a federal branch, pursuant to the National Bank Act (12 U.S.C. 21 et seq .) or any other federal statute, regulation, official bulletin or circular, or order or interpretation issued in writing by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency.*␣*␣*'' Written staff opinions will be considered to evidence the position of the Comptroller so long as the opinion is still considered valid, i.e., it has not been overruled by the OCC or found invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction. This section of the final regulation is substantially similar to §362.2(b) of the Corporation's regulation concerning the activities of state chartered banks. (12 CFR 362.2(b)). The FDIC is of the opinion that §346.101(a) of the final regulation should parallel §362.2(b) concerning the activities of state banks with regard to the determination of permissible activities and the commenters agreed. 3 3 In May 1993, the FDIC published a booklet entitled ``Equity Investments Permissible for National Banks and Activities Permissible for National Banks and Their Subsidiaries''. This booklet, which is available from the FDIC's Office of Corporate Communications, lists activities which have been found by the OCC to be permissible for national banks. While the booklet is not necessarily comprehensive and while the FDIC has not committed to update it on any regular basis, it may prove a useful guide for state-licensed branches of foreign banks who are attempting to ascertain what activities are and are not permissible for federal branches since, generally speaking, a federal branch is empowered to do whatever a national bank can do.
