FR940725-0-00024 FR940725-0-00007 DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY Internal Revenue Service 26 CFR Parts 1 and 602 [TD 8556] RIN 1545&hyph;AP70 Computation and Characterization of Income and Earnings and Profits Under the Dollar Approximate Separate Transactions Method of Accounting (DASTM) AGENCY: Internal Revenue Service (IRS), Treasury. ACTION: Final and temporary regulations. SUMMARY: This document contains final Income Tax Regulations relating to the computation and characterization of income or earnings and profits under the dollar approximate separate transactions method of accounting (DASTM). These regulations are issued under section 985 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (Code), which was added to the Code by the Tax Reform Act of 1986. These regulations provide guidance for taxpayers with a qualified business unit (QBU) operating in a hyperinflationary environment, i.e., a QBU that must use the dollar as its functional currency and determine income or earnings and profits under DASTM because its functional currency otherwise would be a hyperinflationary currency. DATES: These regulations are effective July 25, 1994. For dates of applicability, see the Effective Dates portion of the preamble under SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION . FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Jacob Feldman or Teresa B. Hughes of the Office of Associate Chief Counsel, Internal Revenue Service, 1111 Constitution Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20224, Attention: CC:CORP:T:R (INTL&hyph;29&hyph;91) (202&hyph;622&hyph;3870, not a toll-free call). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Paperwork Reduction Act The collection of information contained in these final regulation has been reviewed and approved by the Office of Management and Budget in accordance with the requirements of the Paperwork Reduction Act (44 U.S.C. 3504(h)) under control number 1545&hyph;1051. The estimated annual burden per respondent varies from 45 minutes to 13/4 hours, depending on individual circumstances, with an estimated average of 11/4 hours. Comments concerning the accuracy of this burden estimate and suggestions for reducing this burden should be sent to the Internal Revenue Service, Attn: IRS Reports Clearance Officer PC:FP, Washington, DC 20224, and to the Office of Management and Budget, Attention: Desk Officer for the Department of the Treasury, Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, Washington, DC 20503. Background On July 17, 1991, proposed amendments to §1.985&hyph;3 were published in the Federal Register at 56 FR 32525. In addition, conforming changes were proposed to §§1.904&hyph;4, 1.954&hyph;2T, 1.985&hyph;0, 1.985&hyph;1, and 1.985&hyph;2. A public hearing was held on September 13, 1991. A number of comments, which are discussed below, were received on issues raised by the proposed regulations. After consideration of these comments, the regulations are adopted as a Treasury decision with the modifications described below. Explanation of Provisions Under §1.985&hyph;1(b)(2)(ii)(A), a QBU that would otherwise have a hyperinflationary currency as its functional currency must use the dollar as its functional currency and must compute income or earnings and profits using DASTM for taxable years beginning after August 24, 1994. Any change in a QBU's method of accounting which results from the QBU's adoption of DASTM under these final regulations shall be deemed to have been made with the consent of the Commissioner. Some commentators objected to the requirement that use of the dollar and DASTM be made mandatory for a QBU operating in a hyperinflationary environment. The suggestion that use of the dollar and DASTM should continue to be elective was not adopted because the use of a hyperinflationary functional currency and the profit and loss method of accounting (P&L method) does not clearly reflect income. Under the P&L method, income or loss is computed in the hyperinflationary currency and translated into dollars at the appropriate exchange rate for the accounting period. The P&L method distorts income and loss of a QBU with substantial depreciable assets. As the hyperinflationary currency depreciates with respect to the dollar, sales revenues (as measured in the hyperinflationary currency) increase; but depreciation and amortization deductions, which are based on hyperinflationary currency cost bases, remain constant. This results in an overstatement of income. Another distortion occurs with respect to income and expense derived from hyperinflationary financial assets and liabilities. For example, a QBU that borrows in hyperinflationary currency will incur and deduct a very high level of nominal interest expense, reflecting the lender's expectation that payment of interest and repayment of principal will be in devalued currency. However, under the P&L method, the offsetting exchange gain (relative to the dollar) on a QBU's hyperinflationary currency liabilities is deferred, causing the income of net borrowers to be understated. In light of these distortions, use of a hyperinflationary functional currency and the P&L method by QBUs operating in a hyperinflationary environment is not appropriate. The regulations, therefore, generally require that QBUs operating in a hyperinflationary environment use the dollar and DASTM for future taxable years. Under §1.985&hyph;1(b)(2)(ii)(B)( 2 ), however, a taxpayer is not required to use DASTM to compute the income or loss or earnings and profits of a foreign corporation that is not a controlled foreign corporation. This exception is provided because minority shareholders of a foreign corporation may be unable to obtain the information required to apply DASTM. However, where the necessary information can be obtained, §1.985&hyph;1(b)(2)(ii)(B)( 2 ) provides that DASTM may be elected by a noncontrolled section 902 corporation under the procedural rules of §1.985&hyph;2(c)(3).
