FR940128-1-00071 FR940128-1-00006 The finished product also is inherently more risky than most other seafood products because it is a ready-to-eat product that is generally not cooked before eating. However, the present evidence indicates that smoked fish has caused no more cases of botulism in the United States than any other type of seafood product. In contrast, fresh fillets that are not smoked are intended to be cooked before consumption. Cooking is lethal to bacteria and will deactivate botulism toxin. Thus, smoked fish products usually do not get the benefit of an additional processing step that protects against most bacteriological risks. In addition to these inherent characteristics, FDA believes that smoked fish present special risks because both domestic and foreign processors are now using vacuum packaging to a substantial extent_much more so than are other segments of the seafood industry. A 1988&hyph;1989 FDA and New York State survey of domestic processing plants, for example, showed that 45 percent of the firms visited vacuum-packaged smoked fish. However, there is no evidence to show a linkage between vacuum packaging of smoked fish and illness in the 5 years since this survey was completed. An economic incentive for use of vacuum packaging is the extended shelf-life of the product, made possible by the anaerobic environment in the package that prevents the growth of some spoilage microorganisms and slows the growth of others. Because this anaerobic environment cannot prevent spoilage altogether, vacuum-packaged products must still be refrigerated. Unfortunately, the anaerobic environment greatly favors the outgrowth of any C. botulinum spores that may be present over the development of telltale spoilage microorganisms. Thus, C. botulinum outgrowth can occur before spoilage if a vacuum-packaged product is temperature abused, i.e., not refrigerated. Moreover, as discussed elsewhere in this document, the growth of L. monocytogenes and C. botulinum type E and nonproteolytic type B is possible even at refrigeration temperatures below 40 ○F (4.4 ○C). FDA believes that strict controls are needed to overcome this risk. In 1970, FDA issued a final rule for smoked fish in response to outbreaks of botulism attributed to vacuum-packaged smoked fish products (35 FR 17401, November 13, 1970). Among other things, the rule attempted to control the risk of botulism by setting conservative processing parameters for time, temperature, and salinity that would minimize the opportunity for C. botulinum spore outgrowth. These parameters were based on the relatively limited research that had been conducted up to that time with one species of fish. Many processors claimed that these parameters would have resulted in a product that was too salty and too dry in texture to be marketable. The rule was overturned in court due to procedural problems ( United States v. Nova Scotia Food Products Corp. , 568 F.2d 240 (2d Cir. 1977)). However, in rethinking this rule after the remand, FDA decided that research was needed into the relationships among time, temperature, and salinity to develop processing parameters that would provide safety without producing an undesirable product that consumers would not buy.
