FR940916-2-00100 FR940916-2-00081 OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT AND BUDGET Cost Principles for Non-Profit Organizations AGENCY: Office of Management and Budget. ACTION: Proposed Revision to OMB Circular A&hyph;122. SUMMARY: This Notice offers interested parties an opportunity to comment on a proposed revision to Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Circular A&hyph;122, ``Cost Principles for Non-profit Organizations.'' The revision will allow Federal agencies to reimburse non-profit organizations for interest on debt used to finance the purchase of buildings and equipment, when purchasing using debt financing is less costly than leasing. DATES: All comments on this proposal should be in writing and must be received by November 15, 1994. ADDRESSES: Office of Management and Budget, Office of Federal Financial Management, Financial Standards and Reporting Branch, Room 6025, New Executive Office Building, Washington, DC 20503. Telephone (202) 395&hyph;3993, Facsimile (202) 395&hyph;3952. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Linda Hoogeveen, Financial Standards and Reporting Branch, Office of Federal Financial Management. Telephone (202) 395&hyph;3993. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The purpose of this revision is to: (1) Encourage non-profit organizations to acquire building space and equipment necessary for administering Federal programs at the lowest possible cost, and (2) bring consistency to Federal policies covering the allowability of interest by organizations receiving Federal awards. The revision will apply only to assets acquired after its final issuance. John B. Arthur, Assistant Director for Administration. The following paragraph is proposed to replace paragraph 19.a of Attachment A to Circular A&hyph;122: 19. Interest, fund raising, and investment management costs. a. Interest. (1) Interest on debt is unallowable unless: (a) The non-profit organization performs a lease/purchase analysis in accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular A&hyph;110, ``Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and Agreements with Institutions of Higher Education, Hospitals and Other Non-Profit Organizations,'' and OMB Circular A&hyph;94, ``Guidelines and Discount Rates for Benefit-Cost Analysis of Federal Programs,'' sections 5a, 8(c)(2), and 13, which shows that purchasing through debt financing is less costly to the Federal Government than leasing. Discount rates used should be equal to the grantee's borrowing rates, to be consistent with Circular A&hyph;94's intent to reflect the entity's cost of financing. The financial analysis must include a comparison of the present value of the projected total cash flows of both alternatives over the period the asset is expected to be used by the non-profit organization in carrying out federally sponsored activities. The cash flows associated with purchasing the asset must include the purchase price, anticipated operating and maintenance costs (including property taxes, if applicable) not included in the debt financing, less any estimated asset salvage value at the end of the period defined above. Projected rental costs should be based on the anticipated cost of renting comparable facilities or equipment at fair market rates over the period defined above, and any expected maintenance costs and property taxes to be borne by the non-profit organization directly or as part of the lease arrangement. (b) Financing is provided at an interest rate no higher than the fair market rate. (c) Investment earnings, including interest, on bond or loan principal, pending payment of the construction or acquisition costs, are used to offset allowable interest cost. Arbitrage earnings reportable to the Internal Revenue Service are not required to be offset against allowable interest costs. (d) Where the Federal Government's reimbursement is expected to equal or exceed 51 percent of an asset's cost, the non-profit organization conducts an assessment that demonstrates the need for the asset in the conduct of federally sponsored activities. For assets costing in excess of $10 million, the needs assessment must be approved in advance by the cognizant Federal agency as a prerequisite to the allowability of depreciation and interest on debt related to the facility. For assets costing less than $10 million, the needs assessment must be maintained on file for review by the Federal Government. (2) Interest on debt issued to finance or refinance assets acquired before or reacquired after the effective date of this policy is not allowable. (3) Federal cognizant agencies shall require non-profit organizations to compute interest on the excess of the depreciation and interest reimbursement over the bond principal and interest payments, and that the organizations treat the computed interest as a reduction in the interest expense to be reimbursed by the Federal Government. This provision is not applicable in instances where the non-profit organization makes an initial equity contribution of 25 percent or more to purchase the asset(s). (4) Substantial relocation of federally sponsored activities from a facility financed by indebtedness, the cost of which was funded in whole or part through Federal reimbursements, to another facility prior to the expiration of the useful life of the facility requires Federal cognizant agency approval. The extent of the relocation, the amount of the Federal participation in the financing, and the depreciation charged to date may require negotiation of space charges for Federal programs. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;22997 Filed 9&hyph;15&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3110&hyph;01&hyph;P
