FR940725-0-00182 FR940725-0-00019 (12) Fans shall have non-sparking blades, and portable air ducts shall be of non-sparking materials. Note to paragraph (b): See §1915.12(c) of this part and applicable requirements of 29 CFR part 1915, subpart Z for other provisions affecting cleaning and cold work. §1915.14 Hot work. (a) Hot work requiring testing by a Marine Chemist or Coast Guard authorized person. (1) The employer shall ensure that hot work is not performed in or on any of the following confined and enclosed spaces and other dangerous atmospheres, boundaries of spaces or pipelines until the work area has been tested and certified by a Marine Chemist or a U.S. Coast Guard authorized person as ``Safe for Hot Work'': (i) Within, on, or immediately adjacent to spaces that contain or have contained combustible or flammable liquids or gases. (ii) Within, on, or immediately adjacent to fuel tanks that contain or have last contained fuel; and (iii) On pipelines, heating coils, pump fittings or other accessories connected to spaces that contain or have last contained fuel. (iv) Exception: Within spaces adjacent to spaces in which the flammable gases or liquids have a flash point below 150 ○ F (65.6 ○ C) and the distance between such spaces and the work is greater than 25 feet (7.5 m). Note to paragraph (a)(1): The criteria for safe for hot work is located in the definition section of subpart B. (2) The certificate issued by the Marine Chemist or Coast Guard authorized person shall be posted in the immediate vicinity of the affected operations while they are in progress and kept on file for a period of at least three months from the date of the completion of the operation for which the certificate was generated. (b) Hot work requiring testing by a competent person. (1) Hot work is not permitted in or on the following spaces or adjacent spaces or other dangerous atmospheres until they have been tested by a competent person and determined to contain no concentrations of flammable vapors equal to or greater than 10 percent of the lower explosive limit: (i) Dry cargo holds, (ii) The bilges, (iii) The engine room and boiler spaces for which a Marine Chemist or a Coast Guard authorized person certificate is not required under paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section, and (iv) Vessels and vessel sections for which a Marine Chemist or Coast Guard authorized person certificate is not required under paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section, and (v) Land-side confined and enclosed spaces or other dangerous atmospheres not covered by paragraph (a)(1) of this section. (2) If the concentration of flammable vapors or gases is equal to or greater than 10 percent of the lower explosive limit in the space or an adjacent space where the hot work is to be done, then the space shall be labeled ``Not Safe for Hot Work'' and ventilation shall be provided at volumes and flow rates sufficient to ensure that the concentration of flammable vapors or gases is below 10 percent by volume of the lower explosive limit. The warning label may be removed when the concentration of flammable vapors and gases are below 10 percent lower explosive limit. Note to §1915.14: See appendix A for additional information relevant to performing hot work safely. §1915.15 Maintenance of safe conditions. (a) Preventing hazardous materials from entering. Pipelines that could carry hazardous materials into spaces that have been certified ``Safe for Workers'' or ``Safe for Hot Work'' shall be disconnected, blanked off, or otherwise blocked by a positive method to prevent hazardous materials from being discharged into the space. (b) Alteration of existing conditions. When a change that could alter conditions within a tested confined or enclosed space or other dangerous atmosphere occurs, work in the affected space or area shall be stopped. Work may not be resumed until the affected space or area is visually inspected and retested and found to comply with §§1915.12, 1915.13, and 1915.14 of this part, as applicable. Note to paragraph (b): Examples of changes that would warrant the stoppage of work include: The opening of manholes or other closures or the adjusting of a valve regulating the flow of hazardous materials. (c) Tests to maintain the conditions of a Marine Chemist's or Coast Guard authorized person's certificates. A competent person shall visually inspect and test each space certified as ``Safe for Workers'' or ``Safe for Hot Work,'' as often as necessary to ensure that atmospheric conditions within that space is maintained within the conditions established by the certificate after the certificate has been issued. (d) Change in the conditions of a Marine Chemist's or Coast Guard authorized person's certificate. If a competent person finds that the atmospheric conditions within a certified space fail to meet the applicable requirements of §§1915.12, 1915.13, and 1915.14 of this part, work in the certified space shall be stopped and may not be resumed until the space has been retested by a Marine Chemist or Coast Guard authorized person and a new certificate issued in accordance with §1915.14(a). (e) Tests to maintain a competent person's findings. After a competent person has conducted a visual inspection and tests required in §§1915.12, 1915.13, and 1915.14 of this part and determined a space to be safe for an employee to enter, he or she shall continue to test spaces as often as necessary to ensure that the required atmospheric conditions within the tested space are maintained. (f) Changes in conditions determined by competent person's findings. After the competent person has determined initially that a space is safe for an employee to enter and he or she finds subsequently that the conditions within the tested space fail to meet the requirements of §§1915.12, 1915.13, and 1915.14, of this part, as applicable, work shall be stopped until the conditions in the tested space are corrected to comply with §§1915.12, 1915.13, and 1915.14, as applicable.
