FR941202-0-00129 FR941202-0-00012 Other Provisions We are not making any change in the rule to account for the change in the marijuana initial test cutoff levels. The change merely allows for more urine specimens that contain marijuana metabolites to be identified. To the extent that there is minimal drug use in a given industry, this technical change should make little difference. That we will now be more successful in correctly identifying positive samples is no reason to make the DOT drug testing rules more lenient. Improvements in technology that permit us to identify users who previously escaped detection are not a reason for lowering our standards. The remainder of the proposals in the NPRM drew no public comment and are adopted without change. The final rule provides that if a given covered employee is subject to random drug testing under the drug testing rules of more than one DOT agency, the employee is subject to random drug testing at the percentage rate established for the calendar year by the DOT agency regulating more than 50 percent of the employee's function. Similarly, the final rule provides that if an employer is required to conduct random drug testing under the drug testing rules of more than one DOT agency, the employer may either establish separate pools for random selection, with each pool containing covered employees subject to testing at the same required rate, or establish one pool for testing all covered employees at the highest percentage rate established for the calendar year by any DOT agency to which the employer is subject. If the employer conducts random testing through a consortium, the number of tests to be conducted may be calculated for each individual employer or may be based on the total number of covered employees subject to random testing by the consortium. In order to ensure deterrence, the dates for administering random tests must be spread reasonably throughout the calendar year . The final rule contains a number of definitions that mirror the alcohol testing rules. The term ``positive rate'' is defined in the definition section of each operating administration drug rule as, ``the number of positive results for random tests conducted under this part plus the number of refusals of random tests required by this part, divided by the total number of random tests conducted under this part plus the number of refusals of random tests required by this part.'' ``Refuse to submit'' means ``a covered employee [who] fails to provide a urine sample as required by 49 CFR Part 40, without a valid medical explanation, after he or she has received notice of the requirement to be tested in accordance with the provisions of this part, or engages in conduct that clearly obstructs the testing process.'' As a practical matter, this means that refusals to take a random drug test count as a positive result and would be added to the total number of random tests conducted for the purpose of calculating the industry positive rate. Since they are treated as if they are positive in terms of most of the rules' consequences, we believe they should be counted in the totals. Moreover, without this approach, the system could be easily abused. For example, employers with high positive rates might have an incentive to subtly communicate that employees who test positive will be fired but employees who refuse to be tested will receive little or no punishment other than facing removal from duty and evaluation. The FAA, FRA and USCG also have other sanctions for refusals. Adulteration of a urine sample is considered a refusal to test because it constitutes an obstruction of the testing process. As such, adulterated specimens are included in the calculation of the industry positive rate. Administrative or procedural errors during the testing process, such as breaking the container holding the sample, that result in canceled tests are not counted in the totals when calculating the industry random test rate. Modal-Specific Actions The Coast Guard is also removing existing (and no longer applicable) regulatory language that allowed existing marine employers to begin their random drug testing at a 25 percent annual rate (46 CFR 16.205(d)). This provision was included to reduce the initial burden that the then-new random drug testing program would impose on employers. Because the provision no longer serves any purpose, and may lead to confusion, the Coast Guard has removed this regulatory language. RSPA is revising the random testing cycle to a calendar year beginning on January 1 and ending December 31. The December 23, 1994, Management Information System final rule requires operators to collect specified drug testing data in 1994, and to report that information to RSPA on an annual basis beginning in 1995. Previously, operators had conducted random testing and maintained records on an April-April or August-August cycle. The revision will allow operators to conduct random testing and collect their drug testing data on a calendar year cycle.
