FR940916-1-00064 FR940916-1-00015 (a) This clause supplements FAR 52.228&hyph;4. (b) The contractor agrees to procure Defense Base Act (DBA) insurance pursuant to the terms of the contract between the Department of State and the Department's DBA insurance carrier unless the contractor has a DBA self-insurance program approved by the Department of Labor. The contractor shall submit a copy of the Department of Labor's approval to the contracting officer upon contract award. The current rate under the Department of State contract is [contracting officer insert current rate] of compensation for construction. (c) Since the Department of state has secured a waiver of DBA coverage for contractor's employees who are not citizens of, residents of, or hired in the United States, the contractor agrees to provide such employees with worker's compensation benefits as required by the laws of the country in which the employees are working, or by the laws of the employee's native country, whichever offers greater benefits. (d) The contractor agrees to insert a clause substantially the same as this one in all subcontracts to which the DBA is applicable. Subcontractors shall be required to insert a similar clause in any of their subcontracts subject to the DBA. (e) Should the rates for DBA insurance coverage increase or decrease during the performance of this contract, the Department shall modify this contract accordingly. (f) The contractor shall demonstrate to the satisfaction of the contracting officer that the equitable adjustment as a result of the insurance increase or decrease does not include any reserve for such insurance. Adjustment shall not include any overhead, profit, general and administrative expense, etc. (End of clause) 171. Section 652.228&hyph;73 is added to read as follows: 652.228&hyph;73 Waiver of the Defense Base Act. As prescribed in 628.305(b)(3), insert the following clause: Waiver of the Defense Base Act (Aug 1994) (a) Upon recommendation of the Secretary of State, the Secretary of Labor may waiver the applicability of the Defense Base Act with respect to any contract, subcontract, or subordinate contract; work location; or classification of employees. (b) Either the contractor or the Department of State may request a waiver from coverage. Such a waiver may apply to any employees who are not U.S. citizens, not residents of, or are not hired in the United States. Waivers requested by the contractor shall be submitted to the contracting officer for approval and further submission to the Department of Labor. Application for a waiver shall be submitted on Department of Labor Form BEC&hyph;565. Where such waivers are granted from coverage under the DBA, the waiver is conditioned on providing other worker's compensation coverage to employees to which the waiver applies. Usually this takes the form of securing worker's compensation coverage of the country where work will be performed or of the employee's native country, whichever offers greater benefits. Information as to whether a DBA waiver has been obtained by the Department for a particular country may be obtained from the contracting officer. (End of clause) 172. Section 652.228&hyph;74 is added to read as follows: 652.228&hyph;74 Defense Base Act Insurance Rates_Limitation_Services. As prescribed in 628.306(a)(1), insert the following provision: Defense Base Act Insurance Rates_Limitation_Services (Aug 1994) (a) The Department of state has entered into a contract with an insurance carrier to provide DBA insurance to Department of State contractors at a contracted rate. The rates for this insurance are as follows: Services @ [contracting officer insert current rate] of compensation (b) Bidders/Offerors should compute the total compensation (direct salary plus differential, but excluding per diem, housing allowance and other miscellaneous post allowances) to be paid to employees who will be covered by DBA insurance and the cost of DBA insurance in their bid/proposal using the foregoing rate, and insert the totals in the spaces provided. The DBA insurance cost shall be included in the total fixed price. The DBA insurance costs shall be reimbursed directly to the contractor. (1) Compensation of Covered Employees: XXXXXXXXXXXX (2) Defense Base Act Insurance Costs: XXXXXXXXXXXX
