FR941107-2-00134 FR941107-2-00078 NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION Nominations for Medical Visiting Fellows Program AGENCY: U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission. ACTION: Call for nominations. SUMMARY: The Nuclear Regulatory Commission is inviting nominations of physicians, having expert qualifications in the medical specialty field of Radiation Oncology (Therapy), to apply for positions as Medical Visiting Fellows (Fellows). Others having expert qualifications in related fields such as Therapeutic Radiological Physics are also invited to apply. EFFECTIVE DATE: Objectives. NRC is seeking to expand its knowledge of the medical specialty of radiation oncology. Specifically, the therapeutic uses of radioisotopes in brachytherapy patient procedures. Recently, significant misadministrations have occurred involving errors in the delivery of the prescribed radiation dose to the patient during either manual or remote afterloading brachytherapy procedures. As a result of evaluating the circumstances surrounding these events, NRC has identified the need to re-evaluate certain aspects of its regulatory program to determine whether modifications are indicated. NRC intends to keep abreast of this technology and future developments in the therapeutic uses of radioisotopes and believes that such a Fellow, with expertise in these uses, can assist NRC staff in meeting this goal. The program is open to physicians interested in seeking an appointment for individual sabbatical pursuits. Other radiation specialists on sabbatical, or those who wish to engage in post-doctoral research, will also be considered. Individuals participating as Fellows would join NRC for approximately one year, to undertake activities consistent with the interests and needs of NRC and with the individual's training and experience; and that will result in a clearly defined assignment useful to NRC's regulatory program. Ideally, each Fellow would be available to NRC on a full-time basis; however, NRC will consider nominees who are available only on a part-time basis. Additionally, the number of appointments made will depend on the range of skills embodied in the nominations, individuals' interests and needs of NRC. In addition to a specific assignment, or research project, it is anticipated that the Fellow would attend meetings of NRC's Advisory Committee on the Medical Uses of Isotopes (ACMUI); Federal, State, and local agencies; professional organizations; and groups, to participate in discussions on issues related to medical affairs and the use of radiation in medicine. The selectee may also participate in public meetings and seminars sponsored by NRC for exchanging information and discussing issues, of mutual interest, that will benefit the regulation of medical practice. A collateral goal is to create a cadre of individuals with experience in the regulation of medical use of isotopes; therefore, it is likely that former Fellows may be asked to participate, from time to time, in NRC-sponsored meetings and seminars after their appointment ends, to provide advice and consultation about the regulated program. Therefore, NRC is primarily soliciting nominations of physicians involved with the medical use of radioisotopes, but will be pleased to receive nominations of other radiation health professionals and medical radiation specialists to serve as Fellows. Appointment Method. Appointments will be made by means of Intergovernmental Personnel Act assignment, reimbursable detail, or professional term appointment, depending on the selectee's situation. Term of Appointment. The term of appointment will be approximately one year. Appointments may be lengthened, depending on the depth and scope of the Fellow's project, availability and the needs of the NRC, to approximately two years. Compensation. Fellows will receive compensation commensurate with their experience, salary history, and federal pay guidelines while serving their appointment. Fellows will be reimbursed for official travel and relocation expenses. Duty Location. Fellows may be assigned to any Office in NRC, including the Office of the Commissioners, consistent with the interests and needs of NRC and the individual's training and experience. The duty location is at NRC Headquarters, Rockville, Maryland. It is anticipated that there will be some travel associated with this position. Eligibility Requirements. NRC is an equal opportunity employer. Nominees must be U.S. citizens. Nominees must also satisfy applicable, NRC security, conflict of interest, and drug-free work place standards. Eligibility is open to physicians specializing in Radiation Oncology (Radiation Therapy), or medical physicists specializing in Therapeutic Radiological Physics. Other nominees will also be considered based on the needs of NRC and the individual's interest. How to Nominate. Candidates may be nominated by professional groups, medical societies, government agencies, or may be self-nominated. Nominations must provide the nominee's current address and telephone number and include a resume describing the educational and professional qualifications of the nominee. A brief statement of the Individual's professional objectives should also be included. Where to Submit Nominations. Submit nominations to: Secretary of the Commission. ATTN: Medical Visiting Fellows Program Manager, Office of Nuclear Material Safety and Safeguards, U.S., Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555. Date Nominations Are Due. Nominations are due to the Secretary of the Commission by January 15, 1995. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Janet Schlueter, Medical, Academic, and Commercial Use Safety Branch, Division of Industrial and Medical Nuclear Safety, Office of Nuclear Material Safety and Safeguards, Mail Stop: T8 F 5, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555, telephone (301) 415&hyph;7894, facsimile (301) 415&hyph;5369. Dated at Rockville, Maryland, this 1st day of November 1994. For the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. John E. Glenn, Chief, Medical, Academic, and Commercial Use Safety Branch, Division of Industrial and Medical Nuclear Safety, Office of Nuclear Material Safety and Safeguards. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;27481 Filed 11&hyph;4&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 7590&hyph;01&hyph;M
