FR941004-1-00042 FR941004-1-00015 DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR Fish and Wildlife Service 50 CFR Part 17 RIN 1018&hyph;AC99 Endangered and Threatened Wildlife and Plants; Proposed Endangered or Threatened Status for 10 Plants From the Foothills of the Sierra Nevada Mountains in California AGENCY: Fish and Wildlife Service, Interior. ACTION: Proposed rule. SUMMARY: The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (Service) proposes endangered status pursuant to the Endangered Species Act of 1973, as amended (Act) for four plants: Brodiaea pallida (Chinese Camp brodiaea), Calyptridium pulchellum (Mariposa pussypaws), Lupinus citrinus var. deflexus (Mariposa lupine), and Mimulus shevockii (Kelso Creek monkeyflower). The Service also proposes threatened status for six plants: Allium tuolumnense (Rawhide Hill onion), Clarkia springvillensis (Springville clarkia), Carpenteria californica (carpenteria), Fritillaria striata (Greenhorn adobe lily), Navarretia setiloba (Piute Mountains navarretia), and Verbena californica (Red Hills vervain). These plants are known from the annual grassland, chaparral, Joshua tree, pinyon-juniper, blue oak, and digger pine woodland communities in the foothills of the Sierra Nevada Mountains in central California. The 10 plants are threatened by one or more of the following: agricultural land conversion, urbanization, logging, highway construction and road maintenance activities, overgrazing, off-highway vehicle use, mining, insect predation, inadequate regulatory mechanisms, stochastic extinction from random natural events, and incompatible fire management techniques. This proposal, if made final, would implement the Federal protection and recovery provisions afforded by the Act for these plants. DATES: Comments from all interested parties must be received by December 5, 1994. Public hearing requests must be received by November 18, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments and materials concerning this proposal should be sent to the Field Supervisor, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, 2800 Cottage Way, Room E&hyph;1803, Sacramento, California 95825&hyph;1846. Comments and materials received will be available for inspection, by appointment, during normal business hours at the above address. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Kenneth Fuller (see ADDRESSES ) at 916&hyph;978&hyph;4866. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background Allium tuolumnense (Rawhide Hill onion), Brodiaea pallida (Chinese Camp brodiaea), Calyptridium pulchellum (Mariposa pussypaws), Carpenteria californica (carpenteria), Clarkia springvillensis (Springville clarkia), Fritillaria striata (Greenhorn adobe lily), Lupinus citrinus var. deflexus (Mariposa lupine), Mimulus shevockii (Kelso Creek monkeyflower), Navarretia setiloba (Piute Mountains navarretia), and Verbena californica (Red Hills vervain) are located in the western foothills of the Sierra Nevada Mountains in California, from Jamestown in Tuolumne County, to Bodfish in Kern County, to near Grapevine in the foothills of the Tehachapi Mountains in Kern County. The Sierra Nevada Mountains are California's largest mountain range, extending from the Mojave Desert in the south to the Modoc Plateau in the north. The Sierra Nevada Mountains are 645 kilometers (km) (400 miles) long, 95 to 130 km (60 to 80 miles) wide, and north-south oriented on the east side of California. Structurally, this mountain range is a westerly tilted Cenozoic fault block consisting of granitic and metamorphic rocks. These mountains have an elevational range of 1,000 to 4,000 meters (m) (3,000 to 12,000 feet (ft)) and a precipitation range of 750 to 2,030 millimeters (mm) (30 to 80 inches (in)). These mountains are a region of winter snow and some summer thunderstorms. Montane and subalpine coniferous forests dominate the area with minor components of deciduous forests. Lakes, swamps, rock outcrops, talus slopes, meadows, and montane chaparral occupy more than half of the ground surface.
