FR941107-2-00019 FR941107-2-00006 United States Price For both pure magnesium and alloy magnesium, we based USP on purchase price, in accordance with section 772(b) of the Act, because the subject merchandise was sold directly by the Chinese exporter to unrelated parties in the United States prior to importation into the United States. We calculated purchase price based on packed, FOB foreign-port prices to unrelated purchasers in the United States. We made deductions for foreign inland freight, loading, and port handling expenses, valued in a surrogate country. To value freight, we used Indonesian freight rates from a 1991 cable from the U.S. Embassy in Jakarta (see, Preliminary Determination of Sales at Less Than Fair Value: Certain Carbon Steel Butt-Weld Pipe Fittings from the PRC 56 FR 66831, December 26, 1991). We were unable to obtain loading and port handling expenses valued in Indonesia. For purposes of the preliminary determinations, we valued these expenses based on Indian port charges quoted by an international shipping company. Foreign Market Value In accordance with section 773(c) of the Act, we calculated FMV for both pure magnesium and alloy magnesium based on factors of production reported by the factory in the PRC which produced the subject merchandise. The factors used to produce pure magnesium and alloy magnesium include materials, labor, and energy. To calculate FMV, the reported factor quantities were multiplied by the appropriate surrogate values from Indonesia for the different inputs. In determining which surrogate value to use for valuing each factor of production, we used, where possible, publicly available, published information. We used surrogate transportation rates to value inland freight between the source of the production factor and the magnesium factories, and between factories and exporters/ports. Where the producer failed to provide the information on transportation distances for a raw material input, we applied the average of the distances reported for other raw materials. To value raw materials, we used public information from United Nations Trade Commodity Statistics and Indonesia Foreign Trade Statistics. To value electricity, we used public information on Indonesia from the Electric Utilities Data Book for the Asian and Pacific Region (January 1993) published by the Asian Development Bank. As the data dated from 1990, we adjusted the electricity values to the appropriate POI using wholesale price indices published in International Financial Statistics (IFS) by the International Monetary Fund. Min He did not report the consumption factor for water and coal. For purposes of these determinations, we estimated these factors based on the ratio of non-electricity energy inputs to the total of material, labor, and energy inputs stated in the petition. To value hourly labor rates in Indonesia, we used data obtained from the U.S. Department of Labor, Bureau of Labor Statistics on hourly compensation costs in Indonesia's manufacturing sector for 1986, and adjusted the labor rates to the appropriate POI using consumer price indices published in the IFS by the International Monetary Fund, and adjusted for inflation in the same manner identified for electricity. We were unable to obtain an appropriate factory overhead percentage based on Indonesian experience. Accordingly, for purposes of these determinations, we calculated factory overhead based on information in the petition concerning the experience of a U.S. magnesium producer. For selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses, we used the statutory minimum of ten percent of material, labor, energy, and factory overhead because we could not obtain information based on Indonesian industry experience. For profit we used the statutory minimum of eight percent of materials, labor, factory overhead, and SG&A expenses because we could not obtain information on Indonesian industry experience. We added packing based on the surrogate values obtained for the raw materials and labor in Indonesia.
