FR940404-2-00157 FR940404-2-00092 United States Delegation to the 24th Session of the Subcommittee on Lifesaving, Search and Rescue (LSR), International Maritime Organization (IMO), London, England, February 15&hyph;19, 1993 Representative Robert L. Markle, Jr., Merchant Vessel Inspection and Documentation Division, Office of Marine Safety, Security and Environmental Protection, United States Coast Guard, Department of Transportation Alternate Representative Dan E. Lemon, Search and Rescue Division, Office of Navigation Safety and Waterways Services, United States Coast Guard, Department of Transportation Advisers Kurt J. Heinz, Merchant Vessel Inspection and Documentation Division, Office of Marine Safety, Security and Environmental Protection, United States Coast Guard, Department of Transportation Rajiv Khandpur, Merchant Vessel Inspection and Documentation Division, Office of Marine Safety, Security and Environmental Protection, United States Coast Guard, Department of Transportation Samuel E. Wehr, Merchant Vessel Inspection and Documentation Division, Office of Marine Safety, Security and Environmental Protection, United States Coast Guard, Department of Transportation Private Sector Advisers William R. Kuenzel, Director, ACR Electronics, Inc., Fort Lauderdale, Florida Margaret M. McMillan, Consultant on Maritime Safety Training, Lafayette, Louisiana James Karl Nelson, Jr., Associate Professor and Program Director, Clemson University, Master of Engineering Program at the Citadel, Charleston, South Carolina United States Delegation to the 36th Session, Subcommittee on Ship Design and Equipment (DE), International Maritime Organization (IMO), London, England, February 22&hyph;26, 1993 Representative Thomas E. Thompson, Captain, Chief, Marine Technical and Hazardous Materials Division, Office of Marine Safety, Security and Environmental Protection, United States Coast Guard, Department of Transportation Alternate Representative Robert M. Letourneau, Commander, Chief, Ship Design Branch, Marine Technical and Hazardous Materials Division, Office of Marine Safety, Security and Environmental Protection, United States Coast Guard, Department of Transportation Advisers Michael L. Blair, Lieutenant Commander, Engineering Branch, Marine Technical and Hazardous Materials Division, Office of Marine Safety, Security and Environmental Protection, United States Coast Guard, Department of Transportation Peter J. Coxon, Lieutenant, Ship Design Branch, Marine Technical and Hazardous Materials Division, Office of Marine Safety, Security and Environmental Protection, United States Coast Guard, Department of Transportation James A. Stamm, Commander, Chief, Engineering Branch, Marine Technical and Hazardous Materials Division, Office of Marine Safety, Security and Environmental Protection, United States Coast Guard, Department of Transportation Private Sector Advisers John Rouse, Sonat Offshore Drilling Incorporated, Houston, Texas Gregory Shark, American Bureau of Shipping, Paramus, New Jersey United States Delegation to the 26th Session of the Executive Council of the Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission (IOC), United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO), Paris, February 23&hyph;24, 1993 Representative Stanley Wilson, Assistant Administrator for Ocean Services and Coastal Zone Management, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce Alternate Representative William A. Erb, Director, Division of Marine Science and Technology, Bureau of Oceans and International Environmental and Scientific Affairs, Department of State Advisers Dorothy Bergamaschi, Executive Secretary, PIPICO, Bureau of Oceans and International Environmental and Scientific Affairs, Department of State Muriel Cole, International Affairs Specialist, Office of Ocean and Earth Sciences, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Department of Commerce M. Grant Gross, Director, Division of Ocean Sciences, National Science Foundation, Washington, DC Private Sector Adviser John A. Knauss, University of Rhode Island, Providence, Rhode Island
