FR940124-1-00097 FR940124-1-00009 Finally, the Secretary intends to add to this section a requirement that a SPRE establish performance standards that would enable the Secretary to evaluate the conduct and quality of the SPRE's reviews. Public comment is invited regarding the specific areas where SPRE performance standards should be established and how that performance should be evaluated. Section 667.24␣Peer Reviews of Institutions For each referred institution, section 494C(d)(15) of the HEA requires a SPRE to contract with a nationally recognized accrediting agency or other peer review system with demonstrated competence in assessing educational programs to carry out a review or provide information to the SPRE regarding that agency's or system's assessment of the quality and content of the institution educational programs. Under a literal reading of this provision, a SPRE could contract with the accrediting agency that had previously accredited the referred institution for the latter to conduct another, limited accreditation review. Under normal circumstances, the Secretary believes that use of SPRP funds for that activity would not be a prudent use of those funds. Therefore, under normal circumstances, the Secretary recommends that a SPRE satisfy the requirements of section 494C(d)(15) of the HEA by contracting with the referred institution's accrediting agency for the latter to provide a copy of the relevant information that was included in connection with its previous grant of accreditation. Except for the proposal that allows a SPRE to contract with a peer review system that it determines has competence in assessing educational programs, the provisions in section 494C(d)(15) are repeated in §667.24. Several negotiators argued that the Secretary should define the term ``peer review system'' or specify criteria to determine the competence of a peer review system. Those negotiators believed strongly that a peer review system selected by a SPRE would not be a credible authority in assessing postsecondary educational programs because that peer review system would not be subject to the requirements and standards imposed on accrediting agencies in subpart 2 of Part H of the HEA. One negotiator suggested specific criteria to determine the competence of a peer review system. In particular, that negotiator suggested that the Secretary approve a peer review system if that system demonstrates that_ (1) The geographical scope of the system's activities covers a State, region, or the United States; (2) The system has the administrative and fiscal capability to carry out its activities in light of the system's objectives and scope; (3) The system has established standards and adequate experience to assess the quality and content of institutions' programs of instruction, training, or study in relation to achieving the stated objectives for which the courses or programs are offered;
