FR940324-2-00057 FR940324-2-00039 •In addition, for competing continuations: The degree to which the grantee succeeded in accomplishing the goals and objectives in the initial 3-year project period, including the extent to which HIV primary care services were integrated into the applicant's overall primary care program; and a record of compliance with reporting requirements in effect during that period. •In addition, for new applicants: demonstrated ability of the applicant organization to carry out the proposed program, including the extent to which the proposed key clinical staff have had prior experience in the provision of clinical care for individuals with HIV infection. Other Grant Information The Grant Program to Provide Outpatient Early Intervention Services with Respect to HIV Disease has been determined to be a program which is subject to the provisions of Executive Order 12372, as implemented by 45 CFR Part 100. Executive Order 12372 allows States the option of setting up a system for reviewing applications from within their States for assistance under certain Federal programs. The application packages to be made available under this notice will contain a listing of States which have chosen to set up a review system and will provide a State-point-of-contact (SPOC) in the State for the review. Applicants (other than federally-recognized Indian tribal Governments) should contact their SPOCs as early as possible to alert them to the prospective applications and receive any necessary instructions on the State process. For proposed projects serving more than one State, the applicant is advised to contact the SPOC of each affected State. The due date for State process recommendations is 60 days after the application deadline date. The BPHC does not guarantee to accommodate or explain State process recommendations it receives after that date. This program is subject to the Public Health System Reporting Requirements. Reporting requirements have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget_0937&hyph;0195. Under these requirements, the community-based nongovernmental applicant must prepare and submit a Public Health System Impact Statement (PHSIS). The PHSIS is intended to provide information to State and local health officials to keep them apprised of proposed health services grant applications submitted by community-based nongovernmental organizations within their jurisdictions. Community-based nongovernmental applicants are required to submit the following information to the head of the appropriate State and local health agencies in the area(s) to be impacted no later than the Federal Application receipt due date: a. A copy of the face page of the application (SF&hyph;424). b. A summary of the project (PHSIS), not to exceed one page, which provides: (1) A description of the population to be served. (2) A summary of the services to be provided. (3) A description of the coordination planned with the appropriate State or local health agencies. Grants will be administered in accordance with HHS Regulations in 45 CFR Part 92 for State and local governments, or 45 CFR Part 74 for other grantees. The OMB Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance number for this program is 93.918. Dated: March 17, 1994. Ciro V. Sumaya, Administrator.
