FR941104-2-00107 FR941104-2-00065 B. Self-Regulatory Organizations Statement on Burden on Competition The Exchange does not believe that the proposed rule change will impose any burden on competition that is not necessary or appropriate in furtherance of the purposes of the Act. C. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received From Members, Participants, or Others Written comments on the proposed rule change were neither solicited nor received. III. Date of Effectiveness of the Proposed Rule Change and Timing for Commission Action The Exchange requests that the Commission find good cause for approving the proposed rule change prior to the thirtieth day after publication of the notice in the Federal Register . PSE believes it appropriate to approve the proposed rule change so that its authority to list municipal securities does not lapse. The Commission finds that the proposed rule change extending the PSE pilot program is consistent with the requirements of the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder applicable to the PSE and, in particular, the requirements of Section 6, and the rules and regulations thereunder. The Commission finds good cause for approving the proposed rule change on an accelerated basis prior to the thirtieth day after the date of publication of the notice of filing thereof in that the pilot program will expire on November 2, 1994, without reauthorization. The Commission believes that extension of the pilot is desirable in that it will permit the exchange to evaluate its program prior to filing a request for permanent approval. IV. Solicitation of Comments Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views and arguments concerning the foregoing. Persons making written submissions should file six copies thereof with the Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of the submission, all subsequent amendments, all written statements with respect to the proposed rule change that are filed with the Commission, and all written communications relating to the proposed rule change between the Commission and any person, other than those that may be withheld from the public in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552, will be available for inspection and copying in the Commission's Public Reference Room, 450 Fifth Street NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of such filing will also be available for inspection and copying at the principal office of the PSE. All submissions should refer to File No. SR&hyph;PSE&hyph;94&hyph;32 and should be submitted by November 25. It is therefore ordered, pursuant to Section 19(b)(2) of the Act, that the proposed rule change be, and hereby is, approved through November 2, 1995. For the Commission, by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. 17 CFR 200.30&hyph;3(a)(12) (1993). Margaret H. McFarland, Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;27357 Filed 11&hyph;3&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
