FR940919-2-00205 FR940919-2-00084 (f) Members of Minority Groups . Members of minority groups includes individuals of African American, Hispanic-surnamed, American Eskimo, Aleut, American Indian and Asian American extraction. (g) Passive Equity . Passive equity shall mean (i) for corporations, non-voting stock or stock that includes no more than fifteen percent of the voting equity; (ii) for partnerships, joint ventures and other non-corporate entities, limited partnership interests and similar interests that do not afford the power to exercise control of the entity. (h) Control Group . A control group is an entity, or a group of individuals or entities, that possesses de jure control and de facto control of an applicant or licensee, and as to which the applicant's or licensee's charters, articles of incorporation, bylaws, agreements and any other relevant documents (and amendments thereto) provide (i) that the entity and/or its members own unconditionally at least 50.1 percent of the total voting interests of a corporation; (ii) that the entity and/or its members receive at least 50.1 percent of the annual distribution of any dividends paid on the voting stock of a corporation; (iii) that, in the event of dissolution or liquidation of a corporation, the entity and/or its members are entitled to receive 100 percent of the value of each share of stock in its possession and a percentage of the retained earnings of the concern that is equivalent to the amount of equity held in the corporation; and (iv) that the entity and/or its members have the right to receive dividends, profits and regular and liquidating distributions from the business in proportion to its interest in the total equity of the applicant or licensee. Note: Voting control does not always assure de facto control, such as, for example, when the voting stock of the control group is widely dispersed ( see, e.g., §24.720(e)(2)(iii)). (i) Affiliate . (1) Determinations regarding whether an individual or entity will be considered an affiliate of (a) an applicant or (b) a person holding an attributable interest in an applicant under paragraph (b)(2) will be made pursuant to the general affiliation rules set forth in section 24.720(l) of this part. 8. Section 24.406 is revised to read as follows: Sec. 24.406␣Filing of Narrowband PCS Applications, Fees, and Numbers of Copies (a) As prescribed by Sections 24.305, 24.307, and 24.409 of this part, standard formal application forms applicable to the narrowband PCS may be obtained from either: (1) Federal Communications Commission, Washington, DC 20554; or (2) by calling the Commission's Forms Distribution Center, (202) 418&hyph;3676. (b) Applications for the initial provision of narrowband PCS service must be filed on FCC Form 175 in accordance with the rules in Section 24.305 and Part 1, Subpart Q. In the event of mutual exclusivity between applicants filing FCC Form 175, only auction winners will be eligible to file subsequent long form applications on FCC Form 401 for initial narrowband PCS licenses. Mututally exclusive applications filed on Form 175 are subject to competitive bidding under those rules. Narrowband PCS applicants filing Form 401 need not complete Schedule B. (c) All applicants for Narrowband PCS radio station authorizations (other than applications for initial provision of narrowband PCS service filed on FCC Form 175) shall be submitted for filing to: Federal Communications Commission, Washington, DC 20554, Attention: Narrowband PCS Processing Section. Applicants requiring fees as set forth at Part 1, Subpart G of this chapter must be filed in accordance with Sec. 0.401(b). (d) All correspondence or amendments concerning a submitted application shall clearly identify the name of the applicant, applicant identification number or Commission file number (if known) or station call sign of the application involved, and may be sent directly to the Common Carrier Bureau, Narrowband PCS Processing Section. (e) Except as otherwise specified, all applicants, amendments, correspondence, pleadings and forms (including FCC Form 175) shall be submitted on one original paper copy and with three microfiche copies, including exhibits and attachments thereto, and shall be signed as prescribed by Sec. 1.743. Unless otherwise provided by the FCC, filings of five pages or less are exempt from the requirements to submit on microfiche, as well as emergency filings like letters requesting special temporary authority. Those filing any amendments, correspondence, pleadings, and forms must simultaneously submit the original hard copy which must be stamped ``original''. In addition to the original hard copy, those filings pleadings, including pleadings under Section 1.2108 of the rules shall also submit 2 paper copies as provided in Sec. 1.51 of the rules. (1) Microfiche copies. Each microfiche copy must be a copy of the signed original. Each microfiche copy shall be a 148mm X 105mm negative (clear transparent characters appearing on an opaque background) at 24X to 27X reduction for microfiche or microfiche jackets. One of the microfiche sets must be a silver halide camera master or a copy made on silver halide film such as Kodak Direct Duplicatory Film. The microfiche must be placed in paper microfiche envelopes and submitted in a B6 (125 mm x 176 mm) or 5 x 7.5 inch envelope. All applicants must leave Row ``A'' (the first row for page images) of the first fiche blank for in-house identification purposes. (2) All applicants and all amendments must have the following information printed on the mailing envelope, the microfiche envelope, and on the title area at the top of the microfiche: (i) The name of the applicant; (ii) The type of application (e.g. nationwide, regional, MTA, BTA, response channel); (iii) The month and year of the document; (iv) Name of the document; (v) File number, applicant identification number, and call sign, if assigned; and (vi) The identification number and date of the Public Notice announcing the auction in response to which the application was filed (if applicable). Each microfiche copy of pleadings shall include: (A) The month and year of the document; (B) Name of the document; (C) Name of the filing party; (D) File number, applicant identification number, and call sign, if assigned; (E) The identification number and date of the Public Notice announcing the auction in response to which the application was filed (if applicable). Abbreviations may be used if they are easily understood. 9. Section 24.422 is revised to read as follows: Sec. 24.422␣Amendment of Application for Narrowband Personal Communications Service Filed on FCC Form 175
