FR940106-0-00159 FR940106-0-00022 (ii) For purposes of this section and other provisions of this Part 617, the following definitions shall be used: (A) Failed to begin participation. A worker shall be determined to have failed to begin participation in a training program when the worker fails to attend all scheduled training classes and other training activities in the first week of the training program, without justifiable cause. (B) Ceased participation. A worker shall be determined to have ceased participation in a training program when the worker fails to attend all scheduled training classes and other training activities scheduled by the training institution in any week of the training program, without justifiable cause. (C) Justifiable cause. For the purposes of paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the term ``justifiable cause'' means such reasons as would justify an individual's conduct when measured by conduct expected of a reasonable individual in like circumstances, including but not limited to reasons beyond the individual's control and reasons related to the individual's capability to participate in or complete an approved training program. * * * * * 13. A new §617.19 is added to read as follows: §617.19 Requirement for participation in training. (a) In general_ (1) Basic requirement. (i) All individuals otherwise entitled to basic TRA, for all weeks beginning on and after November 21, 1988, must either be enrolled in or participating in a training program approved under §617.22(a), or have completed a training program approved under §617.22(a), as provided in §617.11(a)(2)(vii), in order to be entitled to basic TRA payments for any such week (except for continuation of payments during scheduled breaks in training of 14 days or less under the conditions stated in §617.15(d)). The training requirement of paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section shall be waived in writing on an individual basis, solely in regard to entitlement to basic TRA, if approval of training for the individual is not feasible or is not appropriate, as determined in accordance with paragraph (a)(2) of this section. (ii) As a principal condition of entitlement to additional TRA payments, all individuals must actually be participating in a training program approved under §617.22(a), for all weeks beginning before November 21, 1988, and for all weeks beginning on and after November 21, 1988 (except for continuation of payments during breaks in training under the conditions stated in §617.15(d)). Paragraph (a)(2) of this section is not applicable in regard to additional TRA, and the participation in training requirement of paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section may not be waived under any circumstances. (2) Waiver of participation requirement. When it is determined, in accordance with paragraph (a)(2) of this section, that it is not feasible or is not appropriate (as such terms are defined in paragraph (b) of this section) to approve a training program for an individual otherwise entitled to basic TRA, the individual shall be furnished a formal written notice of waiver, with an explanation of the reason(s) for the waiver and a statement of why training is not feasible or is not appropriate in the case of such individual. At a minimum, the written statement furnished to the individual shall contain information required by §617.50(e) as well as the following information: (i) Name and social security number of the individual; (ii) Petition number under which the worker was certified; (iii) A statement why the agency has determined that it is not feasible or is not appropriate to approve training for the individual at that time, and the reason(s) for the finding; (iv) A statement that the waiver will be revoked at any time that feasible and appropriate training becomes available; (v) Any other advice or information the State agency deems appropriate in informing the individual; (vi) Signature block (with signature) for the appropriate State official; and (vii) Signature block (with signature) for the worker's acknowledgement of receipt. (3) Denial of a waiver. In any case in which a determination is made to deny to any individual a waiver of the participation requirement, the individual shall be furnished a formal written notice of denial of waiver, which shall contain all of the information required of formal written notices under paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
