FR940405-0-00040 FR940405-0-00004 23. One comment stated that the rule made no provisions for commercial grade procurement and, as a result, there would be a ``significant cost increase for DOE nonreactor nuclear facilities who will be required by the rule to limit the selection of suppliers to those that have quality assurance programs in accordance with the rule.'' Response: The Department disagrees. As written, paragraph (c)(2)(iii) of the section requires that all procured items (commercial grade items are one type of procured item) meet established requirements and perform as expected. Nowhere in the section does it require that procurement be limited only to suppliers ``that have quality assurance programs.'' To the contrary, the section requires that procured items ``meet established requirements and perform as expected.'' The way in which requirements are met should be specified in the contractor's QAP taking into account the relative importance of the item or service being procured (graded approach). Inspection and Acceptance Testing (Criterion 8) 24. There were three comments relating to different aspects of Criterion 8. The first comment concerned the rule's perceived failure to provide for in-process inspection or test, particularly with regard to site characteristic testing for remediation work. Response: As written, the rule in paragraph (c)(2)(iv) requires that inspection and acceptance testing of specified items and processes (this includes testing of site characteristics) be conducted using established acceptance and performance criteria. In-process inspection and testing is not specifically called out in the rule because it is one of many techniques for conducting inspections and tests. 25. The second comment dealt with test status. The comment stated that the rule provides no definition of requirements for the identification and control of inspection or test status as required by 10 CFR part 50, appendix B. Response: The Department disagrees. As written, paragraph (c)(2)(iv) of the section establishes a basic requirement that inspections and acceptance testing be performed. In practice, one aspect of properly performing the work of inspecting and testing is to ensure that the status of the item be known, such that the inspection or test is properly completed and the item is not relied on to perform this intended function. It is inappropriate to include this level of detail in a rule whose intention it is to establish basic quality assurance requirements applicable to all DOE facilities. 26. The third comment dealt with the calibration of instruments and the perception that the rule only addresses the calibration of process monitoring instrumentation and data collection equipment. The comment maintained that the rule does not address requirements for calibration interval, accuracy, and stability in process monitoring instrumentation or equipment used to collect environmental data. Response: In actuality, the rule, as written, addresses both the calibration and maintenance of equipment used for inspection and acceptance testing (paragraph (c)(2)(iv)) and the calibration and maintenance of equipment used for monitoring and data collection (paragraph (c)(2)(i)). It is the Department's position that the phrase ``calibration and maintenance'' encompasses the ``requirements for calibration interval, accuracy, [and] stability.'' Management Assessment (Criterion 9) 27. There were three comments regarding the requirements of Criterion 9. One comment noted that the requirement to conduct periodic assessments of integrated performance at ``all'' levels of management is too restrictive and unnecessary. Response: The Department agrees and has revised paragraph (c)(3)(i) accordingly. 28. A second comment requested clarification of Criterion 9 regarding who in management was required to perform the assessments. The comment asserted that individual managers have the responsibility and authority ``to assess the QA program'' within their cognizant areas. Response: DOE agrees. Criterion 9 recognizes this and requires that these individual inputs be gathered and combined by upper level managers into an overall assessment of the integrated management system. This management assessment should seek common weaknesses and areas needing improvement. 29. The third comment states that §830.120 ``contradicts the requirements of §830.310 which requires that the conduct of operations program and its effectiveness on facility operations will be assessed through management observation and audit.'' Response: The Department sees no conflict between the requirements of §830.120 paragraph (c)(3)(i) and §830.310 paragraph (g) because the two are unrelated. Paragraph (c)(3)(i) of §830.120 addresses ``management assessment,'' while paragraph (g) of §830.310 addresses the ``independent assessment'' component of §830.120 which is in paragraph (c)(3)(ii). To make this distinction more clear, paragraph (g) of §830.310 will be revised to reflect the language from §830.120. NQA&hyph;1 30. One individual observed that DOE had previously ``imposed'' ASME/NQA&hyph;1 for all of its sites and that the Department would be better served by continuing its use. Response: Neither DOE 5700.6C nor its predecessor, 5700.6B, ``imposed'' NQA&hyph;1. DOE 5700.6B referred to NQA&hyph;1 as a ``preferred'' standard and 5700.6C referenced it for general information only. In practice, NQA&hyph;1 is a national consensus standard. It interprets the requirements of the NRC's 10 CFR part 50, appendix B and provides guidance for developing and implementing quality assurance programs at specific types of nuclear facilities. The rule does not prohibit the use of NQA&hyph;1 at the Department's nuclear facilities. Just as the NRC has endorsed NQA&hyph;1 as an acceptable way (there are others) for their licensees to implement the requirements of appendix B, DOE contractors may use NQA&hyph;1 as a way to implement the rule. In addition, DOE (like the NRC) will permit contractors (NRC licensees) to use other industry standards as long as their applications result in acceptable product and service quality. 31. One comment stated that the rule did not provide ``even a minimum level of requirements for software quality as required by existing DOE Orders and NRC NUREG&hyph;1200.'' The comment asserted that the absence of software quality assurance requirements was a significant shortcoming in the rule.
