FR940222-1-00038 FR940222-1-00008 However, if we imposed a cost limit only on the services we reimburse through the HCPP agreement (that is, part B services), it would create an incentive for the HCPP to shift costs by authorizing more expensive part A services (which will be reimbursed directly to the provider), rather than part B services that would be subject to the limit. Accordingly, to avoid potentially inappropriate increases in part A utilization, we propose to apply the aggregate part A and part B presumptive limit to all costs incurred for Medicare beneficiaries enrolled in HCPPs that furnish inpatient hospital services. If the aggregate costs exceed the limit, the HCPP would be considered to have an overclaim for its part B services. (The limit would apply to HCPPs that furnish inpatient care in hospitals commonly referred to as ``general acute-care'' or ``short-stay'' hospitals, as distinguished from psychiatric or rehabilitation hospitals or other chronic or long-term hospitals.) 2. Presumptive Limit The presumptive limit on costs would be 100 percent of the weighted average of the AAPCCs of each class of Medicare enrollees. Since the AAPCC is based on the costs of all Medicare services received by beneficiaries, as a presumptive limit it must be applied to the total cost of all Medicare-covered services received by the Medicare enrollees, including all part A and part B services, whether furnished by the prepaid health care organization or obtained from other sources. In other words, all costs attributable to Medicare enrollees, whether paid by the organization or paid by Medicare's intermediaries and carriers, would be totaled and compared to the presumptive limit. We note that we plan to consider adjustment to, or a replacement for, the AAPCC as the basis for payment to risk HMOs and CMPs. If we make any such changes, we might also need to modify using the AAPCC as the basis for the presumptive limit. This would involve additional rulemaking activity. 3. Exception Process If costs exceed the presumptive limit, there would be an exceptions process that would permit payments in excess of the limit, for either of the following reasons: a. Special needs. The Medicare enrollees have special needs that require a volume and intensity of services that exceeds the average for Medicare beneficiaries of the same age and sex living in the same service area. •For exceptions based on special needs, we are proposing the methodology discussed under section IV of this preamble. •If, after application of that methodology, the organization wished further review, it could present additional documentation for HCFA's consideration. The organization could seek such further review if HCFA found that the organization did not meet HCFA's standards for special needs or the HMO or CMP believed that not enough money was being allowed for its special needs enrollees. b. Extraordinary circumstances. There were extraordinary circumstances beyond the control of the organization. The circumstances include, but are not limited to, strikes, fire, earthquake, flood or similar unusual occurrences with substantial cost effects. For exceptions based on extraordinary circumstances, the HMO or CMP would be required to submit to HCFA information documenting the particular extraordinary circumstances that it believes constitute justification for additional payments and the amount of additional payments justified by the extraordinary circumstances. 4. Decision Not to Restore the Effective Incentives Exception We would not restore the effective incentives exception that was deleted from the regulations when we promulgated the absolute limitation on payment to cost HMOs and CMPs in 1985. The existence of ``effective incentives'' was used by HCFA as a proxy for efficiency. We are now using the presumptive limit as a proxy for efficiency, and we believe this is a more appropriate standard. 5. Exemption Based on Number of Medicare Enrollees Under the proposed rule, HCFA could exempt organizations with fewer than 500 Medicare enrollees from the cost limits for up to 2 consecutive years. HCFA could specify additional criteria that these organizations must meet in order to qualify for this exemption. 6. Effect of Having a Final Overclaim for 2 Consecutive Years HCFA could terminate contracts with organizations that have a final overclaim for at least 2 consecutive years. Final overclaim means that, after application of the exception process, the organization still has excess claims that it cannot justify as ``reasonable.'' The rationale for termination is that organizations with final overclaims are inefficient as compared to the fee-for-service system, and it is not prudent for HCFA to continue to contract with inefficient organizations.
