FR940314-0-00018 FR940314-0-00003 (g) Non-Federal funds. Once all REA-derived grant funds have been utilized by the Borrower to fund rural development projects according to the provisions of this section and the applicable provisions of this subpart, loans made by the Borrower thereafter from repayments to the revolving loan fund shall not be considered as being derived from Federal funds and the requirements of these regulations will not be imposed on the Borrower or project owners. However, the Borrower will, as a condition for receiving a grant under this section, agree to the following conditions: (1) To maintain a revolving loan account to promote rural economic development in accordance with the Borrower's rural development plan for non-Federal funds submitted in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section; (2) To maintain the additional funding supplied by the Borrower in accordance with paragraph (a)(5) of this section and interest earnings within the revolving loan fund; (3) Approval may be granted by the Administrator to terminate the revolving loan program, or modify the requirements set forth in paragraphs (g)(1) and (g)(2) of this section, upon written request and justification by the Borrower. Should the Borrower terminate the revolving loan program without obtaining approval by the REA Administrator, the Borrower will return the amount of the original grant to REA. (h) Administrative provisions. The requirements of this paragraph set forth the procedures for accounting, requisitioning and disbursement of Federal funds, those funds initially disbursed for projects which may be funded in accordance with an approved rural development plan and scope of work submitted by the Borrower. Disbursement of grant funds will be approved on a reimbursement basis after the grant agreement is executed by REA and the Borrower, the applicable provisions of this subpart are met, subject to disbursement restrictions in paragraph (e) of this section, and the requirements in paragraphs (h) (1) through (3) of this section. (1) Accounting requirements. Accounting will be performed in accordance with 7 CFR part 1767, Accounting Requirements for REA Electric Borrowers, or 7 CFR part 1770, Accounting Requirements for REA Telephone Borrowers, as appropriate. The Borrower will maintain accounts for the revolving funds as follows: (i) REA electric Borrowers. (A) A general ledger Account 131.13, ``Cash-General_Economic Development Grant Funds.'' The Borrower will debit this account in an amount equal to the amount of the grant received from REA, any additional funds deemed Federal from the Borrower as required by paragraph (a)(5)(iii) of this section, and all other funds advanced for the project, regardless of the source, if controlled by the Borrower. The Borrower will credit this account for all expenditures made with Federal funds on behalf of the rural development project. (B) A general ledger Account 124.1, ``Other Investments_Federal Economic Development Loans.'' The Borrower will debit this account in the amount of Federal funds the Borrower advances to non-associated organizations for authorized rural economic development projects. For each debit in this account, a corresponding credit will be made in Account 131.13 in paragraph (h)(1)(i)(A) of this section. This account will be credited with repayments of loans made with Federal economic development grant funds. (C) A general ledger Account 123.3, ``Investment in Associated Companies_Federal Economic Development Loans.'' The Borrower will debit this account in the amount of Federal funds the Borrower advances to associated organizations for authorized rural economic development projects. For each debit in this account, a corresponding credit will be made in Account 131.13 in paragraph (h)(1)(i)(A) of this section. This account will be credited with repayments of loans made with Federal economic development grant funds. (D) Account 421, ``Miscellaneous Non-operating Income.'' The Borrower will credit this account in the amount of grant funds disbursed by REA resulting from an approved requisition request in accordance with paragraph (h)(2) of this section. (E) A general ledger Account 131.14, ``Cash-General_Economic Development Non-Federal Revolving Funds.'' The Borrower will debit this account with any additional funds deemed non-Federal from the borrower as required by paragraph (a)(5)(iv) of this section, cash received from the repayment of loans made from accounts in paragraphs (h)(1)(i)(B), (h)(1)(i)(C), (h)(1)(i)(F), and (h)(1)(i)(G) of this section. The Borrower will credit this account to reflect loans made for rural economic development projects from non-Federal funds from accounts specified in paragraphs (h)(1)(i)(F) and (h)(1)(i)(G) of this section. (F) A general ledger Account 124.2, ``Other Investments_Non-Federal Economic Development Loans.'' The Borrower will debit this account in the amount of non-Federal funds the Borrower advances to non-associated organizations for authorized rural economic development projects. For each debit in this account, a corresponding credit will be made in Account 131.14, in paragraph (h)(1)(i)(E) of this section. This account will be credited with repayments of loans made from non-Federal economic development funds. (G) A general ledger Account 123.4, ``Investment in Associated Companies_Non-Federal Economic Development Loans.'' The Borrower will debit this account in the amount of non-Federal funds the Borrower advances to associated organizations for authorized rural economic development projects. For each debit in this account, a corresponding credit will be made in Account 131.14, in paragraph (h)(1)(i)(E) of this section. This account will be credited with repayments of loans made from non-Federal economic development funds. (H) A general ledger Account 171 ``Interest and Dividends Receivable.'' The Borrower will debit this account with the amount of interest earned on the revolving loan fund. The Borrower will credit this account and debit the appropriate cash account when the cash is received.
