FR941003-0-00111 FR941003-0-00018 Specific comments. Some of the public comments raised specific issues that should be addressed. Comment on review appraisers: The Department has not adequately addressed the need for qualifying review appraisers. Furthermore, there is no recognition of the difference between a technical review and an administrative review as those terms are understood within the appraisal industry. Response: HUD has given considerable thought to the general question of appraisal reviews and who performs them. For FHA purposes, reviews are essentially of two types. First are those incidental to the duties of the DE underwriter. In these instances, the appraisal is accepted on its face, while certain factors are weighed into the decision of whether or not to underwrite, and if so, whether to change the loan amount on the basis of an adjustment to value. This is not an appraisal action; it is an underwriting judgment as we explained in the proposed rule. Along with these judgments, the underwriter exercises administrative review responsibilities, checking to see if the appraiser has properly completed the form, noting the comparables used, etc. We see no element of technical review in this role of the underwriter, who is not certified or licensed in most cases. The second type of review is technical, as compared to administrative. With respect to multifamily transactions, technical reviews are conducted by HUD staff or by a contractor and may result in a revision of the appraisal report. In the case of single family transactions, they are conducted by HUD staff and may provide a basis for administrative sanctions, but they do not materially affect the appraisal report. Whether a technical review is performed by a contractor or by HUD staff, the reviewer must be certified in the case of multifamily programs and either certified or licensed, as is necessary, for single family programs. In order to make HUD's own internal practices consistent with the standard that we apply to private sector appraisers, the Department intends that over the next several years, every FHA multifamily and single family staff appraiser who performs reviews will become either certified or licensed, whichever is appropriate for the nature of the reviews that he or she performs. Comment on loan correspondents choosing appraisers: The proposed rule does not clarify whether loan correspondents or their sponsors should choose the appraiser. Response: The Department expects sponsors to be responsible for underwriting single family loans submitted by their loan correspondents. Consistent with this approach, the sponsor must select the appraiser.
