FR940228-1-00157 FR940228-1-00010 •This section should not apply to: 1) delays by lenders or guarantors in delivering loan proceeds which are not caused by the necessity of complying with Title IV requirements; and 2) delays attributable to the student's not providing information by known, published, or noticed deadlines, that the institution, lender, or guarantor must have in order to comply with Title IV requirements. (Example, IRS 1040 forms for verification.) The Secretary should regulate in such a way that it is clear that institutions may charge reasonable interest on unpaid bills where the delay in Title IV delivery is attributed to the student or an agency other than the institution. [Kansas City] •This section does not address delays for which the student has not met public deadlines or performed all obligations necessary to ensure the delivery of timely aid. [Kansas City] •If the student does not provide documents, it is not applicable. It should relate only to a 30 day delayed disbursement. [Atlanta] •No constraints should be put on a student for the delay of that portion of tuition covered by the first-time Stafford loan or in the case of institutional delay. [New York] •Consideration should be given to the laws of various states since they differ as to when a student must meet his or her financial obligation at an institution. [San Francisco] 3. If a delay is caused by the lender or institution can the guarantee agency take actions that are prohibited under other circumstances? •No, a guaranty agency should not be allowed to take action if the delay is caused by the lender or institution. [New York] •G. Section 487(a)(20) prohibits an institution from paying a commission, bonus or other incentive payment based directly or indirectly on success in securing enrollments or financial aid to any person or entity engaged in any student recruiting or admission activities or in making decisions regarding the awarding of student financial assistance. Issues that the community was asked to address and the community's views: 1. How should the Department determine that an institution is not providing commissions, bonuses, and other incentive payments? •Compliance should be determined through the audit process. Auditors check employment and payroll records. [San Francisco, Atlanta] 2. If an institution awards merit pay to salaried employees in increments as the student successfully completes portions of the course, graduates, or gets placed in a job, would the institution be in compliance? •Institutions should be allowed to provide merit incentives to employees as long as it cannot be attached to the enrollment process (i.e., servicing retaining, and placing students after the first day of class at the institution.) [Kansas City] Salaried employees should be rewarded for retention. Any compensation (non-salaried) for the enrollment of financial aid students is illegal. There appears to be opposition to compensating for the ``warm body count'' and financial aid packages, but it does seem that the statute allows for a legitimate basis for compensation above base salary for areas such as retention, however defined, and/or completion rates. [New York] •As the intent appears to be elimination of head count recruitment commissions, bonuses on merit pay may be made as long as they are not made solely as the basis of recruitment of the student. The Department should define who is an employee. [Atlanta] •The institution would be in compliance if an institution awards merit pay to salaried employees in increments as the student successfully completes portions or the course, graduates, or gets placed in a job. [Kansas City]
