FR941216-0-00033 FR941216-0-00011 Service Response : In researching the proposed rule, the Service reviewed data and consulted publications from many sources, including herpetologists at academic institutions, staff biologists with the U.S. Forest Service, research biologists within the Fish and Wildlife Service, and museum records. It is the consensus of the herpetologists that contacted the Service that the arroyo toad is one of the most threatened amphibians in southern California (see Issue 7). A recent report prepared under contract to the California Department of Fish and Game stated that the combination of threats ``probably make this taxon the most vulnerable in California'' (Jennings and Hayes 1992). In regard to recommendations that more studies are needed before listing the arroyo toad, section 4 of the Act states that a determination to list must be based on the best scientific and commercial data available after conducting a review of the status of the species. The Service completed such a review of the toad in preparing the proposed rule and prior to the receipt of the petition. The best scientific and commercial data now available supports listing the arroyo toad as endangered. Issue 3 : Several commenters believed that the proposed rule did not present any scientific evidence for the adverse effects of mining, recreation, or grazing on arroyo toads. Service Response : The proposed rule presented numerous examples of habitat degradation caused by mining, recreation, and grazing (see Factor A in the proposed rule and this final rule). As stated in the proposed rule, mining, recreation, and grazing have all been observed to alter microhabitat characteristics essential to successful breeding of arroyo toads. Recreation and grazing are also implicated in mortality of adult and juvenile arroyo toads. As directed by the Act, the Service used the best available scientific and commercial data in proposing to list the arroyo toad. These data demonstrate the potential negative effects of these activities. Although the commenters do not agree with the conclusions in the proposed rule, they did not submit any information to disprove the Service's analysis of the effects of mining, grazing, or recreation on arroyo toad populations. Issue 4 : Several commenters stated that the listing of the arroyo toad should not proceed until the Service conducts the appropriate National Environmental Policy Act review. Service Response : The Service need not prepare environmental assessments or environmental impact statements pursuant to the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) for reasons outlined in the Federal Register on October 25, 1983 (48 FR 49244). Basically, the listing of a species is exempt as a matter of law for NEPA review. Listing decisions are based upon biological, not sociological or economical, considerations. This view has been upheld in at least one court case ( Pacific Legal Foundation v. Andrus , 657 F. 2d 829 (1981)) Issue 5 : One commenter was puzzled by the Service's statement in the proposed rule that ``little opportunity exists for natural dispersal and recolonization following local extirpations,'' because volunteers of an off-road vehicle association had recently offered to relocate toads into formerly occupied habitats. Service Response : The Service's statement referred to the effects of habitat fragmentation on the viability of arroyo toad populations and their ability to disperse naturally to reoccupy former habitat. The Service appreciates the offer for volunteer help and will consider such offer in the recovery of the species. The reintroduction of arroyo toads into habitats from which small, isolated populations had become extirpated would likely require frequent, intensive management efforts. In most cases, such efforts would be unsuccessful, especially if the arroyo toads were placed in degraded areas. Section 2 of the Endangered Species Act clearly states that the purpose of the Act is to provide a means whereby the natural ecosystems upon which endangered and threatened species depend may be conserved. However, such intensive management actions may play a role in endangered species recovery, in addition to habitat protection. Issue 6 : One commenter stated that failure to designate critical habitat ``hampers the efforts of landowners and other interested parties to locate additional populations of this species, possibly precluding the need for protection under the act.'' Service Response : Designation of critical habitat for the arroyo toad would not be prudent at this time. The arroyo toad is threatened by taking, an activity difficult to control. Remaining populations of the arroyo toad are small and geographically restricted, so that they are now vulnerable to unrestricted collection. Publication of specific localities, which would be required in proposing critical habitat, would reveal precise locality data and thereby make the species more vulnerable to additional collection and acts of vandalism, and increase the difficulties of enforcement. Designation of critical habitat first focuses on known occupied habitat, which would not aid in locating additional populations. Issue 7 : One commenter believed that the Service was not justified in keeping habitat and population data confidential, because this practice ``does not allow for an independent assessment of the vulnerability of the species and the critical need for listing.'' Service Response : The proposed and final rules contain a complete summary of the data available to the Service regarding the status of the arroyo toad. Habitat and population data have been available for review (see ``Addresses'' section above). As discussed above (Issues 2 and 6), these data have been reviewed by the scientific community and there is a consensus among herpetologists that the arroyo toad is one of the most threatened amphibians in California. Issue 8 : Several commenters referred to the economic impacts of listing the arroyo toad and recommended that the Service not proceed with listing the species until the present and future economic impacts of listing had been considered.
