FR940627-2-00143 FR940627-2-00061 Responses From the General Public Eighty-six percent of the comments received opposed converting English measurement signs to metric. A majority of the negative responses stated the funds to convert the signs could be better used for repair of roads and bridges or for charitable purposes. A number of comments advised that the conversion to metric was unnecessary and discussed personal objections. The responses in favor of the metric change were split between Options 2 and 3, with Option 2 receiving about twice the number of favorable comments as Option 3. In general, those that strongly supported converting to metric favored ``the quicker the better'' Option 2, and many commented that the United States was behind most of the other nations in adopting the metric system. Where nearly every negative response mentioned the cost involved with converting and the need to do other things with that money, almost none of the responses in favor of change mentioned costs. Also, quite a few of the positive responses stated that a public education program was needed before the change was made. Responses From Organizations and Other Federal Agencies These responses included the American Public Works Association, The Department of Commerce, the Institute of Transportation Engineers, U.S. Metric Association, and several others. There was one negative response with the others mostly favoring Option 2 (quick change). The U.S. Department of Commerce (the lead Federal agency in the change to metric) recommended ``that metric conversion of highway signs be delayed until after successful completion of FHWA's current conversion plan.'' Responses From Cities/Counties Nearly all responses, both positive and negative, identified the need for special funding and a public education program if the decision is made to change signs to metric units. Most of the negative responses especially emphasized the cost of this proposal. Several commented that this was another Federal mandate without thought of how it would be locally financed. Most of the positive responses favored Option 2. Responses From States Forty-five States responded. Eight States expressed opposition to the metrication of highway signs and all of the eight questioned the need to make the change. A ninth State expressed opposition but stated that if the sign legends must be converted to metric it would recommend a modified Option 2. The remaining 36 States supported the switch to metric. Most of these expressed support for Option 2 or some combination of two or all three of the Options. One State recommended implementation of the change using a method different from all of the three Options. Most of the State responses, both positive and negative, requested special funding and an education/public information program before implementation. Several States included an estimate of the cost to convert signs on the State highway systems and also estimated that the conversion costs of the signs on the non-State highway system, because of the much larger mileage, would cost a great deal more than the State system conversion. Agency Decision Subsequent to the August 31, 1993, notice, Congress passed the Department of Transportation and Related Agencies Appropriations Act of 1994. Public Law 103&hyph;122, 107 Stat. 1198. Section 331 of this Act prohibits the use of Department of Transportation Fiscal Year 1994 funds for implementing metric signing. Currently, there are several proposed bills in both the Senate and House of Representatives placing future restriction on the changing of highway signs from the English system to the metric system. In consideration of the docket responses, the current statutory prohibition, and a possible future Congressional restriction on using Federal funds for metric signs, the FHWA will not require the implementation of metric sign legends until at least after 1996. Before any nationally directed conversion to metric highway signs is implemented, the agency will conduct a strong public education program and will consider other appropriate measures to assure that such a conversion would be as smooth as possible. Authority: 23 U.S.C. 315; 49 CFR 1.48. Issued on: June 21, 1994. Rodney E. Slater, Administrator. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;15517 Filed 6&hyph;24&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;22&hyph;P
