FR941102-0-00074 FR941102-0-00021 DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION National Highway Traffic Safety Administration 49 CFR Part 571 [Docket No. 93&hyph;15; Notice 2] RIN 2127&hyph;AE38 Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards Lamps, Reflective Devices, and Associated Equipment AGENCY: National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA), DOT. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: This notice amends Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard No. 108 to specify that plastic materials used in reflex reflectors show not more than 7 percent haze after a 3-year outdoor exposure test, a level at which haze becomes discernable to the naked eye. This amendment will not change the stringency of the standard as it has been applied, but it will increase its objectivity. NHTSA has not adopted its proposal that cumulative haze not exceed 7 percent when a plastic lens is placed in front of a reflex reflector. Instead, the same haze criterion is applied to the reflex reflector and outer lens material. This approach will limit cumulative haze to about the same level without the need to retest current materials. DATES: The amendment is effective November 1, 1995. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Patrick Boyd, Office of Rulemaking (202&hyph;366&hyph;6346). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Sierra Products of Livermore, California (``Sierra'') filed a ``Petition to Amend FMVSS 108 Updating Weather & Heat Testing of Vehicle Lights & Reflectors.'' In granting the petition, NHTSA considered that three principal issues and several lesser issues merited public consideration and comment. An appropriate notice of proposed rulemaking (NPRM) was published on March 9, 1993, and an opportunity afforded for comment (58 FR 13042). Its primary subject concerned the permissibility of a minimum amount of haze. NHTSA noted that if any of the other issues merited the initiation of rulemaking, a supplemental notice of proposed rulemaking would follow. Comments on the NPRM were received from Trucklite, Truck Safety Equipment Institute (TSEI), American Automobile Manufacturers Association (AAMA), 3M, Chrysler Corporation, Ford Motor Company, General Motors Corporation (GM), Japan Auto Parts Industries Association (JAPIA), Peterson Manufacturing, Thomas Loughran, and General Electric Plastics (GEP). 1. Haze Limit for Reflex Reflectors The principal issue of the NPRM concerned the permissible amount of haze after outdoor exposure testing of reflex reflectors. S5.1.2 of Standard No. 108 establishes requirements for plastic materials used for optical parts such as lenses and reflectors. One of the requirements (subsection (c)) is that plastic materials used for reflex reflectors shall meet the appearance requirements of paragraph 4.2.2 of SAE Recommended Practice J576c, May 1970, after the 3-year exposure test specified in the Recommended Practice. Paragraph 4.2.2 states in pertinent part that ``The exposed samples, when compared with the unexposed control samples, shall not show *␣*␣* haze *␣*␣*.'' Whether a sample shows haze has traditionally been determined by whether haze is visible to the naked eye. However, all plastics will develop an amount of haze during the weathering test that may not be visible to the naked eye, but which is measurable by instrumentation. General Electric, the manufacturer of ``Lexan,'' a polycarbonate plastic resin used in reflex reflectors, has stated that its polycarbonate plastic will not pass the weathering test for reflector material unless the reflex reflector manufacturer coats the finished product with an optical coating approved by GE. In its latest revision of J576, SAE has replaced the visual inspection criterion for haze with a 7-percent haze limit for measurement with a hazometer. The committee recommending the change considered the new procedure equivalent to the previous practice but more objective. Properly coated polycarbonates develop about 6 percent haze, and acrylics develop about 3 percent haze in exposure tests conducted in Florida. Such products are certified under the present test and will remain in compliance. NHTSA notes that 7 percent haze is not difficult to discern visually.
