FR940603-1-00099 FR940603-1-00009 ยง1726.323 Certificate (Buy America), REA Form 213. The closeout form in this section shall be used when required by this part. Certificate With respect to compliance with the second paragraph of the Rural Electrification Act of 1938, being Title IV of the Work Relief and Public Works Appropriation Act of 1938 (Public Resolution No. 122, 75th Congress, approved June 21, 1938). Rural Electrification Administration Project XXX . The undersigned, being the XXX 1 , in a certain contract No. XXX dated XXX , 19 XXX , between the undersigned and XXX 2 , does hereby certify that in the performance of the said contract there have been used or furnished no unmanufactured articles, materials or supplies which have not been mined or produced in the United States, Mexico, or Canada and no manufactured articles, materials or supplies which have not been manufactured in the United States, Mexico, or Canada substantially all from articles, materials or supplies mined, produced or manufactured, as the case may be in the United States, Mexico, or Canada, except to the extent that compliance with the second paragraph of the Rural Electrification Act of 1938, being Title IV of the Work Relief and Public Works Appropriation Act of 1938 (Public Resolution No. 122, 75th Congress, approved June 22, 1938) has been waived by the Administrator of the Rural Electrification Administration. 1 Insert ``Contractor,'' ``Subcontractor,'' ``Seller'' or ``Materialman,'' as the case may be. 2 Insert the name of the REA Borrower. By XXX Date XXX , 19 XXX [End of clause] ยง1726.324 Waiver and release of lien, REA Form 224. The closeout form in this section shall be used when required by this part. Waiver and Release of Lien Whereas the undersigned, XXX (name of manufacturer, materialman or subcontractor) has furnished to XXX (name of contractor) the following: XXX (kind of material and services furnished) for use in the construction of a Project belonging to XXX (name of borrower) and designated by the Rural Electrification Administration as XXX (REA project designation). Now, Therefore, the undersigned, XXX (name of manufacturer, materialman or subcontractor) for and in consideration of $ XXX and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt whereof is hereby acknowledged, do(es) hereby waive and release any and all liens, or right to or claim of lien, on the above described project and premises, under any law, common or statutory, on account of labor or materials, or both, heretofore or hereafter furnished by the undersigned to or for the account of said XXX (name of contractor) for said project. Given under my(our) hand(s) and seal(s) this XXX day of XXX , 19 XXX . XXX Name of manufacturer, materialman or subcontractor By XXX President, vice president, partner or owner, or, if signed by other than one of the foregoing, accompanied by power of attorney signed by one of the foregoing in favor of the signer. (Use designation applicable.) [End of clause] ยง1726.325 Certificate of contractor, REA Form 231. The closeout form in this section shall be used when required by this part. Certificate of Contractor XXX certifies that he is the XXX (Title of Office) of XXX (Name of Contractor), the Contractor, in a Construction Contract No. XXX dated XXX , 19 XXX , entered into between the Contractor and XXX (Name of Borrower) the Owner, for the construction of a Project, which bears the Rural Electrification Administration Project Designation XXX and that he is authorized to and does make this certification on behalf of said Contractor in order to induce the Owner to make payment to the Contractor, in accordance with the provisions of said Construction Contract. Undersigned further says that all persons who have furnished labor in connection with said construction have been paid in full, that the names of manufacturers, materialmen and subcontractors that furnished material or services or both in connection with such construction and the kind or kinds of material or services or both so furnished are: Name XXX Kind of Material and Service XXX and that the releases of liens executed by all such manufacturers, materialmen and subcontractors have been furnished the Owner. Date XXX Signature XXX [End of clause]
