FR940513-0-00105 FR940513-0-00029 C. Bidding Procedures 17. Sequencing. We must choose the sequence in which IVDS licenses will be auctioned. We believe that, in general, the higher valued IVDS licenses should be auctioned first: the cost to the public from delaying licensing increases with the value of the license, and, to the limited extent that aggregation of license is important, auctioning the higher valued licenses first facilities it. 31 In determining the sequence for auctioning IVDS licenses we are persuaded by EON's argument that the IVDS is a television-driven service and that the licenses should therefore be auctioned in a manner consistent with the geographic areas defined by ``Areas of Dominant Influence'' (ADIs), 32 rather than by numerical order of service area. EON and ICC also commented generally that licenses for the more densely populated IVDS service areas should be auctioned prior to the other areas. 33 Therefore, we will auction licenses in ADI order, starting with the lowest numbered ADI (having the highest population) and proceeding in numerical order. 34 Prior to starting the auction process, we will issue a Public Notice listing the pertinent ADIs, and the order in which licenses for the corresponding service areas will be auctioned (by open outcry) in each ADI. We anticipate that we will hold sealed bid auctions for licenses in rural areas as soon as practicable after auctioning the more populated areas. For the rural areas, licenses on frequency segment B will be auctioned first, and then a separate sealed bid auction will be held for licenses on frequency segment A. 31 Second Report and Order at ¶¶117&hyph;120. We have noted, ``Knowing who has won [the] large markets is likely to be more important for bidding decisions about small markets than the converse.'' Id. at ¶119. 32 This standard market definition, developed by Arbitron Ratings Company, places each county in the continental U.S. within one of 210 ADIs. 33 EON ex parte filing of Jan. 26, 1994, at 2, 4; ICC comment 34 The majority of ADIs comprise a number of MSAs. See generally note 5, supra . We will auction the lowest numbered service area in the ADI first, also auction the remaining service areas (MSAs) that make up the ADIs for the 9 markets that were lotteried. See id. 18. Bid Increments. In a multiple round auction, a bid increment is the amount or percentage by which a bid must be raised above the previous round's high bid in order to be accepted as a valid bid in the current round of bidding. For IVDS auctions, the Commission, including the auctioneer, retains the discretion to impose bid increments before or during the auction. 35 35 See generally id. at ¶126. IV. Procedural Payment and Penalty Issues A. Pre-Auction Application Procedures 19. The Second Report and Order established general rules and procedures for participating in auctions. Again, however, we noted that these might be modified on a service-specific basis. As described below, we have determined that we will follow the procedural, payment, and penalty rules established in the Second Report and Order, with certain minor modifications to fit the IVDS. Certain procedural details will be supplied later by Public Notice(s). Our objective has been to design rules and procedures that will reduce administrative burdens and costs on bidders and the Commission, ensure that bidders and licensees are qualified and able to construct their systems, and minimize the potential for delay of service to the public. 20. We will require applicants to follow the application filing and processing rules outlined in the Second Report and Order. 36 Before each scheduled IVDS auction the Commission, or, pursuant to delegated authority, the Private Radio Bureau, will release Public Notices concerning the auction. The Public Notices will specify the license(s) to be auctioned and the time, place, and method of competitive bidding to be used, as well as applicable bid submission and payment procedures. A Public Notice will also specify the filing deadline date for short-form applications. 36 Second Report and Order at ¶160&hyph;188. In its comments, RTT sets forth a waiver request and asks that we rule on it in advance of the IVDS auctions. RTT comment at 1&hyph;5. Specifically, RTT requests that the Commission, by declaratory ruling, rule that any IVDS licensee using ``T&hyph;NET'' technology, with a power level greater than that permitted in our rules, will be granted a rule waiver to permit the power level. We will not make the requested ruling at this time. All requests for waiver must be evaluated in the context of a specific system design for avoidance of interference to television reception. This information can be provided when the applicant files a long-form application for license in a particular market. See generally Second Memorandum Opinion and Order in Gen. Docket No. 91&hyph;2, 8 FCC Rcd 2787, 2788 ¶8 (1993).
