FR940713-1-00028 FR940713-1-00001 (i) Actions to be taken when the process is in control . When no trimmable lesions or conditions are found on the 300-bird on-line test, the process is judged in control. (A) Establishment actions . The establishment shall: ( 1 ) Randomly select and record subgroup sampling times for each production unit of time before product reaches the reinspection station on each production line. In no case shall a test represent more than 1 hour of production. ( 2 ) Conduct 300-bird on-line test at random selected time on each poultry slaughter line. Record the test results. If no trimmable lesion/condition is detected, continue the random scheduled time 300-bird on-line testing. (B) Inspector actions . The inspector shall: ( 1 ) Select random times for 300-bird on-line tests for a minimum of each half-shift on each evisceration line. In establishments that have multiple evisceration lines on a production shift, monitor all lines of product at the random times. ( 2 ) Conduct the 300-bird on-line test at random selected time on each poultry slaughter line. Record the test results. If no trimmable lesion/condition is detected, conduct the next 300-bird on-line test at random scheduled time. ( 3 ) If either establishment or inspection monitoring finds a trimmable lesion/condition during a 300-bird on-line test, the process is judged out of control. (ii) Actions to be taken when the process is out of control . When any trimmable lesions or conditions are found on the 300-bird on-line test, the process is judged out of control. (A) Establishment actions . The establishment shall: ( 1 ) Immediately identify subsequent product for rework. ( 2 ) Immediately notify the inspector in charge of trimmable lesion/condition. ( 3 ) Record specific process corrective actions taken for the trimmable lesion/condition category on the test sheet. ( 4 ) Suspend random time testing for the trimmable lesion/condition category. ( 5 ) Conduct additional 300-bird on-line tests after the final wash to determine the adequacy of process corrective actions. ( 6 ) After a 300-bird on-line test is free of any trimmable lesion/condition: ( i ) Identify product that will mark the end of the rework action. ( ii ) Resume random time 300-bird on-line testing as set forth in actions to be taken when the process is in control. (B) Inspector actions . The inspector shall monitor product and the effectiveness of process corrective actions by making spot-check observations to ensure that all program requirements are met. (iii) Off-line rework of product . (A) When the product has been identified as having been produced when the process was not in control, off-line product corrective actions must take place. All corrective actions such as identifying affected product, segregating product, and maintaining control through rework actions are the establishment's responsibility. (B) The inspector shall spot check the establishment's identification, segregation, and control of reworked product to ensure that program requirements are met. If the establishment fails in its responsibilities, the inspector shall identify, segregate, and retain affected product to prevent adulterated product from reaching consumers. (C) Reworked product must be tested by the establishment with a randomly selected subgroup test of the accumulated reworked lot. Before product is released, the subgroup test must be free of any trimmable lesion/condition. If the subgroup test of the reworked lot detects a trimmable lesion/condition, the lot must be reworked again before another subgroup test is conducted. The following actions are required. ( 1 ) Establishment actions . The establishment shall: ( i ) Select a subgroup sample from throughout the lot only after the total lot has been reworked. ( ii ) Conduct the rework subgroup test. ( iii ) Release the lot if no trimmable lesion/condition is found in the reworked lot. ( iv ) Identify and control the lot to be reworked again if any trimmable lesion/condition is found in the reworked lot. ( 2 ) Inspector actions . The inspector shall monitor product and the effectiveness of process corrective actions by making spot-check observations to ensure that all program requirements are met.
