FR940503-2-00141 FR940503-2-00095 UNITED STATES INFORMATION AGENCY American Studies Fellowships for Scholars From Eastern Europe and the Newly Independent States AGENCY: United States Information Agency. ACTION: Notice_request for proposals. SUMMARY: Prospective grantee will provide approximately twelve research fellowships for scholars from Eastern Europe and the Newly Independent States (NIS) to pursue research in American studies in U.S. universities and research institutions in the academic year 1995&hyph;1996. Participants should be teaching at the university level in humanities and social science fields of American studies, broadly defined, such as American history, law, demography, literature, sociology, or political science. Grantee is responsible for publicizing the program abroad, selecting the participants, and placing them in appropriate U.S. institutions. Grantee is also responsible for all administrative arrangements, for program evaluation, and for establishing procedures for follow-up after participants return to their home institutions. DATES: Deadline for proposals: All copies must be received at the U.S. Information Agency by 5 p.m. Washington, DC time, on Friday, June 10, 1994. Faxed documents will not be accepted, nor will documents postmarked on June 10, 1994, but received at a later date. It is the responsibility of each grant applicant to ensure that the proposals are received by the above deadline. Grants should begin on or about August 15, 1994. ADDRESSES: The original and 14 copies of the completed application, including required forms, should be submitted by the deadline to: U.S. Information Agency, Reference: E/AA&hyph;94&hyph;3, Grants Management Staff, E/XE, room 336, 301 4th Street, SW., Washington, DC 20547. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Interested organizations/institutions should contact Gretchen Christison at U.S. Information Agency, 301 4th St. SW., Study of the U.S. Branch, E/AAS room 256, (202) 619&hyph;4557 to request detailed application packets, which include award criteria additional to this announcement, all necessary forms, and guidelines for preparing proposals, including specific budget preparation information. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Pursuant to the Bureau's authorizing legislation, programs must maintain a non-political character, and should be balanced and representative of the diversity of American political, social, and cultural life. Overview The program seeks to increase the quality and amount of teaching in Eastern European and NIS countries about the United States through guided curricular research. The program will provide fellowships for approximately twelve qualified Eastern European and NIS scholars to update and enhance their knowledge of their American studies fields. Guidelines The program is designed for Eastern European and NIS scholars who are teaching at the university level in humanities and social science fields of American studies, broadly defined, such as American history, law, demography, literature, sociology, or political science. Participants should be chosen through a public, open competition which includes U.S. professional peer review for the final selection of participants. Selections should be made and announced in reasonable time for applicants to make plans for absence from their countries and to undertake departure formalities. USIA (E/AAS) and all posts in countries from which scholars are selected should be informed of the final selection. Proposals should demonstrate extensive contacts with and knowledge of Eastern European and NIS universities to ensure that the best possible candidates are recruited and selected. Fellowships should be six to twelve months in duration. Family members may accompany recipients for part of the grant period, but not for a period exceeding six months. The fellowships provide for all costs of the recipients and accompanying dependents, with due account being taken of any continuing university salary transferable into U.S. dollars that recipients might be receiving. Grantee will arrange appropriate placement in U.S. universities and research institutions for participants. To the extent possible, waivers of tuition fees should be procured.
