FR940207-2-00062 FR940207-2-00028 Response: Although specific rate impact analyses were not performed, Western and Reclamation have placed a priority on cost containment. The formation of Western's Cost Containment Committee takes into consideration all impacts to the rates. Cost containment plays a major role in the preparation of Western's and Reclamation's O&M budgets. Western has invited the customers into the planning process, which will evaluate programs and rate impacts. Comment: Power Accounting and Collection, Conservation and Renewable Energy, and Power Marketing and General Resource Planning has increased 39.6 percent from FY 1991 and FY 1992. Total O&M increased 38.0 percent from FY 1991 to FY 1992. The magnitude of projected expenditures for O&M on an average annual basis exceeded the rate of inflation by 4.1 percent per year. Comment: P&hyph;DP O&M expenses have run counter to the regional and local trends and forecasts for electric utilities. The cost projections for replacements and additions for the 5-year rate evaluation programs and the study period appear to be singular in the industry from the standpoint of magnitude. Since the late 1980's, the trend in the Pacific and Rocky Mountain Southwest has been to keep O&M expenses and replacement cost increases below the rate of inflation. Response: Western has revised the PRS to reflect actual expenditures in FY 1992. Power Accounting and Collection, Conservation and Renewable Energy, and Power Marketing and General Resource Planning have increased 5.00 percent from FY 1991 to FY 1992. One contributing factor to the increased O&M is that the consolidation of the Boulder City Area Office and the Phoenix District Office was made during FY 1991, having an effect on staffing levels and work being performed. Specific division (e.g., power marketing) activities were put off until the division could acquire staff. The average increase of O&M cost per year over the cost evaluation period is 1.46 percent, which is below the rate of inflation. Comment: Western has failed to explain why administrative and general costs increased dramatically following the move of its regional office to Phoenix and the consolidation of its other offices, particularly since WAPA claimed that these changes would reduce costs by $1.5 million annually. Response: Western's administrative and general costs have not dramatically increased since moving the regional office to Phoenix and consolidating other offices. According to Western's FY 1992 financial statement, the general Western allocation portion for the Phoenix Area has actually decreased from $2.6 million in FY 1991 to $2.2 million in FY 1992, which represents a decrease of 15 percent. The Phoenix Area's AGE also decreased from $1.5 million in FY 1991 to $1.3 million in FY 1992, which represents a decrease of 13 percent. Western had estimated an overall savings of $1.5 million annually. However, the consolidation was not completed until FY 1992. Western believes the full recognition of savings from the consolidation has not yet become evident. Alternative Transmission Rates Comment: Customers renew their support for the alternative transmission rates. Comment: Customers do not support the alternative transmission rates because of subsidizing and project repayment issues. Each transmission project should be planned, designed, and operated on its own merit. Response: Since Western and the customers agreed not to recommend implementation of the alternative transmission service rates, Western plans to implement separate P&hyph;DP and AC Intertie rates for firm transmission service and nonfirm transmission service. Comment: Western should conduct further studies to determine the feasibility of complete operational integration of the various transmission facilities in the Phoenix Area. Response: Operationally, PAO's power systems are integrated. Power marketing functions will continue to be performed separately for each individual project. Western will continue to work with the customers in conducting studies and evaluating other alternatives for developing a single transmission rate for the various projects within the PAO. Apportionment of Cost Study Comment: The cost allocation review of historic Western O&M expenses shows no dollars being charged against the power function on an actual basis, which is inconsistent with the facts.
