FR940223-2-00144 FR940223-2-00089 2. All means test data downloaded from DHCP (Decentralized Hospital Computer Program) files as well as all incoming Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and Social Security Administration (SSA) tapes are received directly by the IVM ADP Division. The IRS and SSA tapes are placed into the IVM vault until the data is required for matching, at which time it is loaded on the IVM Computer System. Once the tapes are read-in, they are returned to the vault. Federal tax data is not co-mingled with or transcribed into data maintained on the IVM Computer System. The data will reside within its own area of the computer system. Federal tax data must be protected according to the provisions of section 6103(p) of the Internal Revenue Code (Title 26, U.S.C.). It is mandatory that IVM employees review the IRS security awareness tapes and VA computer security tapes on a yearly basis. 3. The IVM Computer System supplies security access levels for all areas within the IVM Software Module. Security access levels are maintained not only on the IRS and SSA data elements themselves, but on initial access to the system (log-on procedures), menu options available, automatic shut-down when the system has not had a response in a predetermined period of time, etc. Access to the computer system is controlled by access and verify codes assigned by the IVM ADP Security Officer. The entire procedure is outlined in the IVM ADP Security Policy. 4. The office space occupied by the IVM ADP Division is in a secured area with only one access door. The door has been equipped with a punch-combination lock and an electronic card entry system. The card entry system logs every entrance and exit to the IVM space. The entry system log is programmed to provide a screen display of employees located in the IVM space as well as capturing entry and exit activity in a report format for any given period of time. 5. There are no field offices that will be receiving tax return information from IVM. Retention and Disposal: Paper records and information stored on electronic storage media are maintained and disposed of in accordance with records disposition authority approved by the Archivist of the United States. After the data on each IRS and SSA tape has been validated as being a true copy of the original data, the tapes are held in the vault for thirty (30) days prior to destruction, either by degaussing or shredding. Any printed reports will be shredded prior to disposal. System managers(s) and address: Official responsible for policies and procedures: Director, Administrative Services Office (161), VA Central Office, 810 Vermont Avenue, NW, Washington, DC 20420. Officials maintaining the system: Director, IVM Center, 1842 Clairmont Road, Decatur, Georgia 30033. Notification procedure An individual who wishes to determine whether a record is being maintained in this system under his or her name or other personal identifier, or wants to determine the contents of such record, should submit a written request or apply in person to the IVM Center. All inquiries must reasonably identify the records requested. Inquiries should include the individual's full name, social security number and return address. Record access procedures: Individuals seeking information regarding access to and contesting of IVM records may write to the IVM Center. Contesting record procedures: (See Record Access Procedures above.) Record source categories: The patient, the patient's spouse, family members or accredited representative(s), and friends, employers and other payers of earned income, financial institutions and other payers of unearned income, other Federal Agencies, and the ``Patient Medical Records_VA'' (24 VA 136) system of records, Veterans Benefits Administration Target System (BINQ, HINQ, etc.). [FR Doc. 94&hyph;3942 Filed 2&hyph;22&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8320&hyph;01&hyph;M
