FR940118-2-00134 FR940118-2-00079 Federal Register ␣/␣Vol. 59, No. 11␣/␣Tuesday, January 18, 1994␣/␣Notices DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT Office of the Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development [Docket No. N&hyph;94&hyph;3704; FR&hyph;3594&hyph;N&hyph;01] Notice Inviting Applications for Designation of Empowerment Zones and Enterprise Communities AGENCY: Office of the Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development, HUD. ACTION: Notice inviting applications. SUMMARY: This Notice invites applications from States and local governments nominating urban areas for designation as Empowerment Zones or Enterprise Communities, as those terms are defined in this Notice and in an interim rule published elsewhere in today's Federal Register . The interim rule provides the guidance on contents of the applications. DATES: Application due date: Applications may be submitted at any time after February 17, 1994. The deadline for receipt of an application 4 p.m. Eastern Time on June 30, 1994. Applications received after that date will not be considered. ADDRESSES: Applications may be obtained from CPD personnel in any HUD Field Office listed in the appendix to this Notice, or by telephoning (202) 708&hyph;0784. (This is not a toll-free number.) Applications must be sent to: U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, Office of Community Planning and Development, EZ/EC Team, room 7255, 451 Seventh Street SW., Washington, DC 20410. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Michael T. Savage, Deputy Director, Office of Economic Development, room 7136, Department of Housing and Urban Development, 451 Seventh Street SW., Washington, DC 20410, telephone (202) 708&hyph;2290; TDD (202) 708&hyph;2565. (These are not toll-free numbers.) SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Paperwork Reduction Act The reader should refer to the interim rule, published elsewhere in today's Federal Register , for information on the information collection requirements of the rule and this notice. I. Background At the core of President Clinton's economic proposals to Congress and to the American people is the need to empower America's distressed communities. His Empowerment Zone proposal represents a new approach to the problems of distressed communities. It uses a bottom-up community based strategy rather than a top-down bureaucratic approach. It is a strategy to empower residents and all sections of a community to come together to create jobs and opportunities. Title XIII of the Omnibus Reconciliation Act of 1993, enacted to implement the President's vision, authorizes the Secretary of the Department of Housing and Urban Development to designate up to six Empowerment Zones and up to 65 Enterprise Communities in urban areas and the Secretary of the Department of Agriculture to designate up to three Empowerment Zones and up to 30 Enterprise Communities in rural areas. (Unless otherwise noted, all references in this Notice to Empowerment Zones also include Enterprise Communities.) This Notice invites applications from State and local governments for the purpose of nominating urban areas to be designated as Empowerment Zones. The program is intended to combine the resources of the Federal government with those of State and local governments, educational institutions, and the private and non-profit sectors to implement the Strategic Plan. The Federal government will take steps to coordinate Federal assistance in support of the Zones, including expedited processing, priority funding, and working to overcome programmatic regulatory and statutory impediments. To that end, a Presidential Directive has been issued that creates a Community Enterprise Board headed by Vice President Gore to carry out these responsibilities. II. Eligibility The statute specifies certain criteria that must apply in order for an area to be eligible for Empowerment Zone designation, including geographic size, population, poverty rate by census tract (or where an area is not tracted, generally in rural areas, by the equivalent of census tracts_block numbering areas), pervasive poverty, unemployment, and general distress of the area. The details of these requirements are described in the interim rule governing the program, published elsewhere in today's Federal Register . This information must be provided in the application. HUD will accept certifications of the data, subject to verification if an application is selected for designation. III. Designation Factors The statute specifies three factors to be considered by the Secretary in designating Empowerment Zones: (1) The effectiveness of the Strategic Plan; (2) the effectiveness of the assurances provided in support of the Plan; and (3) other criteria to be specified by the Secretary. Each of these factors is discussed in greater detail in the interim rule. (The Strategic Plan is described in the interim rule at 24 CFR 597.200.)
