FR941117-0-00053 FR941117-0-00010 DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION Federal Highway Administration 49 CFR Part 391 [FHWA Docket No. MC&hyph;91&hyph;1] Qualification of Drivers; Vision Deficiencies; Waivers AGENCY: Federal Highway Administration (FHWA), DOT. ACTION: Notice of Final Determination and change in research plan. SUMMARY: The FHWA announces its Final Determination which validates waivers issued to certain drivers of commercial motor vehicles (CMV) from the date of this notice until March 31, 1996. This action is directed solely at those drivers who had been granted temporary waivers to participate in the previously authorized vision waiver study, who numbered 2,399 as of November 5, 1994. This action follows, and is consistent with, the decision of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit in the case captioned Advocates for Highway and Auto Safety v. Federal Highway Administration, 28 F.3d 1288, D.C. Cir. 1994, which vacated the rule authorizing the temporary waivers and remanded the matter to the agency for further action not inconsistent with the Court's ruling. This notice also announces a basic change in the purpose for which data on the waived drivers are being collected and the intention of the FHWA to develop criteria for the imposition of additional conditions for maintaining the waivers and to improve monitoring of the performance of the waived drivers to identify and exclude those drivers who do not meet these conditions. DATES: This final determination is effective on November 8, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: The FHWA has established a special telephone number to receive inquiries regarding this notice. The number is 1&hyph;800&hyph;832&hyph;5660. Office hours are from 7:45 a.m. to 4:15 p.m., e.t., Monday through Friday, except legal Federal holidays. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Section 206(f) of the Motor Carrier Safety Act of 1984, (MCSA) Pub. L. No. 98&hyph;554, 98 Stat. 2832 (codified at 49 U.S.C. 31136(e), formerly 49 U.S.C. app. 2505(f)), allows the Secretary of Transportation to grant waivers from the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Regulations only after a determination that such waivers are not contrary to the public interest and are consistent with the safe operation of CMVs. Historically, except for a limb-handicap waiver program established in 1979 (49 CFR 391.49), the agency granted no individual waivers to drivers who did not meet the physical qualification requirements set forth at 49 CFR 391.41. Vision Waiver Study The FHWA announced its vision waiver study in a Notice of Intent to accept applications for waivers on March 25, 1992, (57 FR 10295). This vision waiver study was initiated as part of an overall regulatory review of the medical qualification standards applicable to interstate CMV drivers. For a complete description of the waiver program, see the FHWA's October 6, 1994, Notice of Determination; request for comments, at 59 FR 50887. Court Decision The Advocates for Highway and Auto Safety (hereinafter Advocates or AHAS) filed suit in the United States Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit, requesting a review of the FHWA's notice of final disposition granting waivers to individuals who otherwise did not meet the Federal vision standard required for the qualification of CMV drivers in interstate commerce. The Court found that the FHWA's notices of the program did provide for meaningful opportunity for comment and that the comments received were given due consideration. The Court also held that the FHWA's approach, given the conflicting policy demands, was reasonable, and therefore not arbitrary and capricious. The Court observed, however, that the FHWA ``initiated a program to issue temporary waivers to visually impaired drivers in order to procure the hard evidence needed to determine the effect of visual deficiencies on safety. Yet, before it may grant a waiver, the Safety Act required the agency to determine that such waiver *␣*␣* is consistent with the safe operation of commercial motor vehicles.'' 28 F.3d at 1294. The Court found that the agency's ``determination that the waiver program will not adversely affect the safe operation of CMVs is devoid of empirical support in the record,'' 28 F.3d at 1294, and that ``the FHWA has failed to meet the exacting requirements of section 2505(f) [now 49 U.S.C. 31136(e)].'' 28 F.3d at 1294. Consequently, the Court concluded that the FHWA's adoption of the waiver program was contrary to law, and vacated and remanded the rule to the agency. Proceedings after the Court Decision On October 6, 1994, the FHWA published a Notice of Determination, request for comments in the Federal Register (59 FR 50887), extending the validity of the vision waivers for a thirty-day period. The Notice also provided for a 15-day comment period to consider whether the agency had sufficient empirical evidence to allow the waiver program to continue until March 31, 1996. On the same day, the Advocates filed an emergency motion requesting that the Court issue and enforce a mandate in this case that would, in effect, halt the waiver program. The Court issued a mandate on October 21, 1994. That mandate simply restated that the rule authorizing the vision waivers is vacated and remanded the case to the agency. On October 24, 1994, the Court denied the Advocates' emergency motion. Comments The FHWA received 19 comments to the docket in response to the October 6 Notice of Determination. Fourteen commenters favored continuing the vision waiver program, while five commenters asserted that the program should be discontinued. Commenters in favor of continuing the program include the National Private Truck Council, the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, the Association for the Advancement of Automotive Medicine, the Tennessee Public Service Commission, the Owner-Operator Independent Drivers Association (OOIDA), John Murphy (a driver participating in the waiver program), Thomas Breth and James Strickland (drivers not participating in the waiver program), Altim, Inc., Mixson Oil Company, the State of Indiana Department of Motor Vehicles, Daily Express, Inc., and the American Optometric Association. Commenters urging the agency to discontinue the vision waivers are the Advocates (two separate comments), the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety (IIHS), the American Movers Conference, the American Trucking Association (ATA), and Dr. Arthur M. Keeney, Dean Emeritus, University of Louisville. Their comments addressed the study design, the lack of a control group, the use of interim data, and other factors which, they contend, require the study's termination, or at a minimum, a restructuring of the method for conducting research. These comments are more fully discussed below.
