FR940930-2-00064 FR940930-2-00035 2. Provide scientific collaboration for appropriate aspects of the program, including selection of speakers, pertinent scientific information on risk factors for HIV infection, preventive measures, and program strategies for the prevention of HIV infection. 3. Review draft agendas and approve the final agenda and proposed ancillary activities prior to release of restricted funds. 4. Assist in the reporting and dissemination of research results and relevant HIV prevention education and training information to appropriate Federal, State, and local agencies, health-care providers, the scientific community, and HIV/AIDS prevention and service organizations, and the general public. C. Letter of Intent Potential applicants must submit a one-page, typewritten letter of intent (LOI) that briefly describes the title, location, and purpose of the meeting, its relationship to the CDC Funding Priorities (see the section Funding Priorities), the date of the proposed conference, and the intended audience (number and description). No attachments, booklets, or other documents accompanying the LOI will be considered. The letter should also include the estimated total cost of the conference and the percentage of the total cost (which must be less than 100%) being requested from CDC. Current recipients of CDC HIV funding must provide the award number and title of the funded program. LOIs will be reviewed by CDC program staff, and an invitation to submit a final application will be made based on the proposed conference's relationship to the CDC Funding Priorities and the availability of funds. An invitation to submit an application does not constitute a commitment by CDC to fund the applicant. Note: To provide for adequate time to collaborate on the meeting agenda and content, applicants should allow a minimum of 3 months from the scheduled application due date to the planned date of the conference. (See the section Letter of Intent and Application Submission and Deadline.) Meetings which are scheduled to begin earlier than April 1, 1995, would not be routinely considered for funding. Evaluation Criteria LOIs will be reviewed by CDC program staff for consistency with CDC's HIV prevention goals and priorities and the purpose of this program. An invitation to submit a final application will be made on the basis of the proposed conference's relationship to the CDC topics of special interest, the timing of the meeting or conference that would allow for CDC input, and on the availability of funds. Applications will be reviewed and evaluated according to the following criteria (TOTAL POINTS AVAILABLE IS 100): A. Proposed Program and Technical Approach: (50 Points) Evaluation will be based on: 1. The applicant's description of the proposed conference as it relates to HIV prevention and education, including the public health need of the proposed conference and the degree to which the conference can be expected to influence public health practices, and the extent of the applicant's collaboration with other agencies serving the intended audience, including local health and education agencies concerned with HIV prevention. 2. The applicant's description of conference objectives in terms of quality and specificity and the feasibility of the conference based on the operational plan, and the extent to which evaluation mechanisms for the conference will be able to adequately assess increased knowledge, attitudes, and behaviors of the target attenders. 3. The quality of the proposed agenda in addressing the chosen HIV prevention/education topic. 4. The degree to which conference activities proposed for CDC funding strictly adhere to the prevention of HIV transmission. B. APPLICANT CAPABILITY: (25 Points) Evaluation will be based on: 1. The adequacy and commitment of institutional resources to administer the program.
