FR940526-1-00014 FR940526-1-00007 On August 16, 1982, the Secretary of the Interior conditionally approved the Ohio program. Background information on the Ohio program, including the Secretary's findings, the disposition of comments, and the conditions of approval can be found in the August 10, 1982, Federal Register (47 FR 34688). Subsequent actions concerning the conditions of approval and program amendments can be found at 30 CFR 935.11, 935.12, 935.15, and 935.16. II. Description of the Proposed Amendment By letter dated May 17, 1994 (Administrative Record No. OH&hyph;2017), the Ohio Department of Natural Resources, Division of Reclamation (Ohio), submitted proposed Program Amendment Number 67. In this amendment, Ohio proposes to revise one rule at Ohio Administrative Code (OAC) section 1501:13&hyph;9&hyph;17 to make the Ohio program as effective as the corresponding Federal regulations concerning postmining land uses. The specific rule revisions proposed by Ohio in this amendment are briefly described below. 1. Postmining land use categories: Ohio is revising paragraphs (C)(1) through (C)(11) to clarify the titles of the eleven approved postmining land use categories. 2. Mining prior to April 10, 1972: Ohio is revising paragraph (B)(1) to clarify that the postmining land use for land that was mined pursuant to a license issued prior to April 10, 1972, shall be judged on the basis of the highest and best use that can be achieved which is compatible with surrounding areas and does not require the disturbance of areas previously unaffected by mining. 3. Comparison of postmining and premining land uses: Ohio is deleting the existing requirement in paragraph (B)(2) that, if the premining land use was changed within five years of the beginning of mining, the postmining land use shall be compared to the historic use of the land as well as its use immediately before mining. 4. Undeveloped land use: Ohio is adding a new requirement in paragraph (B)(2) that land may be returned to the undeveloped postmining land use category only if the land was categorized as undeveloped prior to mining. Ohio is revising paragraph (C) to require that all proposed changes of land use, including changes from undeveloped land to forestland or fish and wildlife habitat, shall be considered an alternative land use change subject to approval by the Chief of the Ohio Department of Natural Resources, Division of Reclamation (the Chief). Ohio is deleting the existing requirement in paragraph (D)(8) that plans to change the postmining land use to undeveloped land from some other land use category must treat the land as if the postmining land use were in the forestland/fish and wildlife habitat category. 5. Forestland and Fish and Wildlife Habitat: Ohio is revising paragraphs (C)(9) and (C)(10) to clarify that ``forestland'' and ``fish and wildlife habitat'' are distinct postmining land uses. The ``forest'' category includes land used for commercial or noncommercial production of wood or wood products. 6. Agency review of postmining land uses: Ohio is deleting the existing requirement in paragraph (D)(1) that requests for alternative postmining land use must contain a written statement of views from the authorities having statutory responsibilities for land use policies and plans. Ohio is also deleting the requirement in paragraph (D)(1) that the operator must obtain any required approval of the final land use from local, State, or Federal land management agencies, including any necessary zoning or other required changes. Ohio is revising paragraph (D)(6) to clarify that, for approval by the Chief, proposed alternative postmining land uses must identify measures to prevent or mitigate adverse effects on fish and wildlife and on threatened or endangered plants or animals or their critical habitats and must demonstrate that an opportunity to comment has been provided in accordance with OAC section 1501:13&hyph;9&hyph;11 to appropriate State and Federal fish and wildlife management agencies. Ohio is deleting the existing requirement in paragraph (D)(9) that alternative postmining land use plans must demonstrate that the operator has provided written notice of the proposed land use to appropriate State and Federal agencies with instructions for those agencies to provide any comments on the proposed land use to the Chief. 7. Design of postmining land use plans by an engineer: Ohio is deleting the existing requirement at paragraph (D)(2) that postmining land use plans must be designed under the general supervision of a registered engineer or other appropriate professional. III. Public Comment Procedures In accordance with the provisions of 30 CFR 732.17(h), OSM is now seeking comment on whether the amendment proposed by Ohio satisfies the applicable program approval criteria of 30 CFR 732.15. If the amendment is deemed adequate, it will become part of the Ohio program.
