FR941202-0-00071 FR941202-0-00010 (2) Annual compliance costs as a percent of sales are at least 20 percent (percentage points) higher for small entities; or (3) Capital cost of compliance represents a significant portion of capital available to small entities; or (4) The requirements of the regulation are likely to result in closures of small entities. A ``substantial number'' of small entities is generally considered to be more than 20 percent of the small entities in the affected industry. Since the economic analysis deals only with small entities (in this case, facilities), it is also an initial RFA, and conclusions about the impacts on small entities can be drawn from what was done there already. Each of the criteria for significant impacts will be considered in turn. The largest increase in total cost of production from increased emission control is 0.61 percent (SIC 359_ Industrial Machinery, n.e.c.). This figure is well below the significant-impact threshold of five percent. Assessing the differential impacts, measured by a comparison of compliance costs as a percent of sales for small and large entities, is more difficult as large model facilities were not analyzed in the economic impact analysis. Treatment of this small business impacts criterion involves creating two large model facilities. It is assumed that large facilities use large solvent cleaning machines, then compliance costs for large cleaning machines are negative, and are thus savings. To be conservative, it is assumed here that large model facilities possess five very large solvent cleaning machines, so that a ``maximum savings'' case is modelled. This case is important as it models the maximum cost differential between large and small facilities. Large model facilities were created for SICs 359 (Industrial Machinery, n.e.c.) and 254 (Partitions and Fixtures). SIC 359 was chosen because the small model facilities in this group experience the highest cost absorption impacts when compared with other small model facilities. SIC 254 was used because it had the smallest average per-facility revenue of facilities with greater than 100 employees. Thus, if they incur the same absolute savings as other large facilities, their relative percentage savings will be the highest, and they will experience the greatest cost savings in percentage terms as a result of the standard. The cost differentials are in no case larger than one percentage point. Thus, by this criterion, small business impacts are not deemed significant. The third criterion focuses on the amount of capital available to small businesses or facilities. Since the capital costs incurred as a result of investment in control equipment needed for small businesses to meet the standard was less than 10 percent of the businesses' total assets in all 39 affected SIC codes, it was concluded that the total assets of small facilities will not be so adversely affected as to prohibit the procurement of outside financing. (Examining an increase in capital costs as a percentage of total assets is a measure of the ability of a firm or facility to meet this capital costs increase.) The conclusion, then, is that lack of available capital will not be an obstacle for small facilities in complying with the regulation. Criterion number four stipulates that small business impacts are significant if compliance leads to closure. The only implication of closure in the economic impact analysis is found in the section on earnings impacts. Here it was found that, under worst-case assumptions, closures might occur in only two SIC codes, 254 and 259 (Miscellaneous Furniture and Fixtures), given their low rate of profitability in the baseline. If this indeed occurs, the question of whether or not these closures make up a substantial portion of small entities must be addressed. The actual number of impacted facilities in the 39 impacted SICs is unknown. If it can be assumed that each SIC is impacted in the same proportion, a proxy for the share of impacted facilities represented by SIC codes 254 and 259 is the total number of facilities in these SIC codes as a share of the total number of potentially impacted firms. SIC codes 254 and 259 hold a combined total 3,194 small facilities. This makes up 3.4 percent of the total 93,121 small facilities in all 39 SIC codes. Thus, in the extreme case that some closures result, the number of closures is estimated to be far less than the amount required to impact a substantial number of facilities. In conclusion, and pursuant to section 605(b) of the Regulatory Flexibility Act, 5 U.S.C. 605(b), the Administrator certifies that this rule will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. The basis for the certification is that the economic impacts for small entities do not meet or exceed the four criteria in the Guidelines to the Regulatory Flexibility Act of 1980, as shown above. Further information on the initial RFA is available in the background information package (see Background Information Document section near the beginning of this preamble). List of Subjects in 40 CFR Parts 9 and 63 Environmental Protection, Air pollution control, Hazardous substances, Halogenated solvent cleaning machines, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. Dated: November 15, 1994. Carol M. Browner, Administrator.
