FR940204-0-00060 FR940204-0-00021 In the 1870s, limestone quarries began operating in the Bonny Doon area of the Santa Cruz Mountains, as well as in other locations around the county (Caughman and Ginsberg 1987). In more recent years, sand quarrying replaced limestone mining as a viable economic activity. At least half of the habitat occupied by Chorizanthe pungens var. hartwegiana is on property owned by sand and gravel companies. Operations at a number of quarries, including Kaiser 1 and 2, Olympia, and Quail Hollow, have already extirpated populations of Erysimum teretifolium (Randall Morgan, botanist, Soquel, California, pers. comm., 1990). Expanded operations are currently proposed for Quail Hollow Quarry (John Gilchrist and Associates 1990, Strelow 1993). One parcel (Quail Hollow Ranch), which was recently acquired by Santa Cruz County and the State of California, supports a large population of Chorizanthe pungens var. hartwegiana , as well as other unique species of the sandhill parklands habitat. Management plans for Quail Hollow Ranch are under development by Santa Cruz County, hence proposed recreational facilities may affect populations of both C. pungens var. hartwegiana and E. teretifolium (County of Santa Cruz 1990). Another parcel owned by the San Lorenzo Valley Water District also supports several of the unique elements of the Ben Lomond sandhills habitat, including Chorizanthe pungens var. hartwegiana . This parcel was badly damaged by off-road vehicles despite efforts to fence off the area by the District. Small populations of C. pungens var. hartwegiana are also known to occur at the Bonny Doon Ecological Preserve, managed by The Nature Conservancy, and at Big Basin and Henry Cowell State Parks. These parks, however, have not yet developed management plans for C. pungens var. hartwegiana . The remaining coastal dune and coastal scrub habitats that support Chorizanthe pungens var. pungens were affected by industrial and residential development, recreational use, and dune stabilization due to the introduction of non-native species. Along the coast of the north side of Monterey Peninsula, human and equestrian use threaten scattered occurrences of Chorizanthe pungens var. pungens , and a development is planned for a parcel owned by the Pebble Beach Corporation (Vern Yadon, retired, Museum of Natural History, Pacific Grove, pers. comm., 1991). Other small scattered occurrences within maritime chaparral habitat may become affected by residential development and by a realignment of Highway 101. Chorizanthe pungens var. pungens was probably extirpated from a number of historical locations in the Salinas Valley, primarily due to conversion of the original grassland and valley oak woodland habitat to agricultural crops. One occurrence at Manzanita County Park near Prunedale currently is not protected. A route realignment proposed for Highway 101 in northern Monterey County could destroy scattered occurrences (R. Morgan, pers. comm., 1991). The Fort Ord Army Base probably supports the largest extant population of Chorizanthe pungens var. pungens . In recent years, road development and construction of an ammunition supply depot on the base eliminated some C. pungens var. pungens habitat, and fragmented the remaining habitat. As mitigation for recent construction, the Department of Defense, with the assistance of the California Native Plant Society, established a series of small preserves, ranging in size from 1 to 15 acres, for the purpose of protecting rare species, including C. pungens var. pungens . The small size of these preserves, however, is not likely to be sufficient to ensure long-term protection for the plant. Just prior to publication of the proposal to list the five taxa under discussion, the Department of Defense announced intentions to close the base at Fort Ord. The impact that base closure will have on C. pungens var. pungens is not known at this time but will largely be determined by the intended uses of the land by the agencies or entities to which the land will be transferred. In southern Santa Cruz County, Chorizanthe pungens var. pungens is known to occur at Sunset and Manresa State Beaches, and within the past few years, scattered occurrences were found as far north as Day Valley (R. Morgan, pers. comm., 1991). Populations at Sunset State Beach possibly were inadvertently affected by trampling and the introduction of non-native species during dune stabilization projects. Populations of Chorizanthe robusta var. robusta in coastal dune and coastal scrub habitats were affected by residential development, recreational use, and the introduction of non-native species. Management plans for Chorizanthe robusta var. robusta at Sunset State Beach are not yet developed. Sunset State Beach has the largest known population, numbering about 5,000 individuals in 1988 (CNDDB 1993). Smaller populations of a few hundred each near Manresa State Beach and on property owned by the city of Santa Cruz are not currently protected. The city will be developing a management plan to manage the property as a ``low impact'' park and intends to protect habitat for the plant (Ken Thomas, City of Santa Cruz, pers. comm., 1993). A patch of 300 individuals of Chorizanthe robusta var. robusta that was reported in 1985 from Manresa State Beach could not be relocated in 1990 (CNDDB 1990). Efforts were started at Sunset State Beach to restore the native dune species by removing the introduced non- native species (Ferreira 1989). If the presence of Chorizanthe robusta var. robusta is taken into consideration in areas targeted for such restoration, impacts to the plant may be avoided. Virtually the entire range of Chorizanthe robusta var. hartwegii occurs on three parcels, all in private ownership. Two parcels, totaling 282 acres, are currently proposed for a residential development and golf course named Glenwood Estates Development (City of Scotts Valley 1989). Surveys indicated that suitable habitat for C. robusta var. hartwegii occupied 12 acres of the 282 acres of the two Glenwood Estates parcels, and 10 percent of this suitable habitat was occupied by the C. robusta var. hartwegii (Habitat Restoration Group 1992). One other 116-acre parcel was planned for residential development, but the ownership was transferred to a software development and marketing firm that intends to establish world headquarters on the site. The firm indicated that the pending expansion of its global headquarters would affect less than 20 percent of the 116-acre parcel (Pat Welch, Borland Corporation, pers. comm., 1993). The firm expressed intention to set aside habitat for C. robusta var. hartwegii , but since no legal protection currently exists for any of the known populations of the plant, C. robusta var. hartwegii is threatened with the direct destruction of a portion of currently occupied habitat and with secondary impacts as discussed under Factor E. Historical and continuing threats to Erysimum teretifolium include the direct removal of habitat by sand quarrying and residential development. Alteration of habitat may also be occurring in the form of increased canopy density within the Ben Lomond sandhills as a result of fire suppression. Currently, the only population that is potentially protected is on the recently acquired Quail Hollow Ranch site; however, development of recreational facilities is proposed for a portion of the ranch (County of Santa Cruz 1990). The suppression of wildfires within the Santa Cruz mountains caused the density of woodland within the pine sandhill community to increase, which in turn may reduce the availability of suitable habitat for the plant (California Native Plant Society 1986).
