FR941110-0-00047 FR941110-0-00016 We said that the selection of a remedy would be based on the nature of the deficiencies or cluster of deficiencies. In the proposed §§488.210 (Action when there is immediate and serious threat) and 488.212 (Action when there is no immediate and serious threat), we set forth rules for the imposition of particular remedies in specified circumstances. Regardless of which remedy or remedies are imposed, each facility that is out of compliance with a program requirement must submit a plan of correction for approval by HCFA or the survey agency, except in the case of deficiencies that HCFA or the State determines to be at a scope and severity level of 1. We said that the choice of remedy, by either HCFA or the State, including the manner in which HCFA or the State uses the scope and severity scales specified in §488.204 (Determination of remedies) would not be subject to review as part of the appeals process. We set forth the proposed severity and scope scale in §488.204 (Determination of remedies). We said that, in order to determine the seriousness of deficiencies, the survey team would apply the following severity and scope scale guides: •Severity scale. The four levels of the severity scale are as follows: _ Level 1. Any deficiency with respect to requirements for long term care facilities that does not meet the criteria for severity levels 2, 3, or 4. _ Level 2. Either a negative outcome or resident rights violation has occurred, or, in the survey team's judgment, the ability of the individual to achieve the highest practicable physical, mental, or psychosocial well-being has been compromised, or both. _ Level 3. Potential physical harm, which could cause serious harm, impairment or death. In the survey team's judgment, there is a recognizable health or safety hazard, which if left unabated, is likely to cause serious harm, impairment or death. _ Level 4. Actual physical harm, which has caused serious impairment or death. Life threatening harm, severe impairment, or death has occurred. •Scope scale. The four levels of the scope scale are as follows: _ Level 1 _Isolated. The survey team might conclude that a deficiency is isolated if its perception is such that, it believed the deficiency to exist only in a very limited number of cases. _ Level 2 _Occasional. The survey team might conclude that a deficiency is occasional if, in its combined judgment, the deficiency is identified in a number of cases, but does not appear to reflect a pattern of facility behavior. _ Level 3 _Pattern. The survey team might conclude that a pattern exists where, in its judgment, there are a sufficient number of repeated observations that it is likely that the deficiency might exist in cases not reviewed by the team. _ Level 4 _Widespread. The survey team might conclude that a deficiency exists in sufficient number that, in its judgment, the deficiency represents a systemic or pervasive practice of the facility. 12. Application of Remedies At §488.210, we proposed that, if a determination has been made that a deficiency would present an immediate and serious threat to resident health or safety, HCFA or the State would take immediate action to appoint a temporary manager to remove the threat, impose other remedies as it determines necessary to bring the facility into full compliance, and/or terminate the facility's participation in the program within 23 calendar days of the last day of survey. If the facility does not accept temporary management, HCFA or the State would immediately terminate the provider agreement within 23 calendar days of the last day of survey. If the facility accepts temporary management but does not remove the immediate and serious threat within 23 calendar days of the appointment of the temporary manager, HCFA or the State would terminate the provider agreement on the 23rd day from that appointment. The 5-calendar day period for providing notice to facilities of termination of a provider agreement as specified in §489.53 (Termination by HCFA) of the regulations would be included within this 23-day period.
