FR940816-1-00074 FR940816-1-00011 1. Legal Amendments of 1982, P.L. 97&hyph;304, made significant changes to the Endangered Species Act (Act) of 1973, as amended (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq. ), including the creation of section 10(j), which provides for the designation of specific populations of listed species as ``experimental populations''. Under previous authorities in the Act, the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (Service) was permitted to reintroduce populations of a listed species into unoccupied portions of its historic range for conservation and recovery purposes. However, local opposition to reintroduction efforts from certain parties concerned about potential restrictions, and prohibitions on Federal and private activities contained in sections 7 and 9 of the Act, reduced the utility of reintroductions as a management tool. Under section 10(j), a reintroduced population of a listed species established outside its current range, but within its historic range may now be designated, at the discretion of the Secretary of the Interior (Secretary), as ``experimental.'' The Act requires that an experimental population be separated geographically from nonexperimental populations of the same species. Furthermore, an experimental population is treated as a threatened species, except that, solely for section 7 purposes (except for subsection (a)(1)), an experimental population determined not to be essential to the continued existence of a species is treated, except when it occurs in an area within the National Wildlife Refuge System or the National Park System, as a species proposed to be listed under section 4 of the Act. Activities undertaken on private lands are not affected by section 7 of the Act unless they are funded, authorized or carried out by a Federal agency. 2. Biological This proposal deals with the gray wolf ( Canis lupus ), an endangered species of carnivore that was extirpated from the western portion of the conterminous United States by about 1930. The gray wolf is native to most of North America north of Mexico City, except for the southeastern United States, which was occupied by a similar species, the red wolf ( Canis rufus ). The gray wolf occupied nearly every area in North America that supported populations of hooved mammals (ungulates), its major food source. Twenty-four distinct subspecies of gray wolf have been recognized in North America. Recently, however, taxonomists have suggested that there are five or fewer subspecies of gray wolf in North America and that the wolves that once occupied the northern Rocky Mountains of the United States belonged to a more widely distributed subspecies than was previously believed. The gray wolf historically occurred in the northern Rocky Mountains, including mountainous portions of Wyoming, Montana, and Idaho. The great reduction in the distribution and abundance of this species in North America was directly related to human activities, especially elimination of native ungulates, conversion of wildland into agricultural lands, and extensive predator control efforts by private, State, and Federal agencies. When most wolves in the conterminous United States were eradicated, the natural history of wolves was poorly understood. As were other large predators, it was considered a nuisance and a threat to humans. Today, the gray wolf's role as an important and necessary part of natural ecosystems is better appreciated. Wolf reproduction was not detected in the Rocky Mountain portion of the United States for a period of about 50 years prior to 1986. At that time, a wolf den was discovered near the Canadian border in Glacier National Park. This event was presumably due to the southern expansion of Canadian wolf populations, and the wolf population in Glacier National Park has steadily expanded to an estimated size of about 65 wolves that now occupy northwestern Montana. Reproducing wolf populations are not known to occur in Idaho or southwestern Montana. Wolves occasionally have been sighted in these States, but they have not established populations as defined by wolf experts (Service 1994). Historical reports suggest wolves may have produced young there several times in the recent past. However, based on extensive surveys and interagency monitoring efforts (Service 1994), no wolf population has persisted in these States. 3. Wolf Recovery Efforts In the 1970s, the state of Montana led an interagency recovery team, established by the Service, that developed a recovery plan for the Northern Rocky Mountain Wolf. That 1980 plan recommended a combination of natural recovery and reintroduction be used to recover wolf populations in the area around Yellowstone National Park (Park) north to the Canadian border, including central Idaho. A revised recovery plan was approved by the Service in 1987 (Service 1987). It identified a recovered wolf population as being at least 10 breeding pairs of wolves, for 3 consecutive years, in each of 3 recovery areas (northwestern Montana, central Idaho and the Yellowstone area). A population of this size would comprise approximately 300 wolves. The plan recommended natural recovery in Montana and Idaho, and using the experimental-population authority of section 10(j) of the Act to quickly reintroduce wolves to Yellowstone National Park and to conduct flexible management to address local concerns about their potential negative impacts. If 2 wolf packs did not become established in central Idaho within 5 years, the plan recommended that conservation measures other than natural recovery be considered.
