FR940302-0-00015 FR940302-0-00005 Criteria: a. Replacing WSR&hyph;88D(s) Commissioning/User Service Confirmation: The replacing WSR&hyph;88D(s) have been commissioned and user confirmation of services has been successfully completed, i.e., all valid user complaints related to actual system performance have been satisfactorily resolved, in accordance with items 1a&hyph;c, p. B&hyph;10 of Appendix B of the Plan. b. Operation Not Dependent on Existing Radar: The outdated radar is not required for service coverage, in accordance with items 2a&hyph;c, p. B&hyph;11 of Appendix B of the Plan. c. Notification of Users: Adequate notification of users has been provided, in accordance with items 3a&hyph;f, pp. B&hyph;12 & B&hyph;13 of Appendix B of the Plan. d. Disposal of Existing Radar: Preparations for disposal of the old existing radar have been completed, in accordance with items 4a&hyph;d, pp. B&hyph;14 & B&hyph;15 of Appendix B of the Plan. (C) Evaluating Staffing Needs for Field Offices in Affected Areas References: The criteria and evaluation elements are set forth and further detailed in the ASOS and WSR&hyph;88D Evaluation Packages and in the Human Resources and Position Management Plan for the National Weather Service Modernization and Associated Restructuring (the Human Resources Plan). Criteria: 1. Availability of Trained Operations and Maintenance Personnel at a NEXRAD Weather Service Forecast Office or NEXRAD Weather Service Office: Adequate operations and maintenance staffs are available to commission a WSR&hyph;88D, specifically criterion b. set forth in section I.A.2. of this Appendix which includes meeting the Stage 1 staffing levels set forth in chapter 3 of the Human Resources Plan. 2. Availability of Trained Operations and Maintenance Personnel at any field office receiving an ASOS: Adequate operations and maintenance staff are available to meet the requirements for commissioning an ASOS, specifically criteria h and i set forth in section I.A.1 of this Appendix. II. Criteria for Modernization Actions Requiring Certification (A) Modernization Criteria Common to all Types of Certifications (Except as Noted) 1. Notification: Advanced notification and the expected date of the proposed certification have been provided in the National Implementation Plan. 2. Local Weather Characteristics and Weather Related Concerns: A description of local weather characteristics and weather related concerns which affect the weather services provided to the affected service area is provided. 3. Comparison of Services: A comparison of services before and after the proposed action demonstrates that all services currently provided to the affected service area will continue to be provided with no degradation of services. 4. Recent or Excepted Modernization of NWS Operations in the Affected Service Area: A description of recent or expected modernization of NWS operations in the affected service area is provided. 5. NEXRAD Network Coverage: NEXRAD network coverage or gaps in coverage at 10,000 feet over the affected service area are identified. 6. Air Safety Appraisal (applies only to relocation and closure of field offices at an airport): Verification that there will be no degradation of service that affects aircraft safety has been made by conducting an air safety appraisal in consultation with the Federal Aviation Administration. 7. Evaluation of Services to In-state Users (applies only to relocation and closure of the only field office in a state): Verification that there will be no degradation of weather services provided to the state has been made by evaluating the effect on weather services provided to in-State users. 8. Liaison Officer: Arrangements have been made to retain a Liaison Officer in the affected service area for at least two years to provide timely information regarding the activities of the NWS which may affect service to the community, including modernization and restructuring; and to work with area weather service users, including persons associated with general aviation, civil defense, emergency preparedness, and the news media, with respect to the provision of timely weather warnings and forecasts. 9. Meteorologist-In-Charge's (MIC) Recommendation to Certify: The MIC of the future WFO that will have responsibility for the affected service area has recommended certification in accordance with 15 CFR 946.7(a). 10. Regional Director's Certification: The cognizant Regional Director has approved the MIC's recommended certification of no degradation of service to the affected service area in accordance with 15 CFR 946.8. (B) Modernization Criteria Unique to Consolidation Certifications 1. WSR&hyph;88D Commissioning: All necessary WSR&hyph;88D radars have been successfully commissioned in accordance with the criteria set forth in section I.A.2. of this Appendix.
