FR940223-0-00020 FR940223-0-00013 DEPARTMENT OF LABOR Office of Workers' Compensation Programs 20 CFR Part 10 RIN 1215&hyph;AA Claims for Medical Benefits Under the Federal Employees' Compensation Act AGENCY: Employment Standards Administration, Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Labor. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: On November 24, 1993, the Department of Labor published proposed revisions to the rules establishing a fee schedule and procedures for submitting bills for reimbursement for medical procedures and services provided to injured federal employees under the Federal Employees' Compensation Act (FECA) (58 FR 62063). The Office of Workers' Compensation Programs (OWCP) proposed to: Adopt where applicable the relative value units (RVUs) devised by the Department of Health and Human Services, Health Care Finance Administration (HCFA), published most recently on December 2, 1993, 58 FR 63626; eliminate the requirement to use the Washington State conversion factors; and allow the use of Geographic Practice Cost Indices (GPCIs) developed by the Urban Institute for HCFA to determine geographic adjustment factors. The rules also climate the requirement for original signatures on the bills. The comment period closed January 24, 1994, and no comments were received; the rules are now published in final in the same form as they were proposed. EFFECTIVE DATE: April 25, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Thomas M. Markey, Director for Federal Employees' Compensation, Employment Standards Administration, U.S. Department of Labor, room S&hyph;3229, Frances Perkins Building, 200 Constitution Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20210; Telephone (202) 523&hyph;7552. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The preamble to the proposed rule explained in detail the background of the schedule of maximum allowable charges for most medical services provided to injured workers under the Federal Employees' Compensation Act (FECA), 5 U.S.C. 8101 et seq. See 51 FR 8276, for a complete explanation of the background and purpose of the schedule. Under the fee schedule and billing system individual procedures are assigned a descriptor code using the Physicians' Current Procedural Terminology (CPT) scheme developed by the American Medical Association. Each code is then assigned a relative value unit (RVU) reflecting the relative skill, effort, risk, and time required to perform the procedure. The maximum allowable amount payable for a given service is calculated by multiplying the RVU by a conversion factor (CF). This product is in turn multiplied by a geographic index (GI) which allows for regional variations in medical costs. The components of the fee schedule served OWCP well until recently, when the State of Washington (the system on which several factors of the fee schedule were based), announced that it was adopting a new fee schedule based on the newly published Health Care Financing Administrations (HCFA) RVUs for physicians' services, with modifications peculiar to Washington State. Rather than continue to use the Washington State system, the Office of Workers' Compensation Programs (OWCP) proposed to adopt elements of the HCFA fee schedule directly. OWCP will continue to use geographic localities (using Metropolitan Statistical Areas) designed by the Urban Institute for application of Geographic Practice Cost Indices (GPCIs), since Medicare pricing localities are carrier specific. Finally, the conversion factors (see 57 FR 5186) will be changed to accommodate the change in scale of the relative unit values. The proposed rules also change the provision requiring that the medical provider sign the billing form, in order to accommodate the practice of electronic transmission of medical bills and other similar practices. No comments at all were received on the proposed rules. Accordingly, the proposed changes are being implemented in final unchanged, except for minor changes to correct grammatical and typographical errors.
