FR940406-0-00110 FR940406-0-00011 Effective with respect to vehicles and engines manufactured after model year 1978, no emission control device, system, or element of design shall be used in a new motor vehicle or new motor vehicle engine for purposes of complying with standards prescribed under this subsection if such device, system, or element of design will cause or contribute to an unreasonable risk to public health, welfare, or safety in its operation or function. and section 206(a)(3)(A), (B) reads: (A) A certificate of conformity may be issued under this section only if the Administrator determines that the manufacturer (or in the case of a vehicle or engine for import, any person) has established to the satisfaction of the Administrator that any emission control device, system, or element of design installed on, or incorporated in, such vehicle or engine conforms to applicable requirements of section 202(a)(4). (B) The Administrator may conduct such tests and may require the manufacturer (or any such person) to conduct such tests and provide such information as is necessary to carry out subparagraph (A) of this paragraph.␣*␣*␣* This authority has been implemented for more than ten years. The Code of Federal Regulations §86.084&hyph;5(b) requires that any system installed on a new motor vehicle to enable such a vehicle to conform to standards shall not in its operation, function, or malfunction result in any unsafe condition endangering the motor vehicle, its occupants, or persons or property in close proximity to the vehicle. Furthermore, §86.091&hyph;23(d) requires that manufacturers certify that the vehicles for which emission certification is requested conform to the requirements of §86.084&hyph;5(b). The manufacturer must also agree to provide descriptions of the tests conducted, the results of such tests, and other information upon which that determination is based. Presently this safety certification is submitted in the application for certification which manufacturers must submit for every vehicle model they plan to produce for commerce in the United States. EPA intends to use this authority and the approach described above to implement the ORVR requirement. See also NRDC v. Reilly, 983 F.2d at 267 (ultimate issue of safety is to be addressed at certification). The ultimate responsibility for ORVR system safety (both design and performance in use) rests with the manufacturers. As part of the application for certification, manufacturers will be required to make the declarations prescribed in §86.091&hyph;23 (d). During review of the certification application, EPA will study the design of the vehicle's ORVR system, its on-vehicle configuration and operation, and will consult directly with NHTSA on these applications. Special consideration will be given to the potential concerns raised in the course of the rulemaking process such as component locations, materials used in the components, and connections between components. For canister-based systems, items of special interest will include canister location and shell construction, canister/vapor hose access for I/M testing, vapor hose routing and wall thickness, integrity of connections, and proximity of potential ignition sources. In addition, manufacturers will want to consider concerns raised in past NHTSA safety assessments. The November 1993 NHTSA report makes it clear that proper design is critical in system safety performance. As was mentioned above, EPA could ask for any or all of the information supporting the manufacturer's safety assessment and EPA will consider all information presented by the manufacturer in this assessment whether it is based on testing, engineering analysis, or some other source. As is present practice, EPA expects that manufacturers will conduct engineering risk assessments and component, system, and vehicle tests to assess the safety of various ORVR system designs and on-vehicle configurations and make any modifications or devise and implement the engineering solutions needed to address potential problems. ORVR-equipped vehicles would have to meet the applicable FMVSSs, including FMVSS 301 related to Fuel System Integrity. As noted above, NHTSA is considering amending the latter to address ORVR system safety. However, section 206(a)(3)(B) of the CAA provides EPA with broad latitude to require manufacturers to conduct tests or provide other information as may be needed to determine if an ORVR system meets the vehicle safety requirements prescribed in section 202(a)(4). In the May 27, 1993 Federal Register notice, EPA asked for comment on whether any specific tests or other information should be required up front as part of the certification process and, if so, what information and in what form would be most appropriate. No commenter provided input on this point and, given the resolution of the safety issue, EPA has decided not to require any specific information at this time. In the same notice, EPA also asked comment from auto manufacturers and other interested parties on the desirability of developing a process, after promulgation of the final rule, through which there could be a dialogue with EPA and NHTSA on design questions related to the in-use safety of ORVR systems. Manufacturers' comments indicated that resolution of the safety issue as part of the rule was most important, and they expressed little interest in establishing a dialogue at this time. EPA remains willing to work with the auto manufacturers in this area at any time in the future.
