FR940819-2-00008 FR940819-2-00001 (6) Exhibit A will be used as the source document to process the set-aside through ADPS. Until automation capabilities are implemented, Exhibit A should be placed in a pending file and the borrower's account flagged ``51&hyph;S.'' The Finance Office borrower account status reports will reflect the amount(s) set-aside for each loan. (7) The National Automated Tracking System (AGCREDIT) will be utilized to document the notification and servicing scheme associated with this subpart. (8) The loan(s) will be considered current after the installment(s) is set-aside and, therefore, debt writedown or net recovery buyout may not be subsequently approved under subpart S of this part, and loans may not be made under ยง1941.14 of subpart A of part 1941 of this chapter, unless the set-aside is reversed as set forth in ยง1951.958(b)(2) of this subpart or the borrower becomes delinquent on the non-set-aside portion. (c) Adverse determination. Borrowers who do not meet the requirements for the DSA program will be notified of their appeal rights in accordance with subpart B of part 1900 of this chapter. If the borrower becomes more than 1 installment behind on any FP loan while processing the DSA request, or while an appeal is being considered, the DSA request will be denied and/or any associated appeal request withdrawn. Being denied set-aside based on the failure to meet the not-more-than-1-installment-behind requirement is not an appealable issue, but is reviewable. The letter to the borrower will describe in full detail all the reasons for the adverse decision. Borrowers denied set-aside will continue to be serviced in accordance with subpart S of this part. ยง1951.958 Supervision and servicing of borrowers with DSA. (a) Supervision. Borrower supervision will continue as set forth in subpart B of part 1924 of this chapter. (b) Servicing. FP loans will continue to be serviced in accordance with the appropriate servicing regulations. (1) Payments applied to the amount set-aside will be processed as a miscellaneous payment on Form FmHA 451&hyph;2, ``Schedule of Remittance.'' (2) The set-aside will be reversed and the addendum cancelled if, prior to the first scheduled installment due date after set-aside, the current borrower needs a writedown in order to develop a feasible plan or a net recovery buyout in accordance with subpart S of this part, or loan assistance set forth in ยง1941.14 of subpart A of part 1941 of this chapter. The Finance Office must be notified by memorandum of the set-aside reversal prior to the time assistance is granted. A copy of the memorandum will be attached to the addendum. (3) In cases not covered by paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the set-aside will be considered automatically cancelled whenever a program loan receives primary loan servicing.
