FR940711-0-00018 FR940711-0-00003 Section 981.41 of the Order provides the Board, with the approval of the Secretary, authority to credit a handler's direct expenditures for marketing promotion, including paid advertising, against the applicable portion of their assessment obligation. The requirements that a handler needed to fulfill before obtaining credit for promotion are set forth in ยง981.441 of the Administrative Rules and Regulations. The purpose of these requirements was to ensure that creditable activities undertaken by handlers were forms of promotion recognized and accepted by advertising and promotion industry norms, and could reasonably be expected to increase almond consumption. In addition, the requirements were devised to ensure that creditable activities could be documented and costs could be measured in conformance with industry standards. From the time of the program's inception, the list of handler activities for which credit could be obtained has frequently been revised and expanded in order to meet the changing needs of the industry. In all, over twenty-five Board recommendations have been made and adopted by the Secretary in an effort to improve the Order's advertising and promotion program. Some examples of these revisions are described below. On September 16, 1982, [47 FR 40783], the creditable advertising and promotion program was revised in order to allow handlers to receive credit against their creditable assessment obligations for distributing sample packages of almonds to charitable and educational institutions (up to 150% credit allowed depending on volume), and for purchasing almond promotional materials from the Board (100% credit allowed). The Board believed that these revisions would provide handlers with additional opportunities to obtain credit for their promotion of almonds, especially for handlers who did not market almonds under a specific brand name. These revisions were also intended to be advantageous to small handlers. On April 23, 1987, [52 FR 13427], the program was revised to expand provisions already in place concerning the crediting of certain handler marketing promotion expenditures related to mail order promotions. Specifically, the costs of purchasing mailing lists to conduct mail order promotions and the costs of postage and envelopes to mail printed promotional materials became creditable at a rate of up to $25,000 per crop year. The revision was intended to give all handlers a new opportunity to take advantage of crediting. In 1990, [55 FR 41826] the creditable amount was further relaxed to allow handlers to obtain credit for mail order promotions at a rate of up to $25,000 per crop year or 25 percent of their creditable assessment obligations, whichever was greater. On October 13, 1987, [52 FR 37926], the program was revised to increase the amount of credit that handlers could obtain for media advertising in certain foreign markets. The revision was made because the export market for California almonds was steadily increasing and the need for advertising in foreign countries was increasing accordingly. Under this revised rule, handlers became eligible to receive a 100% credit for all qualified brand advertising media expenditures conducted in designated foreign markets.
