FR940128-0-00027 FR940128-0-00007 ยง266.8 Advance notice of the determination to make representative payment. (a) As a general rule, whenever the Board intends to make representative payment and to name a representative payee, the Board will notify the annuitant or, in the case of an unemancipated minor under age 18, or an individual who is legally incompetent, the individual acting on his or her behalf of the Board's proposed actions. Such notice will tell the person that the Board plans to name a representative payee and who that payee will be. The notice will also ask the person to contact the Board within 15 days of the date of the notice if he or she objects to either proposed action. If he or she objects to either proposed action, the objecting party may_ (1) Review the evidence upon which the proposed actions will be based; and (2) Submit any additional evidence regarding the proposed actions. (b) If the objecting party objects to the proposed actions, the Board will review its proposed determinations and consider any additional information provided. The Board will then issue a decision on whether to appoint a representative payee and who that payee will be. If the objecting party is dissatisfied with either determination, he or she may request a reconsideration under part 260 of this chapter. (c) If the objecting party does not file a timely objection to the proposed actions, the Board will issue a decision on whether to appoint a representative payee and who that payee will be. If the objecting party is dissatisfied with either determination, he or she may request a reconsideration under part 260 of this chapter. (d) A request for reconsideration or an appeal from a determination under this section under part 260 of this chapter shall not prevent the Board from making payments to a representative payee during the pendency of such reconsideration or appeal. (e) The Board's failure or refusal to select an individual as representative payee or the Board's termination of representative payee status with respect to an individual is not subject to a request for reconsideration or an appeal under part 260 of this chapter by such individual. ยง266.9 Responsibilities of a representative payee. (a) A representative payee shall, subject to review by the Board and to such requirements as it may from time-to-time prescribe, apply the payments made to him or her on behalf of the annuitant only for the use and benefit of such annuitant, and in a manner and for purposes which are in the annuitant's best interests. (b) A representative payee shall notify the Board of any event that will affect the amount of benefits the annuitant receives or the right of the annuitant to receive benefits. (c) A representative payee shall notify the Board of any change in his or her circumstances that would affect performance of the payee responsibilities. ยง266.10 Use of benefit payments. (a) Current maintenance. Payments made to an individual as representative payee on behalf of an annuitant shall be considered as having been applied for the use and benefit of the annuitant when they are used for the annuitant's current maintenance. Current maintenance includes costs incurred in obtaining food, shelter, clothing, medical care, and personal comfort items. Example: An aged annuitant is entitled to a monthly railroad retirement benefit of $800. His son, who is his representative payee, disburses his benefits in the following manner: Rent and utilities $500 Medical 50 Food 80 Clothing (coat) 90 Savings 60 Miscellaneous 20 The above expenditures would represent proper disbursements on behalf of the annuitant. (b) Institutional care. If an annuitant is receiving care in a Federal, state, or private institution because of mental or physical incapacity, current maintenance includes the customary charges made by the institution in providing care and maintenance, as well as expenditures for those items which will aid in the annuitant's recovery or release from the institution or expenses for personal needs which will improve the annuitant's conditions while in the institution. (c) Support of legal dependents. If the current maintenance needs of the annuitant are met, the representative payee may use part of the payments for the support of the annuitant's legally dependent spouse, child, and/or parent.
