FR941011-2-00031 FR941011-2-00008 II. Definitions For the purposes of the NEAP program: Commercial fishermen are vessel owners, operators, or crews directly involved in the commercial fishery. Commercial fishery is defined as the salmon fishery off the coasts and in the state waters of Washington, Oregon, and California for purposes of either selling the salmon harvested or providing a vessel for hire that carries recreational fishermen to engage in fishing for a fee (e.g., charterboats and headboats). Subsistence fisheries do not fall under this definition. Commercial fishery income is earned income derived from participation in the commercial fishery. Gross income includes all income received in the form of money, goods, property, and services that is not exempt from Federal income tax. Loss is defined as a loss of income not subject to Federal or state compensation and determined by a multi-step procedure, as follows: 1. The applicant (commercial fisherman) selects a base year from the years 1986 through 1990. 2. The applicant determines his/her commercial fishery income from 1992, 1993, or 1994, and selects whichever year commercial fisheries income was the highest. This is the comparison year. If an applicant had no commercial fisheries income from 1992 to 1994, the amount for the comparison year is zero. 3. If the amount of the applicant's commercial fishery income, as selected in step 2 above, is less than the applicant's commercial fishery income from the base year, then a loss has occurred. The amount of the annual loss is the difference between the applicant's base year commercial fishery income and that from the comparison year selected in step 2 above. 4. The amount of the annual loss calculated in step 3 above is multiplied by three to determine the applicant's total loss for the disaster period. ( Note: The Federal assistance programs announced in this notice are limited to compensation to commercial fishermen for uninsured losses that have not been addressed through compensation from other state or Federal programs.) Salmon means chinook (king) salmon ( Oncorhynchus tshawytscha ), coho (silver) salmon ( Oncorhynchus kisutch ), pink (humpback) salmon ( Oncorhynchus gorbuscha ), chum (dog) salmon ( Oncorhynchus keta ), and sockeye (red) salmon ( Oncorhynchus nerka ). III. Program Descriptions A. Vessel Permit Buyout Program This program is intended to compensate commercial fishermen for uninsured lost income and to aid the long-term viability of the fishery resource by reducing fishing effort on the stocks.
