FR940325-2-00216 FR940325-2-00095 12. The expense risk assumed by United of Omaha is that its actual administrative costs will exceed the amount recovered through the administrative charges. Applicants' Legal Analysis 1. Section 6(c) of the 1940 Act authorizes the Commission, by order upon application, to conditionally or unconditionally grant an exemption from any provision, rule or regulation of the 1940 Act to the extent that the exemption is necessary or appropriate in the public interest and consistent with the protection of investors and the purposes fairly intended by the policy and provisions of the 1940 Act. 2. Sections 26(a)(2)(C) and 27(c)(2) of the 1940 Act, in relevant part, prohibit a registered unit investment trust, its depositor or principal underwriter, from selling periodic payment plan certificates unless the proceeds of all payments, other than sales loads, are deposited with a qualified bank and held under arrangements which prohibit any payment to the depositor or principal underwriter except a reasonable fee, as the Commission may prescribe, for performing bookkeeping and other administrative duties normally performed by the bank itself. 3. Applicants request exemptions from Sections 26(a)(2) and 27(c)(2) of the 1940 Act to the extent necessary to permit the deduction from the assets of Account B of the 1.25% charge for the assumption of mortality and expense risks. Applicants believe that the requested exemptions are appropriate in the public interest and consistent with the protection of investors and the purposes fairly intended by the policy and provisions of the 1940 Act. Applicants submit that United of Omaha is entitled to reasonable compensation for its assumption of mortality and expense risks. Applicants represent that the 1.25% mortality and expense risk charge under the Contracts is consistent with the protection of investors because it is a reasonable and proper insurance charge. The mortality and expense risk charge is a reasonable charge to compensate United of Omaha for the risks that: Annuitants under the Contract will live longer as a group than has been anticipated in setting the annuity rates guaranteed in the Contracts; the Account Value will be less than the Death Benefit; and administrative expenses will be greater than amounts derived from the administrative charges. 4. Applicants represent that the 1.25% mortality and expense risk charge is within the range of industry practice for comparable annuity contracts. This representation is based upon an analysis of publicly available information about similar industry products, taking into consideration such factors as current charge levels, the existence of charge level guarantees, death benefit guarantees, and guaranteed annuity rates. United of Omaha will maintain at its administrative offices, available to the Commission, a memorandum setting forth in detail the products analyzed in the course of, and the methodology and results of, its comparative review. 5. Applicants acknowledge that, if a profit is realized from the mortality and expense risk charge, all or a portion of such profit may be available to pay distribution expenses not reimbursed by the CDSC. United of Omaha has concluded that there is a reasonable likelihood that the proposed distribution financing arrangements will benefit Account B, Contractowners and Participants. The basis for that conclusion is set forth in a memorandum which will be maintained by United of Omaha at its administrative offices and will be available to the Commission. 6. Account B will only invest in management investment companies which undertake, in the event they should adopt a plan under rule 12b-1 to finance distribution expenses, to have a board of directors or trustees, a majority of whom are not ``interested persons,'' formulate and approve any such plan. Conclusion For the reasons set forth above, Applicants represent that the exemptions requested are necessary and appropriate in the public interest and consistent with the protection of investors and the purposes fairly intended by the policy and provisions of the 1940 Act. For the Commission, by the Division of Investment Management, pursuant to delegated authority. Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;7079 Filed 3&hyph;24&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
