FR940207-2-00076 FR940207-2-00028 Rate Schedule INT&hyph;NFT1 United States Department of Energy, Western Area Power Administration; Pacific Northwest-Pacific Southwest Intertie Project Schedule of Rates for Nonfirm Transmission Service Effective Step One: The first day of the first full billing period beginning on or after August 1, 1993. Step Two: The first day of the first full billing period beginning on or after October 1, 1995, and will remain in effect through July 31, 1998, until superseded, whichever occurs first. Available Within the marketing area served by the Pacific Northwest-Pacific Southwest Intertie Project. Applicable To nonfirm transmission service customers where capacity and energy are supplied to the Pacific Northwest-Pacific Southwest Intertie Project (AC Intertie) system at points of interconnection with other systems and transmitted and delivered, on a bidirectional basis, less losses, to points of delivery on the AC Intertie system established by contract. Character and Conditions of Service Alternating current at 60 Hertz, three-phase, delivered and metered at the voltages and points of delivery established by contract. Rate Step One: Nonfirm Transmission Service Charge: 1.00 mills per kilowatthour of the scheduled or delivered kilowatthours at the point of delivery, established by contract: payable monthly. Step Two: Nonfirm Transmission Service Charge: 1.52 mills per kilowatthour of the scheduled or delivered kilowatthours at the point of delivery, established by contract: payable monthly. Adjustments For Reactive Power None. There shall be no entitlement to transfer of reactive kilovolt-amperes at points of delivery, except when such transfers may be mutually agreed upon by contractor and contracting officer or their authorized representatives. For Losses Capacity and energy losses incurred in connection with the transmission and delivery of capacity and energy under this rate schedule shall be supplied by the customer in accordance with the service contract. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;2730 Filed 2&hyph;4&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6450&hyph;01&hyph;P
