FR940304-0-00019 FR940304-0-00007 14 CFR Part 39 [Docket No. 92&hyph;NM&hyph;48&hyph;AD; Amendment 39&hyph;8593; AD 93&hyph;11&hyph;01] Airworthiness Directives; McDonnell Douglas Model DC&hyph;9&hyph;10 Series Airplanes AGENCY: Federal Aviation Administration, DOT. ACTION: Final rule; correction. SUMMARY: This document corrects information in an existing airworthiness directive (AD) that is applicable to certain McDonnell Douglas Model DC&hyph;9&hyph;10 series airplanes. Among other things, the existing AD currently requires a modification of the wing leading edge bleed air anti-ice system so that it can operate on the ground to prevent ice reformation after deicing procedures have been accomplished, and a related revision to the Airplane Flight Manual (AFM). The actions specified in that AD are intended to prevent degradation of lift due to ice accumulation on the wing leading edge. This amendment corrects the instructional language in the required AFM revision related to operation of the system on the ground. This action is prompted by apparent confusion that this language has created among affected operators in attempting to comply with the rule. DATES: Effective July 22, 1993. The incorporation by reference of certain publications listed in the regulations was previously approved by the Director of the Federal Register as of July 22, 1993 (58 FR 33898, June 22, 1993). ADDRESSES: The service information referenced in this AD may be obtained from McDonnell Douglas Corporation, P.O. Box 1771, Long Beach, California 90801&hyph;1771, Attention: Business Unit Manager, Technical Administrative Support, Dept. L51, Mail Code 2&hyph;98. This information may be examined at the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), Transport Airplane Directorate, Rules Docket, 1601 Lind Avenue, SW., Renton, Washington; or at the FAA, Los Angeles Aircraft Certification Office, 3229 East Spring Street, Long Beach, California; or at the Office of the Federal Register, 800 North Capitol Street, NW., suite 700, Washington, DC. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Walter Eierman, Aerospace Engineer, Systems and Equipment Branch, ANM&hyph;130L, FAA, Transport Airplane Directorate, Los Angeles Aircraft Certification Office, 3229 East Spring Street, Long Beach, California 90806&hyph;2425; telephone (310) 988&hyph;5336; fax (310) 988&hyph;5210. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: On May 26, 1993, the FAA issued AD 93&hyph;11&hyph;01, Amendment 39&hyph;8593 (58 FR 33898, June 22, 1993), that is applicable to certain McDonnell Douglas Model DC&hyph;9&hyph;10 series airplanes. That AD superseded an existing AD that had required a revision to the FAA-approved Airplane Flight Manual (AFM) to specify that takeoff must not be initiated unless the flight crew verifies that a visual and physical check of the leading edge and upper wing surfaces have been accomplished and that the wing is clear of all ice, frost, and snow accumulation. AD 93&hyph;11&hyph;01 added a requirement to modify the wing leading edge bleed air anti-ice system so that it can operate on the ground to prevent ice from reforming after deicing procedures have been accomplished. The actions specified in that AD are intended to prevent degradation of lift due to ice accumulation on the wing leading edge. Recently, the FAA has become aware of the fact that certain language contained in the required AFM limitation, relative to operation of the wing leading edge bleed air anti-ice system, has created confusion among affected operators when attempting to comply with the rule. Specifically, paragraph (d)(2) of AD 93&hyph;11&hyph;01 requires that the Limitations Section of the AFM be revised to require that ``the bleed air anti-ice system must be on whenever conditions exist or are anticipated, including on-ground operation.'' This phrase apparently has been interpreted to mean that operators must have the system on during the brief period during takeoff from aircraft rotation to about 100 feet above ground level where the extraction of engine bleed air for the anti-ice system penalizes second-segment climb performance. Such a performance penalty could be as much as 4,000 pounds, which is roughly equivalent to off-loading 20 passengers. One operator contends that a penalty of this magnitude cannot be absorbed by operators and makes operation of Model DC&hyph;9&hyph;10/&hyph;15 aircraft ``economically not viable.'' The purpose of the required AFM limitation was meant to ensure that the anti-ice system modification is used to provide the on-ground protection for which it is intended; the manner in which the system is normally operated during flight was not meant to be changed. The FAA acknowledges that the language of the AFM limitation as it appears currently in the AD could be interpreted to apply to both the ground and flight phases of airplane operation. Since this clearly was not the FAA's intent, the FAA has determined that it is appropriate to take action to correct the wording of the AFM limitation in AD 93&hyph;11&hyph;01 to specify that the bleed air anti-ice system must be on whenever icing conditions exist or are apparent, when on the ground, until immediately prior to commencement of takeoff roll. This corrected wording will clearly indicate that the limitation applies only to operation of the system while the airplane is on the ground until prior to takeoff. The selection of the anti-ice system during takeoff has always been the pilot's decision, and the FAA intends that it continue to be so. Additionally, another item that appeared in the preamble to AD 93&hyph;11&hyph;01 has apparently created some confusion. In that preamble, the FAA stated the following in its description of the unsafe condition: ``The FAA notes that the description of the addressed unsafe condition, as discussed in the proposal, implied that the condition is a result of icing effects on both the wing upper surface and the wing leading edge. That language was inaccurate; the unsafe condition is likely to occur as the result of icing effects on the wing leading edge, not the wing upper surface.'' The FAA has reconsidered this statement and finds that, while the modification of the wing leading edge bleed air anti-ice system required by AD 93&hyph;11&hyph;01 is effective only on ice forming on the wing leading edge, it would be misleading to state the unsafe condition addressed by that AD results only from that phenomenon. The unsafe condition addressed is that which is caused by ice contamination on the wing leading edge and upper surface; this condition can result in the degradation of wing lift, and can result in the airplane stalling at lower than normal angles-of-attack during takeoff. Therefore, the FAA hereby clarifies this point by replacing the previously used language with the following: ``The modification to the wing leading edge bleed air de-icing system, which is required by this AD, prevents ice/frost/snow from reforming on the wing leading edge only, after the airplane has been deiced. The wing leading edge area is the most critical from a loss of lift standpoint. However, because contamination on the upper surface of the wing can also impact lift and stall speeds, assurance that ice/frost/snow is not present on the wing leading edge and upper surface requires operation in accordance with the comprehensive requirements of Section 121.629(c) (Amendment 121&hyph;231) of the Federal Aviation Regulations (FAR), or the accomplishment of visual and physical (hands-on) inspections of both the leading edge and the wing upper surface as required by this AD.'' Additionally, the address for obtaining copies of the referenced service material from the McDonnell Douglas Corporation has been corrected.
