FR940516-1-00114 FR940516-1-00006 While adequate durability of catalysts is a concern relative to catalytic converters used in on-highway engine applications, EPA is less concerned with the emission impact of failures of the catalytic converters expected to be used for engines regulated by this rule. This is because the conversion efficiency of catalysts used in small SI engines would not exceed approximately 30 percent for reasons discussed in the previous paragraph. Faced with this constraint, an engine manufacturer would need to modify its base engine to realize substantial emission reduction of engine-out emissions even before the exhaust was converted further by the catalytic converter. Should such a low efficiency catalyst fail in use, the increase in emissions would not be as large as occurs when a high efficiency on-highway vehicle catalyst fails. The preceding discussion underscores the need for some means to validate the adequacy of catalysts that would be added to engines to provide compliance with the emission standards during in-use operation. Various approaches could be used for ensuring that the ``long term'' conversion capabilities of catalysts would be adequate. For example, certification engines could be tested with catalysts which had been subjected to some type of ``aging'' process to substantiate that the catalysts were adequately designed and fabricated. Alternatively, certification engines could be tested with new catalysts that had been proven to be satisfactory by meeting the requirements of a catalyst certification procedure that would be separate from the engine emission certification test. The main advantage of a validation approach involving the use of ``aged'' catalysts on certification engines would be its simplicity. The aging process would be carried out by either the engine manufacturers or the catalyst vendors. In either case, there would be no requirements for special catalyst performance testing and, hence, no need for the establishment of performance standards that would be needed for evaluating the test results. The main disadvantage of this approach is the possible negative impact on catalyst usage that might result from a Phase 1 certification process which imposed durability testing requirements on catalysts but not on certification engines or any other engine components involved in their construction. On one hand, the dependence of successful certification of engine families on the performance capabilities of aged catalysts might result in engine manufacturers being reluctant to use catalysts to meet the applicable emission standards. Also, given that there is limited field data on small engine catalysts, it would be extremely difficult to design a fair aging procedure that could be evaluated by the certification engine test and accompanying emission standards. Such possibly adverse results would be avoided by the engine manufacturer's use of a new catalyst that was ``certified'' by the supplier or the engine manufacturer as having design and fabrication details that resulted in specific long-term conversion performance capabilities. This approach would have the disadvantage of being more complicated in that it additionally involves the establishment of limits on the amount of efficiency loss that would be acceptable and would require a test procedure for determining compliance with such limits. As a consequence of concerns regarding possible negative impacts on catalyst development for small engines that might result from a provision requiring the certification of engines with aged catalysts, EPA is not proposing such a requirement in this notice. Instead, EPA is proposing that for systems utilizing catalysts, the certification engine configuration to be tested must be equipped with a new catalyst of a design that has been ``certified.'' A ``certified'' catalyst design would be one which had successfully met the requirements of a separate catalyst durability demonstration procedure which is described in more detail in the following paragraphs. This approach ensures that durable catalysts are used on small engines while avoiding excessive requirements that could discourage the development of very promising catalyst technology. Comments regarding this proposal are requested. Also requested are comments regarding the advantages and disadvantages of this requirement, as well as the alternative requirement for the use of preconditioned or aged catalysts during engine emission certification testing. The use of an oven exposure procedure for evaluating catalyst resistance to thermal degradation is proposed in this notice. This procedure would involve the heating of the test catalyst in air to a temperature of 1,000 ○C for six hours. Prior to heating the catalyst to 1,000 ○C, an optional pre- heating procedure is proposed to be allowed to remove the ``green'' effect of the catalyst. This optional procedure would consist of heating the catalyst to no more than 500 ○C for no more than two hours. The oven exposure procedure described above is proposed in lieu of procedures which involve exposure to synthetic or actual exhaust gas mixtures because EPA believes that the oven aging procedure aggressively and directly stresses the catalyst and is the best method for assessing the most major catalyst durability concern: thermal stability. Another advantage of this method is that it is much less complex than the other exposure procedures. For example, in the case of the procedure which involves exposure to synthetic exhaust gas mixtures, information is lacking regarding the most appropriate test parameters, such as the temperature of the mixtures and the duration of the exposure. Similarly, with respect to the procedure which involves exposure to actual exhaust gas mixtures, information is needed regarding a number of test variables that are related to the engine that is used to generate the exhaust gas mixture, such as its combustion cycle and power output, the manner in which it is operated and the operating times that are involved in each phase of the operating cycle.
