FR940720-2-00155 FR940720-2-00086 2. Section 27(c)(2) of the 1940 Act prohibits the issuer of a periodic payment plan certificate, and any depositor or underwriter for such issuer, from selling such periodic payment plan certificate unless proceeds of payments on such certificates (other than sales loads) are held under an indenture or agreement containing specified provisions. Section 26(a)(2) and the Rules thereunder do not permit a deduction from the assets of a separate account for mortality and expense risk charges. 3. Applicants represent that the 1.25% mortality and expense risk charge is within the range of industry practice for comparable annuity products. Applicants state that this representation is based upon an analysis of publicly available information about selected similar industry products, taking into consideration such factors as the method used in charging sales loads, any contractual right to increase charges above current levels and the existence of charges against separate account assets for other than mortality and expense risks. Security Life will maintain at its principal office, available to the Commission, a memorandum setting forth in detail the products analyzed in the course of, and the methodology and results of, the comparative survey made. 4. Applicants acknowledge that the withdrawal charge will be insufficient to cover all costs relating to the distribution of the Contracts and that, if a profit is realized from the mortality and expense risk charge, all or a portion of such profit may be offset by distribution expenses not reimbursed by the withdrawal charge. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Security Life has concluded that there is a reasonable likelihood that the proposed distribution financing arrangements made with respect to the Contracts will benefit the Variable Account and the Contract owners. The basis for such conclusion is set forth in a memorandum which will be maintained by Security Life at its principal office and will be available to the Commission. 5. Security Life represents that the Variable Account will invest only in an underlying mutual fund which undertakes, in the event it should adopt any plan under Rule 12b&hyph;1 to finance distribution expenses, to have such plan formulated and approved by a board of directors, a majority of the members of which are not ``interested persons'' of such fund within the meaning of Section 2(a)(19) of the Act. Conclusion Applicants submit that for the reasons and upon the facts set forth above, the exemptions requested are necessary and appropriate in the public interest and consistent with the protection of investors and the purposes fairly intended by the policy and provisions of the Act. For the Commission, by the Division of Investment Management, pursuant to delegated authority. Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;17587 Filed 7&hyph;19&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
