FR940105-0-00045 FR940105-0-00008 D. Fees and Fee Waivers Sections 20.42 and 20.43 are being amended to reflect changes required by the 1986 amendments to the FOIA concerning fees and fee waivers and the OMB guidelines promulgated to implement those changes. FDA is adopting the standards and procedures promulgated by DHHS at 45 CFR 5.41 through 5.45, except that 45 CFR 5.42(g) is excluded from §20.42 because 45 CFR 5.42(g) pertains only to the Social Security Administration. In general, the regulations being adopted codify the descriptions of categories of requesters, the new fee structure and fee limitations, and the revised standards for fee waivers or reductions established by the 1986 amendments to the FOIA. Section 20.41 is being amended to remove the paragraphs that refer to $25 as the amount that triggers a requirement for prepayment of FOIA fees. The guidelines promulgated by OMB and the DHHS regulations include an advance payment provision for fees that exceed $250. That requirement is being included in revised §20.42. III. Clarifications A. Indexing Trade Secrets and Confidential Commercial or Financial Information A recent report by the General Accounting Office (GAO) criticized FDA's regulation concerning §20.53 Indexing trade secrets and confidential or financial information. GAO believed that it would be an abrogation of the agency's responsibilities to disclose information in those circumstances when a submitter failed to intervene to defend against the release of its records. The report hypothesized circumstances in which a firm could suffer severe financial loss because it could not afford legal representation to defend the competitive value of its commercial information. Although the regulation has been in effect for almost two decades, such a situation has never materialized. The agency continues to believe that the burden of defending business related records should be borne by the owner and submitter of such information, who is in the best position to explain the competitive harm that may result from disclosure. A company's unwillingness to take steps to protect the information it has submitted to the agency and to index the records at issue is ordinarily evidence to FDA that disclosure of the information is not likely to cause the submitter substantial competitive harm. However, the agency has never and would not at any time abandon its responsibilities to protect information that is truly prohibited from release. Although the situation has never previously arisen, there may be exceptional circumstances that would make it unreasonable for FDA to expect a submitter to participate as an intervenor in defending the proprietary value of its records. Accordingly, the language of the regulation is being amended to clarify that a company's failure to intervene to defend the exempt status of its information and to itemize and index the disputed records is not treated as an automatic waiver of the submitter's interest in protection of the information. B. Disclosure to Other Federal Agencies A 1991 contract report ``FDA Safeguards Against Improper Disclosure of Financially Sensitive Information,'' which was undertaken as part of the FDA Commissioner's integrity initiative, recommended that FDA obtain written pledges of confidentiality when it provides nonpublic information to other Federal agencies, such as the Securities Exchange Commission (SEC), as part of cooperative law enforcement efforts. FDA's regulations governing the disclosure of information to other Federal agencies, §20.85, is intended to require written commitments of confidentiality, and staff manual guides and internal agency guidance have consistently instructed personnel to obtain such written commitments. However, because the 1991 report named above suggested some confusion among FDA and other Department and Federal employees, FDA is adding the word ``written'' to §20.85 so that the regulation clearly states that such disclosures can only be made pursuant to a ``written'' agreement. IV. Technical Changes Section 20.100 is being revised to update cross-references that have changed because agency regulations have been amended or new regulations have been promulgated since the last revision of part 20. Because the agency's current practice with respect to disclosure of records will not change as a result of any of these amendments, and because the amendments set forth in section I. of this document are required either by statute, executive branch directives, or judicial decisions, FDA finds for good cause under §10.40(e) that notice and public procedure are unnecessary (5 U.S.C. 553(b)(3)(B) and (d)). However, under §10.40(e), FDA is providing an opportunity for comment to determine whether the regulations should subsequently be modified or revoked.
