FR941230-0-00051 FR941230-0-00010 33 CFR Part 117 [CGD05&hyph;94&hyph;103] RIN 2115&hyph;AE47 Drawbridge Operation Regulations; Atlantic Intracoastal Waterway, Chesapeake, VA AGENCY: Coast Guard, DOT. ACTION: Interim rule with request for comments. SUMMARY: At the request of the City of Chesapeake, Virginia the Coast Guard is changing the regulations that govern the operation of the drawbridge across the Southern Branch of the Elizabeth River, Atlantic Intracoastal Waterway, mile 5.8, at Chesapeake, Virginia, by limiting bridge openings during the morning and evening rush hours. This rule will allow commercial cargo vessels, tugs, and tugs with tows passage through the bridge during morning and evening rush hours, provided a 2-hour advance notice is given to the Gilmerton Bridge. This rule also includes a provision that allows public vessels of the United States, vessels in distress, commercial vessels carrying liquefied flammable gas or other harmful substances, and commercial or public vessels assisting in an emergency situation passage through the bridge at any time. All other commercial and recreational vessel traffic will be denied draw openings during the morning and evening rush hours. The changes to these regulations are, to the extent practical and feasible, intended to provide for regularly scheduled drawbridge openings to help reduce motor vehicle traffic delays and congestion on the roads and highways linked by this drawbridge while providing for the reasonable needs of navigation. DATES: This interim rule is effective December 30, 1994. Comments must be received on or before March 30, 1995. ADDRESSES: Comments may be mailed to Commander (ob), Fifth Coast Guard District, 431 Crawford Street, Portsmouth, Virginia 23704&hyph;5004, or may be delivered to Room 109 at the same address between 8 a.m. and 4 p.m., Monday through Friday, except Federal holidays. The telephone number is (804) 398&hyph;6222. Comments will become part of this docket and will be available for inspection at Room 109, Fifth Coast Guard District. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Ann B. Deaton, Bridge Administrator, Fifth Coast Guard District, at (804) 398&hyph;6222. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Request for Comments The Coast Guard encourages interested persons to participate in this rulemaking by submitting written data, views, or arguments. Persons submitting comments should include their names and addresses, identify this rulemaking (CGD05&hyph;94&hyph;103) and the specific section of this rule to which each comment applies, and give the reason for each comment. The Coast Guard requests that all comments and attachments be submitted in an unbound format suitable for copying and electronic filing. If not practical, a second copy of any bound material is requested. Persons wanting acknowledgment of receipt of comments should enclose a stamped, self-addressed postcard or envelope. The Coast Guard will consider all comments received during the comment period. It may change this rule in view of the comments. The Coast Guard plans no public hearing. Persons may request a public hearing by writing to the Commander (ob) at the address under ADDRESSES . The request should include reasons why a hearing would be beneficial. If it determines that the opportunity for oral presentations will aid this rulemaking, the Coast Guard will hold a public hearing at a time and place announced by a later notice in the Federal Register. Drafting information: The principal persons involved in drafting this document are Linda L. Gilliam, Project Manager, Bridge Section, and LCDR C. A. Abel, Project Counsel, Fifth Coast Guard District Legal Office.
