FR940817-2-00070 FR940817-2-00043 V. The Onboard Diagnostics Issue Prior to the Administrator's November 30, 1994 finding concerning emission effects, three auto manufacturers, Ford, General Motors (GM), and Chrysler, and the American Automobile Manufacturers Association (AAMA), all commented on concerns about the impact of the oxidative products of MMT on onboard diagnostic (OBD II) systems employing before-catalyst and after-catalyst oxygen sensors. 48 48 An Onboard Diagnostic System, with the present generation commonly known as OBD&hyph;II, monitors the activity of an automobile's emission control system, primarily the catalytic converter, and alerts the driver via a dashboard light in the event of a malfunction. Put simply, this aspect of the OBD system functions by utilizing devices before and after the catalyst which ``sense'' the presence of oxygen. If the catalyst is functioning properly, it will absorb a certain amount of oxygen and a specified decrease in oxygen content in the exhaust gases can be determined by comparing the oxygen ``sensed'' before and after the catalyst. If the catalyst is functioning improperly, oxygen storage by the catalyst is impaired and a drop in exhaust gas oxygen after the catalyst beyond the proper range is ``sensed'' by the OBD system. GM concerns regarding the OBD II system were two-fold. Its first concern was that since it is known that manganese oxide has the ability to store oxygen, a potential problem could occur with dual oxygen sensor systems. GM stated that, with manganese oxide covering the catalyst and the oxygen sensors, a false oxygen storage capacity of the catalyst could be indicated by the OBD II system, which could then indicate that the catalyst was still working properly while the opposite could be true. GM's second concern was that the catalyst would act as a ``filter'' and manganese oxide from MMT combustion passing through the exhaust system would coat the before-catalyst oxygen sensor and after-catalyst oxygen sensors unevenly, thus causing the OBD II system to malfunction. GM also stated that in the 1994 model year GM planned to market two engine families equipped with OBD II systems employing before- and after-catalyst oxygen sensors. With respect to the automakers' concern that use of MMT would adversely affect operation of the OBD II system, on July 15, 1993, Ethyl submitted data which it believed demonstrated that this concern has no basis. 49 Ethyl stated that no production vehicles were then equipped with OBD&hyph;II systems and that the primary hardware approach being considered by the automobile manufacturers involves the use of exhaust gas oxygen (EGO) sensors before and after the catalytic converter to monitor converter efficiency. Ethyl further commented that test data generated by Ethyl showed that use of the additive would have no adverse effect on either the hardware component of these planned ODB&hyph;II systems (i.e., the oxygen sensors), or on the catalytic converter itself. Ethyl noted that, ``[s]ince these future systems are currently under development, it is impossible to consider the long term effects of MMT on these systems.'' 49 See Public Docket A&hyph;93&hyph;26, Number II&hyph;D&hyph;8, Appendix 5. On November 4, 1994, only 26 days prior to the mandatory date for a decision on Ethyl's waiver application, Ford Motor Company submitted a report describing bench testing 50 of catalysts, in which Ford measured the oxygen storage capacity of catalysts which had been deliberately degraded and then exposed to the emissions from MMT-containing fuel. Ford's conclusion based on these tests was that the exhaust gas oxygen (EGO) sensors would be affected by the deposition of manganese oxides associated with MMT use, thus sending incorrect signals to the diagnostic control system in the vehicle. 50 Bench testing means the testing of components during which time the components are not actually in the vehicle. The details of this testing can be found in Document II&hyph;D&hyph;56 in Docket A&hyph;93&hyph;26. (An incomplete preliminary report of this information was submitted to the Agency in Document II&hyph;D&hyph;38, Docket A&hyph;93&hyph;26.) Although the Agency regarded the concerns expressed by Ford in its November 4, 1994 submission regarding the effect of MMT use on OBD systems as potentially very important, based on the very limited analysis which could be undertaken prior to the November 30, 1994 deadline for a decision concerning Ethyl's application, the Agency concluded that the limited bench testing submitted by Ford did not allow a conclusion concerning the likelihood that a significant impact would actually occur during vehicle operation. In addition, the Agency had several questions regarding the procedures involved in the Ford testing which could not be resolved within the available time. The November 30, 1994 notice announcing the Administrator's determination concerning emission effects made it clear that EPA was concerned about this issue and would retain the authority to take appropriate action in the future pursuant to Clean Air Act Section 211(c). EPA met with staff of Ford in February of 1994 in order to discuss Ford's concerns raised in its November 4, 1993 submission. Ford generally expressed the same concerns as had been expressed by GM (and discussed above). 51 According to Ford, its testing showed that combustion of gasoline containing MMT deposits a layer of manganese oxide on top of the catalyst washcoat and that this causes the EGO Sensor to measure a lower oxygen level, thereby indicating a higher oxygen storage capacity than that which would be indicated by the catalyst without MMT. As a result, a malfunctioning catalyst might not be detected. Ford expressed particular concern because it had just introduced three 1994 model year vehicle families employing OBD&hyph;II, whereas the other automakers will not have systems out until the 1996 model year. 51 Ford's concerns are discussed in more detail in a memo to docket A&hyph;93&hyph;26, with an attachment submitted to the Agency entitled ``Section 211(c) Impacts of MMT''. Recently, on May 3, 1993, Ford submitted additional information which the Agency is currently reviewing. This new information appears to provide further evidence to substantiate the concerns expressed by Ford regarding the impact of MMT use on OBD systems. Unlike the previously submitted Ford data, the new data address an actual production vehicle fitted with a failed catalyst and the effect use of MMT had on the OBD system's ability to detect failure of the catalyst.
