FR940318-0-00060 FR940318-0-00012 List of Subjects in 26 CFR Part 1 Income taxes, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. Adoption of Amendments to the Regulations Accordingly, 26 CFR part 1 is amended as follows: PART 1_INCOME TAXES Paragraph 1. The authority citation for part 1 is amended by adding an entry in numerical order to read as follows: Authority: 26 U.S.C. 7805 *␣*␣* Section 1.108&hyph;1 also issued under 26 U.S.C. 108(e)(8) and 108(e)(10)(B). *␣*␣* Par. 2. Section 1.108&hyph;1 is added to read as follows: §1.108&hyph;1 Stock-for-debt exception not to apply in de minimis cases. (a) Overview. Section 108(e)(8) provides that the common law stock-for-debt exception does not apply if stock issued for indebtedness is nominal or token or if a proportionality test is not met. Paragraph (b) of this section provides rules for the nominal or token determination under section 108(e)(8)(A). Paragraph (c) of this section provides rules for the proportionality test under section 108(e)(8)(B). Paragraph (d) of this section provides certain general rules and definitions. Paragraph (e) of this section provides an effective date. (b) Issuance of nominal or token stock. Under section 108(e)(8)(A), the common law stock-for-debt exception does not apply to indebtedness discharged for stock that is nominal or token. All relevant facts and circumstances must be considered in making this determination. If common and preferred stock are issued for indebtedness, the determination is made separately with respect to the common stock and the preferred stock. The determination of whether common stock issued for unsecured indebtedness is nominal or token is made on an aggregate basis with respect to all common stock issued for unsecured indebtedness in the title 11 case or insolvency workout. Preferred stock issued for unsecured indebtedness is also tested on an aggregate basis with respect to all preferred stock issued for unsecured indebtedness in the title 11 case or insolvency workout. (c) Issuance of a disproportionately small amount of stock for unsecured indebtedness _(1) Common stock issued for unsecured indebtedness _(i) In general. The common law stock-for-debt exception does not apply to an unsecured indebtedness discharged for common stock in a title 11 case or insolvency workout if the individual common stock ratio does not equal at least one-half of the group common stock ratio. (ii) Individual common stock ratio defined. The individual common stock ratio is the ratio of the value of the common stock issued for an unsecured indebtedness to the amount of the unsecured indebtedness allocated to that common stock. The amount of unsecured indebtedness allocated to the common stock is the amount of the indebtedness for which the common stock is issued (as defined in paragraph (d)(5) of this section), reduced by the amount of other consideration, if any, transferred in exchange for the indebtedness, including_ (A) The amount of any money; (B) The issue price (determined under section 1273 or 1274) of any new indebtedness; (C) With respect to any preferred stock, the amount of indebtedness allocated to the preferred stock under paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section; and (D) The value of any other property, including any disqualified stock. (iii) Group common stock ratio defined. The group common stock ratio is the ratio of the aggregate value of all common stock issued for unsecured indebtedness in the title 11 case or insolvency workout to the aggregate amount of unsecured indebtedness allocated to that common stock. The amount of unsecured indebtedness allocated to the common stock is the aggregate amount of all unsecured indebtedness exchanged for stock or cancelled in the title 11 case or insolvency workout, reduced by the amount of other consideration, if any, issued for that indebtedness, including_ (A) The amount of any money; (B) The issue price (determined under section 1273 or 1274) of any new indebtedness; (C) With respect to any preferred stock, the amount of indebtedness allocated to the preferred stock under paragraph (c)(2)(iii) of this section; and
