FR940419-2-00047 FR940419-2-00033 •Describe a plan that will establish an advisory committee to provide overall guidance and support to the Resource Center. •Describe a plan for coordinating activities with other national Resource Centers, Research Centers and Clearinghouses funded by HHS and other organizations to assure effective utilization of resources and avoid duplication of effort. •Describe a plan for holding at least one national conference per year, in collaboration with the Children's Bureau, for relevant service providers. •Describe a strategy for identifying and disseminating information about innovative and/or exemplary programs. •Describe how the training and technical assistance needs of States identified by the HHS Regional Offices will be met. •Describe a strategy for providing technical assistance to programs to improve the quality and rigor of their evaluations. •Describe the applicant's experience in providing training and technical assistance on a variety of program models serving economically, racially and culturally diverse populations. •Describe a strategy for identifying, documenting and developing innovative and/or exemplary resources such as training curricula and manuals and for assisting the field in adapting such resources to meet specific needs. •Describe a plan for providing technical assistance, training and consultation to service providers and to State agencies to improve professional competency, to insure service coordination and integration, and to promote the utilization of resources and best practices related to the management and administration of respite care programs and crisis nurseries. •Describe a plan for ensuring that the staff of the Resource Center are racially and culturally reflective of the population being served. •Describe a plan for developing a national network of professionals in the field to serve as consultants, for linking these individuals with agencies requesting assistance, for ensuring that the network is racially and culturally diverse, and for ensuring the quality of the consultation provided. •Provide assurances that at least one key staff member would attend an annual four-day meeting in Washington, DC, and at least three additional two-day meetings in Washington, DC with Children's Bureau staff, grantees, service providers, and/or policymakers each year. •Provide assurances that not more than 5 percent of the funds awarded would be used for State administrative costs. •Agree to enter into a Cooperative Agreement which will require the grantee to submit to the Children's Bureau for review and approval: workplans, including, as appropriate, activities involving Headquarters and Regional Office staff; lists of topics to be covered in technical assistance resources, syntheses, summaries and literature reviews; topics, times and places for conferences; topics for any collection of original data; and draft reports, conference agendas and other materials prior to their finalization and dissemination by the grantee. (A Cooperative Agreement is Federal Assistance in which substantial Federal involvement is anticipated. The respective responsibilities of Federal staff and the awardee are negotiated prior to the award.) The grantee shall also cooperate, to the extent that its budget will allow, with the Children's Bureau in meetings, briefings, or other forums to disseminate knowledge gained from its work with States and local communities. Federal Share of Project Costs: The maximum Federal share may notexceed $600,000 for the first 12-month budget period or $1,800,000 for the first 3-years of the project. Funding for years 4 and 5 may exceed $600,000 per budget period based on a comprehensive needs assessment submitted by the grantee. Matching Requirement: There is no matching requirement. Project Duration: The length of the project may not exceed 60 months.
