FR941007-2-00068 FR941007-2-00042 FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM Bank South Corporation, Atlanta, GA, et al. Bank South Corporation, Atlanta, Georgia; Barnett Banks, Inc., Jacksonville, Florida; SunTrust Banks, Inc., Atlanta, Georgia; Synovus Financial Corp., Columbus, Georgia; TB&C Bancshares, Inc., Columbus, Georgia; BB&T Financial Corporation, Wilson, North Carolina; First Citizens Bancshares, Inc., Raleigh, North Carolina; First Union Corporation, Charlotte, North Carolina; NationsBank Corporation, Charlotte, North Carolina; Southern National Corporation, Lumberton, North Carolina; and Wachovia Corporation, Winston-Salem, North Carolina (collectively, Applicants), have applied pursuant to section 4(c)(8) of the Bank Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1843(c)(8)) (BHC Act) and 225.23(a) of the Board's Regulation Y (12 CFR 225.23(a)) to expand the data processing services provided by Southeast Switch, Inc., Maitland, Florida (Company), which operates the Honor electronic funds transfer (EFT) network pursuant to section 225.25(b)(7) of the Board's Regulation Y. Applicants currently engage through Company and its subsidiary, Specialty Network Services, Inc., Maitland, Florida, in card production and related services to entities that are members of the Honor EFT network. Applicants now propose to provide card production and related services to entities that are not members of the Honor EFT network. The proposed card production services would include ordering magnetically striped and integrated circuit plastic cards (including plastic cards sometimes referred to as stored value cards) from card manufacturers, embossing the cards with the name and account numbers of cardholders, encoding information on the cards' magnetic strips, hot stamping cards, and generating and assigning personal identification numbers. Applicants propose to engage in this activity throughout the United States. Closely Related to Banking Standard Section 4(c)(8) of the BHC Act provides that a bank holding company may, with Board approval, engage in any activity ``which the Board after due notice and opportunity for hearing has determined (by order or regulation) to be so closely related to banking or managing or controlling banks as to be a proper incident thereto....'' In determining whether a proposed activity is closely related to banking for purposes of the BHC Act, the Board considers, inter alia , the matters set forth in National Courier Association v. Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System , 516 F.2d 1229 (D.C. Cir. 1975). These considerations are: (1) Whether banks generally have in fact provided the proposed services, (2) Whether banks generally provide services that are operationally or functionally so similar to the proposed services as to equip them particularly well to provide the proposed services, and (3) Whether banks generally provide services that are so integrally related to the proposed services as to require their provision in a specialized form. See 516 F.2d at 1237. In addition, the Board may consider any other basis that may demonstrate that the activity has a reasonable or close relationship to banking or managing or controlling banks. Board Statement Regarding Regulation Y , 49 FR 806 (1984). Applicants maintain that the proposed activities are closely related to banking within the meaning of the BHC Act. Specifically, Applicants maintain that the Board has previously authorized bank holding companies to provide data processing services to nonfinancial customers. See, e.g., Citicorp , 72 Federal Reserve Bulletin 497 (1986). In addition, Applicants maintain that the Board has authorized card embossing and issuance functions with respect to medical benefits cards issued by payer organizations. Banc One Corporation , 80 Federal Reserve Bulletin 139 (1994). In addition, Applicants maintain that the Board has authorized card embossing and encoding functions with respect to stored value cards for nonfinancial institutions. Banc One Corporation , 79 Federal Reserve Bulletin 1158 (1993). Applicants further maintain that the data embossed on the type of cards that are the subject of this application are banking, economic, or financial data that permit the cardholder to initiate or consummate a banking or financial transaction, and that the identity of the customer does not change the financial nature of the information being encoded and processed. Proper Incident to Banking Standard In order to approve the proposal, the Board also must determine that the proposed activities to be conducted by Company ``can reasonably be expected to produce benefits to the public, such as greater convenience, increased competition, or gains in efficiency, that outweigh possible adverse effects, such as undue concentration of resources, decreased or unfair competition, conflicts of interests, or unsound banking practices.'' 12 U.S.C. 1843(c)(8). Applicants believe that the proposal will produce public benefits that outweigh any potential adverse effects. In particular, Applicants maintain that the proposal will enhance customer convenience and efficiency. In addition, Applicants state that the proposed activities will not result in adverse effects such as an undue concentration of resources, decreased or unfair competition, conflicts of interests, or unsound banking practices. In publishing the proposal for comment, the Board does not take a position on issues raised by the proposal. Notice of the proposal is published solely in order to seek the views of interested persons on the issues presented by the application, and does not represent a determination by the Board that the proposal meets or is likely to meet the standards of the BHC Act. Any comments or requests for hearing should be submitted in writing and received by William W. Wiles, Secretary, Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, Washington, DC 20551, not later than November 1, 1994. Any request for a hearing on this application must, as required by 262.3(e) of the Board's Rules of Procedure (12 CFR 262.3(e)), be accompanied by a statement of the reasons why a written presentation would not suffice in lieu of a hearing, identifying specifically any questions of fact that are in dispute, summarizing the evidence that would be presented at a hearing, and indicating how the party commenting would be aggrieved by approval of the proposal. This application may be inspected at the offices of the Board of Governors, the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, or the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond. Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, October 3, 1994. Jennifer J. Johnson, Deputy Secretary of the Board. [FR Doc. 94-24880 Filed 10-6-94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6210-01-F
