FR940428-0-00012 FR940428-0-00004 Accordingly, the Commission is adopting the amendment substantially as proposed. 12 12 The rule, as amended, deletes an outdated reference to sales of electricity at wholesale ``during the existence of the national emergency.'' B. Rule 29: Filing of Reports to State Commissions Rule 29(a), adopted under sections 14 and 15 of the Act, requires a company in a registered holding company system to file with the Commission two copies of each report submitted to stockholders. 13 The Commission believes that the reporting requirement under the rule is no longer necessary. The Commission receives copies of system companies' annual reports to shareholders as exhibits to the Form U5S filed by the parent company. 14 System companies are also subject to extensive disclosure requirements under the other federal securities laws. Among other things, the companies file with the Commission periodic reports on Forms 10&hyph;K and 10&hyph;Q and current reports on Form 8&hyph;K, in addition to the special reports that may be required under circumstances such as a proxy solicitation or tender offer. 13 17 CFR 250.29(a). 14 See Holding Co. Act Release No. 23214, 49 FR 4717 (Feb. 8, 1984). The commenters uniformly favor amendment of rule 29 to delete the reporting requirement as it applies to shareholder reports. Accordingly, the rule is so amended. C. Rule 40(a)(5): Exemption of Acquisitions From Nonaffiliates Companies in a registered system generally require prior Commission approval, under the standards of section 10, for the acquisition of any security. 15 Rule 40(a)(5) provides a limited exemption to this requirement for the acquisition of securities of local industrial or other nonutility enterprises. 16 Under the rule, the acquisition cannot result in an affiliation between the system company and the local enterprise. Further, the rule limits to $50,000 the aggregate amount that a system company can invest each year ``for the purpose of, and in accordance with a State law specifically relating to, promoting the development of business and industry in such territory,'' and to $10,000 the aggregate annual amount that a system company can invest in other local nonutility enterprises. 15 See section 9(a) of the Act. 16 17 CFR 250.40(a)(5). The rule was adopted under section 9(c)(3) which provides that: [Section 9(a)] shall not apply to the acquisition by a registered holding company, or a subsidiary thereof, of .␣.␣. such commercial paper and other securities, within such limitations, as the Commission may by rules and regulations or order prescribe as appropriate in the ordinary course of business of a registered holding company or subsidiary company thereof and as not detrimental to the public interest or the interest of investors or consumers. These dollar amounts have not been increased since the rule was adopted more than 50 years ago. The Commission, however, has authorized by order a number of ``good citizen'' investments in larger amounts. 17 In light of these orders, and to increase the usefulness of the rule, the Commission proposed to remove the dollar limit on investments pursuant to state business development laws, and to increase to $1 million the annual limit on investments in other local enterprises. The amended rule would exempt investments in nonutility enterprises located in the service territory of the acquiring public-utility company or, if the acquiring company were not a public-utility company, in the service territory of the registered system. 17 See, e.g., Hope Gas, Inc., Holding Co. Act Release No. 25407, 50 SEC Docket 344 (Nov. 8, 1991) (authorizing investment of $2 million for venture capital investments pursuant to state law). Upon further consideration, the Commission believes that the proposed amendment may be overbroad as it relates to investments pursuant to state business development laws. It does not appear necessary at this time to provide an unlimited exception for such investments. The rule provides a narrow exception to the requirements of section 9(a)(1) for investments in industrial development and similar entities. The Commission is concerned that an unbounded rule could encourage investments unrelated to the purpose of the rule. Accordingly, the Commission is not removing the dollar limitation but, instead, is increasing it from $50,000 to $5 million per year for investments pursuant to state business development laws. In addition, the Commission is adopting the proposal to increase to $1 million annually the limit on investments in other local enterprises. The commenters have suggested several modifications to the proposed amendment. Northeast asks the Commission to expand the geographic scope to include the entire area served by the entity in which an investment is to be made or in which the activities of the entity have an economic impact, and to the entire state or states in which the system companies operate. Such an expansion could encourage investments that have little or no relationship to the system's service territory, and thus undercut the rationale for the exemption. 18 Accordingly, the Commission declines to grant this request. 18 Without the strict geographic restriction, the rule could be used for purposes of diversification. As noted above, a registered holding company generally requires prior Commission approval, by order upon application, to acquire any interest in any other business. Among other things, such nonutility acquisitions must be functionally related to the operations of the system's integrated public-utility system. It is well settled that section 9(c)(3) cannot be used to circumvent this requirement. See Michigan Consol. Gas Co., 44 S.E.C. 361, 366 (1973), aff'd, 444 F.2d 913 (D.C. Cir. 1971) (providing that section 9(c)(3) cannot be employed to evade the proscriptions of section 11(b)(1)). CSW urges the Commission to increase to $5 million annually the permissible aggregate investment in local enterprises that are not organized pursuant to state business development laws. The comment suggests that this dollar amount is necessary to provide a meaningful stimulus in a given region. The Commission declines to adopt this suggestion. The $1 million limit is intended to facilitate certain limited ``good citizen'' investments. The nominal dollar amount provides a safeguard against potential abuses. A company seeking to engage in a transaction that is not within the terms of the rule may, of course, seek Commission approval by order upon application.
