FR940727-2-00032 FR940727-2-00025 K. ``Assets and Businesses'' include, but are not limited to, all assets, properties, businesses, rights, privileges, contractual interests, licenses, and goodwill of whatever nature, tangible and intangible, including, without limitation, the following: 1. all real property interests (including fee simple interests and real property leasehold interests, whether as lessor or lessee), together with all buildings, improvements and fixtures located thereon, all construction in progress thereat, all appurtenances thereto, and all licenses and permits related thereto (collectively, the ``Real Property''); 2. all contracts and agreements with physicians, other health care providers, unions, third party payors, HMOs, customers, suppliers, sales representatives, distributors, agents, personal property lessors, personal property lessees, licensors, licensees, cosigners and consignees (collectively, the ``contracts''); 3. all machinery, equipment, fixtures, vehicles, furniture, inventories and supplies (other than such inventories and supplies as are used in the ordinary course of business during the time that Healthtrust owns the assets) (collectively, the ``Personal Property''); 4. all research materials, technical information, management information systems, software, software licenses, inventions, trade secrets, technology, know how, specifications, designs, drawings, processes, and quality control data (collectively, the ``Intangible Personal Property''); 5. all books, records and files, excluding, however, the corporate minute books and tax records of Healthtrust and its Affiliates; and 6. all prepaid expenses. II It is ordered, that: A. Respondent shall divest, absolutely and in good faith, within six (6) months of the date this order becomes final, the Schedule A Assets, and shall also divest such additional assets and businesses ancillary to Holy Cross Hospital of Salt Lake City, Utah (excluding Pioneer Valley Hospital, Lakeview Hospital, Jordan Valley Hospital, St. Benedict's Hospital, Salt Lake Industrial Clinic, and West Jordan Clinic), and effect such arrangements as are necessary to assure the marketability and the viability and competitiveness of the Schedule A Assets. B. Respondent shall divest the Schedule A Assets only to an acquirer that receives the prior approval of the Commission and only in a manner that receives the prior approval of the Commission. The purpose of the divestiture of the Schedule A Assets is to ensure the continuation of the Schedule A Assets as an ongoing, viable acute care hospital and to remedy the lessening of competition resulting from the Acquisition as alleged in the Commission's complaint. C. Respondent shall comply with all terms of the Agreement to Hold Separate, attached hereto and made a part hereof as Appendix I. Said Agreement shall continue in effect until such time as respondent has fulfilled the divestiture requirements of this order or until such other time as the Agreement to Hold Separate provides. D. Pending divestiture of the Schedule A Assets, respondent shall take such actions as are necessary to maintain the viability and competitiveness and the marketability of the Schedule A Assets and to prevent the destruction, removal, wasting, deterioration, or impairment of any of the Scheduled Assets except for ordinary wear and tear. E. A condition of approval by the Commission of the divestiture shall be a written agreement by the acquirer of the Schedule A Assets that it will not sell for a period of ten (10) years from the date of divestiture, directly or indirectly, through subsidiaries, partnerships or otherwise, without the prior approval of the Commission, the Schedule A Assets to any person who operates, or will operate immediately following the sale, any other acute care hospital in the Three-County Area. Provided, however, that the acquirer is not required to seek prior approval of the Commission for the sale of any of the assets identified in Part II of Schedule A.
