FR940127-2-00021 FR940127-2-00015 DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY Commercialization Projects for Renewable Energy Technologies AGENCY: Department of Energy. ACTION: Request for Project Summaries and Notice of Solicitation for Financial Assistance Applications Number DE&hyph;PS02&hyph;94CH10595. SUMMARY: The U.S. Department of Energy (DOE), through the Commercialization Ventures Program, announces its intention to issue a competitive solicitation and make multiple (at least two (2)) awards to accelerate commercialization of emerging renewable energy (RE) technologies or innovative applications of existing RE technologies. This action is subject to the DOE Financial Assistance Rules, which can be found in Title 10 of the Code of Federal Regulations (10 CFR part 600). AVAILABILITY OF THE SOLICITATION: To obtain a copy of the solicitation once it is issued on or about March 1, 1994, write to the U.S. Department of Energy's Golden Field Office, 1617 Cole Blvd., Golden, CO, 80401, Attn: Mr. John Meeker, Contract Specialist. Only written requests for the solicitation will be honored. For convenience, requests for the solicitation may be faxed to Mr. Meeker at (303) 275&hyph;4790. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: In accordance with the Renewable Energy and Energy Efficiency Technology Competitiveness Act of 1989 (Act), as amended by the Energy Policy Act of 1992, the U.S. Department of Energy, Office of Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy, is seeking preliminary information from sources able to demonstrate the commercial potential of emerging renewable energy (RE) technologies or innovative applications of existing RE technologies, to participate in a competitive solicitation for DOE financial assistance. In creating the Act Congress stated, ``what is needed is a partnership between the Federal Government, domestic manufacturers, marketers, and potential users of renewable energy *␣*␣* technologies.'' Without this partnership, the availability of these technologies for domestic industry could be substantially delayed.'' As defined in the Act, an emerging RE technology is one that has already been proven to work, but which has not been commercialized or has been limited to sub-commercial demonstration or quantities, to restricted or controlled operation, or to only selected applications. Awards under the solicitation will be Grants or Cooperative Agreements (depending on the scope of the project and need for substantial DOE involvement) administered in accordance with 10 CFR 600, DOE's Financial Assistance Rules. The following are RE areas that DOE will consider for financial assistance under the solicitation: •Demonstration of the market readiness of an emerging technology in a new application or environment or at a sufficient scale or size likely to encourage private investment in commercial facilities or systems. •Market introduction activities of a product or service having potentially high energy payoff and/or high replication value by other users. •Financial support that will reduce risk for, or otherwise enable, private financing of a new venture. •Financial assistance that will enable private sector investment in new RE manufacturing, evaluation and test, or quality control facilities leading to commercial product introduction. Projects may include those for the production or delivery of electricity, thermal energy, or other forms of energy using renewable energy technology; or, improvements in, or expansion of, facilities for the manufacture of renewable energy technologies. Projects selected are expected to include, but are not limited to, the following specific areas of renewable energy technology:
