FR941107-2-00220 FR941107-2-00112 The Need for a New Isolation Guideline By the early 1990s, isolation had become an infection control conundrum. 54 Although many hospitals had incorporated all or portions of UP into their category- or disease-specific isolation system and others had adopted all or portions of BSI, 55-56 there was much local variation in the interpretation and use of UP and BSI and a variety of combinations was common. Further, there was considerable confusion about which body fluids or substances required precautions under UP and BSI. Many hospitals espousing UP were really using BSI and vice-versa. Moreover, there was continued lack of agreement about the importance of handwashing when gloves were used 14-15,27-29,37-38,57-58 and the need for additional precautions beyond BSI to prevent airborne, droplet, and contact transmission. 14-15,27-29,31,36,59-60 Some hospitals had not implemented appropriate guidelines for preventing transmission of tuberculosis, including multidrug-resistant tuberculosis. 61 As other multidrug-resistant microorganisms 62-63 were emerging, some hospitals failed to recognize them as new problems and to add appropriate precautions that would contain them. In view of these problems and concerns, no simple adjustment to any of the existing approaches_UP, BSI, the CDC isolation guideline, or other isolation systems_appeared likely to solve the conundrum. Clearly what was needed was a new synthesis of the various systems that would provide a guideline with logistically feasible recommendations for preventing the many infections that occur in hospitals through diverse modes of transmission. To achieve this, the new guideline would have to be (1) epidemiologically sound, (2) recognize the importance of all body fluids, secretions, and excretions in the transmission of nosocomial pathogens, (3) contain adequate precautions for infections transmitted by the airborne, droplet, and contact routes of transmission, (4) be as simple and user friendly as possible, and (5) use new terms to avoid confusion with existing systems. Based on these considerations, a new guideline was subsequently developed. It contains three important changes from previous recommendations. First, it synthesizes the major features of UP 27-28 and BSI 29-30 into a single set of precautions to be used for the care of all patients in hospitals regardless of their presumed infection status. These precautions, called Standard Precautions, are designed to reduce the risk of transmission of bloodborne and other pathogens in hospitals. As a result of this synthesis, a large number of patients with diseases or conditions that previously required category- or disease-specific precautions in the 1983 CDC isolation guideline 4 are now covered under Standard Precautions and do not require additional precautions. Second, it collapses the old categories of isolation precautions (Strict Isolation, Contact Isolation, Respiratory Isolation, Tuberculosis Isolation, Enteric Precautions, and Drainage/Secretion Precautions) and the old disease-specific precautions into three sets of precautions based on routes of transmission for a smaller number of specified patients known or suspected to be infected or colonized with highly transmissible or epidemiologically important pathogens; these Transmission-based Precautions, designed to reduce the risk of airborne, droplet, and contact transmission in hospitals, are to be used in addition to Standard Precautions. Third, it lists specific syndromes in both adult and pediatric patients that are highly suspicious for infection and identifies appropriate Transmission-based Precautions to use on an empiric, temporary basis until a diagnosis can be made; these empiric, temporary precautions are also designed to be used in addition to Standard Precautions. The details of the guideline recommendations are presented in Part II, ``Recommendations for Isolation Precautions in Hospitals.'' In summary, the new guideline is another step in the evolution of isolation practices in U.S. hospitals. It is now recommended for review and use by hospitals with the following provision. No guideline can address all of the needs of the more than 6,000 U.S. hospitals, which range in size from 5 beds to more than 1,500 beds and serve very different patient populations. Hospitals are encouraged to review the guideline and to modify it according to what is possible, practical, and prudent. Part II. Recommendations for Isolation Precautions in Hospitals Rationale for Isolation Precautions in Hospitals Spread of infection within a hospital requires three elements: a source of infecting microorganisms, a susceptible host, and a means of transmission for the microorganism. Source Human sources of the infecting microorganisms in hospitals may be patients, personnel, or, on occasion, visitors and may include persons with acute disease, persons in the incubation period of a disease, persons who are colonized by an infectious agent but have no apparent disease, or persons who are chronic carriers of an infectious agent. Other sources of infecting microorganisms can be the patient's own endogenous flora, which may be difficult to control, and inanimate environmental objects that have become contaminated, including equipment and medications. Host Resistance among persons to pathogenic microorganisms varies greatly. Some persons may be immune to infection or be able to resist colonization by an infectious agent; others exposed to the same agent may establish a commensal relationship with the infecting microorganism and become asymptomatic carriers; still others may develop clinical disease. Host factors such as age; underlying diseases; certain treatments with antimicrobials, corticosteroids or other immunosuppressive agents; irradiation; and breaks in the first line of defense mechanisms caused by such factors as surgical operations, anesthesia, and indwelling catheters may render patients more susceptible to infection. Transmission Microorganisms are transmitted in hospitals by several routes, and the same microorganism may be transmitted by more than one route. There are five main routes of transmission_contact, droplet, airborne, common vehicle, and vectorborne. For the purpose of this guideline, common vehicle and vectorborne transmission will be discussed only briefly since neither play a significant role in typical nosocomial infections.
