FR940324-1-00064 FR940324-1-00020 (3) Establish, in cooperation with State transportation or highway departments and universities: (i) Urban technical assistance program centers in States with 2 or more urbanized areas of 50,000 to 1,000,000 population; and (ii) rural technical assistance program centers. (b) Not less than 2 centers under paragraph (a)(3) of this section shall be designated to provide transportation assistance that may include, but is not necessarily limited to, a ``circuit-rider'' program, providing training on intergovernmental transportation planning and project selection, and tourism and recreational travel to American Indian tribal governments. (c) Funds required to carry out the provisions of this section shall be taken out of administrative funds deducted pursuant to 23 U.S.C. 104(a). This includes up to 100 percent for services provided to American Indian tribal governments. In addition, the Secretary of the Interior may reserve funds from the Bureau of Indian Affairs' administrative funds associated with the Indian reservation roads program to finance the Indian technical centers authorized pursuant to 23 U.S.C. 326. Subpart B_Public Hearings on Road Projects ยง170.30 Purpose and objectives. The regulations in this subpart govern the notification and conduct of public hearings on BIA road projects in order to promote coordination and comprehensive planning of construction activities on Indian reservations. The objectives for conducting public hearings on proposed road projects are to: (a) Inform interested persons of the road proposals that affect them and allow such persons to express their views at those stages of the project's development when the flexibility to respond to these views still exists; and (b) Ensure that road locations and designs are consistent with the reservations objectives and with applicable Federal regulations. ยง170.31 Criteria. A public hearing shall be held for each project if it: (a) Is a new route being constructed; (b) Would significantly change the layout or function of connecting or related roads or streets; (c) Would cause substantial adverse effect on adjacent real property; or (d) Is expected to be of a controversial nature. ยง170.32 Need for public hearing determined. The Superintendent shall call a meeting of representatives from the tribe, the BIA, and other appropriate agencies to determine if a public hearing is needed for each road project. The determination shall be based on the criteria given in ยง170.31. More than one public hearing may be held for a project if necessary.
