FR941219-2-00152 FR941219-2-00080 [Release No. 34&hyph;35084; International Series Release No. 756; File No. SR&hyph;Amex&hyph;94&hyph;54] Self-Regulatory Organizations; Notice of Filing and Immediate Effectiveness of Proposed Rule Change by the American Stock Exchange, Inc. Relating to the Listing of Options on the Amex Airline Index December 12, 1994. Pursuant to Section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act''), 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1), notice is hereby given that on December 7, 1994, the American Stock Exchange, Inc. (``Amex'' or ``Exchange'') filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``Commission'') the proposed rule change as described in Items I, II, and III below, which Items have been prepared by the Exchange. The Commission is publishing this notice to solicit comments on the proposed rule change from interested persons. I. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Terms of Substance of the Proposed Rule Change The Exchange proposes to trade options on The Amex Airline Index (``Index''), a new stock index developed by the Amex based on airline industry stocks (or ADRs thereon) which are traded on the Amex, the New York Stock Exchange, Inc. (``NYSE''), or are national market system (``Nasdaq/NMS'') securities traded through Nasdaq. In addition, the Amex proposes to amend Rule 901C, Commentary .01 to reflect that 90% of the Index's numerical index value will be accounted for by stocks that meet the current criteria and guidelines set forth in Rule 915. The text of the proposed rule change is available at the Office of the Secretary, the Amex, and at the Commission. II. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change In its filing with the Commission, the Amex included statements concerning the purpose of and basis for the proposed rule change. The text of these statements may be examined at the places specified in Item IV below. The Exchange has prepared summaries, set forth in Section (A), (B), and (C) below, of the most significant aspects of such statements. (A) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change The Amex has developed a new industry-specific index called The Amex Airline Index, based entirely on shares of widely-held airline industry stocks or American Depository Receipts (``ADRs'') which are exchange listed or are Nasdaq/NMS securities. 1 It is intended that the Amex list standardized option contracts on the newly developed Index. The Exchange is filing this proposal pursuant to Rule 901C, Commentary .02, which provides for the commencement of trading of options on the Index thirty days after the filing date, i.e., 30 days after December 7, 1994. The Exchange represents that the proposal satisfies all the criteria set forth in Commentary .02 to Rule 901C and the Commission's order approving that rule as outlined below. 2 1 The component securities of the Index are AMR Corp., British Airways PLC (ADR), Southwest Airlines; UAL Corporation, Delta Air Lines Inc., KLM Royal Dutch Air, Alaska Airgroup Inc., Continental Airlines Inc. (Class B), Northwest Airlines Corporation, and USAir Group. 2 See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 34157 (June 3, 1994), 59 FR 30062 (June 10, 1994) (``Generic Index Approval Order''). Eligibility Standards for Index Components Pursuant to Commentary .02 to Amex Rule 901C, the Amex represents that all of the component securities of the Index are listed on the NYSE or are Nasdaq/NMS securities, each of the component securities has a minimum market capitalization of at least $75 million, 3 and each has a monthly trading volume of at least one million shares per month over each of the six months preceding the filing of this proposal. In addition, all of the component securities in the Index have standardized options traded on them and thus have met the initial eligibility criteria for standardized options trading set forth in Amex Rule 915. One component (USAir Group), however, has traded below $5 during two of the last six months. While it is not known at this point whether options on USAir Group will eventually be delisted, the Index would still satisfy the criteria set forth in Commentary .02 to Rule 901C because as a result of each quarterly rebalancing, at least 90% of the value of the Index and at least 80% of the total number of components will meet the standards set forth in Rule 915. 3 In the case of ADRs, this represents market value as measured by total world-wide shares outstanding.
