FR940208-2-00157 FR940208-2-00092 (2) An Index referred to in subrule (1) shall, where applicable, identify those items that contain proprietary information, privileged information or government information by a statement to that effect. (3) Where a document containing proprietary information is filed, it shall be filed under seal in accordance with rule 46. (4) No privileged information shall be filed with the responsible Secretariat unless the investigating authority waives the privilege and voluntarily files the information or the information is filed pursuant to an order of a panel. (5) No government information shall be filed with the Secretariat unless the investigating authority, after having reviewed the government information and, where applicable, after having pursued appropriate review procedures, determines that the information may be disclosed. 42. Reserved. 43. Reserved. Part III_Panels Announcement of Panel 44. On the completion of the selection of a panel, the responsible Secretary shall notify the participants and the other Secretary of the names of the panelists. Violation of Code of Conduct 45. Where a participant in a panel review believes that a panelist or an assistant to a panelist is in violation of the Code of Conduct, the participant shall forthwith notify the responsible Secretary in writing of the alleged violation. The responsible Secretary shall promptly notify the other Secretary and the Parties of the allegations. Part IV_Proprietary Information and Privileged Information Filing or Service under Seal 46. (1) Where, under these rules, a document containing proprietary information or privileged information is required to be filed under seal with the Secretariat or is required to be served under seal, the document shall be filed or served in accordance with this rule and, where the document is a pleading, in accordance with rule 59. (2) A document filed or served under seal shall be (a) bound separately from all other documents; (b) clearly marked (i) in the case of a document containing proprietary information, ``Proprietary'' or ``Confidential'', and (ii) in the case of a document containing privileged information, ``Privileged''; and (c) contained in an opaque inner wrapper and an opaque outer wrapper. (3) An inner wrapper referred to in subrule (2)(c) shall indicate (a) that proprietary information or privileged information is enclosed, as the case may be; and (b) the Secretariat file number of the panel review. 47. Filing or service of proprietary information or privileged information with the Secretariat does not constitute a waiver of the designation of the information as proprietary information or privileged information. Disclosure Orders and Protective Orders 48. (1) A counsel of record, or a professional retained by, or under the control or direction of, a counsel of record, who wishes disclosure of proprietary information in a panel review shall file a Disclosure Undertaking or a Protective Order Application with respect to the proprietary information as follows: (a) with the responsible Secretariat, four copies; and (b) with the investigating authority, one original and any additional copies that the investigating authority requires. (2) A Disclosure Undertaking or Protective Order Application referred to in subrule (1) shall be served (a) where the Disclosure Undertaking or Protective Order Application is filed before the expiration of the time period fixed for filing a Notice of Appearance in the panel review, on the persons listed in the service list; and
