FR940811-0-00044 FR940811-0-00016 List of Subjects in 40 CFR Part 228 Environmental protection, Water Pollution Control. Dated: July 15, 1994. Nora L. McGee, Acting Regional Administrator, EPA Region IX. In consideration of the foregoing, subchapter H of chapter I of title 40 is amended as set forth below. PART 228_[AMENDED] 1. The authority citation for part 228 continues to read as follows: Authority: 33 U.S.C. Sections 1412 and 1418. 2. Section 228.12 is amended by adding paragraph (b)(70) to read as follows: §228.12 Delegation of management authority for ocean dumping sites. * * * * * (b) *␣*␣* (70) San Francisco Deepwater Ocean Site (SF&hyph;DODS) Ocean Dredged Material Disposal Site_Region IX. Location: Center coordinates of the oval-shaped site are: 37 ○ 39.0 ’ North latitude by 123 ○ 29.0 ’ West longitude (North American Datum from 1983), with length (north-south axis) and width (west-east axis) dimensions of approximately 4 nautical miles (7.5 kilometers) and 2.5 nautical miles (4.5 kilometers), respectively. Size: 6.5 square nautical miles (22 square kilometers). Depth: 8,200 to 9,840 feet (2,500 to 3,000 meters). Use Restricted to Disposal of: Dredged materials. Period of Use: Continuing use over 50 years from date of site designation, subject to restrictions and provisions set forth below. Restrictions/Provisions: The remainder of this Rule constitutes the required Site Management and Monitoring Plan (SMMP) for the SF&hyph;DODS. This SMMP shall be supplemented by a Site Management and Monitoring Plan Implementation Manual (SMMP Implementation Manual) containing more detailed operational guidance. The SMMP Implementation Manual may be periodically revised as necessary; proposed revisions to the SMMP Implementation Manual shall be made following opportunity for public review and comment. SF&hyph;DODS use shall be subject to the following restrictions and provisions: (i) Type and capacity of disposed materials. The interim site disposal capacity shall be 6 million cubic yards of suitable dredged material per year until December 31, 1996. Thereafter, the capacity of the SF&hyph;DODS shall be set in a separate rulemaking based on either a comprehensive long-term management strategy for management of dredged materials from San Francisco Bay (reflected in an EPA-prepared dredged material management planning document) or a separate alternatives- based EPA evaluation of the need for ocean disposal. This separate rulemaking will identify the appropriate site capacity for the remaining life of this site designation. No disposal at the SF&hyph;DODS may occur after December 31, 1996 without subsequent promulgation by Rule of appropriate annual site disposal capacity. (ii) Permit/project conditions. Paragraph (b)(70)(ii)(A) of this section sets forth requirements for inclusion in permits to use the SF&hyph;DODS, and in all Army Corps of Engineers federal project authorizations. Paragraph (b)(70)(ii)(B) of this section describes additional project-specific conditions that will be required of disposal permits and operations as appropriate. Paragraph (b)(70)(ii)(C) of this section describes how alternative permit conditions may be authorized by EPA and the Corps of Engineers. All references to ``permittees'' shall be deemed to include the Army Corps of Engineers when implementing a federal dredging project. (A) Mandatory Conditions. All permits or federal project authorizations authorizing use of the SF&hyph;DODS shall include the following conditions, unless approval for an alternative permit condition is sought and granted pursuant to paragraph (b)(70)(ii)(C) of this section: (1) Transportation of dredged material to the SF&hyph;DODS shall only be allowed when weather and sea state conditions will not interfere with safe transportation and will not create risk of spillage, leak or other loss of dredged material in transit to the SF&hyph;DODS. No disposal vessel trips shall be initiated when the National Weather Service has predicted combined seas in excess of eighteen feet or has issued a gale warning for local waters during the time period necessary for the disposal vessel to complete dumping operations. (2) All vessels used for dredged material transportation and disposal must be load-lined at a level at which dredged material is not expected to be spilled in transit under anticipated sea state conditions. Disposal vessels shall not be filled above their load limitations. Before any disposal vessel departs for the SF&hyph;DODS, an independent quality control inspector must certify that it is filled correctly. For purposes of paragraph (b)(70)(ii) of this section, ``independent'' means not an employee of the permittee; however, the Corps of Engineers may provide inspectors for Corps of Engineers disposal operations. (3) Dredged material shall not be leaked or spilled from disposal vessels during transit to the SF&hyph;DODS. (4) Disposal vessels in transit to and from the SF&hyph;DODS shall remain at least three nautical miles from the Farallon Islands at all times. (5) When dredged material is discharged within the SF&hyph;DODS, no portion of the vessel from which materials are released (for example, a hopper dredge vessel or a towed barge) can be further than 3,200 feet from the center of the target area, centered at 37 ○39 ’N, 123 ○29 ’W. (6) No more than one disposal vessel may be present within the permissible dumping target area referred to in paragraph (b)(70)(ii)(A) (5) of this section at any time. (7) Disposal vessels shall use an appropriate navigation system capable of indicating the position of the vessel carrying dredged material (for example, a hopper dredge vessel or a towed barge) with a minimum accuracy and precision of 100 feet during all disposal operations. If the positioning system fails, all disposal operations must cease until the navigational capabilities are restored. (8) The permittee shall maintain daily records of the amount of material dredged and loaded into barges for disposal, the times that disposal vessel depart for, arrive at and return from the SF&hyph;DODS, the exact locations and times of disposal, and the volumes of material disposed at the SF&hyph;DODS during each vessel trip. The permittee shall further record wind and sea state observations at intervals to be established in the permit. (9) For each disposal vessel trip, the permittee shall maintain a computer printout from a Global Positioning System or other acceptable navigation system showing transit routes and disposal coordinates, including the time and position of the disposal vessel when dumping was commenced and completed. (10) An independent quality control inspector (as defined in paragraph (b)(70)(ii)(A)( 2 ) of this section) shall observe all dredging and disposal operations. The inspector shall verify the information required in paragraphs (b)(70)(ii)(A)( 8 ) of this section and ( 9 ). The inspector shall promptly inform permittees of any inaccuracies or discrepancies concerning this information and shall prepare summary reports, which summarize all such inaccuracies and discrepancies, from time to time as shall be specified in permits. Such summary reports shall be sent by the permittee to the District Engineer and the Regional Administrator within a time interval that shall be specified in the permit. (11) The permittee shall report any anticipated or actual permit violations to the District Engineer and the Regional Administrator within 24 hours of discovering such violations. In addition, the permittee shall prepare and submit reports, certified accurate by the independent quality control inspector, on a frequency that shall be specified in permits, to the District Engineer and the Regional Administrator setting forth the information required by paragraphs (b)(70)(ii)(A)( 8 ) and ( 9 ).
