FR940127-2-00073 FR940127-2-00058 b. At least three workers in a firm (or appropriate subdivision thereof) with a work force of fewer than 50 workers would ordinarily have to be affected. Total or partial separation. All analyses of separations must treat total and partial separations equally. a. Partial separation means, with respect to an individual who has not been totally separated, that the worker's: (1) Hours of work have been reduced to 80 percent or less of the worker's average weekly hours at the firm or appropriate subdivision thereof, and (2) Wages have been reduced to 80 percent or less of the worker's average weekly wage at the firm or appropriate subdivision thereof. b. Total separation means the layoff or severance of an individual from a firm or an appropriate subdivision thereof. Criteria in Subparagraph (A): The following guidance and definitions shall apply: a. Sales and production data must be obtained from the subject firm for the current 12-month period and the previous 12-month period in order to determine whether an absolute decrease in sales or production has occurred. b. Increased imports. The Department's Office of Trade Adjustment Assistance (OTAA) will provide information based on available data regarding imports from Mexico or Canada of articles like or directly competitive with those produced by the firm or subdivision of the firm. c. Like or directly competitive means that ``like'' articles are those which are substantially identical in inherent or intrinsic characteristics (i.e., materials from which the articles are made, appearance, quality, texture, etc.); and ``directly competitive'' articles are those which, although not substantially identical in their inherent or intrinsic characteristics, are substantially equivalent for commercial purposes (i.e., adapted to the same uses and essentially interchangeable therefor). An imported article is ``directly competitive'' with a domestic article at an earlier or later stage of processing, and a domestic article is ``directly competitive with'' an imported article at an earlier or later stage of processing, if the importation of the article has an economic effect on producers of the domestic article comparable to the effect of importation of articles in the same stage of processing as the domestic article. Criterion in Subparagraph (B): The criterion under subparagraph (B) breaks down into the following elements: a. Determination of article. The article must be like or directly competitive with the article that has been produced in the U.S. by the subject firm or subdivision of the firm. Workers of firms that provide a service rather than produce an article are excluded from coverage. Workers of firms that are suppliers of ``components'' related to the defined ``like or competitive article'' may be covered only if those articles produced by such firms independently meet the eligibility criteria for certification or the shift in production criterion. b. Action. The article must have been formerly produced by a U.S. located firm or subdivision of the firm and is now produced in Mexico or Canada. Since the law does not address ownership of the producing firm, the shift in production can be either by the firm or subdivision moving the plant to Mexico or Canada, or the U.S. firm contracting with a different firm located in Mexico or Canada. c. Definition. A ``shift of production'' is defined to mean a tangible action or commitment to contract or license production of an article within a definite period of time by the workers' firm with a firm in Mexico or Canada, including the actual production of an article that was formerly produced by a U.S. located firm or subdivision, by a producing plant located in Mexico or Canada.
