FR940527-1-00101 FR940527-1-00014 Response: We agree that the blend formula used to calculate Medicare payments to hospitals for ambulatory surgical center-approved procedures, radiology services, and certain other diagnostic procedures should be revised, as suggested by ProPAC. It should be noted that the President's proposed Health Security Act contains a provision that would make the correction suggested by ProPAC. I. Beneficiary Liability for Hospital Outpatient Services (Recommendation 22) Recommendation: Beneficiary coinsurance for hospital outpatient services should be limited to 20 percent of the Medicare-allowed payment, as it is in other settings. For services not paid on a prospective basis, beneficiary copayment would need to be estimated because it is not known at the time of service delivery. Response: We share ProPAC's concern that beneficiaries may be paying a disproportionate share of the total payment for hospital outpatient services under the current cost based system. However, we are in the process of developing a prospective payment system for hospital outpatient services that will be moving away from costs and charges as a basis for payment. We believe that it would be most appropriate to make any changes to beneficiary coinsurance in conjunction with the implementation of this hospital outpatient prospective payment system. Therefore, as we develop this system, we are reviewing the issue of beneficiary liability and are working to come up with an approach that will be fair to beneficiaries, while minimizing the negative financial impact on the Medicare program. J. Limit the Length of Outpatient Observation Stays (Recommendation 23) Recommendation: The Commission recommends limiting the length of hospital outpatient observation stays. Further, these changes should be coordinated with Peer Review Organizations (PROs) so that appropriate short stay admissions are not denied. ProPAC supports HCFA's efforts in this regard. Response: We appreciate ProPAC's support for our efforts to limit the length of hospital outpatient observation stays. Later this year, we plan to release Part A Intermediary Manual and Hospital Manual instructions to help curb inappropriate use of outpatient observation services, including lengthy stays of days and weeks. These instructions will require hospitals to admit patients who have been under observation in outpatient departments for two consecutive midnights. Release of this new national policy will provide needed consistency throughout the country in applying outpatient observation service guidelines, reduce inappropriate use of such services, and reduce the beneficiary's liability for Part B copayments. On August 13, 1993, we released a letter to the Executive Directors of all PROs to clarify PRO responsibilities when conducting reviews of cases involving short hospital stays. PROs were asked to assure that their review staffs base their determinations on the beneficiary's need for inpatient services rather than basing the decision on the payment consequences.
