FR940928-0-00071 FR940928-0-00021 4. Sub-Categories for Ranges of Comparability Under the Rule, each required label on a covered appliance must show, in addition to the energy usage of the appliance itself, a range, or scale, indicating the range of energy costs or efficiencies for all models of a size or capacity comparable to the labeled model. To accomplish this, the Rule contains appendices that list sub-categories for each product category divided by fuel type and capacity groupings. 39 39 For example, water heaters are divided into four sub-categories by fuel_natural gas, propane, electric, and oil. Each of these sub-categories is further divided into increments of capacity expressed in first hour ratings. Thus, a label on a gas-fired water heater with a first hour rating of 37 gallons will disclose the range of energy usage of all gas-fired water heaters with first hour ratings of between 35 and 40 gallons. NAECA 87 established a minimum efficiency standard for pool heaters, but it did not create any size or capacity sub-category beyond ``pool heaters.'' 40 The DOE standard also does not create sub-categories. 41 The NPR solicited information on whether, for purposes of ranges of comparability under the Commission's Rule, there should be one category encompassing both fuel types, or two categories, one for each of the two fuel types_oil-fired and gas-fired models_for which there is currently an applicable DOE test procedure. 40 See 42 U.S.C. 6295(e)(2). 41 See 10 CFR 430.32(k). One comment addressed this question. CEC suggested that gas- and oil-fired pool heaters are sufficiently similar to be included in one group. 42 The Commission agrees that gas- and oil-fired pool heaters are similar from a minimum efficiency standards perspective (the standard is the same for both_a thermal efficiency of no less than 78%). However, since 1980, the Commission has grouped products by different fuel types for purposes of the ranges of comparability. The Commission finds that this is the clearest and most informative way of presenting the ranges to consumers. Accordingly, the Commission amends the Rule to include separate ranges of comparability for gas-fired and oil-fired pool heaters. See revised Appendices J1 and J2 in ``Text of Amendments,'' below. 42 CEC, EE&hyph;2, 2&hyph;3. 5. Label Format The Commission recognizes that pool heaters are sometimes not seen by consumers before purchase. They are often purchased as the result of a pool installation professional's recommendation and are ordered from industry brochures or specification sheets. The NPR, therefore, solicited comment on whether amendments requiring labels for pool heaters should require a ``conventional'' product-specific label approach for these products or another labeling format. ``Conventional'' product-specific labels contain all the required energy use information and are used for refrigerators, refrigerator-freezers and freezers, water heaters, dishwashers, clothes washers, and room air conditioners. 43 The NPR also asked for comment on whether it would be more useful to require that pool heaters be labeled with a label like the one required for central air conditioners. For these products, the Commission requires a product-specific label, but with only some of the required energy usage information. Other required information must be disclosed on separate fact sheets or in an industry-produced directory. 44 43 See 16 CFR 305.11(a)(5). The required information includes: the name of the manufacturer, the model number and capacity of the product, the energy consumption of the product, the appropriate range of energy usage for similarly sized products, a statement that the information is based on U.S. government tests, and a statement disclosing cost of operation based on a national average utility rate. 44 16 CFR 305.11(a)(5)(iii) and (c). The label on the product discloses the energy efficiency of the labeled unit and the range of efficiencies for all similar products, and it directs consumers to ask for further information on fact sheets or in directories. The fact sheets and directories must disclose information on cost of operation. In recent amendments to the Rule the Commission also adopted this disclosure approach for furnaces. See 58 FR 34014, 34016 (July 1, 1994). Two comments addressed the issue of label type and format. CEC favored a conventional label for pool heaters. 45 ACEEE suggested a simplified label with a requirement for disclosure of comprehensive information on a fact sheet, in an industry directory, or in marketing materials. 46 As discussed in Part II.A.3, above, the only measure of energy usage that can be derived through the current DOE test for these products is thermal efficiency. Therefore, requiring manufacturers to disclose ``other information'' through other formats would be inappropriate. Moreover, without a method for determining estimated annual operating cost, the Commission cannot require the ``Operating Cost Statement'' that is standard on ``conventional'' labels. Consequently, the Commission is amending the Rule to require that labels for pool heaters disclose the thermal efficiency of the product in the format of the ``conventional'' label for room air conditioners, but without the ``Operating Cost Statement.'' See the Sample Label for pool heaters in ``Text of Amendments,'' below. 45 CEC, EE&hyph;2, 3. 46 ACEEE, EE&hyph;3, 1.
