FR941130-0-00037 FR941130-0-00003 In line with the commenter who suggested that the OTS allow test case submissions in order to develop a structure that would address the issues, the OTS emphasizes that it retains its general waiver authority under part 563b to permit a merger conversion transaction under appropriate circumstances. 21 An institution seeking a waiver of the merger conversion limitation will bear the burden of demonstrating how a proposed transaction specifically addresses the concerns set forth above and in the interim final rule, and will also be required to document specific business, economic and corporate reasons for a merger conversion. As discussed in the interim final rule, however, the OTS has identified a number of significant structural abuses and regulatory problems inherent in merger conversions. 22 Thus, while the OTS continues to remain open to the development of a transaction structure that addresses these problems, a healthy institution faces significant hurdles in demonstrating its transaction will resolve these problems. 21 One situation suggested by some commenters and to which the OTS would give serious consideration is where a converting association could demonstrate by clear and convincing evidence that a standard conversion would not be economically feasible, based on the ratio of expenses to gross proceeds, because of the asset size of an institution. Very small institutions, i.e. those with assets under $25 million are more likely to be able to establish such a justification. 22 See 59 FR 22725, 22729 (May 3, 1994); see also testimony of a House Financial Institutions Subcommittee Hearing on Mutual-to-Stock Conversions dated January 26, 1994. In the interim final rule, the OTS stated that merger conversions could be done as a two-step process in which the mutual account holders are initially granted an opportunity to purchase stock of a converting savings association or its holding company and then following the conversion, vote to merge with or be acquired by another institution, subject to certain limitations. One of the limitations is 12 CFR 563b.3(i)(2), under which no person is permitted to make an offer for any security of a converting savings association issued in connection with the conversion. The other limitation is 12 CFR 563b.3(i)(3), under which no person is permitted for a period of three years following the conversion, to make an offer to acquire or acquire more than 10% of any class of equity security of a converted savings association without the prior written approval of the OTS. 23 23 Clearly, with respect to the latter limitation, the opportunity is present for converted institutions contemplating a merger to seek approval from the OTS to undertake such a transaction even within the first year following conversion. In addition, the OTS has generally imposed a condition in connection with approval of a conversion transaction that prohibits, without prior OTS approval, the converting association or its holding company from taking any action within the first year following conversion that could lead to a transaction that would require stockholder approval if such transaction were subject to 12 CFR 552.13. These provisions are intended to preserve the integrity of the independent appraisal process, deter manipulation of the conversion process by insiders or other sophisticated third parties to the detriment of the account holders, and permit the OTS to monitor post-conversion acquisition activities of recently converted associations. By this regulatory oversight of merger and acquisition activities following the conversion, a converting institution is provided with a reasonable period of time to implement its post-conversion business plan and to invest the conversion proceeds. With respect to the appraisal issue, the pro forma valuation of converting institutions assumes that no acquisition of the converting association will take place for a reasonable period of time following the conversion. If there are ongoing discussions about a takeover of a converting thrift during the conversion process, the ability of an appraiser to prepare an appraisal that satisfies the requirements of 12 CFR 563b.7 is severely diminished because of the uncertainty that such takeover speculation would generate. H. Extension of the Conversion Public Comment Period OTS revised the conversion regulations to conform the public comment period with the longer twenty calendar day public comment period provided under the acquisition of control regulations. 24 24 12 CFR 574.6(e). Eight of ten commenters endorsed the new requirement, with one of the eight suggesting that OTS include a requirement for wider distribution, in a timely manner, of the conversion notices contemporaneously with the filing of the conversion application. One of the eight noted that too long a comment period may cause significant delays and related inappropriate costs to the converting associations. One commenter stated that the ten day comment period provided ample time for any person desiring to comment on an application, and if the 20-day period is used, suggested that an association be permitted to publish the 4(b) notice immediately upon filing the application with OTS, without waiting for OTS authorization. Another commenter stated that the revision served no useful purpose, but if kept, also suggested that the 4(b) notice should be able to be given immediately after the filing to ensure no delay due to the longer public comment period. The OTS continues to believe that the longer public comment period will give sufficient time for interested parties to review and comment on a detailed conversion application. In order to accommodate the concern noted by some commenters, the final rule requires that the 4(b) notice be given immediately after the filing of the application with the OTS. However, the final rule also clarifies that if a conversion application is later deemed not properly executed or is materially deficient or substantially incomplete, the applicant may be required to refile the application, republish the accompanying 4(b) notice, and provide for another 20-day public comment period.
