FR940202-0-00076 FR940202-0-00006 (B) Original Treasury securities. Original Treasury securities are securities comprising any issue of outstanding Treasury securities. (C) Qualified reopening. A qualified reopening is a reopening of Treasury securities intended to alleviate an acute, protracted shortage of the original Treasury securities. (e) Disclosure of certain information to holders. Certain provisions of the regulations under section 163(e) and sections 1271 through 1275 provide that the issuer's determination of an item controls the holder's treatment of the item. In such a case, the issuer must provide the relevant information to the holder in a reasonable manner. For example, the issuer may provide the name or title and either the address or telephone number of a representative of the issuer who will make available to holders upon request the information required for holders to comply with these provisions of the regulations. (f) Treatment of pro rata prepayments_ (1) Treatment as retirement of separate debt instrument. A pro rata prepayment is treated as a payment in retirement of a portion of a debt instrument, which may result in a gain or loss to the holder. Generally, the gain or loss is calculated by assuming that the original debt instrument consists of two instruments, one that is retired and one that remains outstanding. The adjusted issue price, holder's adjusted basis, and accrued but unpaid OID of the original debt instrument, determined immediately before the pro rata prepayment, are allocated between these two instruments based on the portion of the instrument that is treated as retired by the pro rata prepayment. (2) Definition of pro rata prepayment. For purposes of paragraph (f)(1) of this section, a pro rata prepayment is a payment on a debt instrument made prior to maturity that_ (i) Is not made pursuant to the instrument's payment schedule (including a payment schedule determined under §1.1272&hyph; 1(c)); and (ii) Results in a substantially pro rata reduction of each payment remaining to be paid on the instrument. (g) Anti-abuse rule. [Reserved] Par. 13. In §1.1275&hyph;3, the section heading and paragraphs (a) and (b) are revised to read as follows: §1.1275&hyph;3 OID information reporting requirements. (a) In general. This section provides legending and information reporting requirements intended to facilitate the reporting of OID. (b) Information required to be set forth on face of debt instruments that are not publicly offered_ (1) In general. Except as provided in paragraph (b)(4) or paragraph (d) of this section, this paragraph (b) applies to any debt instrument that is not publicly offered (within the meaning of §1.1275&hyph;1(h)), is issued in physical form, and has OID. The issuer of any such debt instrument must legend the instrument by stating on the face of the instrument that the debt instrument was issued with OID. In addition, the issuer must either_ (i) Set forth on the face of the debt instrument the issue price, the amount of OID, the issue date, and the yield to maturity; or (ii) Provide the name or title and either the address or telephone number of a representative of the issuer who will, beginning no later than 10 days after the issue date, promptly make available to holders upon request the information described in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section. (2) Time for legending. An issuer may satisfy the requirements of this paragraph (b) by legending the debt instrument when it is first issued in physical form. Legending is not required, however, before the first holder of the debt instrument disposes of the instrument. (3) Legend must survive reissuance upon transfer. Any new physical security that is issued (for example, upon registration of transfer of ownership) must contain any required legend. (4) Exceptions. Paragraph (b)(1) of this section does not apply to debt instruments described in section 1272(a)(2) (relating to debt instruments not subject to the periodic OID inclusion rules), debt instruments issued by natural persons (as defined in §1.6049&hyph;4(f)(2)), REMIC regular interests or other debt instruments subject to section 1272(a)(6), or stripped bonds and coupons within the meaning of section 1286. * * * * * §1.1275&hyph;3T [Removed] Par. 14. Section 1.1275&hyph;3T is removed as of February 2, 1994. Par. 15. Section 1.1275&hyph;5 is added to read as follows: §1.1275&hyph;5 Variable rate debt instruments. (a) Applicability_ (1) In general. This section provides rules for variable rate debt instruments. For purposes of section 163(e) and sections 1271 through 1275, a variable rate debt instrument is a debt instrument that meets the conditions described in paragraphs (a)(2), (a)(3), and (a)(4) of this section. (2) Principal payments. The issue price of the debt instrument must not exceed the total noncontingent principal payments by more than an amount equal to the lesser of_
