FR940207-2-00125 FR940207-2-00065 In summary, the Commission believes that in cases where a substantial percentage of the world-wide trading volume for the underlying ADR, the underlying foreign security, and other securities relevant to the pricing of these securities occurs in the U.S. ADR market, 21 the U.S. ADR market operates as the price discovery market for the foreign securities (i.e., stocks and ADRs) underlying the ADR options. In these cases, the Commission believes that the U.S. ADR market is the instrumental market for purposes of deterring and detecting potential manipulation or other abusive trading strategies in conjunction with transactions in the overlying ADR options market. Therefore, because the CBOE, and all the other U.S. self-regulatory agencies which make up the U.S. ADR market are members of the ISG, the Commission believes that there is an effective surveillance sharing arrangement to permit the exchanges and the NASD to adequately investigate any potential manipulations of the ADR options or their underlying securities. 21 We note that it is appropriate to view the U.S. ADR market as a single market even though it is made up of several national securities exchanges and the NASD. The Commission notes that all of the markets on which or through which these ADRs could trade are linked together by ITS. The Commission further notes that one market, the NYSE, typically operates as the primary exchange on which trades in U.S. ADRs are executed. The Commission finds good cause for approving Amendments Nos. 1 and 2 to the proposed rule change prior to the thirtieth day after the date of publication of notice of filing thereof in the Federal Register . First, Amendment No. 1 deletes, from the proposal, a sentence that defines an ``effective surveillance sharing agreement'' as an agreement that meets the standards for effectiveness established by the Commission. The Commission believes that this definition has little substantive effect on the proposal and could create confusion in light of the fact that the Division classifies surveillance sharing agreements as either comprehensive or market information agreements. Second, Amendment No. 2 merely clarifies how the CBOE will determine whether not less than 50% (or less than 30%, in the case of the maintenance standard) of the world-wide trading volume in the underlying foreign security (as represented by ADRs, common stock and any other related securities) occurs in the U.S. ADR market. The Commission believes that this amendment strengthens the proposal by ensuring that the standard will be applied consistently by all the markets seeking to list ADR options and raises no new issues. Accordingly, because the Commission believes that the amendments make clarifying, non-substantive changes to the proposal, the Commission finds that it is consistent with Sections 19(b)(2) and 6(b)(5) of the Act 22 to approve Amendment Nos. 1 and 2 to the CBOE's proposal on an accelerated basis. 22 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(2) and 78f(b)(5) (1988). IV. Solicitation of Comments Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views and arguments concerning Amendment Nos. 1 and 2 to the proposed rule change. Persons making written submissions should file six copies thereof with the Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of the submission, all subsequent amendments, all written statements with respect to the proposed rule change that are filed with the Commission, and all written communications relating to the proposed rule change between the Commission and any person, other than those that may be withheld from the public in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552, will be available for inspection and copying in the Commission's Public Reference Section, 450 Fifth Street NW., Washington, DC. Copies of such filing will also be available for inspection and copying at the principal office of the above-mentioned self-regulatory organization. All submissions should refer to the file number in the caption above and should be submitted by February 28, 1994. It is therefore ordered, Pursuant to Section 19(b)(2) of the Act, 23 that the proposed rule change (File No. SR&hyph;CBOE&hyph;93&hyph;38) is approved, effective February 7, 1994. Accordingly, the Exchange may submit listing certificates for ADR options as specified herein on February 7, 1994 pursuant to Rule 12d1&hyph;3 under the Act and commence trading in the options according to the time parameters established in the Joint Options Listing Procedures Plan. 23 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(2) (1988). For the Commission, by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. 24 24 17 CFR 200.30&hyph;3(a)(12) (1993). Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;2716 Filed 2&hyph;4&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
