FR940620-2-00074 FR940620-2-00046 [Rel. No. IC&hyph;20352; 812&hyph;8554] AI Holdings Inc., Notice of Application June 14, 1994. AGENCY: Secrities and Exchange Commission (``SEC'' or ``Commission''). ACTION: Notice of Application for Exemption under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the ``Act''). Applicant: AI Holdings, Inc. (``AI Holdings''). Relevant Act Sections: Declaration of the Commission sought under sections 2(a)(9) and 3(b)(2). Summary of Application: AI Holdings requests an order declaring that it controls American Innovation, Inc. (``Newco''), notwithstanding that it owns less than 25% of the voting securities of Newco, and declaring that it is primarily engaged in a non-investment company business. Filing Date: The application was filed on August 19, 1993 and amended on December 27, 1993. Hearing or Notification of Hearing: An order granting the application will be issued unless the SEC orders a hearing. Interested persons may request a hearing by writing to the SEC's Secretary and serving applicants with a copy of the request, personally or by mail. Hearing requests should be received by the SEC by 5:30 p.m. on July 11, 1994, and should be accompanied by proof of service on applicants, in the form of an affidavit or, for lawyers, a certificate of service. Hearing requests should state the nature of the writer's interest, the reason for the request, and the issues contested. Persons may request notification of a hearing by writing to the SEC's Secretary. ADDRESSES: Secretary, SEC, 450 5th Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549. Applicants, 3355 Bee Cave Road, Suite 305, Austin, Texas 78746. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Elaine M. Boggs, Staff Attorney, at (202) 942&hyph;0572, or Robert A. Robertson, Branch Chief, at (202) 942&hyph;0564 (Division of investment Management, Office of Investment Company Regulations). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The following. is a summary of the application. The complete application may be obtained for a fee at the SEC's Public Reference Branch. Applicant's Representations 1. AI Holdings is a holding company with more than 100 shareholders whose principal asset is the stock of Newco, a developer and manufacturer of automatic meter reading products for utility companies. The founders of the business, James Heisey and Carl Morris, serve as chief executive officer and president, respectively, of AI Holdings and Newco. 2. AI Holdings entered into a reorganization agreement in 1992 with Ketema, Inc. because the business required further capitalization to sustain its levels of operations. The reorganization provided Newco with $1.8 million in additional capital. Ketema is a publicly traded holding company listed on the American Stock Exchange. Ketema has interests in a number of diversified businesses and, as of September 30, 1993, had total assets exceeding $500 million. 3. In connection with the reorganization, Newco acquired all of the operating assets of the meter reading business, and AI Holdings received 20% of Newco's voting stock. In exchange for its capital contribution, Ketema received 80% of the voting stock of Newco. Ketema also received four votes on Newco's board of directors and AI Holdings received one vote. Since the reorganization in 1992, Newco's board of directors has not had a meeting, and the board practice has been to allow Heisey and Morris to operate Newco without active board involvement. 4. As part of the reorganization, AI Holdings was provided with certain rights and privileges with respect to Newco. For fiscal years 1994, 1995, and 1996, AI Holdings as a preferred stockholder is entitled to dividend payments from Newco in an amount equal to 80% of Newco's earnings before taxes and interest on a consolidated basis. In addition, a shareholders' agreement between AI Holdings and Ketema, and the terms of AI Holdings preferred stock (the ``Agreements''), prohibit Newco from effecting any merger, exchange, consolidation, reorganization or recapitalization in which the then shareholders of American Innovations do not own at least 50% of the capital stock of the surviving corporation following the transaction. In addition, without the approval of AI Holdings, American Innovations is prohibited from selling all or substantially all of its assets, liquidating or dissolving, and from amending its certificate of incorporation or bylaws to affect the terms of AI Holdings preferred stock adversely. Further, the Agreements give AI Holdings right of first refusal to purchase Ketema's Newco shares in the event Ketema decides to sell such shares. Ketema also has agreed not to acquire additional equity securities in Newco without the prior consent of AI Holdings. Applicant's Legal Analysis 1. AI Holdings is an investment company under section 3(a)(3) because most of its assets are investment securities as defined under the Act. 1 AI Holdings requests an order under section 3(b)(2) declaring that it is primarily engaged in a non-investment company business through a controlled company and under section 2(a)(9) declaring that it controls Newco even though it owns less than 25% of the voting securities of Newco. 1 An issuer is considered an investment company under section 3(a)(3) if it is engaged in the business of owning or holding investment securities having a value exceeding 40% of the value of the issuer's total assets, exclusive of government securities and cash. The Newco stock of AI Holdings meets the section 3(a) definition of investment securities. 2. Section 3(b)(2) authorizes the Commission to except an issuer from the section 3(a)(3) definition of investment company if the Commission finds that the issuer is primarily engaged in a non-investment company business through a controlled company. Because AI Holdings owns less than 25% of the voting securities of Newco, a determination under section 2(a)(9) that AI Holdings controls Newco is a prerequisite to the ultimate determination of AI Holdings' investment company status.
