FR941013-1-00017 FR941013-1-00004 The ANPRM noted that some tours are promoted in conjunction with a special event, but do not include, and do not represent that they include, admission to the event. We solicited comment on whether the new rule should ban this practice, or whether it should specify a form of required disclosure. Most of the comments favored requiring disclosure of the fact that an event ticket is not included. However, we have tentatively decided not to include such a requirement in the proposed rule. Consumers solicited for these tours are able to determine from the advertising material that an event ticket is not held out as included; this is distinguishable from the situation of a tour participant who paid for an event ticket and then did not receive it. Should any particular tour deceptively imply that event tickets are included when in reality they are not, the Department has authority to take enforcement action against deceptive practices. The ANPRM sought comment on whether the rule would be impractical for events where the participants are known only a week in advance, such as the NCAA Final Four. All of the parties that commented on this issue thought that this should not be a problem, and that the rule should apply. As noted in the Comments section above, several commenters pointed out that the Final Four sells out months in advance even though the participating teams are not determined until the week before. Also, as FBA noted, the contestants in the Super Bowl have been determined only the week before on several occasions, and that does not appear to have either harmed the marketability of Super Bowl tours or resulted in additional consumer problems. While the period for comment on a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking is normally 60 days, the Department is requesting comment on this notice within 30 days after it has been published in the Federal Register . The rule proposed in this notice has changed little from the tentative proposal that the Department discussed in detail in the Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking in this proceeding (59 FR 4614, February 1, 1994). The Comments on the ANPRM were largely supportive of the proposal, and we do not anticipate controversy over this NPRM. The proposed rules are drawn from existing regulations on charters and Super Bowl tours, and the industry is familiar with the procedures in those rules. If the volume or nature of the NPRM comments should warrant, the Department can extend the comment period. Regulatory Analyses and Notices This NPRM is considered to be a non-significant rulemaking under DOT regulatory policies and procedures, 44 FR 11034. The proposal would have minimal economic impact, and accordingly no regulatory evaluation has been prepared. The NPRM was not subject to review by the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs pursuant to Executive Order 12866. The NPRM has been analyzed in accordance with the principles and criteria contained in Executive Order 12612, and it has been determined that it does not have sufficient federalism implications to warrant the preparation of a Federalism Assessment. I certify that the proposal, if adopted, would not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. For the reasons set forth in the preamble, the Department proposes the following: 1. To amend title 14, chapter II, subchapter D by adding a new part 381, to read as follows: PART 381_SPECIAL EVENT TOURS Sec. 381.1␣Purpose. 381.3␣Applicability. 381.5␣Definition. 381.7␣Advertising. 381.9␣Sales. 381.11␣Refunds. 381.13␣Price increases. Authority: 49 U.S.C. 40113(a) and 41712 (formerly sections 204(a) and 411 of the Federal Aviation Act of 1958, as amended). §381.1 Purpose. The purpose of this part is ensure that air travelers who have purchased tours to special events will receive the promised admission to the event. This rule expands the ``Super Bowl rule'' (formerly contained in part 380 and §§399.87 of this subchapter) to other events. §381.3 Applicability. This rule applies to Special Event Tours that are (a) in interstate or overseas air transportation, or (b) in foreign air transportation originating at a point in the United States. It applies to U.S. and foreign operators of Special Event Tours, whether they be air carriers or ticket agents. It applies to scheduled, charter, and other air transportation. §381.5 Definition. Special Event Tour means a tour that is organized for the purpose of attending a sporting, social, religious, educational, cultural, political or other event of a special nature and limited duration, which exists for reasons apart from the tour itself, and which is represented by the operator of the tour as including admission to that event. Examples of such events include, but are not limited to, college and professional sporting events, the Olympics, concerts, the Passion Play in Oberammergau, etc. §381.7 Advertising. No operator of a Special Event Tour or agent of such an operator shall conduct, or cause or allow to be conducted, any advertising, solicitation or other promotion for a Special Event Tour unless: (a) The operator is in physical possession of enough tickets for admission to the event to provide such tickets for a substantial number of seats on the tour, or (b) The operator has entered into a written contract with an organization that is the distributor of such tickets or an organization that receives such tickets directly from the distributor (e.g., a bowl committee; football conference, league or team; concert promoter or arena; etc.), the terms of which provide for that organization to furnish the operator enough admission tickets to provide such tickets for a substantial number of seats on the tour, or (c) The operator has entered into a written contract with another person or organization that has a written contract or series of written contracts with the distributor of such tickets or with an organization that receives such tickets directly from the distributor, the terms of which provide for that organization to furnish the operator enough admission tickets to provide such tickets for a substantial number of seats on the tour.
