FR940304-1-00098 FR940304-1-00014 The Department agrees with the comments made by the Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers and Whirlpool Corporation regarding replacement refrigerants for R&hyph;22. Since no prototypes exist, the Department did not analyze replacement refrigerants as a design option for room air conditioners. The Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers provided extensive comments regarding the computer simulation model used by the Department to analyze room air conditioners. The Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers proposed the following changes to the computer simulation model: (1) Modification of the compressor subroutine to model rotary compressors and to simulate reciprocating compressors better; (2) correction of the condensate spray subroutine to predict its effect on system performance better; (3) addition of correction factors to account for indoor/outdoor air leakage, short-circuiting of indoor air, and heat leakage through the divider wall; (4) addition of multiplication factors to modify coil heat transfer coefficients as a result of using enhanced fin surfaces; (5) addition of correction factors to modify such values as the compressor power and refrigerant mass flow rate in order to assist in calibrating the model to test data; and (6) addition of a psychometric heat balance routine to check that the results from the simulation model are thermodynamically consistent. In addition to making changes to the simulation model, the Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers requested that DOE calibrate the model to match industry test data for the baseline models chosen to represent each of the room air conditioner product classes. The Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers also requested that the room air conditioner industry be given the opportunity to conduct experiments to judge the model s validity after the needed changes to the model were completed. The Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers also stated that manufacturers' data should be given significant weight in predicting the increases to efficiency due to design modifications. (Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers, No. 61A at 2,3). Whirlpool Corporation stated that it fully supports the Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers's recommended changes to the computer simulation model. (Whirlpool Corporation, No. 31 at 15). The Department has made the changes to the simulation model that were proposed by the Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers. Simulation of baseline models were calibrated against test data submitted by manufacturers. The Department encourages the room air industry to test the validity of the simulation model and submit results in response to the standard levels being proposed in this rulemaking. The Rocky Mountain Institute proposed that latent cooling be considered in room air conditioner energy savings, and that DOE investigate whether the spread between evaporator temperatures has been reduced to a minimum. (Rocky Mountain Institute, No. 15 at 4). The computer simulation model used in the analysis of room air conditioners evaluated the thermodynamic performance of the refrigerant system. In this evaluation, the removal of latent heat was calculated. Minimization of the difference in evaporator inlet and outlet temperatures is an inherent consideration in heat exchanger and system design. This temperature difference was determined by the simulation model.
