FR941205-2-00072 FR941205-2-00043 (h) The term ``secondary service'' means a service other than an investment management, investment advisory, or similar service, which is provided by M&I to the Funds. However, for purposes of this exemption, the term ``secondary service'' will not include any brokerage services provided to the Funds by M&I for the execution of securities transactions engaged in by the Funds. (i) The term ``Termination Form'' means the form supplied to the Second Fiduciary which expressly provides an election to the Second Fiduciary to terminate on behalf of a Client Plan the authorization described in paragraph (j) of Section II. Such Termination Form may be used at will by the Second Fiduciary to terminate an authorization without penalty to the Client Plan and to notify M&I in writing to effect a termination by selling the shares of the Funds held by the Client Plan requesting such termination within one business day following receipt by M&I of the form; provided that if, due to circumstances beyond the control of M&I, the sale cannot be executed within one business day, M&I shall have one additional business day to complete such sale. EFFECTIVE DATE: The exemption is effective as of November 20, 1992. For a more complete statement of the facts and representations supporting the Department's decision to grant this exemption, refer to the notice of proposed exemption published on August 17, 1994, at 59 FR 42300. Notice to Interested Persons: The applicant represents that it was unable to notify interested persons within the time period specified in the Federal Register notice published on August 17, 1994. The applicant states that interested persons were notified, in the manner agreed upon between the applicant and the Department, by September 16, 1994. Interested persons were advised that they had until October 17, 1994 to comment on the proposed exemption. Written Comments and Modifications: The applicant submitted the following comments and requests for modifications regarding the notice of proposed exemption (the Proposal). In response to a question raised by the Department regarding the reference in Section I(b) of the Proposal, describing the valuation method to be used for the in-kind transfer of CIF assets, to ``*␣*␣* procedures established by the Funds for the valuation of such assets'', the applicant states that such ``procedures'' are adopted by the board of directors of the Funds to provide for compliance with Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Rule 17a&hyph;7 for transactions effected under that Rule. The applicant represents that it does not intend for the reference to these ``procedures'' to refer to any non-Rule 17a&hyph;7 valuation procedures for the Funds.
