FR940110-0-00039 FR940110-0-00012 4. The Notice proposed to establish a petition procedure to allow licensees to ``grandfather'' their foreign ownership. Under this procedure, petitioners would be required to (1) identify all foreign persons or entities holding an interest in the licensee and the percentage of ownership interest for each; and (2) certify that the identity and level of foreign ownership are unchanged since May 24, 1993, and that no change will occur in the future (other than divestiture of a foreign ownership interest to a domestic person or entity) without prior notice to the Commission. 6 6 Notice, 8 FCC Rcd at 8002&hyph;03 ¶77. 5. The Notice indicated that we intend to place the burden on licensees to file petitions, regardless of whether we have made a final determination as to whether the licensee is subject to reclassification as a CMRS provider. Furthermore, the Notice stated that while the filing of a petition would not prejudice a licensee's future arguments as to whether it should be reclassified, licensees who failed to file a timely petition would be subject to immediate enforcement of our foreign ownership restrictions. 7 7 Id. at 8003 ¶78. III. Comments 6. A single commenter responded to this issue. Roamer One, Inc., argues that the Notice misread the Budget Act's amendment to the Communications Act to the extent that it imposes ``immediate'' foreign ownership restrictions on all private radio licensees. 8 It maintains that while the Notice refers to private land mobile service providers that ``may'' be treated as common carriers, the statute refers to existing private land mobile service providers that ``will'' be treated as common carriers as a result of the enactment of the Budget Act. 9 It contends that, prior to the completion of this rule making proceeding, the Commission may not impose alien ownership restrictions on private radio licensees who are unlikely to be classified as CMRS providers. 10 8 Comments of Roamer One, Inc., at 15&hyph;16 (Nov. 8, 1993); see also id. at iii&hyph;iv. 9 Id. at 15. 10 Id. IV. Discussion A. Who Should File a Waiver Petition 7. Initially, we agree with Roamer One that Section 332(c)(6) does not impose foreign ownership restrictions on all private radio licensees. As noted above, the foreign ownership restrictions apply only to those current private land mobile service providers that ``will be'' classified as CMRS providers ``as a result of enactment of the [Budget Act].'' As we discussed in the Notice, a private land mobile radio licensee could potentially be reclassified as a CMRS licensee if it meets two criteria: Its service: (1) Is ``provided for profit,'' and (2) makes ``interconnected service'' available ``to the public'' or ``to such classes of eligible users as to be effectively available to a substantial portion of the public.'' In addition, it is possible that a service might not fully satisfy the two criteria, but nonetheless be classified as CMRS if the Commission were to find that the service is the ``functional equivalent'' of CMRS. 11 If a licensee determines that there is a possibility that it will be reclassified as a CMRS provider, it must also determine whether its foreign ownership as of May 24, 1993, would be prohibited under section 310(b). 12 11 See Notice, 8 FCC Rcd at 7990&hyph;96 ¶¶10&hyph;40. 12 See paragraph 3, supra.
