FR940512-0-00051 FR940512-0-00018 (C) Other methods proposed by a State and approved by the Secretary; (vi) (7 points) A clear description of the comprehensive long-term mentoring and advising that the State plans to provide to eligible students; and (vii) (8 points) The extent to which other State grant funds are available to eligible NEISP students for their postsecondary education if the Federal scholarship component of the program is unfunded or reduced. (3) Quality of key personnel. (10 points) (i) The Secretary reviews each State application for information that shows the qualifications of the key personnel the State plans to use to administer its State-wide early intervention component including_ (A) The qualifications of the director of the early intervention component; (B) The qualifications of each of the other key personnel to be used in the component; and (C) The amount of time each person referred to in paragraphs (d)(3)(i) (A) and (B) of this section will spend working in the activities under this component. (ii) To determine the qualifications of the key personnel, the Secretary considers evidence of past experience and training in fields related to the objectives of the early intervention component as well as other information the State provides. (4) Budget and cost effectiveness. (5 points) The Secretary reviews each State's application for information that shows that the early intervention component has an adequate budget and is cost-effective including_ (i) The budget for the project is adequate to support the early intervention component activities; and (ii) Costs are reasonable in relation to the activities under the component. (5) Adequacy of resources. (5 points) The Secretary reviews each State's application for information that shows that the State plans to devote adequate resources to its early intervention component including_ (i) The facilities that the State plans to use are adequate; and (ii) The equipment and supplies that the State plans to use are adequate. (6) Likelihood for success. (20 points) The Secretary reviews each State application for information that shows the extent to which the State's early intervention component is likely to_ (i) Enable the participants to develop academic skills, such as reading, writing, mathematics, and study skills, that are essential for postsecondary education; (ii) Improve academic skills and motivate the participants to complete a secondary educational program and subsequently gain admission to postsecondary education institutions; (iii) Increase the secondary and postsecondary readmission rates of those participants who have not completed secondary or postsecondary education; (iv) Identify and select eligible participants; (v) Diagnose each participant's need for academic support in order to successfully pursue a program of postsecondary education; and (vi) Develop a plan of program support to improve each participant's skills. (7) Public and private support. (15 points) The Secretary reviews each State's application for information that shows how the State will put in place a partnership of public and private organizations within the State to administer the early intervention component of the program including_ (i) The extent to which the State has received and has included in its plan written commitments by organizations that will provide early intervention services; and (ii) The existence of a plan to inform the residents of the State of the NEISP Program services and eligibility criteria. (8) Coordination with other early intervention activities. (15 points) The Secretary reviews each State's application for information that shows how the State will coordinate its early intervention component with existing early intervention activities within the State including_ (i) The extent to which the State has investigated early intervention program activity and included in its plan the number and types of currently operating public and private early intervention programs within the State; (ii) The extent to which the State's proposed plan will supplement existing Federal, State, local, and private early intervention programs within the State, such as the Federal Head Start, Chapter 1 Program in Local Educational Agencies, and TRIO programs; and (iii) The written plans and commitments submitted to the State by other early intervention program providers that the State plans to use as either early intervention service providers or as support organizations for those service providers. (9) Willingness to overmatch. (10 points) The Secretary reviews each State's application to determine whether the State is willing to contribute more than one-half the cost of the program and the extent to which the State will overmatch its Federal allotment. (10) Evaluation report plan. (10 points) The Secretary reviews each State's application to evaluate the quality of the proposed biennial evaluation report of the early intervention component of the program including_ (i) The quality of the design of the component; (ii) The extent that the methods of evaluation are appropriate for the program and the extent they are objective and produce useful data that are quantifiable; and (iii) The State's commitment to design an evaluation report to measure objectively performance against, at a minimum, the following standards: (A) The effectiveness of the State's program in meeting the purposes of the program. (B) The effect of the program on the student recipients being served by the program.
