FR940705-0-00054 FR940705-0-00005 In its advance notice, the Commission noted that the elimination of a Commission mandated description of options trading and other educational material from the mandated risk disclosure statement does not mean that firms do not have the obligation to provide all material disclosures consistent with the product traded and level of experience, sophistication and financial capacity of customers in compliance with Commission and NFA rules. 11 One commenter believed that the streamlined disclosure statement was sufficient and that if the Commission believes that additional disclosures are necessary that it provide specific guidance on this issue. 11 59 FR 1506, 1507 (January 11, 1994), citing Commission rule 1.55(f), which provides that: ``This section [requiring distribution of a risk disclosure statement] does not relieve a futures commission merchant or introducing broker from any other disclosure obligation it may have under applicable law.'' See also NFA Compliance Rule 2&hyph;30 (``know your customer'' rule). As discussed by the Commission when it adopted rule 1.55(d) (currently rule 1.55(f)), the obligations of a futures commission merchant (FCM) and introducing broker (IB) to disclose material information to customers arise under the CEA and other applicable law. The Commission further noted that the essential purpose of the rule was to confirm the existing obligations of an FCM or IB under the law and to make clear that distribution of a standard disclosure statement was not intended to alter those obligations. 12 12 See 50 FR 5380 (February 8, 1985). Because the nature and extent of the disclosure which an FCM or IB may be required to make to a customer necessarily must depend on the facts and circumstances of the particular transaction and also on the precise nature of the FCM's or IB's relationship to the customer, any attempt by the Commission to enumerate the precise scope and form of disclosure for all conceivable customer relationships, products and trading strategies would be difficult to accomplish and would diminish the impact of the generic statement which is intended to highlight the significant risks of futures and options trading and the areas where customers should seek additional particularized information. 13 These considerations continue to apply to the current rulemaking, which is intended to consolidate and improve the mandated disclosure process. Accordingly, nothing in the current rulemaking should be construed as reducing the existing obligation to make all disclosures required under applicable law. 13 The extent of these obligations is constantly being defined on a case-by-case basis in administrative and reparations proceedings and civil actions. Further, the language of the generic risk disclosure statement specifically directs the customer to elicit further information from the broker on certain issues. Finally, one commenter suggested that the acknowledgement requirement should be eliminated with respect to sophisticated investors. The CFTC has determined not to address this matter at this time. Procedure_Final Rule Amendments When the Commission issued its advance notice concerning the proposed text of a generic disclosure statement that could be adopted by several jurisdictions regulating futures and options transactions, the Commission contemplated that a further comment process could be necessary. However, for the reasons noted below, the Commission believes that a complete rulemaking record has been compiled and that further proposal of the text of the generic risk disclosure statement is unnecessary. Public comments received on the advance notice were unanimous in recommending the adoption of the generic risk disclosure statement (subject to minor revision), including substituting the proposed generic statement for the rule 33.7 statement for domestic exchange-traded commodity options and the statement required by rule 190.10 for non-cash deposits as margin. 14 Second, the Commission received comment on the generic risk disclosure proposal in connection with the recent amendments consolidating rules 1.55 and 30.6, which contemplated Commission approval of the substitution of a document which can be used in multiple jurisdictions. 15 Third, as provided herein, the use of the generic risk disclosure is not mandatory, i.e., the language may be used but is not required to be substituted for the statements now required by rules 1.55, 33.7 and 190.10(c) and other disclosure requirements set forth in the advance notice. 14 59 FR 1506, 1508 (January 11, 1994). In addition to expressly inviting public comment on the draft text of the generic risk disclosure statement to substitute for current disclosures contained in rules 1.55, 33.7, 190.10 and Commission orders and Advisories regarding disclosures related to futures-style margining of options premium allowed by certain foreign exchanges, the Commission also requested comment on whether the statement would be most useful if made mandatory and whether its use should be limited to firms doing cross-border business or more broadly. 15 58 FR 17495, 17497 (April 5, 1993); 57 FR 46101, 46103 (October 7, 1992).
