FR940505-1-00328 FR940505-1-00012 (2) Baseline NO X emissions shall be calculated for each facility. Baseline emissions for each facility shall equal the sum of NO X emissions from all emissions sources at the facility. Baseline emissions shall be calculated as specified in paragraphs (a)(4)(ii) and (a)(4)(iii) of this section. (3) Methods to be employed by the owner or operator to limit NO X emissions from emissions sources to within the emissions level required in paragraphs (b)(1)(iii)(B) (1) through (5) of this section. Methods may include but are not limited to: (i) Installation of capture systems and control devices; (ii) Modifications to increase the efficiency of existing capture systems and/or control devices; (iii) Process modifications and/or substitutions; and (iv) Reduction in operating schedules for one or more emissions sources at the facility. For those facilities choosing to comply through use of reduced operating schedules, operating schedules for baseline emissions levels and for emissions levels starting January 1, 2001, continuing for a period not less than 5 years. (4) Projections of annual NO X emissions for each emissions source through the year 2005 after application of the reduction methods described in paragraphs (b)(1)(iii)(B) (1) through (5) of this section. (5) For all sources subject to the FIP cap reduction requirements, all information required as part of the facility's Title V operating permit. For sources not subject to Title V, sources shall submit all information which would be required for sources subject to Title V. 28 28 This information shall include, for example, test or demonstration methods used to demonstrate achievement of the NO X emissions reductions required in paragraphs (b)(1)(iii)(B) (1) through (5) of this section. The methods may include but are not limited to: (1) the test methods and procedures specified in paragraph (a)(4) of this section, and (2) data and engineering calculations approved by EPA documenting process modifications that were made to reduce NO X emissions. (B) Beginning January 1, 2001, each owner or operator of a facility which is subject to the limitations of this paragraph, as described under paragraph (b)(1) (ii)(A) or (ii)(B) of this section, shall limit actual monthly emissions of NO X from the subject facility to the level calculated by the following equations: E:GraphicsEP05MY94.088 where 29 29 The range 0.06 to 0.09 reflects the 6% to 9% cumulative annual rate of emission reductions currently under consideration. In the first year, emissions would be reduced by 6% to 9% off of baseline levels; in the second year, emissions would be reduced by 12% to 18% off of baseline levels, and so on until the minimum 30% NO X reduction is made. As discussed in the preamble to the regulations this range of annual reductions is based on EPA's preliminary rate of reduction analysis and may change as the analysis continues prior to final promulgation of this FIP. In addition, EPA plans to review this value every three years after final rule promulgation. R 2001 =Allowable NO X for all emissions sources at the facility for the year 2001 in units of kg (lbs) per month, R o =Baseline NO X emissions in units of kg (lbs) per month for each emissions source at the facility. Baseline emissions shall be calculated in accordance with the requirements specified in paragraph (b)(1)(iii)(A) (2) of this section. i=Subscript denoting a specific emissions source, and n=Total number of emissions sources at the facility. E:GRAPHICSEP05MY94.089 (See footnote to paragraph (b)(1)(iii)(B) (1) of this section) where R 2002 =Allowable NO X for all emissions sources at the facility for the year 2002 in units of kg (lbs) per month, R o =Baseline NO X emissions in units of kg (lbs) per month for each emissions source at the facility. Baseline emissions shall be calculated in accordance with the requirements specified in paragraph (b)(1)(iii)(A) (2) of this section. i=Subscript denoting a specific emissions source, and n=Total number of emissions sources at the facility. E:GraphicsEP05MY94.090 (See footnote to paragraph (b)(1)(iii)(B)(1) of this section) where
