FR940124-2-00004 FR940124-2-00002 To date, considerable scoping and analysis has been done in regard to the proposed action. In April 1991 the staff of the Powell Ranger District began an Integrated Resource Analysis (IRA) of the West Fork of Squaw Creek (Silvicultural compartment 621) to identify the existing and desired conditions. During December of 1991, a Position Statement was sent to the staff of the Clearwater National Forest, State agencies, the Nez Perce Tribal Executive Committee, and other known local interest groups and individuals informing the public of the analysis and seeking comment. In January 1992, an Interdisciplinary Team (IDT) was assigned to continue the analysis after receiving a number of comments during the initial scoping phase. This team identified the primary issues in February 1992 after reviewing the input received. The key issues identified by the Interdisciplinary Team are: 1. Scenery_Proposed logging and road construction may influence, either positively or negatively, the view from the Lolo Trail Corridor, which consists of the Lolo motorway, Nez Perce National Historic Trail, and the Lewis & Clark National Historic Landmark. 2. Fisheries and Water Quality_Proposed logging and road construction will be analyzed for sediment production and potential mitigation measures to determine effects on the west fork and mainstem of Squaw Creek (recently recovered to minimum Forest Plan standards) affecting the Spring/Summer Chinook salmon and the bull trout. 3. Old Growth, Wildlife, and Threatened, Endangered, and Sensitive Species_ Old Growth_Proposed logging and road construction may reduce the level of old-growth habitat in the analysis area and further fragment corridors linking areas of old-growth habitat. Potential Old Growth stands within or adjacent to proposed activities will be field verified. Wildlife_Timber harvesting and road construction may create new openings, decreasing suitable habitat needed for wildlife. Threatened, Endangered and Sensitive Species_Timber harvesting and road construction may affect Threatened, Endangered and Sensitive species or their habitat. 4. Timber Management_Proposed logging may increase overall stand productivity by removing timber which has reached biological maturity and by removing timber which is infected with bark beetles and disease pathogens. Proposed logging would also contribute timber to the local and National timber supply. 5. Economics_Proposed logging and environmental protection measures may affect the economic viability of a timber sale offering. In response to the identified issues and concerns, the IDT has described four management alternatives. One of these is the ``no-action'' alternative in which timber harvest, timber stand regeneration, and road construction/reconstruction activities would not be implemented. Three other alternatives will examine various levels and locations of timber harvest, rehabilitation of active sediment sources, and road construction/reconstruction activity. Various mixes of timber and non-timber resource values of each alternative will also be examined. Under the action alternatives that the Interdisciplinary Team has described to this point, timber harvest ranges from 1.9 to 3.9 million board feet (MMBF), with harvest directly affecting from 323 to 472 acres. To access proposed harvest units, up to 0.9 mile of new road construction and no road reconstruction would be required. The preliminary analysis indicates that tentative alternatives may have significant effects to the environment. The Responsible Official, Margaret J. Gorski, Powell District Ranger, has decided to continue the analysis and document it with an Environmental Impact Statement. Due to changed environmental conditions, the proposed action is changed from the original position statement. The Forest Service is now seeking further information and comments from Federal, State, local agencies, and other individuals or organizations who are interested in or affected by the proposed action. This additional input will be used in preparing the Draft EIS (DEIS). The process will include: 1. Identification of additional potential issues. 2. Identification of issues to be analyzed in depth. 3. Elimination of insignificant issues. 4. Identification of additional reasonable alternatives.
