FR941104-2-00002 FR941104-2-00001 DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service [Docket No. 94&hyph;052&hyph;2] Availability of Determination of Nonregulated Status for Genetically Engineered Canola AGENCY: Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, USDA. ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: We are advising the public of our determination that certain Laurate canola lines are no longer considered regulated articles under our regulations governing the introduction of certain genetically engineered organisms. Our determination is based on our evaluation of data submitted by Calgene, Inc., in its petition for a determination of nonregulated status, an analysis of other scientific data, and our review of comments received from the public in response to a June 1994 notice announcing our receipt of the Calgene petition. This notice also announces the availability of our written determination document and its associated environmental assessment and finding of no significant impact. EFFECTIVE DATE: October 31, 1994. ADDRESSES: The determination, an environmental assessment and finding of no significant impact, the petition, and all written comments received regarding the petition may be inspected at USDA, room 1141, South Building, 14th Street and Independence Avenue SW., Washington, DC, between 8 a.m. and 4:30 p.m., Monday through Friday, except holidays. Persons wishing to inspect those documents are asked to call in advance of visiting at (202) 690&hyph;2817. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Dr. Sivramiah Shantharam, Chief, Microorganisms Branch, Biotechnology Permits, BBEP, APHIS, USDA, room 850, Federal Building, 6505 Belcrest Road, Hyattsville, MD 20782, (301) 436&hyph;7612. To obtain a copy of the determination or the environmental assessment and finding of no significant impact, contact Ms. Kay Peterson at (301) 436&hyph;7601. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background On March 31, 1994, the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS) received a petition from Calgene, Inc., of Davis, CA, seeking a determination that certain Laurate canola lines and their progeny do not present a plant pest risk and, therefore, are not regulated articles under APHIS' regulations in 7 CFR part 340. On June 14, 1994, APHIS published a notice in the Federal Register (59 FR 30569, Docket No. 94&hyph;052&hyph;1) announcing the receipt of the Calgene petition and stating that the petition was available for public review. The notice also discussed the role of APHIS and the Food and Drug Administration in regulating the Laurate canola lines and food products derived from them. In the notice, APHIS solicited written comments from the public as to whether the Laurate canola lines posed a plant pest risk. The comments were to have been received by APHIS on or before August 15, 1994. APHIS received a total of 17 comments on the Calgene petition. The comments were submitted by farmers, associations, universities, a farm cooperative, State officials, a seed company, and an environmental organization. Most of the comments were in favor of the petition; none were critical of this particular petition. APHIS has provided a discussion of the comments in the determination document, which is available upon request from the individual listed under FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT. Analysis Laurate canola has been described by Calgene as any Brassica napus cultivar or its progeny containing the 12:0 ACP thioesterase (TE) gene from California bay ( Umbellularia californica ) (referred to below as the bay TE gene) with its associated napin promoter and napin terminator regions. The bay TE gene encodes the 12:0 ACP thioesterase enzyme. Activity of the bay TE enzyme results in the accumulation of the 12-carbon saturated fatty acid, laurate, in the canola seed. Laurate canola may also contain a kanamycin resistance (nptII) gene, 35S promoter from cauliflower mosaic virus, tml 3 ’ terminator, ori (origin of replication) pRi from Agrobacterium rhizogenes, a segment of the transposable element Tn 5 , right and left T-DNA border sequences from Agrobacterium tumefaciens, and a Lac Z ’ polylinker sequence. The bay TE gene is expressed only in the seed by a seed-specific napin promoter from Brassica rapa. The Laurate canola lines have been considered ``regulated articles'' under APHIS' regulations in 7 CFR part 340 because their noncoding regulatory sequences were derived from the plant pathogens A. tumefaciens and cauliflower mosaic virus. However, 22 field tests of the Laurate canola lines have been conducted at approximately 21 sites in California, Georgia, and Michigan under permits issued by APHIS, and the field reports from those tests indicate that there were no deleterious effects on plants, nontarget organisms, or the environment as a result of the Laurate canola lines' release into the environment.
