FR941028-2-00197 FR941028-2-00109 1. Use of HEPA Filtration When Exhausting Air to the Outside HEPA filters can be used as an added safety measure to clean air from isolation rooms and local exhaust devices (i.e., booths, tents, or hoods used for cough-inducing procedures) before exhausting it directly to the outside, but such use is unnecessary if the exhaust air cannot re-enter the ventilation system supply. The use of HEPA filters should be considered wherever exhaust air could possibly reenter the system. In many instances, exhaust air is not discharged directly to the outside; rather, the air is directed through heat-recovery devices (e.g., heat wheels). Heat wheels are often used to reduce the costs of operating ventilation systems ( 103 ). If such units are used with the system, a HEPA filter should also be used. As the wheel rotates, energy is transferred into or removed from the supply inlet air stream. The HEPA filter should be placed upstream from the heat wheel because of the potential for leakage across the seals separating the inlet and exhaust chambers and the theoretical possibility that droplet nuclei could be impacted on the wheel by the exhaust air and subsequently stripped off into the supply air. 2. Recirculation of HEPA-Filtered Air to Other Areas of a Facility Air from TB isolation rooms and treatment rooms used to treat patients who have confirmed or suspected infectious TB should be exhausted to the outside in accordance with applicable Federal, state, and local regulations. The air should not be recirculated into the general ventilation. In some instances, recirculation of air into the general ventilation system from such rooms is unavoidable (i.e., in existing facilities in which the ventilation system or facility configuration makes venting the exhaust to the outside impossible). In such cases, HEPA filters should be installed in the exhaust duct leading from the room to the general ventilation system to remove infectious organisms and particulates the size of droplet nuclei from the air before it is returned to the general ventilation system (Section II.F; Suppl. 3). Air from TB isolation rooms and treatment rooms in new or renovated facilities should not be recirculated into the general ventilation system. 3. Recirculation of HEPA-Filtered Air Within a Room Individual room-air recirculation can be used in areas where there is no general ventilation system, where an existing system is incapable of providing adequate airflow, or where an increase in ventilation is desired without affecting the fresh air supply or negative pressure system already in place. Recirculation of HEPA-filtered air within a room can be achieved in several ways: (a) by exhausting air from the room into a duct, filtering it through a HEPA filter installed in the duct, and returning it to the room (Figure S3&hyph;5); (b) by filtering air through HEPA recirculation systems mounted on the wall or ceiling of the room (Figure S3&hyph;6); or (c) by filtering air through portable HEPA recirculation systems. In this document, the first two of these approaches are referred to as fixed room-air recirculation systems, because the HEPA filter devices are fixed in place and are not easily movable. BILLING CODE 4163&hyph;18&hyph;P E:GRAPHICSEN28OC94.008 BILLING CODE 4163&hyph;18&hyph;C
