FR941222-2-00008 FR941222-2-00006 United States Price In calculating USP, the Department treated respondents' sales as purchase price (PP) transactions, as defined in section 772 of the Act, because the merchandise was sold to unrelated U.S. purchasers prior to importation. PP was based on c.i.f. U.S. port prices to unrelated purchasers in, or for exportation to, the United States. We made deductions from PP, as appropriate, for domestic inland freight, brokerage and handling charges, assorted port and trade development taxes in Taiwan, ocean freight, marine insurance, imputed credit expenses, assorted bank and interest charges, and commissions. We adjusted USP for taxes in accordance with our practice as outlined in Silicomanganese from Venezuela, Preliminary Determination of Sales at Less Than Fair Value, 59 FR 31204 (June 17, 1994). No other adjustments were claimed or allowed. Foreign Market Value In order to determine whether there were sufficient sales of carbon steel butt-weld pipe fittings in the home market to serve as a viable basis for calculating FMV, we compared the volume of home market sales of carbon steel butt-weld pipe fittings to the volume of third country sales, in accordance with section 773(a)(1) of the Act. CM and Rigid had viable home markets with respect to sales of carbon steel butt-weld pipe fittings. Because 20 percent of Rigid's foreign market sales were determined to have been made below the cost of production (COP) during the last administrative review (56 FR 20187, 20188), we concluded that reasonable grounds existed to believe or suspect that home market sales during the POR were made at prices below COP. Therefore, pursuant to section 773(b) of the Act, the Department initiated a COP investigation of Rigid for purposes of this administrative review. See Antifriction Bearings (Other Than Tapered Roller Bearings) and Parts Thereof from Eight Countries; Preliminary Results of Antidumping Duty Administrative Reviews, 59 FR 9463, 9467 (February 28, 1994). Furthermore, based on an allegation by petitioner, we also determined that reasonable grounds existed to believe or suspect that sales below cost of carbon steel butt-weld pipe fittings had been made by CM. Thus, we initiated a COP investigation with respect to CM. We performed a model-specific COP test, in which we examined whether each home market sale was priced below the merchandise's COP. The Department defines the COP as the sum of direct material, direct labor, variable and fixed factory overhead, general expenses, and packing. For each model, we compared this sum to the reported home market unit price, net of price adjustments and movement expenses. In accordance with section 773(b) of the Act, we also examined whether the home market sales of each model were made at prices below their COP in substantial quantities over an extended period of time, and whether such sales were made at prices which would permit recovery of all costs within a reasonable period of time in the normal course of trade. For each model where less than 10 percent, by quantity, of the home market sales during the POR were made at prices below the COP, we included all sales of that model in the computation of FMV. For each model where 10 percent or more, but not more than 90 percent, of the home market sales during the POR were priced below the merchandise's COP, we excluded from the calculation of FMV those home market sales which were priced below the merchandise's COP, provided that these below-cost sales were made over an extended period of time. For each model where 90 percent or more of the home market sales during the POR were priced below the COP, we disregarded all sales of that model from our calculation of FMV and used the constructed value (CV) of those models as described below. See Antifriction Bearings (Other Than Tapered Roller Bearings) and Parts Thereof from Eight Countries; Preliminary Results of Antidumping Duty Administrative Reviews, 59 FR 9463, 9467 (February 28, 1994). In order to determine if sales below cost had been made over an extended period of time, we compared the number of months in which below-cost sales occurred for each model to the number of months during the POR in which each model was sold. If a model was sold in fewer than three months, we did not exclude the below-cost sales unless there were below-cost sales in each month of sale. If a model was sold in three or more months, we did not exclude the below-cost sales unless there were below-cost sales in at least three months during the POR. See Antifriction Bearings (Other Than Tapered Roller Bearings) and Parts Thereof from Nine Countries; Final Results of Antidumping Duty Administrative Reviews, 58 FR 39729, 39751 (July 26, 1993). Based on this test, we found it necessary to disregard certain home market sales made by CM and Rigid. We used CV as FMV for those U.S. sales for which there were insufficient sales of the comparison home-market model at or above the COP. We calculated CV, in accordance with section 773(e) of the Act, as the sum of the cost of manufacturing of the product sold in the United States, home market selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses, home market profit, and U.S. packing. For home market SG&A expenses, we used the larger of the actual SG&A expenses reported by the respondents or 10 percent of the COM, the statutory minimum for foreign SG&A expenses. For home market profit, we used the larger of the actual profit reported by the respondents or the statutory minimum of eight percent of the sum of COM and SG&A expenses. For those models that had sufficient above-cost sales, we calculated FMV based on delivered prices to unrelated customers in the home market. In calculating FMV, we made adjustments, where appropriate, for inland freight and imputed credit expenses. We adjusted for the Taiwan consumption tax in accordance with our decision in Silicomanganese from Venezuela, Preliminary Determination of Sales at Less Than Fair Value, 59 FR 31204 (June 17, 1994). We deducted home market packing costs from the home market price and added U.S. packing costs to the FMV. Pursuant to 19 CFR 353.56, we also made, where applicable, adjustments for differences in the physical characteristics of merchandise. Furthermore, where commissions were paid on U.S. sales and not paid on home market sales, we allowed an offset to FMV amounting to the lesser of the weighted-average home market indirect selling expenses or the U.S. commissions, in accordance with 19 CFR 353.56(b) of the regulations. No other adjustments were claimed or allowed. Preliminary Results of Review As a result of this review, we preliminary determine that the following margins exist for the period December 1, 1992, through November 30, 1993: ␣ 1Manufacturer/exporter 1Percent margin Chup Hsin Enterprises 87.30 C.M. Pipe Fittings 12.24 Gei Bey Corporation 87.30 Rigid Industries 2.53 All Others 49.46
