FR940118-1-00069 FR940118-1-00010 Summary of Proposed Changes Proposed §600.51 (current §601.1) Purpose and scope. The Secretary proposes to revise the purpose and scope of proposed subpart E to remove the provisions that exempt from these regulations medical schools in Canada or other foreign countries, if those schools are accredited by a nationally recognized accrediting agency that accredits medical schools in the United States. This change is necessary because of the statutory change to section 481 of the HEA that requires every foreign institution to be subject to all of the applicable criteria for determining the eligibility of foreign institutions. Accreditation by a nationally recognized accrediting agency is still among the criteria in proposed §600.55(a)(4)(ii) for a public or private nonprofit foreign medical school to be eligible to apply to participate in the FFEL programs (see the discussion under that section). Proposed §600.52 (current §601.2) Definitions. This section would define a foreign institution as one that is not located in a State, and would revise the definition of a foreign graduate medical school to require medical schools in Canada to be subject to proposed subpart E of 34 CFR part 600. These changes reflect statutory changes. This section also would define a secondary school as one that provides secondary education under the laws of the country in which the school is located. This definition is needed for purposes of establishing compliance with criteria in §600.54 governing a foreign institution's admission policies and level of educational program offered. Proposed §600.53 (current §601.3) Requesting an eligibility determination. The Secretary proposes to require a foreign institution to provide, release, or authorize the release to the Secretary of the information that would be required in this subpart. The failure to provide that information would render the institution ineligible to participate in the FFEL programs. These provisions restate the statutory requirement in section 481(a)(2)(C) of the HEA. With regard to the provision of performance data that would be required in §600.55 on examinations administered by the Educational Commission for Foreign Medical Graduates (ECFMG), the ECFMG initially informed the Secretary that it would study the issue. Subsequently, the ECFMG indicated that it is unwilling to furnish this data directly to the Secretary. Consequently, the Secretary proposes to require applicant institutions to furnish the data to enable the Secretary to comply with the statutory mandate to consider the pass rates on those exams. The Secretary also proposes to require a foreign institution seeking initial or continued eligibility to apply for a determination of that eligibility on a form prescribed by the Secretary, rather than permitting a student to apply on behalf of the institution, as is currently the case. This change is necessary because of the statutory change requiring an institution to furnish applicable information. However, a student would still be able to inform the Secretary of his or her desire to seek an FFEL program loan for attendance at a foreign institution. The Secretary would then contact the institution and supply the institution with application forms. Proposed §600.54 Criteria for determining whether a foreign institution is eligible to apply to participate in the FFEL programs. This section would contain the criteria that the Secretary would use to determine whether a foreign institution is eligible to apply to participate in the FFEL programs. To be eligible, a foreign institution would have to admit as regular students only persons who have a credential for completion of secondary school or the recognized equivalent of that credential. The institution would have to be legally authorized to provide a postsecondary educational program. The institution would have to provide an eligible educational program that leads to a legally authorized degree equivalent to an associate, bachelor's, graduate, or professional degree awarded in the United States, would have to be at least a two-academic-year program acceptable for full credit toward the equivalent of a bachelor's degree awarded in the United States, or would have to be equivalent to at least a one-academic-year training program in the United States that leads to a certificate, degree, or other recognized educational credential and prepares students for gainful employment in a recognized occupation. Because the criteria of this section would be parallel to those required of institutions of higher education, the Secretary proposes to adopt the criteria for purposes of determining that a foreign institution is comparable to an institution of higher education in the United States.
