FR941130-2-00114 FR941130-2-00068 The Exchange's MTS Pilot Program permits the CBOE to assign a Designated Primary Market Maker (``DPM'') for options classes traded at the Exchange. A DPM is a CBOE member who functions in assigned securities as market-maker, floor broker, and order book official. 5 5 Specifically, the Commission notes that in addition to the normal obligations of a market maker, the DPM assumes additional obligations designed to strengthen the market making in the designated options class, such as: (1) Assuring that disseminated market quotations are accurate; (2) being present at the trading post throughout every business day; (3) resolving trading disputes, subject to Floor Official review; and (4) participating at all times in any automated execution system which may be open in appointed options classes. See Exchange Rule 8.80(c). The Exchange believes that the proposed rule change is consistent with Section 6(b) of the Act, in general, and furthers the objectives of Section 6(b)(5) of the Act, in particular, in that it is designed to perfect the mechanism of a free and open market. Specifically, the CBOE believes that the proposed rule change will continue the operation of a trading system that, in accordance with Section 11A(a)(1)(C)(i) of the Act, 6 assures the economic and efficient execution of securities transactions. 6 15 U.S.C. ยง78k&hyph;1(a)(1)(C)(i) (1990). (B) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Burden on Competition The CBOE does not believe that the proposed rule change will impose a burden on competition. (C) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received From Members, Participants or Others No written comments were solicited or received with respect to the proposed rule change. III. Date of Effectiveness of the Proposed Rule Change and Timing for Commission Action The Exchange has requested that the proposed rule change be given accelerated effectiveness pursuant to Section 19(b)(2) of the Act. The Commission finds that the proposed rule change is consistent with the requirements of the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder applicable to a national securities exchange, and, in particular, the requirements of Sections 6(b)(5) 7 and 11A 8 thereunder. Specifically, the Commission concludes that permanently approving the MTS Pilot Program will contribute to the protection of investors and to the Exchange's ability to provide fair and orderly markets in new options products. 7 15 U.S.C. ยง78f(b)(5) (1982). 8 15 U.S.C. ยง78k&hyph;1 (1982). The Commission notes that prior to the last extension of the MTS Pilot Program, the CBOE was required to submit a report discussing various aspects of the pilot program (``1993 MTS Report''). 9 The findings contained in the 1993 MTS Report were as follows: (1) No complaints had been lodged with the Exchange concerning the operation of the MTS Pilot Program; (2) no disciplinary of performance action had been taken against any Exchange member due to the operation of the pilot program; (3) since its inception, use of the pilot program by members had consistently increased in terms of the number of DPMs, the number of options classes assigned to DPMs, and the aggregate average daily trading volume associated with options classes assigned to DPMs' and (4) objective and subjective evaluations had shown that DPMs were consistently ranked at the high end of the scale in terms of depth of markets, price continuity, and width of bid/ask spreads, in assigned options classes. 10 In granting the last extension of the MTS Pilot Program, the Commission also stated that before the MTS Pilot Program would be permanently approved or further extended, the CBOE would be required to update the 1993 MTS Report highlighting any material developments during the extension of the pilot program (``1994 MTS Report''). 11 The Commission notes that the Exchange has submitted the 1994 MTS Report as part of this proposed rule change and that the 1994 MTS Report contains no material changes from the findings reported in the 1993 MTS Report. 9 See Exchange Act Release No. 29935, supra note 1. 10 See Exchange Act Release No. 33430, supra note 1. 11 Id.
