FR941205-1-00006 FR941205-1-00002 The APA contains two provisions relating to communications with agency decision-makers. The APA's ex parte communication provision restricts communications between ``interested person[s] outside the agency '' and the agency head, the administrative law judge (ALJ), or the agency decisional employees. 5 U.S.C. 557(d) (emphasis added). Intra-agency communications are governed by the APA's separation of functions provision, 5 U.S.C. 554(d). That section prohibits investigative or prosecutorial personnel at an agency from ``participat[ing] or advis[ing] in the decision, recommended decision, or agency review'' of an adjudicatory matter pursuant to section 557 of the APA except as witness or counsel. The same separation of function provision provides that the ALJ in an adjudicatory matter may not consult any party on a fact in issue unless the other parties have an opportunity to participate. 5 U.S.C. 554(d)(1). The separation of functions provision does not prohibit agency investigatory or prosecutorial staff from seeking the amendment of a notice or the settlement or termination of a proceeding. The rule as proposed and adopted in 1991, however, neglected to mention the separation of functions concept explicitly, and appeared to apply the ex parte communication prohibition to all communications concerning the merits of an adjudicatory proceeding between the Director, ALJ or decisional personnel on the one hand, and any ``party, his or her counsel, or another person interested in the proceeding'' on the other. The OTS and the other banking agencies do not interpret this provision as limiting agency enforcement staff's ability to seek approval of amendments to or terminations of existing enforcement actions. As drafted, however, the provision could be misinterpreted to expand the ex parte communication prohibition beyond the scope of the APA. The OTS and the other banking agencies did not intend this result. The proposed amendment clarifies that the regulation is intended to conform to the provisions of the APA by limiting the prohibition on ex parte communications to communications to or from ``interested persons outside the agency,'' 5 U.S.C. 557(d), and by incorporating explicitly the APA's separation of functions provisions, 5 U.S.C. 554(d). This approach is also consistent with the most recent Model Adjudication Rules prepared by the Administrative Conference of the United States. II. Regulatory Flexibility Act Pursuant to section 605(b) of the Regulatory Flexibility Act, the OTS hereby certifies that this notice of proposed rulemaking will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. Accordingly, a regulatory flexibility analysis is not required. The proposed rule makes a minor amendment to a rule of practice already in place, and affects intra-agency procedure exclusively. Thus, it should not result in additional burden for regulated institutions. The purpose of the revised regulation is to conform the provisions of the regulation to those imposed by statute. III. Executive Order 12866 The OTS has determined that this notice of proposed rulemaking is not a significant regulatory action as defined in Executive Order 12866. List of Subjects in 12 CFR Part 509 Administrative practice and procedures, Penalties. For the reasons set forth in the preamble, the Office of Thrift Supervision hereby proposes to amend part 509, chapter V, title 12, Code of Federal Regulations as set forth below: SUBCHAPTER A_ORGANIZATION AND PROCEDURES PART 509_RULES OF PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE IN ADJUDICATORY PROCEEDINGS
