FR941110-0-00143 FR941110-0-00016 The second tier (substandard quality of care) would require a civil money penalty, public notice, a plan of correction and, at the State's option, any other remedy. If repeated, the State or HCFA would require a State monitor and a directed plan of correction. There were additional mandatory remedies imposed at higher scope levels. The third tier (immediate jeopardy) would require the statutorily mandated temporary management and physician and nursing home administrator licensing board notice, as well as a denial of payment for new admissions and a plan of correction. Another organization also proposed three severity levels (Actual harm, impairment or death; potential harm, impairment and death; and negative outcome). The scope levels were also pared down to three levels (isolated, occasional and widespread/pattern). Substandard quality of care would be defined as a severity of 2 with a scope of 3 in quality of care and all of severity level 3. For non-immediate jeopardy, this proposal would require termination in 180 days from the last date of survey unless compliance is achieved during the correction period. For immediate jeopardy, termination would take effect in 23 days if no temporary manager is appointed or accepted. This proposal would not require any mandatory fines but rather, would leave the choice of remedy to the State or HCFA. Other statutorily driven remedies have also been included in the proposed plan. One State organization proposed a matrix which had five severity levels (harm or death; negative outcome non-staff action; negative outcome staff action; negative outcome likely; and no negative outcome). As in some other proposals, the scope levels remained as we had provided in the proposed rule. Under this plan, no remedies would be imposed for severity level of 1 and scope of 1 or severity level of 1 and scope of 2 or severity level of 2 and scope of 1. A plan of correction would be required for a severity and scope of 1&hyph;3, 1&hyph;4 and 2&hyph;2, respectively. A civil money penalty would be imposed for a severity and scope of 2&hyph;3 and 2&hyph;4. No fine would be imposed for a scope of 1, even if a deficiency is at the severity of 3 or 4. Denial of payment for new admissions would only be imposed for severity levels of 4 and 5 (except severity 4 and scope of 1). This plan also would exempt facilities from any remedies in certain situations where new requirements had not been disseminated to nursing homes. Another State organization proposed a scope and severity scale using the four scope levels defined in our proposed rule, but defining the severity levels differently. The four severity levels would be defined as level 4_life threatening harm or death; 3_actual harm; 2_potential harm; and 1_no harm or likelihood of harm. Severity and scope of 1 would have no remedies imposed. Severity level of 1 and scope of 2 and severity of 2 and scope of 1 or 2 would have no remedy imposed the first time the deficiency was cited, but the State or HCFA would impose a directed plan of correction if the same deficiency(ies) was found at the next survey. This plan also requires the State or HCFA to choose between a denial of payment for new admissions or a civil money penalty for severity levels of 3 and 4. Another State disagreed with our use of the term immediate jeopardy relative to the scales because it believes that the term, as described for the scales, carries no connotation of immediacy and is not equivalent to the language ``likely to cause at any time'' we had proposed in the definition of the term in ยง488.201 of the proposed rule. Also, the State questioned our definition of substandard quality of care in relationship to severity and scope. It believed that substandard quality of care should not apply to one or two residents but should reflect deficient patterns of care, policies or procedures present in or used by the facility. The State recommended that HCFA provide that a finding of substandard quality of care may be made (but is not required) for scope levels of 1 and 2 and severity levels of 3 and 4. Several commenters suggested that severity levels 3 and 4 should be redefined. Specifically, these commenters found virtually no difference in the application of remedies in the two levels. Other commenters believed that a potential for life threatening harm should not be an immediate jeopardy finding subject to harsher remedies.
