FR941222-0-00015 FR941222-0-00003 (1) There are no known long-term degradation mechanisms which would cause the seal to fail within the design life of the DSC; and (2) The possibility of corrosion has been included in the design (see SER Section 3.2.2.5). These conditions ensure that the internal helium atmosphere will remain stable. Therefore, an individual continuous monitoring device for each HSM is not necessary. However, the NRC considers that other forms of monitoring, including periodic surveillance, inspection and survey requirements, and application of preexisting radiological environmental monitoring programs of 10 CFR Part 50 during the use of the canisters with seal weld closures can adequately satisfy NRC requirements. With respect to the use of instrumentation and control systems to monitor systems that are important to safety, the user of the Standardized NUHOMS will, as provided in Chapter 14 of the SER and in Section 1.3.2 of the Certificate of Compliance, be required to verify, the cask thermal performance on a daily basis by a temperature measurement, to identify conditions that threaten to approach cask design temperature criteria. The cask user will also be required to conduct a daily visual surveillance of the cask air inlets and outlets as required by Chapter 12 of the SER and Section 1.3.1 of the Certificate of Compliance. While the HSM and DSC are considered components important to safety, they are not considered operating systems in the same sense as spent fuel pool cooling water systems or ventilation systems that may require other instrumentation and control systems to ensure proper functioning. Due to this passive design, temperature monitoring and surveillance activities are appropriate and sufficient to assure adequate protection of the public health and safety for this design. Because the Standardized NUHOMS DSC is welded closed and has been decontaminated before being placed in a HSM, there is no routine radioactive liquid generation that would require a retention basin or sump. Water entering the storage area has no mechanism of becoming contaminated because the DSC is enclosed within the HSM and is expected to be dried by the heat generated during storage. C.2. Comment. One commenter expressed concern over the possible external corrosion of the stainless steel DSC because of exposure to water over decades. Another commenter expressed concern about corrosion of stainless steel under conditions of indefinite duration, stating that while stainless steel corrodes less rapidly than carbon steel, even the plumbing fixture industry is finding unexpected stainless steel pitting and corrosion under conditions far less intense than those in a DSC. Another commenter stated that the system is not designed for remote inspection of the DSC for corrosion while it is in the HSM and that the only way to inspect the DSC is to return it to the spent fuel pool. Periodic inspection of the DSC is needed to preclude or identify gradual canister deterioration by unknown mechanisms. Another commenter inquired about a checking system for the NUHOMS in the future. How will corrosion be evaluated on the canister (DSC) and the support rails inside the HSM? Is it possible for them to accumulate moisture and corrode together over possibly many years of storage? What check is required on the possibility that the canister couldn't be removed at the end of cask life?
