FR940419-2-00050 FR940419-2-00033 Part IV_Instructions for the Development and Submission of Application This Part contains information and instructions for submitting applications in response to this announcement. Application forms are provided along with a checklist for assembling an application package. Please copy and use these forms in submitting an application. Potential applicants should read this section carefully in conjunction with the information contained within the specific priority area under which the application is to be submitted. The priority area descriptions are presented in Part II. A. Required Notification of the State Single Point of Contact The Temporary Child Care for Children with Disabilities and Crisis Nurseries Program is covered under Executive Order 12372, Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs, and 45 CFR Part 100, Intergovernmental Review of Department of Health and Human Services Program and Activities. Under the Order, States may design their own processes for reviewing and commenting on proposed Federal assistance under covered programs. All States and territories, except Alabama, Alaska, Connecticut, Hawaii, Idaho, Kansas, Louisiana, Minnesota, Montana, Nebraska, Oklahoma, Oregon, Pennsylvania, Virginia, Washington, American Samoa and Palau, have elected to participate in the Executive Order process and have established State Single Point of Contact (SPOCs). Applicants from these 17 jurisdictions need take no action regarding E.O. 12372. Otherwise, applicants should contact their SPOCs as soon as possible to alert them to the prospective applications and receive any necessary instructions. Applicants must submit any required material to the SPOCs as soon as possible so that the program office can obtain and review SPOC comments as part of the award process. It is imperative that the applicant submit all required materials, if any, to the SPOC and indicate the date of this submittal (or the date of contact if no submittal is required) on the Standard Form 424, item 16a. Under 45 CFR 100.8(a)(2), a SPOC has 60 days from the application deadline to comment on proposed new or competing continuation awards. SPOCs are encouraged to eliminate the submission of routine endorsements as official recommendations. Additionally, SPOCs are requested to clearly differentiate between mere advisory comments and those official State process recommendations which may trigger the accommodate or explain rule. When comments are submitted directly to ACF, they should be addressed to: Department of Health and Human Services, Administration for Children and Families, Division of Discretionary Grants, 370 L'Enfant Promenade, SW., 6th Floor East, OFM/DDG, Washington, DC 20447. A list of the Single Points of Contact for each State and Territory is included as Appendix B of this announcement. B. Deadline for Submission of Applications Deadline: Applications shall be considered as meeting the announced deadline if they are either: 1. Mailed on or before the deadline date to: Department of Health and Human Services, Administration for Children and Families, Division of Discretionary Grants, 370 L'Enfant Promenade, SW., 6th Floor East, OFM/DDG, Washington, DC 20447.
