FR940429-0-00108 FR940429-0-00012 Appendix_Analysis of Comments and Changes ( Note: This appendix will not be codified in the Code of Federal Regulations.) General Comments The Secretary received numerous comments about the overall impact of the proposed regulations. In general, commenters opposed to the proposed reguations believed that the NPRM did not achieve the coordinated balance of responsibilities among the triad members that it sought to achieve, and that it provided for extensive and duplicative data collection and reporting requirements that created a costly and unnecessary burden on the entire higher education community. Further, they believed that the regulations did not regulate ``narrowly to the law,'' as they purported to do. In general, these commenters suggested that the Secretary should review each requirement in the proposed regulations to determine if it was required by the statute and should further ensure that all requirements that meet this test and are included in the final regulations are implemented in the most reasonable and cost effective manner. This, they believed, would ensure the Department's compliance with Executive Order 12866. Specifically, many commenters were concerned that: (1) The proposed regulations will force institutions to engage in excessive and duplicative information gathering and reporting, at considerable cost, with no net increase in the quantity or quality of information available to the public, and will result in the diversion of institutions' already scarce resources away from their primary mission of providing a quality education; and (2) The proposed regulations threaten the diversity of American higher education and fail to focus oversight properly on vocational institutions. In addition, the Secretary received suggestions from several commenters that the Department should strongly encourage all triad members to work together and adopt the same or similar language for the various standards, should collect the necessary data through a common source such as readily available public information or IPEDS, and should use common methodologies for various calculations such as completion or withdrawal rates. Discussion: As suggested by several commenters, the Secretary has carefully reviewed each requirement in the proposed regulations in light of statutory intent. The Secretary has also carefully considered both the burden of the proposed regulations on institutions and SPREs, in terms of cost, duplication of effort, and the added recordkeeping and reporting requirements. Similarly, the Secretary has considered the benefits of the proposed regulations, not just to institutions and SPREs but to students and the general public as well. A particular concern of the Secretary has been how to ensure that the regulations hold the three members of the triad accountable for the manner in which they fulfill their responsibilities under the HEA yet still provide each member of the triad the flexibility to determine the appropriate means to carry out those responsibilities. The Secretary acknowledges that there is a potential risk with this strategy, however. By giving SPREs maximum flexibility in these regulations, by giving accrediting agencies corresponding flexibility in the regulations for Secretary's Procedures and Criteria for Recognition of Accrediting Agencies, and by retaining authority for the Secretary to set specific requirements implementing the certification process, the danger exists that institutions will be burdened with reporting requirements that are similar, but not identical, thus increasing not only the reporting requirement but the recordkeeping requirement and cost as well. For this reason, the Secretary strongly urges a coordinated approach to any reporting requirement that may be imposed on institutions by the regulations implementing the Program Integrity Triad. Specifically with respect to States, the Secretary urges SPREs to impose reporting requirements on referred institutions only after they carefully examine any publicly available information related to those requirements, any similar reporting requirements imposed on institutions by either the Department or accrediting agencies under the regulations governing the Secretary's Procedures and Criteria for Recognition of Accrediting Agencies, and any methodologies currently used, or mandated for use, by institutions in calculating the required information. The Secretary hopes that by bringing this potential risk of increased burden on institutions to the attention of the entire higher education community_without specifically addressing it in regulation_the community can work together to prevent undue burden at the same time it ensures proper accountability. The Secretary expects to take a leadership role in implementing a coordinated strategy to manage the triad with the goal of maximizing effectiveness while minimizing burden, duplication, and inconsistencies among SPREs, accrediting agencies, and the Department. The discussion that follows addresses the commenters concerns and the Secretary's response to those concerns. Section 667.1␣Scope and Purpose Comments: Many commenters interpreted this section as applying State oversight to all institutions in a State. As a result, these commenters believed that the Secretary expanded the SPRP beyond that authorized in the statute. The commenters believed that the NPRM's stated purpose of the program, ``to strengthen State oversight of institutions participating in the title IV, HEA programs through development of State standards for those institutions,'' was inaccurate and ``unduly alarming'' because it suggested that a SPRE was authorized to establish review standards for all institutions in a State. Many of these commenters believed the primary purpose of the program was to reduce fraud and abuse in the title IV, HEA programs through State oversight of selected institutions. Many other commenters believed that Congress intended the program to focus exclusively on ``problem institutions'' identified by the Secretary, i.e., those institutions that have serious academic or financial problems or those institutions that have otherwise failed to fulfill their fiduciary responsibilities in administering the title IV, HEA programs. Discussion: The Secretary notes that §667.1, as proposed, was not intended to apply to all institutions in a State but only to institutions in a State that were participating in the title IV, HEA programs. The Secretary agrees that a SPRE only has authority to review ``referred institutions'' under the standards it develops under this program, and therefore agrees that the provisions of §667.1(a) could be viewed as overbroad. The Secretary also agrees that a primary purpose of the SPRP is to reduce fraud and abuse in the title IV, HEA programs. Changes: Section 667.1(a)(1) has been revised to clarify the purpose of the SPRP, and to clarify that under the SPRP a State's standards apply only to referred institutions and that a State may review only referred institutions under those standards.
