FR940328-2-00085 FR940328-2-00051 Second, the CHX does not appear to believe that its proposed policy significantly disadvantages customer limit orders existing on the specialist's book. 17 This conclusion is based on the Exchange's review of limit orders on the opposite side of the market at the time a stop was granted pursuant to the pilot program. As part of its review, the CHX determined how often book orders which might have been entitled to an execution had the order not been stopped, in fact, were executed at their limit price by the close of the day's trading. Although the results of that review suggest a few limit orders, potentially, may have been disadvantaged, that data is not conclusive give the relatively small sample of orders used to analyze the pilot program's impact. 17 When stock is stopped, book orders on the opposite side of the market that are entitled to immediate execution lose their priority. If the stopped order then receives an improved price, limit orders at the stop price are bypassed and, if the market turns away from that limit, may never be executed. As for book orders on the same side of the market as the stopped stock, the Commission believes that the proposed requirements make it unlikely that these limit orders would be bypassed. Under the Exchange's pilot procedures, a stopped order can receive price improvement only if all preexisting CHX share volume at that price has been exhausted. The Commission historically has been concerned that book orders may get bypassed when stock is stopped, especially in a minimum variation market. 18 Based on the CHX's experience to date, the Commission believe that additional data is necessary before the Commission can determine whether there are sufficient grounds to conclude that this long-standing concern has been alleviated. Thus to ensure that Rule 37, as amended, does not result in potential harm to public customers with limit orders on the specialist's book, the CHX should provide detailed facts supporting its arguments about the impact of its pilot procedures. The Commission therefore requests that the CHX conduct a more thorough review of this issue. At a minimum, the CHX should determine how often limit orders against which stock is stopped in a minimum variation market are executed by the close of the day's trading. 19 Further, the CHX should conduct, on a date to be selected by the Commission, another one-day review of all book orders in the five stocks receiving the greatest number of stops, and should submit to the Commission both raw trade data for, 20 and a description of the final disposition of, 21 each such order. 18 See, e.q., SEC, Report of the Special Study of the Securities Markets of the Securities and Exchange Commission, H.R. Doc. No. 95, 88th Cong., 1st Sess. Pt. 2 (1963). 19 As before, the CHX would first identify all limit orders against which stock is stopped in minimum variation markets. The CHX could then determine how many of those orders actually are executed by the close of the day's trading. In the alternative, the CHX could make the same determination on an aggregate share basis. 20 In this regard, the Commission requests that the CHX submit the documentation the CHX is relying upon to support its conclusions about the final disposition of these limit orders. See Infra , note 21. 21 See supra , note 19. In terms of the pilot program's effect on limit orders on the same side of the market as the stopped stock, the CHX report suggests that a substantial majority of limit orders at the bid (for stopped buy orders) or offer (for stopped sell orders) with time priority were executed by the close. During the pilot extension, the Commission requests that the CHX gather and report information on (1) the average number of limit orders and average number of shares on the book ahead of the stopped stock and (2) how much of that pre-existing volume typically is executed by the close. Moreover, the CHX should determine how often, as percentage of total stops granted, the pre-existing volume is executed in its entirety. Finally, the CHX has responded to the Commission's questions about compliance with the pilot program procedures; at this time, the Exchange staff is not aware of any market surveillance investigations or customer complaints relating to the practice of stopping stock in minimum variation markets. 22 During the pilot extension, the Commission requests that the CHX continue to monitor closely specialist compliance with Rule 37's procedures. As before, the CHX report should describe each instance of specialist non-compliance with these procedures and any action taken by the Exchange in response thereto. 22 Telephone conversation between David T. Rusoff, Foley & Lardner, and Beth A. Stekler, Attorney, Division of Market Regulation, SEC, on March 17, 1994. The Commission requests that the CHX submit a report describing its findings on these matters by December 31, 1994. In addition, if the Exchange determines to request an extension of the pilot program beyond March 21, 1995, the Commission requests that the CHX also submit a proposed rule change by December 31, 1994. The Commission finds good cause for approving the proposed rule change prior to the thirtieth day the date of publication of the notice of filing thereof. This will permit the pilot program to continue on an uninterrupted basis. In addition, the procedures the Exchange proposes to continue using are the identical procedures that were published in the Federal Register for the full comment period and were approved by the Commission. 23 23 No comments were received in connection with the proposed rule change which implemented these procedures. See 1992 Approval Order, supra , note 4.
