FR940707-2-00175 FR940707-2-00096 [Release No. 34&hyph;34289; File No. SR&hyph;CBOE&hyph;93&hyph;56] Self-Regulatory Organizations; Order Approving Proposed Rule Change by the Chicago Board Options Exchange, Inc., Relating to Termination of Registered Representatives June 30, 1994. On December 14, 1993, the Chicago Board Options Exchange, Inc. (``CBOE'' or ``Exchange'') submitted to the Securities and Exchange Commission (``SEC'' or ``Commission''), pursuant to Section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act'') 1 and Rule 19b&hyph;4 thereunder, 2 a proposal to amend CBOE Rule 9.3, ``Registration and Termination of Registered Representatives,'' to require members to file with the CBOE's Department of Compliance a termination notice for any discharge or termination of employment of a registered person, and the reason therefor, within 30 days of the termination. In addition, the CBOE proposes to allow members to fulfill CBOE Rule 9.3's filing requirements by submitting their filings or submissions to the North American Securities Administrators Association (``NASAA'')/National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. (``NASD'') Central Registration Depository (``CRD'') within the time period allowed under CBOE Rule 9.3. 1 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1) (1988). 2 17 CFR 240.19b&hyph;4 (1993). The proposed rule change was published in Securities Exchange Act Release No. 33826 (March 28, 1994), 59 FR 15467 (April 1, 1994). No comments were received on the proposed rule change. 3 3 On March 30, 1994, the CBOE submitted a letter explaining that the CBOE's Department of Compliance currently has an electronic mail box in the CRD that captures all filings submitted by CBOE member organizations in reference to terminations for cause. The staff of the CBOE's Department of Compliance reviews this electronic mail box on a daily basis and will continue to do so after the Commission approves the proposal. See Letter from Michael L. Meyer, Schiff Hardin & Waite, to Yvonne Fraticelli, Staff Attorney, Options Branch, Division of Market Regulation, Commission, Dated March 30, 1994 (``March 30 Letter''). The CBOE states that the purpose of the proposal is to modify the manner in which CBOE members report ``Termination for Cause'' of employment or affiliation of any registered representative to the CBOE. Currently, under CBOE Rule 9.3, members must file with the CBOE's Department of Investigation a Uniform Termination Notice for Securities Industry Registration (Form U&hyph;5) immediately after the termination of employment ``for cause'' of a registered representative. 4 The proposal makes CBOE Rule 9.3 more encompassing by requiring members to file termination notices with the Exchange's Department of Compliance for any discharge or termination of employment of a registered person, not just ``terminations for cause.'' In addition, the proposal clarifies when termination notices must be filed, i.e., ``immediately, but in no event later than thirty (30) days following termination,'' and requires members to file an amended Form U&hyph;5 if the member learns of facts or circumstances which cause any information provided in the notice to become inaccurate or incomplete. Members must file the amended Form U&hyph;5 within 30 days after learning of the facts or circumstances giving rise to the amendment. Finally, the proposal relieves CBOE member organizations of the obligation to file Form U&hyph;5 information in hard copy form and, instead, deems all CBOE Rule 9.3 filings and submissions as made for purposes of the rule if they are filed with the NASAA/NASD CRD within the time period set forth in CBOE Rule 9.3. 4 The Department of Investigation no longer exists at the CBOE, and a portion of the duties previously performed by the Department of Investigation, including the receipt of Form U&hyph;5 information, is now performed by the CBOE's Department of Compliance. The proposal reflects this change by requiring that Form U&hyph;5 filings be made with the Exchange's Department of Compliance. The CBOE believes that the proposal will reduce the costs to members of copying, handling and mailing termination materials. Further, the CBOE states that the proposal will bring the CBOE's ``Termination for Cause'' reporting requirements in line with similar rules of the NASD (NASD By-Law Article IV, Section 3) and the New York Stock Exchange, Inc. (``NYSE'') (NYSE Rule 345). 5 5 NASD By-Law Article IV, Section 3, ``Notification by Member to Corporation and Associated Person of Termination; Amendments to Notification,'' requires NASD members to provide the NASD with written notice of the termination of a registered person within 30 calendar days of the termination. If a member learns of facts or circumstances which cause the information in the notice to become inaccurate or incomplete, the member must file a written amendment with the NASD no later than 30 calendar days after the member learns of the facts or circumstances giving rise to the amendment. NYSE Rule 345, ``Employees_Registration, Approval, Record,'' Supplementary Material .17, ``General Information Regarding Employees,'' requires NYSE members to report to the NYSE on a Form U&hyph;5 the discharge or termination of employment of any registered person and the reason thereof within 30 days following the termination. In addition, NYSE Supplementary Material .17 requires members to provide a written amendment to Form U&hyph;5 if the member learns of facts or circumstances causing any information in the notice to become inaccurate or incomplete. The amendment must be filed with the NYSE no later than 30 days after the member learns of the facts or circumstances giving rise to the amendment.
