FR940413-2-00111 FR940413-2-00059 [SGA No. DAA 94&hyph;006] Job Training Partnership Act: Microenterprise Grant Program agency: Employment and Training Administration, Labor. action: Notice of availability of funds and solicitation for grant application (SGA). summary: The U.S. Department of Labor, Employment and Training Administration, under section 499 of the Job Training Partnership Act (JTPA), announces the availability of funds to implement and enhance community based microenterprise activities. The grants will provide training, technical assistance, and support to microenterprise owners or potential owners. It is anticipated that up to six (6) awards, contingent upon resources being available for this purpose, will be made in the range of $250,000 to $300,000 per grant. Awards will be made on a competitive basis. The duration of the grants will be for fifteen (15) months with the possibility of a one-year option. In order to receive a grant award, an applicant must include matching non-Federal contributions in an amount equal to 100 percent of Federal funds to be provided. All the information needed to submit a proposal is included in this announcement. dates: Application for grant wards will be accepted commencing April 13, 1994. The closing date for receipt of applications shall be June 13, 1994, at 2 p.m. (Eastern Time). addresses: Applications shall be mailed to the Division of Acquisition and Assistance, Attention: Brenda Banks, Reference: SGA/DAA 94&hyph;006, Employment and Training Administration, U.S. Department of Labor, room S&hyph;4302, 200 Constitution Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20210. for further information contact: Brenda Banks, Division of Acquisition and Assistance. Telephone (202) 219&hyph;8702 (this is not a toll free number). supplementary information: The U.S. Department of Labor (DOL), Employment and Training Administration (ETA) is soliciting proposals on a competitive basis for grants for projects to implement and enhance community-based microenterprise activities. For purposes of this solicitation, the term ``microenterprise'' means a commercial enterprise with five (5) or fewer employees, one (1) or more of whom owns the enterprise, and each of the owners of the enterprise is economically disadvantaged, as defined in section 4(8) of JTPA. The intent of these grants is to provide effective business-related training and provide technical assistance and support to owners or potential owners of microenterprises. The grants are being awarded pursuant to section 499 of the Job Training Partnership Act (JTPA). This announcement consists of five parts: Part I_Background, Part II_Application Process, Part III_Statement of Work, Part IV_Evaluation Criteria, and Part V_Reporting Requirements. Part I_Background Pursuant to section 499 of JTPA, the Secretary of Labor awards grants to States to implement and enhance community-based microenterprise activities. Section 499 of JTPA also states that such activities shall be for the benefit of economically disadvantaged persons. Accordingly, ETA intends to allocate approximately $1.5 million to States to implement and enhance community-based microenterprise activities. The statute specifies that such funds shall be used (nothwithstanding the restrictions of section 141(q) of JTPA) to: (1) Train program staff in such entrepreneurial activities as business plan development, business management, resource inventory design, and marketing approaches, and other activities necessary to provide effective training to persons developing a microenterprise; (2) Provide to owners or potential owners of a microenterprise such technical assistance (including technical assistance with respect to business planning, securing funding, marketing, and production of marketing materials) and other assistance as may be necessary to develop microenterprise activities; and (3) Provide other microenterprise support (such as peer support program and counseling).
