FR940826-0-00083 FR940826-0-00017 III. Listing of Acceptable Substitutes This section presents EPA's most recent acceptable listing decisions for class I substitutes in the following industrial sectors: refrigerants and air conditioning, foam blowing, solvent cleaning, fire suppression and explosion protection; sterilants; aerosols; adhesives, coatings and inks. These decisions represent substitutes not previously reviewed in the final rulemaking for SNAP (59 FR 13044; March 18, 1994) and, consequently, add to the lists of acceptable substitutes under SNAP. For copies of the full list, contact the EPA Stratospheric Protection Hotline at the number listed in Section V of this notice. Parts A through H below present a detailed discussion of the substitute listing determinations by major use sector. Tables summarizing listing decisions in this notice are in Appendix A. The comments contained in Appendix A provide additional information on a substitute, but like the listings themselves, are not regulatory in nature, and thus they are not mandatory for use of a substitute. Nor should the comments be considered comprehensive with respect to other legal obligations pertaining to the use of the substitute. However, EPA encourages users of acceptable substitutes to apply all comments to their use of these substitutes. In many instances, the comments simply allude to sound operating practices that have already been identified in existing industry and/or building-code standards. Thus, many of the comments, if adopted, would not require significant changes in existing operating practices for the affected industry. As described in the final rule for the SNAP program, EPA does not believe that rulemaking procedures are required to list alternatives as acceptable with no limitations. Such listings do not impose any sanction, nor do they remove any prior license to use a substitute. Consequently, EPA is adding substances to the list of acceptable alternatives without first requesting comment on new listings. EPA, however, does believe that notice-and-comment rulemaking is required to place any alternative on the list of prohibited substitutes, to list a substitute as acceptable only under use restrictions, or to remove a substitute from either the list of prohibited or acceptable substitutes. Updates to these lists are published as separate notices of rulemaking in the Federal Register. D. Refrigeration and Air Conditioning 1. Overview The refrigeration and air conditioning sector includes all uses of class I and class II substances to produce cooling, including mechanical and non-mechanical refrigeration, air conditioning, and heat transfer. Please refer to the final SNAP rule (59 FR 13044) for a more detailed description of this sector. The refrigeration and air conditioning sector is divided into the following end-uses: •Commercial comfort air conditioning; •Industrial process refrigeration systems; •Industrial process air conditioning; •Ice skating rinks; •Uranium isotope separation processing; •Cole storage warehouses; •Refrigerated transport; •Retail food refrigeration; •Vending machines; •Water coolers; •Commercial ice machines; •Household refrigerators; •Household freezers; •Residential dehumidifiers; •Motor vehicle air conditioning; •Residential air conditioning and heat pumps; •Non-mechanical heat transfer; and •Very low temperature refrigeration. In addition, each end-use is divided into retrofit and new equipment applications. EPA has not necessarily reviewed substitutes in every end-use for this Notice. EPA has modified the list of end-uses for this sector for this SNAP update. First, EPA has changed the name of the heat transfer end-use to non-mechanical heat transfer. This change is intended to avoid confusion between systems that move heat from a cool area to a warm one (mechanical refrigeration) and systems that simply aid the movement of heat away from warm areas (non-mechanical heat transfer). The second change is that EPA added a new end-use, very low temperature refrigeration. Substitutes for this end-use have been reviewed since the final rule, and therefore have been added for this SNAP update. Finally, EPA has also reviewed substitutes for CFC&hyph;13, R&hyph;13B1, and R&hyph;503 industrial process refrigeration. Please refer to the final SNAP rule (59 FR 13044) for a detailed description of end-uses other than these three. EPA may continue to add other end-uses in future SNAP updates. a. Non-mechanical Heat Transfer. As discussed above, this end-use includes all cooling systems that rely on a fluid to remove heat from a heat source to a cooler area, rather than relying on mechanical refrigeration to move heat from a cool area to a warm one. Generally, there are two types of systems: systems with fluid pumps, referred to as recirculating coolers, and those that rely on natural convection currents, known as thermosyphons. b. Very Low Temperature Refrigeration. Medical freezers, freeze-dryers, and other small appliances require extremely reliable refrigeration cycles. These systems must meet stringent technical standards that do not normally apply to refrigeration systems. They usually have very small charges. Because they operate at very high vapor pressures, and because performance is critically affected by any charge loss, standard maintenance for these systems tends to reduce leakage to a level considerably below that for other types of refrigeration and air conditioning equipment.
