FR940812-2-00189 FR940812-2-00068 N l =(1/POD)(N d )_N r N l =assumed frequency distribution of bobbin indications N d =frequency distribution of indications actually detected N r =frequency distribution of repaired indications POD=probability of detection of ODSCC flaws POD should be assumed to have a value of 0.6, or as an alternative, and NRC approved POD function can be used if such a function becomes available. N d includes all flaw indications detected by the bobbin coil, regardless of whether these indications are confirmed by MRPC inspection. 2.b.2␣Projected End-of-Cycle (EOC) Voltage Distribution As discussed above, the calculation of both conditional burst probability and leakage (during a postulated MSLB) requires the generation of the projected EOC voltage distribution. To project an EOC voltage distribution from the BOC voltage distribution determined above, requires consideration of: (1) Eddy current voltage measurement uncertainty and (2) the addition of voltage growth to account for defect progression. Monte Carlo techniques are an acceptable means for sampling eddy current measurement uncertainty and the voltage growth distribution to determine the projected EOC voltage distribution. Eddy current measurement uncertainty and voltage growth are discussed below. 2.b.2(1)␣Eddy Current Voltage Measurement Uncertainty Uncertainty in eddy current voltage measurements stems primarily from two sources: (a) Voltage response variability (i.e., test repeatability error) which stems primarily from probe wear (b) Voltage measurement variability among data analysts (i.e., measurement repeatability error) Each of these uncertainties should be quantified. An acceptable characterization of these uncertainties is contained in EPRI TR&hyph;100407, Revision 1, Draft Report August 1993, ``PWR Steam Generator Tube Repair Limits-Technical Support Document for Outside Diameter Stress Corrosion Cracking at the tube Support Plates'' (Reference 3), Sections 2.4.1, 2.4.2, and D.4.2.3, with the exception that no distribution cutoff should be applied to the voltage measurement variability distribution. (However, the assumed 15 percent cutoff for the voltage response variability distribution in Reference 3 is acceptable.) 2.b.2(2)␣Voltage Growth Due to Defect Progression Potential voltage growth rates during the next inspection cycle (i.e. operating cycle between two scheduled steam generator inspections) should be based on voltage growth rates observed during the last one or two inspection cycles. For a given inspection, previous inspections results at tube support plate intersections currently exhibiting a bobbin indication should be re-evaluated consistent with the date analysis guidelines in Section 3 below. In cases where data acquisition guidelines employed during previous inspection differ from those discussed in Section 3, adjustments to the evaluation of the previous data should be made to compensate for the difference. Voltage growth rates should only be evaluated for those intersections where bobbin indications can be identified at tow successive inspections. The distribution of observed voltage growth rates (based on the change in voltage on an intersection-to-intersection basis) should be determined for each of the last one or two inspection cycles. When only the current or only the current and previous inspections employed data acquisition guidelines similar to those discussed in Section 3, only the growth rate distribution for the previous cycle should be used to estimate the voltage growth rate distribution for the next inspection cycle. If both the two previous inspections employed such similar guidelines, the most limiting of the two previous growth rate distributions should be used to estimate the voltage growth rate distribution for the next inspection cycle. However, the two distributions should be combined if one or both the distributions is based on a minimal number (i.e., <200) of indications. It is acceptable to use a statistical model fit of the observed growth rate distribution as part of the integrity analysis. It is also acceptable that the voltage growth distribution be in terms of D volts rather than percent D volts provided the conservatism of this approach continues to be supported by operating experience. Finally, negative growth rates should be included as zero growth rates in the assumed growth distribution.
