FR940110-1-00049 FR940110-1-00006 While section 10(j) of the Act requires each Bank to establish an AHP, and vests in the Board broad authority to regulate the Banks' AHP activities through regulations implementing the Act, section 10(j) does not specifically assign the responsibility of operating the AHP to the Board. See 12 U.S.C. 1430(j). The Board does have other statutorily designated duties, including issuing regulations that specify activities eligible to receive subsidized advances under the AHP, ensuring advances are used to assist projects for which adequate long-term monitoring is available, ensuring that a preponderance of assistance provided under the AHP is ultimately received by low- and moderate-income households, and ensuring that AHP subsidies provided by Banks to members are passed on to the ultimate borrower. See id. Section 1430(j)(9) (A), (C), (D), (E). However, section 10(j) does not specify what entity is responsible for administering the AHP, and what entity is responsible for determining which AHP applications are approved for funding. For the following reasons, the Board is proposing that the Banks assume the responsibility for determining which AHP applications are approved for funding. First, the Banks have had three and one-half years of experience with the AHP, which experience has included processing AHP applications, scoring the applications, and recommending applications for approval to the Board as described above. Consequently, the Banks are already processing and reviewing applications under the existing system. Second, decentralization of the AHP is consistent with the Bank System's Strategic Plan, which calls for decentralization of a number of functions currently conducted by the Board, with the exception of those Board activities involving oversight and supervision of the Banks. See ``System 2000: A Long-Term Strategic Plan For The Federal Home Loan Bank System.'' The details of the proposed new application approval process are discussed further below. The Board specifically requests comments as to whether the Banks should be given the authority to approve and disapprove AHP applications. The proposed rule also revises the Board's existing AHP regulation by allowing each Bank to define more specifically its own priorities and scoring criteria, subject to certain overall priority and scoring parameters established in the proposed rule. The Bank would be required to include such proposed priorities and scoring criteria in its AHP implementation plan which must be approved by the Board. Under the Board's existing AHP regulation, the Banks have much less flexibility in defining priorities and scoring criteria. See 12 CFR 960.5 (a) through (e). In addition, under the proposed rule, certain point values for scoring categories would be revised. The details of the proposed revisions for adopting priorities and scoring criteria are discussed further below under the scoring of AHP applications section. B. Bank Establishment of AHP and Adoption of AHP Implementation Plan Section 960.2(a) of the proposed rule generally reiterates the statement in ยง960.2(a) of the Board's existing AHP regulation that it is the policy of the Board and the Banks to promote decent and safe affordable housing and to address critical affordable housing needs through providing subsidized advances and direct subsidies to members pursuant to the AHP. See 12 CFR 960.2(a). Section 960.2(b) of the proposed rule provides that each Bank's board of directors shall establish an AHP, which shall be funded pursuant to the requirements of ยง960.18 of the proposed rule. (See discussion below under the required annual AHP contributions section.) The Bank is required to make subsidized advances to applicants pursuant to its AHP and to operate its AHP in conformity with an annual AHP implementation plan and the requirements of this part. Direct subsidies provided by a Bank to applicants pursuant to its AHP also shall be provided in conformity with the Bank's AHP implementation plan and the requirements of this part. Each Bank's AHP implementation plan shall be approved by the Board before it is effective. Section 960.2(b) of the proposed rule further provides that the AHP implementation plan must meet the requirements of this part, and shall include:
