FR940810-1-00067 FR940810-1-00010 (c) Where applicable, no person shall conduct coal exploration operations which result in the removal of more than 250 tons in one location or surface coal mining and reclamation operations without a permit issued by the Secretary pursuant to 30 CFR parts 772 an 773 and permits, leases, and/or certificates required by the State of Arizona, including compliance with the following: (1) Municipal planning statues (A.R.S. Section 9&hyph;461 to 9&hyph;462.01); (2) County planning and zoning statutes (A.R.S. Section 11&hyph;322 et seq.; (3) A.R.S. Section 11&hyph;808, 11&hyph;821; (4) Statutes governing perfection and recordation of mining claims (A.R.S. Section 27&hyph;201 to 27&hyph;210); (5) Statutes requiring mineral exploration permits (A.R.S. Section 27&hyph;251 to 27&hyph;256); (6) Solid waste and air pollution discharge permits, installation and operation permits required for equipment causing air pollution and water pollution discharge permits (A.R.S. Title 49, Chapters 1 and 2); (7) Mineral prospecting permits for State lands (A.R.S. Section 37&hyph;231); and (8) Permits for use of State waters and permits for secondary use of reservoir waters (A.R.S. Title 45). (d) In addition to the requirements of Part 773, the following permit application review procedures shall apply: (1) Any person applying for a permit shall submit, at a minimum, five copies of the application to OSM's Western Support Center (WSC) in Denver, Colorado. (2) WSC shall review an application for administrative completeness and acceptability for further review, and shall notify the applicant in writing of the findings. WSC may: (i) Reject a flagrantly deficient application, notifying the applicant of the findings; (ii) Request additional information required for completeness, stating specifically what information must be supplied; or (iii) Judge the application administratively complete and acceptable for further review. (3) When the application is judged administratively complete, the applicant shall be advised by WSC to file the public notice required by §773.13 of this chapter. (4) A representative of WSC may visit the proposed permit area if necessary to determine whether the operation and reclamation plans are consistent with actual site conditions. The applicant will be notified of the time of the visit in advance. (5) Adequacy of information to allow WSC to comply with the National Environmental Policy Act, 42 U.S.C. 4322, shall be considered in the determination of a complete application. WSC may require specific additional information from the applicant as any environmental review progresses when such specific information is needed. (e) In addition to the information required by subchapter G of this chapter, WSC may require an applicant to submit supplemental information to ensure compliance with applicable Federal laws and regulations other than the Act and 30 CFR Title VII. (f) The regulatory authority shall review the application for a permit, any written comments and objections submitted; and all of the records of any informal conference or hearing held on the application. Where there is no Environmental Impact Statement (EIS), the regulatory authority shall issue a written decision within 60 days from the close of the comment period or, if an informal conference is held under §773.13(c), 60 days from the conclusion of the informal conference unless additional time is necessary due to the number of, or complexity of the issues. Where an EIS has been prepared for the application, no decision on the proposed action shall be issued until at least 30 days after the Environmental Protection Agency's (EPA) publication of the notice of availability of the final EIS in the Federal Register . (g) Only application information that is labeled confidential by the applicant and submitted separately from the remainder of the application will be reviewed by OSM for withholding from disclosure under §773.13(d). (1) If the application contains information identified as confidential by the applicant, the public notice required by §903.773(d)(3) must identify the type of information considered to be confidential. (2) OSM shall determine the qualification of any application information labeled confidential within 10 days of the last publication of the notice required under §903.773(d)(3) of this chapter, unless additional time is necessary to obtain public comment or in the event of unforeseen circumstances. §903.774 Revision; renewal; and transfer, assignment, or sale of permit rights. (a) Part 774 of this chapter, Revision; Renewal; and Transfer, Assignment, or Sale of Permit Rights, shall apply to any such actions involving surface coal mining and reclamation operations permits, except as specified below. (b) Any revision to the approved mining or reclamation plan shall be subject to review and approval by WSC. WSC consider the following factors as well as other relevant factors in determining the significance of a proposed revision:
