FR940505-1-00420 FR940505-1-00012 (ii) Measurement of capture efficiency shall be determined in accordance with the EPA method 36 or by an alternative method approved in writing by EPA. 36 40 CFR 52.741(a)(4)(iii). (iii) Characterization of the stack gas shall be determined in accordance with the applicable EPA Reference Methods described in 40 CFR part 60, appendix A. (r) RACT Determination_Michigan-California Lumber Company. (1) Applicability. The provisions of paragraph (r) of this section shall apply to the ``Michigan-California Lumber Company'' or any subsequent owner or operator of the Michigan-California Lumber Facility located at 3970 Carson Road, Camino, California. All provisions are RACT and the emissions standards only apply to the main wood waste-fired boiler (Boiler # 3) at the facility. (2) Definitions. For the purpose of paragraph (r) of this section, the following definitions shall apply. All terms not defined herein shall have the meaning given them in ยง52.2950. Air Pollution Control Officer means the Executive Officer, or his or her delegate, or an air quality management district or an air pollution control district. Boiler means any external combustion equipment fired with any fuel used to produce heat or steam. Production rate is the total steam output of a boiler in pounds of steam per hour (lbs-steam/hour) of boiler operation. Reasonably Available Control Technology or RACT, for the purposes of paragraph (r) of this section, means the lowest emission limitation that a particular boiler is capable of meeting by using measures that are reasonably available in terms of technological and economic feasibility. Such measures may include either control system(s) or improved combustion conditions, or both. Total organic gases are any compounds that contain at least one carbon atom. Wood wastes include bark, sawdust, shavings, hogged wood, and other wood refuse generated during processing operations. (3) Standards. (i) Emission limits (ppmv). VOC emissions from wood waste boiler operations at a production rate exceeding an annual (calendar year) average of 50,000 lbs-steam per hour as defined in paragraph (r)(2)(i) of this section must meet the emission limit of 150 ppmv of VOC in the stack exhaust stream. (ii) Emission limit maintenance. The VOC emission limit presented in paragraph (r)(3)(i) of this section shall be maintained through any one or more of the following provisions: (A) Use of fuel with a maximum moisture content of 50%; (B) Operation of the boiler at optimal combustion conditions; (C) Proper operation and maintenance of pollution control equipment; and (D) Periodic inspection, maintenance, and repairs on the boiler and other equipment. (iii) Compliance Schedule. The VOC emission limit defined in paragraph (r)(3)(i) of this section shall be achieved upon publication of the final rule. (4) Test Methods and Calculations. (i) Determination of VOC content of exhaust stream. The VOC content of the exhaust gas stream subject to the provisions of paragraph (r) of this section, excluding exempt compounds, shall be analyzed as prescribed by 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, Methods 25 and 25A. (ii) Determination of exempt compounds. Measurement of exempt compounds shall be conducted and reported in accordance with 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, Method 18. (5) Administrative requirements. (i) Emissions testing and records. The facility subject to the standards of paragraph (r)(3) of this section shall, at a minimum, conduct sample analysis for VOC pollutants at least once each year. The Air Pollution Control Officer (APCO) shall be provided with adequate advance notification at least 2 weeks before any scheduled emissions tests. The analysis results must be submitted to the Administrator and APCO within 60 days of the emissions test.
