FR940428-2-00090 FR940428-2-00052 Basis for Proposed No Significant Hazards Consideration Determination: As required by 10 CFR 50.91(a), the licensee has provided its analysis of the issue of no significant hazards consideration, which is presented below: Increase in Boron Concentration Limit for the Spent Fuel Storage Pool (Standby Makeup Pump Water Supply) The required spent fuel storage pool minimum boron concentration was increased from 2000 ppm to 2175 ppm during Modes 1&hyph;3. The proposed revision is conservative, and is required only to maintain consistency between the boron concentration of the spent fuel storage pool and the boron concentration of the RWST [refueling water storage tank] during Modes 1&hyph;3 operation. Therefore, there will be no adverse impact upon the probability or consequences of any previously analyzed accident. Likewise, the proposed change will not create the possibility of a new or different kind of accident, since no new failure modes are identified. Finally, no negative impact upon any safety margin is created since the proposed change is conservative. Increase in Boron Concentration Limits for the RCS and Refueling Canal in Mode 6 The increase in the required RCS and refueling canal minimum boron concentration was added only to maintain consistency between the boron concentration of the RCS and refueling canal and the RWST in Mode 6. The change in boron concentration limits for the RCS and refueling canal will not increase the probability of an accident since no accident initiators are involved with this change. Since the change is conservative, the consequences of an accident previously evaluated will not be increased. The increase in the boron concentration limit for the RCS and refueling canal in Mode 6 adds further margin to the initial conditions assumed for the boron dilution accident in the safety analysis. Therefore, the consequences of the boron dilution accident previously evaluated will not be increased. The possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any previously evaluated will not be created since this change is bounded by previously evaluated accidents and does not introduce any new failure modes. This change does not involve a significant reduction in the margin of safety since the analyses performed demonstrate that the limits imposed meet all accident analysis and design basis requirements. Addition of Two Reload Related Topical Reports This change is administrative in nature and adds two previously approved topical reports to the list of methodologies used to determine core operating limits. The change will have no impact upon either the probability or consequences of a previously analyzed accident. The methodologies described in the topical reports have been previously reviewed and approved by the NRC. Also, no new accident possibilities are created, since this is an administrative change. Finally, no impact upon any safety margin is created, since the change is administrative in nature and the described topical reports have received full NRC approval. Correction of Errors in Nomenclature and Removal of Obsolete Footnotes These changes are also administrative in nature and are intended to correct miscellaneous errors and obsolete references. As such, the changes will have no impact upon either the probability or consequences of any previously analyzed accidents, will not create the possibility of any new accident scenarios, and will not impact any safety margins. The NRC staff has reviewed the licensee's analysis and, based on this review, it appears that the three standards of 10 CFR 50.92(c) are satisfied. Therefore, the NRC staff proposes to determine that the amendment request involves no significant hazards consideration. Local Public Document Room Location: York County Library, 138 East Black Street, Rock Hill, South Carolina 29730. Attorney for Licensee: Mr. Albert Carr, Duke Power Company, 422 South Church Street, Charlotte, North Carolina 28242. NRC Project Director: David B. Matthews. Duke Power Company, Docket Nos. 50&hyph;269, 50&hyph;270 and 50&hyph;287, Oconee Nuclear Station, Units 1, 2 and 3, Oconee County, South Carolina Date of Amendment Request: March 23, 1994. Description of Amendment Request: The proposed amendments would revise Technical Specification (TS) 6.9.2, ``Core Operating Limits Report,'' to include a reference to a Duke Power Company (DPC) Topical Report describing an analytical method for determining the core operating limits.
