FR940506-1-00050 FR940506-1-00012 (2) Observer coverage for Research Plan fisheries _(i) Annual determination of coverage level. The appropriate level of observer coverage necessary to achieve the objectives of the Research Plan, given the funds available from the North Pacific Fishery Observer Fund, will be established annually under procedures in ยง677.11. (ii) Inseason changes in coverage level _(A) The Regional Director may increase or decrease the observer coverage requirements for the groundfish, halibut, and crab observer programs at any time to improve the accuracy, reliability, and availability of observer data, and to ensure solvency of the observer program, so long as the standards of section 313 of the Magnuson Act and other applicable Federal regulations are met, and the changes are based on one or more of the following: ( 1 ) A finding that there has been, or is likely to be, a significant change in fishing methods, times, or areas, or catch or bycatch composition for a specific fishery or fleet component. ( 2 ) A finding that such modifications are necessary to improve data availability or quality in order to meet specific fishery management objectives. ( 3 ) A finding that any decrease in observer coverage resulting from unanticipated funding shortfalls must be consistent with the following priorities: ( i ) Status of stock assessments; ( ii ) Inseason management; ( iii ) Bycatch monitoring; and ( iv ) Vessel incentive programs and regulatory compliance. ( 4 ) A determination that any increased costs are commensurate with the quality and usefulness of the data to be derived from any revised program, and are necessary to meet fishery management needs. (iii) The Regional Director will consult with the Commissioner of ADF&G prior to making inseason changes in observer coverage level for the crab observer program. (iv) NMFS will publish changes in observer coverage requirements made under paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section in the Federal Register , with the reasons for the changes and any special instructions to vessels required to carry observers, at least 10 calendar days prior to their implementation. (c) Vessel responsibilities. All vessels required to carry observers must have passed a U.S. Coast Guard safety inspection within the past 2 years and must carry proof to that effect on board. An operator of a vessel must: (1) Provide, at no cost to observers, the State of Alaska, or the United States, accommodations and food on the vessel for the observer or observers that are equivalent to those provided for officers of the vessel. (2) Maintain safe conditions on the vessel for the protection of observers during the time observers are on board the vessel, by adhering to all U.S. Coast Guard and other applicable rules, regulations, or statutes pertaining to safe operation of the vessel. (3) Allow observers to use the vessel's communication equipment and personnel, on request, for the entry, transmission, and receipt of work-related messages, at no cost to the observers, the State of Alaska, or the United States. (4) Allow observers access to, and the use of, the vessel's navigation equipment and personnel, on request, to determine the vessel's position. (5) Allow observers free and unobstructed access to the vessel's bridge, trawl or working decks, holding bins, processing areas, freezer spaces, weight scales, cargo holds, and any other space that may be used to hold, process, weigh, or store fish or fish products at any time. (6) Notify observers at least 15 minutes before fish are brought on board, or fish and fish products are transferred from the vessel, to allow sampling the catch or observing the transfer, unless the observers specifically request not to be notified. (7) Allow observers to inspect and copy the vessel's daily fishing logbook, daily cumulative production logbook, transfer logbook, any other logbook or document required by regulations, printouts or tallies of scale weights, scale calibration records, bin sensor readouts, and production records. (8) Provide all other reasonable assistance to enable observers to carry out their duties, including, but not limited to, assisting the observers in measuring decks, codends, and holding bins; providing the observers with a safe work area adjacent to the sample collection site; providing crab observers with the necessary equipment to conduct sampling, such as scales, fish totes, and baskets; assisting in collecting bycatch when requested by the observers; assisting in collecting and carrying baskets of fish when requested by observers; and allowing observers to determine the sex of fish when this procedure will not decrease the value of a significant portion of the catch.
