FR941103-0-00106 FR941103-0-00016 RSPA believes allowing a minute release of other types of ladings in overturn accidents has greater safety benefits when compared with possible loss of an entire cargo tank load. Therefore, paragraph (b)(3)(ii) is revised to specify that after August 31, 1995, DOT 400-series cargo tanks must be equipped with a pressure relief valve that will release no more than one liter of lading in an emergency situation before reclosing to a leak-tight position. In addition, editorial changes are made in paragraph (b)(3)(i) for clarity. Section 178.345&hyph;13 A paragraph heading, `` Leakage test .'' is added to paragraph (c) as proposed in the NPRM. Section 178.345&hyph;14 This section specifies cargo tank marking requirements. The California Highway Patrol recommended several substantial changes throughout this section that were not proposed in the NPRM. While RSPA believes some of these changes may have merit, they will have to be considered in a future rulemaking. Proposed paragraph (d) is revised to clarify that each cargo tank on a multi-tank cargo tank motor vehicle must have a separate nameplate, unless each cargo tank is made by the same manufacturer with the same materials, manufactured thickness, and minimum thickness. Section 178.345&hyph;15 RSPA proposed to add a new paragraph (e) to allow affixing a metal certification plate to cargo tanks which do not meet all of the applicable specification requirements. This would be indicated by not stamping a compliance date on the plate. A commenter pointed out that the proposed wording does not specifically require the Registered Inspector to stamp the date of compliance on the specification plate when the cargo tank is brought into full conformance with the specification. RSPA agrees with the commenter and has clarified the requirement. Another commenter requested a revision to clarify that, for ASME tanks, the cargo tank motor vehicle manufacturer must furnish a manufacturer's data report to the cargo tank owner as required by the ASME Code, in addition to other required documents. The ASME Code requires a cargo tank manufacturer to prepare a manufacturer's data report for each tank. RSPA agrees with the commenter and has added a provision in paragraph (b)(2) specifying that the manufacturer must supply the cargo tank owner with a copy of the manufacturer's data report, at the time of delivery. Section 178.346&hyph;1 RSPA proposed to add a new paragraph (d)(9) specifying provisions for the use of a single full fillet lap weld joint without plug welds for longitudinal seams on the top 25 percent of the cargo tank. For the most part, commenters agreed in principal with the proposal; however, they recommended that the use of single fillet weld lap joint not be limited to the top one-fourth of the cargo tank. Several manufacturers stated that they have used single full fillet lap welded joints for longitudinal seams on both the top and bottom areas of thousands of low-pressure cargo tank motor vehicles. They stated their service experience with these joints over many years of operations has been very good. Advantages cited by the manufacturers for using this type of weld include the ability to achieve excellent fit between the shell and head flanges, and reduction in the amount of time personnel must work in confined spaces. However, because the ASME Code does not recognize this joint configuration, it may not be used on ASME certified vessels. Industry submitted reports of tensile tests of the typically used single full fillet lap joints to RSPA. Test results indicate that failure occurs at stress levels of about 70 to 75 percent of the ultimate strength of adjacent material. One commenter opposed the use of such joints but provided no supporting test data. RSPA believes the satisfactory performance of these joints over the years serves as a persuasive argument for their continued use on DOT 406 cargo tank motor vehicles. However, because a major reason for establishing the DOT 400-series specifications is enhanced quality assurance, the joints may be used only when subject to certain conditions. Therefore, new paragraph (d)(9) specifies the conditions for use of these joints in longitudinal seams, requirements for periodic compliance testing, and design requirements for determining weld joint efficiency. In addition, a new paragraph (d)(10) is added to clarify that requirements of paragraph UW&hyph;9(d), of Section VIII, Division 1, ASME Code do not apply.
