FR941117-0-00060 FR941117-0-00011 Total Annual Burden: 257,616. Frequency of Response: On occasion, quarterly, semi-annually, and annually. These estimates include the time for reviewing instructions, searching existing data sources, gathering and maintaining the data needed, and completing and reviewing the collections of information. Send comments regarding this burden estimate or any other aspect of these collections of information to the Federal Communications Commission, Records Management Division, room 234, Paperwork Reduction Project (3060&hyph;0508), Washington, DC 20554 and to the Office of Management and Budget, Paperwork Reduction Project (3060&hyph;0508), Washington, DC 20503. Summary of the Report and Order 1. The Report and Order is a comprehensive, top-to-bottom rewrite of part 22 of the Commission's Rules. The topics which were the most controversial are treated in the Report and Order , while the less controversial changes are explained in Appendix A of the Report and Order . Among other things, the Report and Order modifies the application processing procedures for 931 MHz paging applications by requiring that applicants specify the channels for which they seek authorization, prescribing a 30-day filing period for initial applications and providing for auctions as the means for selecting the winner among mutually exclusive initial applications. Applications in the Rural Radiotelephone Service, which is a fixed as opposed to a mobile radio service, will be selected on a first-come, first-served basis. The first-come, first-served procedures allow an application to be granted if it is not mutually exclusive with another application filed on the same or on a previous day and if the applicant in question is qualified to be a Commission licensee. Further, under these procedures, mutually exclusive rural radiotelephone applications received on the same day would, absent a negotiated settlement among the parties, be designated for a comparative hearing to determine which application should be granted. 2. The Report and Order also requires that, by the end of their authorized construction periods, licensees of public mobile stations must not only complete construction of their facilities, as is now required, but must also actually commence provision of service to subscribers. In addition, the Report and Order eliminates the remaining traffic loading study requirements for Paging and Radiotelephone Services licensees seeking additional channels for traditional two-way mobile radio services and provides technical channel assignment rules for Basic Exchange Telephone Radio Systems (BETRS), which is a radio technology that provides basic telephone service to remote and rural areas. 3. The Report and Order explicitly requires that cellular telephones be designed and manufactured in such a way that the electronic serial number is permanently programmed into the equipment at the factory and is physically unalterable. This requirement is intended to help reduce fraud in the use of cellular equipment due to tampering with the electronic serial numbers. 4. The Report and Order also removes the existing prohibition against the concurrent use and licensing of Part 22 facilities for both common carrier and non-common carrier services, affirmatively allows the use of multi-channel transmitters, and permits licensees to make certain minor modifications to their stations and add ``internal'' transmitters to existing systems without notifying the Commission. Ordering Clauses Accordingly, it is ordered that the rule changes made herein will become effective on January 1, 1995. List of Subjects in 47 CFR Part 22 Communications common carriers, Radio, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. Federal Communications Commission. William F. Caton, Acting Secretary.
