FR940830-2-00097 FR940830-2-00056 V Violation Alleged 11. Beginning at least as early as November 1992, and continuing at least through April 1994, the exact dates being unknown to the United States, the defendant and its co-conspirators engaged in a combination and conspiracy in unreasonable restraint of interstate trade and commerce in violation of Section 1 of the Sherman act, as amended (15 U.S.C. ยง1). This unlawful combination and conspiracy will continue or may be renewed unless the relief prayed for herein is granted. 12. The combination and conspiracy consisted of a continuing agreement, understanding, and concert of action among the defendant and its co-conspirators to fix and maintain the resale price of indoor tanning products at the amount set by the defendant, California SunCare. 13. In furtherance of this combination and conspiracy, the defendant did those things which, as hereinabove alleged, it combined and conspired to do, including: (a) establishing and communicating to dealers a minimum resale price for indoor tanning products purchased from California SunCare; and (b) obtaining agreements from dealers to maintain the minimum resale price as a condition of receiving and continuing to receive indoor tanning products from California SunCare. VI Effects 14. The aforesaid combination and conspiracy has had the following effects, among others: (a) resale prices of indoor tanning products have been fixed and maintained; and (b) competition in the sale of indoor tanning products by dealers has been restrained, suppressed, and eliminated. VII Prayer For Relief Wherefore, plaintiff prays: 1. That the Court adjudge and decree that the defendant has combined and conspired to restrain interstate trade and commerce of indoor tanning products in violation of Section 1 of the Sherman Act. 2. That the defendant, its officers, directors, agents, employees and successors and all other persons acting or claiming to act on their behalf be enjoined and restrained from, in any manner, directly or indirectly, continuing, maintaining, or renewing the combination and conspiracy hereinbefore alleged, or from engaging in any other combination, conspiracy, contract, agreement, understanding or concert of action having a similar purpose or effect, and from adopting or following any practice, plan, program, or device having a similar purpose or effect. 3. That plaintiff have such other relief as the Court may deem just and proper. 4. That plaintiff recover the costs of this action. Anne K. Bingaman, Assistant Attorney General. Robert E. Litan, Mark Schechter, Marvin N. Price, Jr., Carla M. Stern, Attorney, Antitrust Division, U.S. Department of Justice, Suite 600, 209 S. LaSalle Street, Chicago, Illinois 60604, (312) 353&hyph;7530.
