FR941110-0-00175 FR941110-0-00016 Under section 1919(h)(3)(C)(i) of the Act, the Secretary may deny payments for all current Medicaid residents but this denial authority is exercised against the State, not the facility. Only with respect to State-operated facilities may the Secretary take action directly against a facility because section 1919(h)(3)(A) expressly provides such authority. We are adding new §488.418 to make explicit this authority. We provide that, if a facility has not met a requirement, in addition to the authority to deny payment for all new admissions as set forth at §488.417(a), HCFA has the authority to deny any further payment to the facility for all Medicare residents and to deny further payment to the State for all Medicaid residents. Under paragraph (b) of new §488.418, if the facility achieves substantial compliance, HCFA resumes payment to the facility or the State prospectively from the date that it verifies as the date that substantial compliance has been achieved, except as provided in paragraphs (c), (d), and (e) of this section. If payments to the facility or the State resume, no payments will be made for the period between the date the remedy was imposed and the date that HCFA verifies as the date that substantial compliance was achieved. This is the case with both denial of payment for all new admissions as well as with denial of payment for those already residing in the facility. Should HCFA or the State find that the facility was in substantial compliance before the date of the revisit, or before HCFA or the survey agency receives the credible evidence of such compliance, the remedy must be lifted as of the date that substantial compliance was achieved, as determined by HCFA. The exceptions to this rule occur when the denial of payment remedy is imposed for repeat instances of substandard quality of care. The remedy is not lifted until substantial compliance is achieved and HCFA believes that the facility will remain in substantial compliance. Section 488.422␣State Monitoring Comment: Some commenters expressed concern that the Act did not provide for State monitoring. Response: We disagree. The statutory authority for State monitoring is implicit for cases of repeated noncompliance (see sections 1819(h)(2)(E)(ii) and 1919(h)(2)(D)(ii) of the Act with cross references to sections 1819(g)(4)(B) and 1919(g)(4)(B) of the Act for Medicare and Medicaid respectively). Comment: Some commenters asked in what instances the remedy of State monitoring is to be applied. Response: The Act requires State monitoring in cases of repeated noncompliance. That is, if a facility, on three consecutive standard surveys conducted under sections 1819(g)(2) and 1919(g)(2) of the Act has been found to have provided substandard quality of care, State monitoring is to be imposed. Otherwise, State monitoring may be considered as an optional remedy. Comment: Several commenters raised questions as to how funding for State monitors would be met. Some suggested that costs for monitoring be borne by the facility and not be an allowable cost for reimbursement. Response: We believe the costs of State monitoring should be part of the survey and certification process and, therefore, should be considered by the State survey agency in planning its annual Medicare and Medicaid workload. The budgeted amounts for these activities are approved by HCFA as part of the annual survey and certification budget process. Comment: A few commenters suggested that we prescribe the role of the State monitor in the final rule. Response: We do not wish to prescribe the role of the State monitor; however, we have clarified language in the final rule describing in general terms the purpose of the State monitor. The State monitor oversees the correction of cited deficiencies and ensures that residents are protected from harm. Any more specific description of State monitor roles and responsibilities will be addressed in manual instructions to the State survey agency. Comment: Some commenters expressed concerns regarding the length of time State monitoring would continue. Several commenters suggested that the State survey agency retain the ability to monitor ongoing conditions in the facility until the State survey agency or HCFA determines the serious condition(s) have been corrected. Response: We agree with the commenters. State monitoring remains in place at least until HCFA or the State survey agency determines that the provider is in substantial compliance with the requirements of participation. In the case of State monitoring imposed for repeated substandard quality of care, the sanction will stay in place until the facility has demonstrated to the Secretary or the State survey agency that it will stay in substantial compliance. At this time, any serious deficiencies must have been corrected to the point where the facility is in substantial compliance. Comment: We received several comments suggesting we write qualifications for a State monitor in the final rule. Response: Because of the broad spectrum of situations in which State monitoring might be used, we choose not to expand the current language in §488.422(a).
