FR940505-1-00461 FR940505-1-00012 (i) Any interested party may request additional time to respond to the information submitted by the engine configuration certifier. The MOD Director upon a showing of good cause by the interested party may grant an extension of time to reply up to 30 days. (ii) The engine configuration certifier may have an extension of up to 30 days to reply to information submitted by interested parties. Notification of intent to reply shall be submitted to the MOD Director within 10 days of the date information from interested parties is submitted to the MOD Director. (3) If a engine configuration certifier has disputed the allegations of the preliminary decisions, the MOD Director shall, after reviewing any additional information, notify the engine configuration certifier of his or her decision whether the engine configuration may continue to be sold as certified. This notification shall include an explanation upon which the decision was made and the effective date for decertification, where appropriate. (4) Within 20 days from the date of a decision made pursuant to paragraph (n)(3) of this section, any adversely affected party may appeal the decision to the Office Director. (i) A petition for appeal to the Office Director must state all of the reasons why the decision of the MOD Director should be reversed. (ii) The Office Director may, in his or her discretion, allow additional oral or written testimony. (iii) If no appeal is filed with the Office Director within the permitted time period, the decision of the MOD Director shall be final. (5) If a final decision is made to decertify an engine configuration under paragraph (n)(4) of this section, the engine configuration certifier shall notify his immediate customers that, as of the date of the final determination, the engine configuration in question has been decertified. The engine configuration certifier shall offer to replace engines of the decertified engine configurations in the customer's inventory with certified replacement engines or, if unable to do so, shall at the customer's request repurchase such inventory at a reasonable price. The immediate customers must stop selling the engines once the certifier has notified the customer that the engine configuration has been decertified. (6) Notwithstanding the requirements of paragraph (n)(5) of this section, an engine purchased by an owner prior to decertification, shall be considered certified pursuant to this section. ยง52.2966 Enhanced in-use compliance heavy-duty engine and vehicle program. (a) General applicability. New 1999 model year and later heavy-duty vehicles and engines, other than medium-duty vehicles certified to the standards contained in ยง52.2962, that are registered exclusively in California or that are offered for sale in California, shall meet the standards and requirements specified in paragraphs (c) through (h) of this section, and in ยง52.2965. Other state and federal requirements may also apply to these vehicles and engines. Heavy-duty vehicles that are registered in California and that are also registered in other states shall be subject to the requirements specified in paragraph (h) of this section. (b) Definitions and abbreviations. The definitions and abbreviations of parts 86 and 88 of this chapter and the definitions contained in the Clean Air Act apply to this section unless a term is also defined in this section. New, when applied to motor vehicles, means a motor vehicle, the equitable or legal title to which has never been transferred to an ultimate purchaser. It is conclusively presumed that the equitable or legal title to a motor vehicle, other than a motorcycle, with an odometer reading of 7,500 miles or more, has been transferred to an ultimate purchaser, and that the equitable or legal title to a motor vehicle, other than a motorcycle, with an odometer reading of less than 7,500 miles has not been transferred to an ultimate purchaser. (c) Emission standards. For the purposes of certification and recall testing, exhaust emissions shall not exceed the following: (1) Non-methane hydrocarbons. 0.2 to 0.6 grams per brake horsepower-hour, as measured under transient operating conditions. (2) Oxides of nitrogen. 1.5 grams per brake horsepower-hour, as measured under transient operating conditions.
