FR940419-2-00167 FR940419-2-00087 D. Small System Considerations The scope of the long-term CSO control plan, including the characterization, monitoring and modeling, and evaluation of alternatives portions of this Policy may be difficult for some small CSSs. At the discretion of the NPDES Authority, jurisdictions with populations under 75,000 may not need to complete each of the formal steps outlined in Section II.C. of this Policy, but should be required through their permits or other enforceable mechanisms to comply with the nine minimum controls (II.B), public participation (II.C.2), and sensitive areas (II.C.3) portions of this Policy. In addition, the permittee may propose to implement any of the criteria contained in this Policy for evaluation of alternatives described in II.C.4. Following approval of the proposed plan, such jurisdictions should construct the control projects and propose a monitoring program sufficient to determine whether WQS are attained and designated uses are protected. In developing long-term CSO control plans based on the small system considerations discussed in the preceding paragraph, permittees are encouraged to discuss the scope of their long-term CSO control plan with the WQS authority and the NPDES authority. These discussions will ensure that the plan includes sufficient information to enable the permitting authority to identify the appropriate CSO controls. E. Implementation Responsibilities NPDES authorities (authorized States or EPA Regional Offices, as appropriate) are responsible for implementing this Policy. It is their responsibility to assure that CSO permittees develop long-term CSO control plans and that NPDES permits meet the requirements of the CWA. Further, they are responsible for coordinating the review of the long-term CSO control plan and the development of the permit with the WQS authority to determine if revisions to the WQS are appropriate. In addition, they should determine the appropriate vehicle (i.e., permit reissuance, information request under CWA section 308 or State equivalent or enforcement action) to ensure that compliance with the CWA is achieved as soon as practicable. Permittees are responsible for documenting the implementation of the nine minimum controls and developing and implementing a long-term CSO control plan, as described in this Policy. EPA recognizes that financial considerations are a major factor affecting the implementation of CSO controls. For that reason, this Policy allows consideration of a permittee's financial capability in connection with the long-term CSO control planning effort, WQS review, and negotiation of enforceable schedules. However, each permittee is ultimately responsible for aggressively pursuing financial arrangements for the implementation of its long-term CSO control plan. As part of this effort, communities should apply to their State Revolving Fund program, or other assistance programs as appropriate, for financial assistance. EPA and the States will undertake action to assure that all permittees with CSSs are subject to a consistent review in the permit development process, have permit requirements that achieve compliance with the CWA, and are subject to enforceable schedules that require the earliest practicable compliance date considering physical and financial feasibility. F. Policy Development This Policy devotes a separate section to each step involved in developing and implementing CSO controls. This is not to imply that each function occurs separately. Rather, the entire process surrounding CSO controls, community planning, WQS and permit development/revision, enforcement/compliance actions and public participation must be coordinated to control CSOs effectively. Permittees and permitting authorities are encouraged to consider innovative and alternative approaches and technologies that achieve the objectives of this Policy and the CWA. In developing this Policy, EPA has included information on what responsible parties are expected to accomplish. Subsequent documents will provide additional guidance on how the objectives of this Policy should be met. These documents will provide further guidance on: CSO permit writing, the nine minimum controls, long-term CSO control plans, financial capability, sewer system characterization and receiving water monitoring and modeling, and application of WQS to CSO-impacted waters. For most CSO control efforts however, sufficient detail has been included in this Policy to begin immediate implementation of its provisions.
