FR941205-2-00166 FR941205-2-00074 Changes: None. Comments: One commenter requested that additional requirements be included under this priority to require adherence to the Conference of Interpreter Trainers program standards, and that the project also include a program component that shows an effort to recruit and train individuals who are deaf to become interpreters/transliterators for individuals who are deaf-blind. Discussion: The regulations in ยง396.4 define ``qualified professional'' as an individual who has either met existing national or State certification or evaluation requirements; or successfully demonstrated equivalent interpreting skills through prior work experience. The Secretary believes that this definition gives the project the necessary flexibility to determine the most appropriate certification or evaluation requirements for its purpose and geographic area. The regulations in 34 CFR 385.44 require that any grantee who provides training must give due regard to the training of individuals with disabilities as part of its effort to increase the number of qualified personnel available to provide rehabilitation services. The Secretary believes that this requirement adequately responds to the recommendation that the project make an effort to recruit and train individuals who are deaf to become interpreters/transliterators for individuals who are deaf-blind. Changes: None. Priority 1_National Project with Major Emphasis on Interpreting for Individuals Who Are Deaf-Blind Comments: One commenter suggested that the training program be located in proximity to a substantial population of individuals who are deaf-blind. Discussion: The regulations in 34 CFR 396.20(b) require that the project's application include a description of the geographical area to be served. The instructions accompanying the request for applications will emphasize further this requirement to highlight the importance of the existence of an adequate target population to be served by the project in its geographical area. Changes: None. Priority 2_National Project to Address the Interpreting Needs of Culturally Diverse Communities Comment: One commenter suggested that the purpose of the program as stated in the notice of proposed priorities be modified by inserting between the words ``skilled interpreters'' and ``throughout'' the following phrase: ``particularly those from culturally diverse backgrounds.'' Discussion: The Secretary agrees that this suggestion has merit because it emphasizes the importance of recruiting potential interpreters from those culturally diverse communities; however, the purpose of the program is stated in the regulations and was simply repeated for informational purposes in the notice of proposed priorities. Consequently, it would be necessary to propose the requested change in a notice of proposed rulemaking.
