FR940428-2-00084 FR940428-2-00052 Commonwealth Edison Company, Docket Nos. STN 50&hyph;454 and STN 50&hyph;455, Byron Station, Unit Nos. 1 and 2, Ogle County, Illinois Docket Nos. STN 50&hyph;456 and STN 50&hyph;457, Braidwood Station, Unit Nos. 1 and 2, Will County, Illinois Date of Application for Amendments: March 7, 1994, as supplemented on March 24, 1994. Description of Amendment Requests: The proposed amendment would change Technical Specification 4.6.1.2 by removing the specific schedules for containment integrated leak rate testing (CILRT) and specifying that the testing will be done in accordance with Appendix J to 10 CFR part 50. Basis for Proposed No Significant Hazards Consideration Determination: As required by 10 CFR 50.91(a), the licensee has provided its analysis of the issue of no significant hazards consideration, which is presented below: A. The proposed changes do not involve a significant increase in the probability or consequences of an accident previously evaluated. The proposed change will allow flexibility in the scheduling for Type A tests in the 10-year service period while still meeting the requirements in 10 CFR 50 Appendix J. Additional flexibility is needed for plants using an 18-month fuel cycle to allow refueling outages and 10-year inservice testing intervals to coincide. For performance of the third Type A test at Byron, the change would allow an extension of four (4) months beyond the current maximum 50-month surveillance interval. The third test would be completed at the fifty-four (54) month interval for Byron Units 1 and 2. For Braidwood Units 1 and 2, an extension on the surveillance time interval will not be necessary to satisfy the requirements of Appendix J. The Braidwood Units have scheduled the third Type A test to be conducted with the 10-year Inservice Inspection. The results of the previous Type A leak tests show the overall leakage from the Byron containment buildings at very low levels. The extension of the Type A test by four months would not cause the consequences of a previously evaluated accident to increase. By continuing to conform to the requirements of 10 CFR 50 Appendix J, the test frequency, methodology, and acceptance criteria for containment leakage remains the same. Therefore, there is no significant increase in the probability or the consequences of an accident previously evaluated. B. The proposed changes do not create the possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any accident previously evaluated. The proposed changes do not affect the design or operation of any system, structure or component in the plant. There are no changes to parameters governing plant operation and no new or different type of equipment will be installed. No new accident scenarios are created by the proposed change because the test frequency continues to meet the requirements of Appendix J of 10 CFR part 50. There is no affect on containment structure, the penetrations, or the facility. The proposed change to the test schedule only provides flexibility in meeting the same requirement for three tests in a 10-year period. The testing method and bases have not changed. Therefore, operation of the units with this more flexible test schedule will not result in an accident previously not analyzed in the Updated Final Safety Analysis Report (UFSAR). The proposed changes do not impact the design bases of the containment and do not modify the response of the containment during a design basis accident. Therefore, the changes do not create the possibility of a new or different type of accident from any accident previously evaluated. C. The proposed changes do not involve a significant reduction in a margin of safety. The proposed changes do not affect the margin of safety for any Technical Specifications. The initial conditions and methodologies used in the accident analyses remain unchanged, therefore, the results of the accident analyses are not impacted. The proposed change to the schedule allows for additional flexibility in meeting the requirement for three tests in a 10-year period. Elimination of the specified time interval for Type A testing would allow Byron Units 1 and 2 to extend the surveillance requirement of the third Type A test by four (4) months. This would exceed the existing maximum 50 month interval currently specified in Technical Specifications. The extension will allow performance of the Type A test to coincide with the seventh refueling outage, 10 year Inservice Inspection, and continue to meet the requirements of Appendix J to 10 CFR part 50. These proposed changes do not affect or change any limiting conditions for operation (LCO), or any other surveillance requirements in the Technical Specifications. The results of the previous Type A leak tests have shown that the overall leakage rates from the Byron containment buildings were at low levels. The latest test results for Units 1 and 2 were 0.0175 weight percent per day and 0.0376 weight percent per day, respectively. The overall containment leakage rates have consistently remained well below the acceptance criteria for Byron Station Type A tests of 0.075 weight percent per day. The testing method, acceptance criteria, and bases for the surveillance requirement will not be changed by the proposed amendment. The present test performance margins, coupled with the Type B & C test program for monitoring and repairing individual leakage components provides justification for the proposed change. The Type B & C tests provide added assurance that the overall containment integrated leakage rates remain satisfactory. No significant leakage trends have been identified which threaten the overall containment leakage specifications. In summary, Commonwealth Edison concludes that this change does not involve a significant reduction in a margin of safety because the containment integritiy will be maintained. Testing in accordance with Appendix J requirements ensures confidence is containment intergity. The proposed Technical Specifications amendment will continue to require testing that is consistent with Appendix J requirements. Additionally, results from previous tests have shown acceptable low overall containment leakage rates. Extension of Type A testing for four months would not involve a signficant reduction in a margin of safety. The NRC staff has reviewed the licensee's analysis and, based on this review, it appears that the three standards of 10 CFR 50.92(c) are satisfied. Therefore, the NRC staff proposes to determine that the amendment request involves no significant hazards consideration. Local Public Document Room Location: For Byron, the Byron Public Library, 109 N. Franklin, P.O. Box 434, Byron, Illinois 61010; for Braidwood, the Wilmington Township Public Library, 201 S. Kankakee Street, Wilmington, Illinois 60481 Attorney for Licensee: Michael I. Miller, Esquire; Sidley and Austin, One First National Plaza, Chicago, Illinois 60690. NRC Project Director: James E. Dyer. Consolidated Edison Company of New York, Docket No. 50&hyph;247, Indian Point Nuclear Generating Unit No. 2, Westchester County, New York Date of Amendment Request: February 18, 1994
