FR941012-1-00055 FR941012-1-00010 (f) Applications for certificates under 49 U.S.C. 10922(c)(2)(B) to operate as a motor common carrier of passengers in intrastate commerce on a route over which applicant has been granted or will be granted interstate authority after November 19, 1982. (g) Applications for temporary motor and water carrier authority. §1160.2 Modified procedure. The Commission will handle licensing application proceedings using the modified procedure, if possible. The applicant and protestants send statements made under oath (verified statements) to each other and to the ICC. There are no personal appearances or formal hearings. §1160.3 Starting the application process: Form OP&hyph;1. (a) All applicants shall use Form OP&hyph;1. [Effective date will be stated in final rules.] (b) Obtain the form at Commission regional and field offices, or call the Commission's automated response number at (202) 927&hyph;7600. §1160.4 Types of applications. (a) Fitness applications. Motor property applications and certain types of motor passenger applications require only the finding that the applicant is fit, willing and able to perform the involved operations and to comply with all applicable statutory and regulatory provisions. These applications can be opposed only on the grounds that applicant is not fit [e.g., is not in compliance with applicable financial responsibility (insurance or surety bond) and safety fitness requirements]. These applications are: (1) Motor common and contract carrier of property (except household goods) and motor contract carrier of passengers transportation. (2) Motor carrier brokerage of general commodities (except household goods). (3) Certain types of motor passenger applications as described in Form OP&hyph;1, Schedule B. (b) Motor passenger ``public interest'' applications as described in Form OP&hyph;1, Schedule B. (c) Intrastate motor passenger applications under 49 U.S.C. 10922(c)(2)(A) as described in Form OP&hyph;1, Schedule B. (d) Motor common carrier of household goods applications. These applications require a finding that: (1) The applicant is fit, willing, and able to provide the involved transportation and to comply with all applicable statutory and regulatory provisions; and (2) The service proposed will serve a useful public purpose, responsive to a public demand or need. (e) Motor contract carrier of household goods, water contract carrier, household goods property broker, and household goods freight forwarder applications. These applications require a finding that: (1) The applicant is fit, willing, and able to provide the involved transportation and to comply with all applicable statutory and regulatory provisions; and (2) The transportation to be provided will be consistent with the public interest and the national transportation policy of 49 U.S.C. 10101. (f) Water common carrier applications. These applications require a finding that: (1) The applicant is fit, willing, and able to provide the involved transportation and to comply with all applicable statutory and regulatory provisions; and (2) The transportation to be provided is or will be required by present or future public convenience and necessity. (g) Temporary authority (TA) for motor and water carriers. These applications require a finding that there is or soon will be an immediate transportation need that cannot be met by existing carrier service. Note: In view of the expedited time frames established in this part for processing requests for permanent authority, applications for TA will be entertained only in exceptional circumstances (i.e., natural disasters or national emergencies) when evidence of immediate service need can be specifically documented in a narrative supplement appended to Form OP&hyph;1. TA applications must be filed with the Regional Office which has jurisdiction over the area in which applicant's headquarters are located. Initial determinations of TA applications will be made by a Regional Motor Carrier Board. §1160.5 Commission review of the application. (a) ICC staff will review the application for correctness, completeness, and adequacy of the evidence (the prima facie case). (1) Minor errors will be corrected without notification to the applicant. (2) Materially incomplete applications will be rejected. Applications that are in substantial compliance with these rules may be accepted. (3) All motor carrier applications will be reviewed for consistency with the Commission's operational safety fitness policy. Applicants with ``Unsatisfactory'' safety fitness ratings from DOT will have their applications rejected. (4) An employee board of the Commission appointed under §1011.6(g) will review completed applications that conform with the Commission's safety fitness policy and that are accompanied by evidence of adequate financial responsibility. (5) Financial responsibility is indicated by filing with the application form:
