FR940721-2-00170 FR940721-2-00086 3. Determination of Ineligibility Applicants who are initially rejected from competitive evaluation because of ineligibility, may appeal an ANA decision of applicant ineligibility. Likewise, applicants may also appeal an ANA decision that an applicant's proposed activities are ineligible for funding consideration. Section 810(b) of the Native American Programs Act, as amended, 42 U.S.C. 2991h, specifies the appeals process when ANA determines that an organization or activities are ineligible for assistance. When an applicant or the activities proposed by the applicant are rejected as ineligible, the applicant will be advised of the appropriate appeal process. H. General Guidance to Applicants The following information is provided to assist applicants in developing a competitive application. 1. Program Guidance •The Administration for Native Americans funds projects that demonstrate the strongest prospects for addressing the stated purposes of this program announcement. Projects will not be funded on the basis of need alone. •In discussing the goals, strategy, and problems being addressed in the application, include sufficient background and/or history of the community concerning these issues and/or progress to date, as well as the size of the population to be served. This material will assist the reviewers in determining the appropriateness and potential benefits of the proposed project. •In the discussion of community-based, long-range goals, non-Federally recognized and off-reservations groups are encouraged to include a description of what constitutes their specific ``community.'' In addition, applicants should document the community's support for the proposed project and explain the role of the community in the planning process and implementation of the proposed project. •Applications from National Indian and Native organizations must demonstrate a need for the project, explain how the project was originated, state who the intended beneficiaries will be, and describe how the recipients will actually benefit from the project. •An application should describe a clear relationship between the proposed project, the social and economic development strategy, or environmental or language goals, as appropriate, and the community's long-range goals or plan. •The project application must clearly identify in measurable terms the expected results, benefits or outcomes of the proposed project, and the positive or continuing impact that the project will have on the community. •Supporting documentation, if available, or other testimonies from concerned interests other than the applicant should be included to demonstrate support for the feasibility of the project and the commitment of other resources to the proposed project. •In the ANA Project Narrative, Section A of the application package, Resources Available to the Proposed Project, the applicant should describe any specific financial circumstances which may impact on the project, such as any monetary or land settlements made to the applicant, and any restrictions on the use of those settlements. When the applicant appears to have other resources to support the proposed project and chooses not to use them, the applicant should explain why it is seeking ANA funds and not utilizing these resources for the project. •Reviewers of applications for ANA indicate they are better able to evaluate whether the feasibility has been addressed and the practicality of a proposed economic development project, or a new business, if the applicant includes a business plan that clearly describes its feasibility and the approach for the implementation and marketing of the business. (ANA has included sample business plans in the application kit). It is strongly recommended that an applicant use these materials as guides in developing a proposal for an economic development project or business that is part of the application. 2. Technical Guidance •It is strongly suggested that the applicant follow the Supplemental Guide included in the ANA application kit to develop an application. The Guide provides practical information and helpful suggestions, and is an aid to help applicants prepare ANA applications for social and economic development projects. •Applicants are encouraged to have someone other than the author apply the evaluation criteria in the program announcement and score the application prior to its submission, in order to gain a better sense of the application's quality and potential competitiveness in the ANA review process. •In Competitive Area 1 there is no maximum or minimum amount of Federal funds that may be requested. •For purposes of developing an application, applicants should plan for a project start date approximately 120 days after the closing date under which the application is submitted. •The Administration for Native Americans will not fund essentially identical projects serving the same constituency. •If a project could be supported by other Federal funding sources, the applicant should fully explain its reasons for not pursuing other Federal funds for the project.
