FR940505-1-00352 FR940505-1-00012 (f) Test Methods. (1) The VOC content of aerosol coating products subject to the provisions of this section shall be determined by the procedures set forth in ASTM D 5200&hyph;92, Standard Test Method for Determination of Weight Percent Volatile Content of Solvent-Borne Paints in Aerosol Cans, May 15, 1992, and, for water-containing aerosol coating products, by ASTM D 5325&hyph;92, Standard Test Method for Determination of Weight Percent Volatile Content of Water-Borne Aerosol Paints, November 15, 1992. (2) Compounds exempt from the definition of VOC shall be analyzed according to the test methods listed below: (i) The content of dichloromethane (methylene chloride) and 1,1,1-trichloroethane shall be determined by ASTM D 4457&hyph;85. (ii) The following classes of compounds will be analyzed as exempt compounds only if manufacturers specify which individual compounds are used in the product formulations and identify the test methods, which, prior to such analysis, have been approved by the USEPA, and can be used to quantify the amounts of each exempt compound: cyclic, branched, or linear completely fluorinated alkanes; cyclic, branched, or linear, completely fluorinated ethers with no unsaturations; cyclic, branched, or linear, completely fluorinated tertiary amines with no unsaturations; and sulfur-containing perfluorocarbons with no unsaturations and with sulfur bonds only to carbon and fluorine. (3) The metal content of metallic aerosol coating products shall be determined by South Coast Air Quality Management District Test Method 311 (SCAQMD Laboratory Methods of Analysis for Enforcement Samples manual), June 1, 1991. (4) Specular gloss of flat and nonflat coatings shall be determined by ASTM Method D 523&hyph;89, March 31, 1989. ยง52.2959 Architectural coatings. (a) Applicability. This section applies to any person who supplies, sells, offers for sale, applies, solicits the application of, or manufactures for use any architectural coating used in California. (b) Definitions. For the purposes of this section, the following definitions shall apply. All terms not defined herein shall have the meaning given them in ยง52.2950. Antenna coatings are coatings applied to equipment and associated structural appurtenances which are used to receive or transmit electromagnetic signals. Anti-fouling coatings are coatings registered with USEPA, Office of Pesticide Programs and which are applied to the underwater portion of a structure to prevent or reduce the attachment of biological organisms. Appurtenances are accessories to an architectural structure, including, but not limited to: hand railings, cabinets, bathroom and kitchen fixtures, fences, rain-gutters and down-spouts, window screens, lamp-posts, (heating and air conditioning) equipment, other mechanical equipment, large fixed stationary tools and concrete forms. Architectural coatings are any coatings applied to stationary structures and their appurtenances, to mobile homes, to pavements, or to curbs. Below-ground wood preservatives are coatings formulated to protect below-ground wood from decay or insect attack and registered with USEPA, Office of Pesticide Programs. Bituminous coatings materials are black or brownish coating materials, soluble in carbon disulfide, consisting mainly of hydrocarbons and which are obtained from natural deposits, or as residues from the distillation of crude petroleum oils, or of low grades of coal. Bond breakers are coatings applied between layers of concrete to prevent the freshly poured top layer of concrete from bonding to the substrate over which it is poured. Clear wood finishes are clear and semi-transparent coatings, including lacquers and varnishes, applied to wood substrates to provide a transparent or translucent solid film. Colorants are solutions of dyes or suspensions of pigments.
