FR940426-1-00020 FR940426-1-00004 The restrictions of Rule 10b&hyph;6 also extend to ``affiliated purchasers'' of distribution participants, i.e., persons that have relationships with distribution participants as well as the incentive and ability to facilitate a distribution of securities. 66 Affiliated purchasers include persons acting in concert with a distribution participant in connection with the acquisition or distribution of securities, and affiliates that, directly or indirectly, control the purchases of a distribution participant, or whose purchasers are controlled by or are under common control with a distribution participant (e.g., decisional officers of the issuer who participate directly or indirectly in the recommendation of, determination to proceed with, or implementation of, a distribution). The increasingly complex structure of financial and other conglomerates 67 suggests that the ``affiliated purchaser'' definition may require revision. 66 Paragraph (c)(6). See 1987 Release, 52 FR at 2995&hyph;2997. 67 See, e.g., Letter regarding The Equitable Life Assurance Society of the United States (December 30, 1988), [1989] Fed. Sec. L. Rep. (CCH) ¶78,955. Question 1.8. What advantages or disadvantages are there in treating all distribution participants similarly? Commenters suggesting that certain categories of distribution participants should be subject to lesser (or no) restrictions because of their degree of or lack of manipulative incentive should suggest parameters for each such category. 68 68 See, e.g., Letter regarding Distributions of Certain Canadian Securities (August 22, 1991), [1991] Fed. Sec. L. Rep. (CCH) ¶79,753 (providing a conditional exemption from Rules 10b&hyph;6 and 10b&hyph;7 for selling group members). Question 1.9. Should the restrictions correspond to the varying degree of manipulative incentive present during certain stages of the distribution? Question 1.10. What types of persons or entities should be considered ``affiliated purchasers''? Commenters addressing this point should give specific examples of the rule's current impact on affiliated persons and entities of distribution participants. Should affiliated purchasers that have a fiduciary duty to their customers be excluded or treated separately? Question 1.11. To what degree should regulatory oversight, surveillance, and/or the existence of structural separations (e.g., information barriers) be relevant in determining whether an affiliated purchaser should be subject to regulation? 69 69 See Letter from James E. Buck, Secretary, NYSE, to Jonathan G. Katz, Secretary, SEC, December 15, 1992 (commenting on Securities Exchange Act Release No. 31347 proposing ``passive market making''). The letter is available in File No. S7&hyph;33&hyph;92. Question 1.12. Are there other persons not currently covered by the rule, such as prospective purchasers of the shares being distributed, whose market activities should be subject to regulation? D. Activities Concept Three: Regulation should be limited to market activity that would improperly affect the price of, or create the appearance of excessive trading in, the offered security, but should not unduly restrain legitimate market and business practices. 1. Bids, Purchases, and Inducements It has been said on a number of occasions that the goal of regulating the activities of distribution participants is to ``prevent participants in a distribution from artificially conditioning the market for the securities in distribution'' and to ``protect the integrity of the securities trading market as an independent pricing mechanism during the distribution period.'' 70 To prohibit all activity of distribution participants, however, would result in a distorted market simply by virtue of curtailing ``normal'' market activity of distribution participants during the distribution period. Accordingly, regulation should focus upon market activities by distribution participants (and their affiliated purchasers) that improperly would directly or indirectly raise or maintain the price of the offered security or create the appearance of active trading in the security. 70 Eg., 1982 Release, 47 FR at 11483. Rule 10b&hyph;6 broadly prohibits bids, purchases, and attempts to induce the purchase of the offered security and related securities. 71 These terms have been interpreted to cover a broad range of transactions. For example, ``bid'' includes priced quotations, unpriced indications of interest in purchasing a security, public announcement of a tender offer or exchange offer, and the sale of put options. ``Purchases'' include the exercise of call options. These transactions are covered irrespective of the market in which they are effected. 71 Paragraph (a). See section V.E. infra for a discussion of covered securities.
