FR941121-2-00137 FR941121-2-00099 Comment: One commenter recommended that the competitive preference for students who are members of groups that have been underrepresented in the field of special education research be limited to a maximum of 25% of the awards made within the competition. The commenter recommended a cap so that all eligible students believe the probabilities for competing are sufficient to warrant the investment in preparing a proposal. Discussion: The Secretary believes that the priority as written, while encouraging applications from members of underrepresented groups in special education research, does not significantly discourage applications from other applicants. There is no intent in this priority to set aside a certain number or percentage of awards for applicants meeting the competitive preference. Changes: None. Priorities Under 34 CFR 75.105(c)(3) the Secretary gives an absolute preference to applications that meet any one of the following priorities. The Secretary will fund under these competitions only applications that meet any one of these absolute priorities: Absolute Priority 1_Examining Alternatives for Outcome Assessment for Children with Disabilities Background Many students with disabilities are currently excluded from national, State, and local outcome assessments and outcomes-based accountability systems. This exclusion has the effect of weakening educational accountability, limiting educational opportunities for students with disabilities, and denying these students the potential benefits of educational reforms. This problem is addressed in new Federal legislation, ``The Goals 2000: Educate America Act.'' (Public Law 103&hyph;227, March 31, 1994). Section 220 of this Act supports development and evaluation of State assessments aligned with State educational standards, with a portion of the funds reserved for developing assessments for students with disabilities. Section 1015 calls for ``a comprehensive study of the inclusion of children with disabilities in school reform activities assisted under *␣*␣* [the Act].'' This study is to include ``*␣*␣* a review of the adequacy of assessments and measures used to gauge progress towards meeting *␣*␣* [education goals and standards], and an examination of other methods or accommodations necessary or desirable to collect data on the educational progress of children with disabilities, and the costs of such methods and accommodations *␣*␣*''. To support and complement such efforts, further research is needed on a variety of technical and implementation issues. Priority The Assistant Secretary establishes an absolute priority for research projects that_ (a) Pursue systematic programs of applied research focusing on one or more issues related to outcome assessment and/or outcomes-based accountability for students with disabilities. These issues include, but are not limited to:
