FR940228-0-00014 FR940228-0-00002 Comment: One comment recommended revising the provisions concerning quality adjustment under section 11, ``Statement of Claim'', to the following: ``The value we use for the damaged production will reflect only reduction in value to the requirements outlined in 11(d). It will not reflect any reduction in value due to moisture content, uninsured causes, charges for drying, handling or processing or any other reduction.'' Response: FCIC agrees with the comment and has revised the language accordingly. Comment: One comment expressed concern over FCIC's option to utilize prices of outside markets as opposed to local markets to establish the value for local grain. Response: This provision allows insurers to seek higher prices for damaged grain which may result in the insured receiving compensation from a buyer rather than from an insurance indemnity. This provision should help reduce indemnities and keep premiums lower. Comment: One comment suggested requiring damaged grain with zero value be destroyed prior to paying any indemnity. Response: Once a loss adjuster determines a crop has no value it should remain the insured's choice how to handle its disposition. Loss adjustors are trained to make accurate evaluations of crop potential and any determinations made by them should be accepted by the insurer. The suggested language has not been added. Comment: One comment recommended that a provision be added to clarify that any discount used to establish the net price of damaged production be usual, customary, and reasonable. Response: FCIC agrees with the comment and has revised the provision accordingly. Comment: One comment recommended revising paragraph 11.(d)(3) regarding moisture reduction to read as follows: ``Production eligible for moisture adjustment will be reduced by .12 percent for each .1 percentage point of moisture in excess of *␣*␣*.'' Response: FCIC agrees with the comment and has revised the paragraph accordingly. Comment: Four comments indicated that it is difficult to assess provisions of the Winter Coverage Endorsement without knowing the premium rates. One of the comments points out that dissatisfaction would occur with the Endorsement when premium rates are published. The author of another comment expressed concern that the proposed Options may erode the affordable value of the insurance product in counties currently covered by the Winter Coverage Option/Fall Seeded Endorsement. If Option B is priced too high, it may cause a migration of business to the less expensive Option A or the basic endorsement. The result would be less significant protection, on an affordable basis, and an overall devaluation of the effectiveness of the insurance product in counties that currently have the Winter Coverage Option. Response: Final rate determinations cannot be made until the endorsement provisions are finalized. Any premium rate changes will reflect the coverage provided by regulations published in this final rule. Adequate time will be allowed to inform insureds of coverage and rate changes, and for insureds to make choices regarding their insurance protection. Comment: Three comments stated that it will be necessary to provide extra training to insurance agents before they sell the Winter Coverage Endorsement.
