FR940512-0-00050 FR940512-0-00018 §693.21 How does the Secretary allot funds to a State? (a) If the amount appropriated for the program under this part for a fiscal year is $50,000,000 or more, the Secretary allots to each State that has submitted an approved plan under §693.10 and an approved application under §693.13, an amount that bears the same ratio to the total appropriation as the amount allocated to the LEAs in the State under 34 CFR part 200 bears to the total amount allocated to all LEAs in all States using the most recently available data. (b) If the amount appropriated for the program under this part for a fiscal year is less than $50,000,000, the Secretary allots funds to each State in accordance with the provisions in §693.22. (c) From the allotment calculated in this section, the Secretary disburses to a State an amount equal to not more than one-half of the total amount of funds from all sources the State projects that it will expend on its NEISP Program for a fiscal year as reported on its annual application under §693.13(a). (d) A State may expend from its Federal allotment no more than one-half of the total amount of funds the State expends under its NEISP Program for that fiscal year. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1070a&hyph;25) §693.22 How does the Secretary allot funds to States on a competitive basis? (a) The Secretary allots funds to States under this program on a competitive basis if the program appropriation for a fiscal year is less than $50,000,000. (b) The Secretary conducts a grant competition for the States by means of a notice published in the Federal Register that contains the information needed by a State to apply for funds under a discretionary NEISP Program competition. The Secretary evaluates a State's application for funds under a discretionary NEISP Program competition on the basis of the extent to which the State fulfills the requirements listed in §§693.10, 693.11, 693.12, and 693.13, and the selection criteria in this section. (c)(1) The Secretary uses the selection criteria in paragraph (d) of this section to evaluate applications for grants under this program. (2) The maximum score, not including prior grant recipient priority points in paragraph (d)(12) of this section, for all of these criteria is 140 points. (3) The maximum score for each criterion is indicated in parentheses in paragraph (d) of this section. (4) In the final selection of similarly rated applications, the Secretary considers the extent to which a State provides_ (i) A comprehensive State-wide early intervention and postsecondary educational scholarship program; (ii) Eligible students with comprehensive long-term mentoring and advising; and (iii) Eligible students with State grant funds for their postsecondary education as compared to the other States who apply for grant funds. (d)(1) Need for the program. (20 points) The Secretary reviews each State's application for information that shows the need for the State-wide early intervention component and the methods for targeting its early intervention component activities on eligible students including consideration of_ (i) The number and percentage of students who are eligible to be served by the State's early intervention component, including students who are priority students and students who are disadvantaged; (ii) The extent to which the State documents its need for the services and activities that the State proposes to provide under its early intervention component; (iii) The ratio of secondary school counselors to all students and to early intervention eligible students, if the data is available; (iv) For each of the three preceding years, if available, the estimated dropout rates for the State, including the dropout rate for all students and for students eligible for the early intervention component as proposed by the State; and (v) For each of the three preceding years, if available, the estimated number and percentage of students in the State who enrolled in postsecondary institutions for_ (A) All students who were eligible to enroll; and (B) Students who would have been eligible for the State's proposed early intervention component; and (vi) Describes the procedures the State will use to award postsecondary education scholarships to eligible students in the event that the State receives reduced or no Federal funding under the NEISP Program during any fiscal year. (2) Plan of operation. (30 points) The Secretary reviews each State's application for information that shows the quality of the operating plan of the State-wide early intervention component, including_ (i) (3 points) The quality of the design of the component; (ii) (3 points) An effective plan of management that ensures proper and efficient administration of the component; (iii) (3 points) A clear description of how the State's proposed early intervention component relates to the purpose of the program; (iv) (3 points) The way that the State plans to use its resources and personnel to achieve the objectives of the component; (v) (3 points) A clear description of the methods that the State will use to target early intervention services to priority students. The State must base the proposed methods on the latest available State data. The State may target services on priority students by_ (A) Elementary and secondary schools with high concentrations of priority students within the State; (B) Appropriate identifiable geographic areas such as counties or school districts (including both public and private schools) with high concentrations of priority students within the State; or
