FR941130-2-00130 FR941130-2-00073 The Applicants are also requesting authorization for Intermediate Companies to effect adjustments in the respective ownership interests in any Exempt Project held by the Applicants and unaffiliated co-investors and to facilitate a partial sale of an interest in any such Exempt Project. In addition, the Applicants also request authority to participate directly or through Intermediate Companies in joint ventures with non-associates which join ventures are in the business of researching investment opportunities in, and owning and developing Exempt Projects. The Applicants also request authority to liquidate, dissolve or sell any Intermediate Company within 45 days after the Applicants determine that the purpose for owning such Intermediate Company no longer exists unless the Applicants determine that such Intermediate Company may be used in connection with a proposal or plan to develop or acquire an interest in a different Exempt Project. The Applicants request authorization for Charter Oak employees (who are employees of Northeast Utilities Service Company) or other NU Service Company employees (collectively, ``Service Company Employees'') to provide a de minimis amount of services to affiliated Intermediate Companies, EWGs (both foreign and domestic) and FUCOs, subject to certain limitations. The services to be rendered to affiliated Intermediate Companies, EWGs and FUCOs by Service Company Employees include: management, administrative, legal, tax, and financing advice, accounting, engineering consulting, software development and language skills. The total number of Service Company Employees engaged in rendering such services will not exceed, in the aggregate, 0.5% of the total NU holding company system's employees and no more than 1% of the total of Service Company Employees at any one time. The provision of services to affiliated domestic EWGs and Intermediate Companies will be made at cost pursuant to Section 13(b) of the Act. Applicants request authority to provide such services at market rates to affiliated foreign EWGs, Foreign Intermediate Companies and FUCOs, which are companies that do not derive, directly or indirectly, any material part of their income from sources within the United States and are not public-utility companies operating in the United States. Ohio Valley Electric Corporation (70&hyph;8527) Ohio Valley Electric Corporation (``Ohio Valley''), P.O. Box 468, Piketon, Ohio 45661, an electric public-utility subsidiary company of American Electric Power Company, Inc., a registered holding company, has filed a declaration under sections 6(a) and 7 of the Act. Ohio Valley proposes to incur short-term debt through the issuance and sale of notes (``Notes''), prior to January 1, 1997, to banks in an aggregate amount not to exceed $25 million outstanding at any one time. It is stated that the Notes will mature not more than 270 days after issuance, and no note will mature later than June 30, 1997. Notes will bear interest at an annual rate not greater than the bank's prime commercial rate. Such credit arrangements may require the payment of a fee that is not greater than 1/5 of 1% per annum of the size of the line of credit made available by the bank and the maintenance of additional balances of not greater than 20% of the line of credit. For the Commission, by the Division of Investment Management, pursuant to delegated authority. Jonathan G. Katz, Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;29466 Filed 11&hyph;29&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
