FR940204-2-00129 FR940204-2-00092 2. Statutory Basis The NASD believes the proposed rule change is consistent with section 15A(b)(6) of the Act. Section 15A(b)(6) requires that the rules of a national securities association be designed to prevent fraudulent and manipulative acts and practices, to promote just and equitable principles of trade, to foster cooperation and coordination with persons engaged in regulating, clearing, settling, processing information with respect to, and facilitating transactions in securities, to remove impediments to and perfect the mechanism of a free and open market and a national market system and, in general, to protect investors and the public interest. Specifically, the NASD believes the use of fifth-character, geographic indicators is consistent with the maintenance of fair and orderly markets and the facilitation of transactions in securities because it will eliminate unnecessary confusion and delay in trading of securities and foster cooperation between members and market makers effecting trades in securities quoted on the OTCBB. B. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Burden on Competition The NASD believes that the proposed rule change will not result in any burden on competition that is not necessary or appropriate in furtherance of the purposes of the Act. C. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received From Members, Participants, or Others Comments were neither solicited nor received. III. Date of Effectiveness of the Proposed Rule Change and Timing for Commission Action Within 35 days of the date of publication of this notice in the Federal Register or within such longer period (i) as the Commission may designate up to 90 days of such date if it finds such longer period to be appropriate and publishes its reasons for so finding or (ii) as to which the NASD consents, the Commission will: A. By order approve such proposed rule change, or B. Institute proceedings to determine whether the proposed rule change should be disapproved. IV. Solicitation of Comments Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views, and arguments concerning the foregoing. Persons making written submissions should file six copies thereof with the Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of the submission, all subsequent amendments, all written statements with respect to the proposed rule change that are filed with the Commission, and all written communications relating to the proposed rule change between the Commission and any person, other than those that may be withheld from the public in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552, will be available for inspection and copying in the Commission's Public Reference Room. Copies of such filing will also be available for inspection and copying at the principal office of the NASD. All submissions should refer to the file number in the caption above and should be submitted by [insert date 21 days from the date of publication]. For the Commission, by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. 3 3 17 CFR 200.30&hyph;3(a)(12) (1989). Jonathan G. Katz, Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;2578 Filed 2&hyph;3&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
