FR940713-2-00136 FR940713-2-00079 [Release No. 34&hyph;34324; File No. SR&hyph;MSTC&hyph;94&hyph;04] Self-Regulatory Organizations; Midwest Securities Trust Company; Order Approving a Proposed Rule Change Relating to Limited Purpose Participants July 6, 1994. I. Introduction On February 3, 1994, the Midwest Securities Trust Company (``MSTC'') filed a proposed rule change (File No. SR&hyph;MSTC&hyph;94&hyph;04) with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``Commission'') pursuant to Section 19(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act''). 1 Notice of the proposal was published in the Federal Register on April 1, 1994, to solicit comments from interested persons. 2 No comments were received. As discussed below, this order approves the proposal. 1 15 U.S.C. 78s(b) (1988). 2 Securities Exchange Act Release No. 33820 (March 25, 1994), 59 FR 15469 (notice of filing of proposed rule change). II. Description of the Proposal The purpose of the proposed rule change is to create a Limited Purpose Participant Program. On October 8, 1993, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (``CFTC'') issued an order approving the Chicago Mercantile Exchange's (``CME'') proposal to revise the program whereby the CME accepts stock as clearing house performance bond margin. Under the revised program, all stock pledged as performance bond margin is maintained at MSTC. 3 In order to carry out the revised program, the CME became a pledgee participant at MSTC. 4 Clearing members of the CME that are also participants at MSTC have been able to take advantage of this program by utilizing MSTC's existing Automated Pledge Loan Program. Because futures commission merchants (``FCMs'') who are not registered as broker-dealers (``BDs'') do not meet MSTC's existing qualifications to be MSTC participants, they have been unable to participate in the current CME program. MSTC is establishing the Limited Purpose Participant Program to accommodate those CME clearing members registered solely as FCMs. 3 Previously, CME clearing members who wished to use equity securities to satisfy their performance bond margin requirements deposited those securities with the CME's settlement banks or with other qualified depositories selected by the CME. 4 Pledgee participants under MSTC rules are participants who maintain accounts established with MSTC to reflect such participants' interest as a pledgee or holder of securities transferred from one or more depository accounts. Limited purpose participants will be limited to FCMs that are clearing members of a futures exchange. The activities at MSTC for which a limited purpose participant will be eligible will be limited to making or receiving free depository delivery instructions (``DDIs'') of securities, maintaining segregated positions for the purpose of effecting free pledges of securities to a specified pledgee participant ( i.e. , the futures exchange of which they are a clearing member), receiving a return of the securities from that pledgee participant, and receiving credits from MSTC for any cash dividends received on those securities. Limited purpose participants will not be able to make physical deposits or physical withdrawals of securities. Limited purpose participants will not be eligible for any other service offered by MSTC. In order to deposit securities in the limited purpose program, custodial banks or broker-dealers, acting on behalf of limited purpose participants, will transfer book-entry positions to the participants' limited purpose accounts at MSTC. Movements of positions from limited purpose accounts into the CME's pledge accounts will only occur by order of the limited purpose participants, and only the CME may release positions from its pledge accounts to the limited purpose accounts. If limited purpose participants no longer wish to pledge securities held in the limited purpose accounts, such participants will instruct MSTC to move the positions out of their limited purpose accounts to their designated bank or broker-dealer account at MSTC for further disposition. In creating the CME clearing member stock pledge program, 5 CME and MSTC entered into an agreement clarifying certain points not covered in either MSTC's Automated Pledge Loan Program Agreement or in MSTC's Rules. 6 In general, MSTC acknowledges the following. 5 The CFTC approved CME stock pledge program will only permit clearing members to deposit equity securities as performance bond margin to meet a reserve requirement, an amount assessed in excess of the ordinary prudential core margin requirement. The core requirement is intended to cover at least 95% of all anticipated one-day price moves in the applicable contract. Reserve requirements likely will be set at levels that reflect those noneconomic factors that the CME may determine are necessary. If the loss associated with a clearing member default was expected to exceed the proceeds that the CME would receive from the liquidation of core performance bond assets, reserve performance bond assets would be liquidated and applied against any such excess losses. 6 Letter agreement between the CME and MSTC (October 5, 1993). (1) MSTC will comply with any instructions received from CME related to the pledged securities, notwithstanding any conflicting instructions received from any clearing member or in any pending proceeding under the Bankruptcy Code except to the extent that there is an effective written order issued by a court of competent jurisdiction. (2) MSTC will not permit a limited purpose participant to pledge to a CME pledge account (a) Any security not on the list of eligible securities that CME will provide to MSTC; (b) any security whose closing price on the day preceding the day of the attempted pledge was not at least $10.00; (c) any security with respect to which MSTC has actual knowledge of an existing encumbrance at the time of the attempted pledge; or (d) any security against which MSTC may assert a lien. (3) MSTC has been advised by the CME that customer securities in the CME pledge account are required to be segregated in accordance with the provisions of the Commodity Exchange Act and that prior to the first pledge of customer securities, MSTC will execute an agreement that the funds and securities in the segregated customer pledge account will not be subject to any lien or offset or liability owing to MSTC by the CME or any other person and that such funds shall not be applied by MSTC to any such indebtedness or liability.
