FR941206-0-00209 FR941206-0-00019 (iii) Add the gap surface area of each gap location for the primary seal and the secondary seal individually and divide the sum for each seal by the nominal diameter of the tank and compare each ratio to the respective standards in paragraph (b)(2)(iv) of this section. (iv) Make necessary repairs or empty the tank within 45 days of identification in any inspection for seals not meeting the following requirements: (A) The accumulated area of gaps between the tank wall and the mechanical shoe or liquid-mounted primary seal shall not exceed 212 cm 2 per meter of tank diameter, and the width of any portion of any gap shall not exceed 3.81 cm. ( 1 ) One end of the mechanical shoe is to extend into the waste contained in the tank, and the other end is to extend a minimum vertical distance of 61 cm above the waste surface. ( 2 ) There are to be no holes, tears, or other openings in the shoe, seal fabric, or seal envelope. (B) The secondary seal is to meet the following requirements: ( 1 ) The secondary seal is to be installed above the primary seal so that it completely covers the space between the roof edge and the tank wall except as provided in paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(C) of this section. ( 2 ) The accumulated area of gaps between the tank wall and the secondary seal shall not exceed 21.2 cm 2 per meter of tank diameter, and the width of any portion of any gap shall not exceed 1.27 cm. ( 3 ) There are to be no holes, tears, or other openings in the seal or seal fabric. (v) If a failure that is detected during inspections required in paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section cannot be repaired within 45 days and if the tank cannot be emptied within 45 days, a 30-day extension may be requested from the Regional Administrator. Such extension request shall include a demonstration of the unavailability of alternate capacity and a specification of a schedule that will assure that the control equipment will be repaired or the tank will be emptied as soon as possible. (vi) Notify the Regional Administrator 30 days in advance of any gap measurements required by paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section to afford the Regional Administrator the opportunity to have an observer present. (vii) Visually inspect the external floating roof, the primary seal, secondary seal, and fittings each time the vessel is emptied and degassed. (A) If the external floating roof has defects, the primary seal has holes, tears, or other openings in the seal or the seal fabric, or the secondary seal has holes, tears, or other openings in the seal or the seal fabric, the owner or operator shall repair the items as necessary so that none of the conditions specified in this paragraph exist before filling or refilling the tank with waste. (B) For all the inspections required by paragraph (b)(2)(vii) of this section, the owner or operator shall notify the Regional Administrator in writing at least 30 days prior to the filling or refilling of each tank to afford the Regional Administrator the opportunity to inspect the tank prior to refilling. If the inspection required by paragraph (b)(2)(vii) of this section is not planned and the owner or operator could not have known about the inspection 30 days in advance of refilling the tank, the owner or operator shall notify the Regional Administrator at least 7 days prior to the refilling of the tank. Notification shall be made by telephone immediately followed by written documentation demonstrating why the inspection was unplanned. Alternatively, this notification, including the written documentation, may be made in writing and sent by express mail so that it is received by the Regional Administrator at least 7 days prior to the refilling. (c) Owners and operators who elect to install and operate the control equipment in paragraph (a) of this section shall include the following information in the operating record in accordance with the requirements of ยง265.1090(a)(1) and (a)(11) of this subpart: (1) Internal floating roof. (i) Documentation that describes the control equipment design and certifies that the control equipment meets the specifications of paragraphs (a)(1) and (b)(1) of this section. (ii) Records of each inspection performed as required by paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (b)(1)(iv) of this section. Each record shall identify the tank on which the inspection was performed and shall contain the date the tank was inspected and the observed condition of each component of the control equipment (seals, internal floating roof, and fittings). (iii) If any of the conditions described in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section are detected during the annual visual inspection required by paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section, the records shall identify the tank, the nature of the defects, and the date the tank was emptied or the nature of and date the repair was made. (iv) After each inspection required by paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section that finds holes or tears in the seal or seal fabric, or defects in the internal floating roof, or other control equipment defects listed in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section, the records shall identify the tank and the reason it did not meet the specifications of paragraph (a)(1) or (b)(1)(iii) of this section and describe each repair made.
