FR940318-0-00169 FR940318-0-00023 These solvents, unlike class I and II compounds, do not contribute to stratospheric ozone depletion, and generally have short atmospheric lifetimes. Yet many of the organic solvents are regulated as VOCs because they can contribute to ground-level ozone formation. In addition, certain of the organic solvents are toxic to human health and are subject to waste handling standards under the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) and to workplace standards set by Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA). For example, xylene and toluene may be used as substitutes but are, once they become wastes, regulated under RCRA as listed or characteristic wastes. e. Other chlorinated solvents. In addition to MCF and CFC&hyph;113, the three other commonly used chlorinated solvents are trichloroethylene (``TCE''), methylene chloride (``meth''), and perchloroethylene (``perc''). Unlike MCF and CFC&hyph;113, these chlorinated solvents have very short atmospheric lifetimes and are not considered to contribute to ozone depletion. However, all three have known toxicity problems and are regulated as Hazardous Air Pollutants under section 112 of title III of the Clean Air Act. They are also subject to waste handling standards under RCRA and to workplace standards set by OSHA. Additionally, TCE and perc exhibit photochemical reactivity, and are regulated as smog precursors. The phaseout of CFC&hyph;113 and MCF has prompted a renewed interest in meth, TCE, and perc, despite these toxicity concerns. The three solvents are mostly viewed as potential metal cleaning substitutes, especially since they can be used in conventional vapor degreasing equipment. In fact, these three solvents were the preferred industrial solvents until concerns about their toxicity and anticipated lowering of the OSHA Permissible Exposure Limits (PELs) resulted in a switch by some users to MCF. In response to such concerns, equipment vendors have now developed equipment for using these solvents that significantly limit their emissions. The availability of such equipment has prompted environmental agencies in other western countries, such as Germany, to relax restrictions on the use of these chemicals. Such equipment, although expensive, can now be purchased in the United States. f. No-clean alternatives. No-clean alternatives involve the use of fluxes or cutting oils that need not be removed after the manufactured part is fully formed. It offers an efficient solution to the cleaning problem, since it sidesteps the need for cleaning altogether. This type of substitute represents one of the few process changes possible in the solvents cleaning sector. Water-removable products are products where the soils or fluxes can be removed using water as opposed to other types of chemical solvents. In electronics cleaning, where these two approaches are in more widespread use, no-clean or water-removable alternatives rely either on special fluxes or on a soldering process that eliminates or reduces the residues otherwise removed through the cleaning step. In metal preparations, an increasing common process change is to use vanishing oils. These oils are refined mineral spirits, usually odorless, that flash off after the metal forming step is completed thus eliminating the need for cleaning. Technically, this process can be referred to as a ``no-clean'' process, although that term is usually reserved for electronics manufacture. g. Perfluorocarbons. Perfluorocarbons (PFCs) are fully fluorinated compounds, unlike either CFCs, HCFCs or HFCs. Perfluorocarbons presently employed or being investigated for commercial applications for cleaning are C5F12, C6F12, C6F14, C7F16, C8F18, C5F11NO, C6F13NO, C7F15NO, and C8F16. These compounds are being discussed as part of innovative cleaning and drying systems to replace ozone-depleting solvents used in cleaning. These systems would use an aqueous or solvent cleaner bath with PFCs for rinsing and/or drying. Although the PFCs technically are being used as drying agents in this system, it is due to the replacement of CFC&hyph;113 as a cleaner that the PFCs are being used, which is why PFCs are addressed in the solvent cleaning sector. PFCs also have solvent displacement properties (including for displacement of water), that may make their use necessary. Although these systems have the technical potential to meet a number of cleaning needs, the expense of the PFCs may limit widespread commercial interest in systems that use these compounds. The environmental characteristics of concern for these compounds are high global warming potential (5,000&hyph;10,000 times greater than CO 2 ) and long atmospheric lifetimes (3,000&hyph;5,000 years). Although the actual contributions to global warming depend upon the quantities of PFCs emitted, the warming effects of PFCs are essentially irreversible. In other respects, PFCs are benign and are generally nontoxic, nonflammable, and do not contribute to ground-level ozone formation. Environmental concerns associated with use of PFCs are discussed in the comment response section of this preamble, section III.D. Technology for containment and recycling of PFCs is commercially available and is recommended by manufacturers to offset any possible adverse environmental effects. h. Monochlorotoluene/benzotrifluorides. Monochlorotoluene and benzotrifluorides are of commercial interest as solvent substitutes in a variety of cleaning applications. These compounds can be used either in isolation or in various mixtures, depending on desired chemical properties. The Agency is still receiving toxicity and exposure information on these formulations and will issue a SNAP determination for these substitutes when SNAP review is complete.
