FR940127-2-00119 FR940127-2-00075 Article XXII is added to OCC's By-Laws to establish By-Laws specifically applicable to cash-settled foreign currency options. 6 Under Section 1 of Article XXII, the spot price of the underlying foreign currency will be determined by the exchange, or an entity designated by the exchange, on which such options are traded. 7 Article XXII, Section 2 clarifies that holders of cash-settled foreign currency options have the right to receive from OCC, and writers of cash-settled foreign currency options have the obligation to pay to OCC, the amount of United States dollars that reflects the difference between the spot price and the exercise price of the foreign currency underlying such options. Section 3 of Article XXII makes provisions for adjustments in the terms ( i.e. , exercise price, unit of trading, etc .) of outstanding cash-settled foreign currency options under unusual circumstances, 8 and Section 4 of Article XXII makes provisions for circumstances in which the spot price is either unavailable or clearly inaccurate. 9 Section 3 is similar to corresponding provisions relating to other foreign currency options, and Section 4 is similar to provisions relating to cash-settled index options. 6 Generally, the By-Laws in Articles I through XI also are applicable to cash-settled foreign currency options. In some cases, the By-Laws in Article XXII replace or supplement the By-Laws contained in Articles I through XI with respect to cash-settled foreign currency options. 7 For a full description of how the spot price for cash-settled foreign currency options will be determined, refer to the PHLX proposal, supra note 3. 8 Section 3 provides that if the country of origin of an underlying foreign currency should (i) issue a new currency intended to replace its then existing currency as the standard unit of the official medium of exchange of such country or (ii) officially alter the exchange rate or exchange characteristics of its currency with respect to other currencies, an adjustment panel, consisting of the Chairman of OCC and two designated representatives of each exchange on which the affected cash-settled foreign currency options are traded, shall determine whether to make adjustments to the exercise price, unit of trading, number of contracts, underlying foreign currency, or other terms of option contracts affected by such event. The adjustment panel will consider such factors as fairness to holders and writers of affected option contracts, the maintenance of fair and orderly markets for such option contracts, consistency of interpretation and practice, and efficiency of exercise settlement procedures. 9 Section 4 authorizes OCC to suspend settlement obligations of exercising and assigned clearing members and/or to fix the exercise settlement amount for exercised contracts of an affected series in accordance with the best information available. Chapter XXIII of OCC's Rules is added to establish Rules specifically applicable to cash-settled foreign currency options. 10 OCC Rule 2301 prohibits clearing members from depositing the underlying foreign currency or Treasury bills as cover in lieu of margin with respect to cash-settled foreign currency options. 11 Rule 2302 describes the automatic exercise procedure for cash-settled foreign currency options. 12 10 Generally, the Rules in Chapters I through XII also are applicable to cash-settled foreign currency options. In some cases, the Rules in Chapter XXIII replace or supplement the Rules in Chapters I through XII with respect to cash-settled foreign currency options. 11 Rule 2301 replaces Rules 610 and 612 for cash-settled foreign currency options. 12 Rule 2302 sets forth the expiration date exercise procedures for cash-settled foreign currency option contracts. Under Rule 2302, a cash-settled foreign currency clearing member shall be automatically deemed to have properly and irrevocably tendered to OCC immediately prior to the expiration time on the expiration date an exercise notice with respect to each cash-settled foreign currency option contract listed in the report made available to the clearing member pursuant to Rule 806(a), the Exercise and Assignment Activity Report, that has an exercise price below the spot price in the case of a call or above the spot price in the case of a put. Rule 2302 replaces Rules 802 and 805 and supplements Rule 806 for cash-settled foreign currency options.
