FR940525-1-00005 FR940525-1-00004 DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES Health Care Financing Administration 42 CFR Part 413 [BPD&hyph;794&hyph;P] RIN 0938&hyph;AG55 Medicare Program; Date for Filing Medicare Cost Reports AGENCY: Health Care Financing Administration (HCFA), HHS. ACTION: Proposed rule. SUMMARY: This proposed rule extends the time frame providers have to file cost reports from no later than 3 months after the close of the period covered by the report to no later than 5 months after the close of that period. This change is necessary to ensure that providers have an adequate amount of time to file complete and accurate cost reports. We are also proposing to define what HCFA considers to be an ``acceptable'' cost report submission. DATES: Comments will be considered if we receive them at the appropriate address, as provided below, no later than 5 p.m. on July 25, 1994. ADDRESSES: Mail written comments (1 original and 3 copies) to the following address: Health Care Financing Administration, Department of Health and Human Services, Attention: BPD&hyph;794&hyph;P, P.O. Box 7517, Baltimore, MD 21207&hyph;0517. If you prefer, you may deliver your written comments (1 original and 3 copies) to one of the following addresses: Room 309&hyph;G, Hubert H. Humphrey Building, 200 Independence Avenue, SW., Washington, DC 20201, or Room 132, East High Rise Building, 6325 Security Boulevard, Baltimore, MD 21207. Because of staffing and resource limitations, we cannot accept comments by facsimile (FAX) transmission. In commenting, please refer to file code BPD&hyph;794&hyph;P. Comments received timely will be available for public inspection as they are received, generally beginning approximately 3 weeks after publication of a document, in room 309&hyph;G of the Department's offices at 200 Independence Avenue SW., Washington, DC, on Monday through Friday of each week from 8:30 a.m. to 5 p.m. (phone: (202) 690&hyph;7890). FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Linda McKenna Hite, (410) 966&hyph;4530 SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: I. Background Section 1815(a) of the Social Security Act (the Act) requires that each provider participating in the Medicare program submit information (as requested by the Secretary) in order to determine the amount of payment due to the provider for services furnished under the Medicare program. Implementing regulations at 42 CFR 413.24(f) require that participating providers submit cost reports that generally cover a consecutive 12-month period of the provider's operations. Section 102 of the Provider Reimbursement Manual (PRM), HCFA Publication 15&hyph;II, states that a provider may select any annual period for Medicare cost reporting purposes regardless of the reporting period it uses for other purposes. Once a provider has informed HCFA of its selection, HCFA requires it to report annually thereafter for periods ending on the same date unless that provider's intermediary approves a change in the provider's reporting period. The intermediary makes interim payments to the provider during the provider's cost reporting year. Based on the annual cost report, a retroactive adjustment is made after the end of the provider's cost reporting year to bring the interim payments made during the period into agreement with the reimbursable amount payable to the provider. Section 413.24(f)(2)(i) specifies that cost reports are due on or before the last day of the third month following the close of the period covered by the report. Section 413.24(f)(2)(ii) states that the intermediary may grant a 30-day extension of the due date, for good cause, after first obtaining the approval of HCFA. Section 104.A.2 of the PRM requires that in order to obtain an extension, the provider must submit a written request and obtain written approval from its intermediary before the cost report due date. A provider that voluntarily or involuntarily terminates its participation in the Medicare program, or experiences a change of ownership, must file a cost report no later than 45 days following the effective date of the termination of the provider agreement or the change of ownership, as required by ยง413.24(f)(2)(iii). HCFA will not grant an extension of the cost report due date in either of these situations. To ensure timely receipt of the cost reports, section 2231.1 of the Intermediary Manual, Part 2, requires that the intermediary send a ``reminder'' letter to the provider at the end of the second month following the end of the cost reporting period. The letter advises the provider of the due date for filing the cost report and informs the provider that its interim payments will be reduced or suspended if the cost report is not received on or before the last day of the third month following the close of the period covered by the report. However, as allowed by ยง413.24(f)(2)(ii), the provider may, for good cause, request that the intermediary grant a 30-day extension of the due date of the cost report. If the intermediary does not receive the cost report by the required due date (including an extension if approved), the intermediary sends the first of three ``demand'' letters to the provider requesting the submission of the provider's cost report and informing the provider of the percentage by which its interim payment rate will be reduced. The letter also states that further delay in filing the cost report will result in an additional reduction in the interim rate and, ultimately, a suspension of interim payments. HCFA regulations at 42 CFR 405.376 set forth specific rules for the payment of interest on Medicare overpayments and underpayments. Interest is assessed unless the intermediary recoups the overpayment or the intermediary pays the provider an amount equal to the underpayment within 30 days of a ``final determination.'' When a provider does not file its cost report timely, all interim payments advanced for the period are considered overpayments, and a final determination is deemed to occur on the day after the date the cost report was due. Interest accrues on the deemed overpayment until the provider files the cost report, after which the usual audit rules and procedures regarding overpayment determinations apply. HCFA has established a Provider Statistical and Reimbursement System (PS&R) to assist intermediaries in reconciling provider cost reports. This system provides a number of reports to be used in developing and auditing provider cost reports. HCFA prepares the reports for each participating provider. These reports contain Medicare charge and reimbursement information compiled by the provider's fiscal year. One of these reports, the Provider Summary Report, is sent to providers by their intermediaries in order to assist the providers in preparing their cost reports. The Provider Summary Report contains information about charges, Medicare patient days, coinsurance days, etc. HCFA requires the intermediaries to furnish the Provider Summary Report to each provider within 60 days following the end of the provider's fiscal year. The provider then has 30 days to submit its completed cost report to its intermediary (60 days if an extension has been granted.) Another system that provides useful cost report data is the Hospital Cost Report Information System (HCRIS). This system is an automated data collection, data processing, and report generation system. HCRIS contains provider cost report data from all Medicare-participating hospitals, skilled nursing facilities, and end-stage renal disease facilities. HCRIS functions as the single cost report collection and dissemination point for Medicare cost report data. We use HCRIS to produce several standard files for the analysis of Medicare cost report data. For purposes of maintaining the HCRIS data base, Medicare intermediaries currently must submit an extract of provider cost report data to HCFA within either 180 days of the end of the hospital cost reporting period or 60 days of receipt of the cost report from the provider, whichever is later.
