FR940104-0-00082 FR940104-0-00016 2 (d) Federal Direct Stafford Loan Program and Federal Stafford Loan Program aggregate limits . The aggregate unpaid principal amount of all Federal Direct Stafford Loans and loans received under the Federal Stafford Loan Program made to a student may not exceed_ (1) $23,000 in the case of any student who has not successfully completed a program of study at the undergraduate level; and (2) $65,500, in the case of a graduate or professional student, including loans for undergraduate study. (e) Federal Direct PLUS Program annual limit . The total amount of all Federal Direct PLUS loans that a parent or parents may borrow on behalf of each dependent student for any academic year of study may not exceed the cost of education minus other estimated financial assistance for that student. (f) Federal Direct PLUS Program aggregate limit . The total amount of all Federal Direct PLUS Program loans that a parent or parents may borrow on behalf of each dependent student for enrollment in an eligible program of study may not exceed the student's cost of education minus other estimated financial assistance for that student. (g) Federal Direct Stafford Loan and Federal Direct Unsubsidized Stafford Loan Program aggregate limits . The total unpaid principal amount of Federal Direct Stafford Loans, Federal Direct Unsubsidized Stafford Loans, Federal Stafford Loans and Federal Unsubsidized Stafford Loans may not exceed_ (1) $46,000 for an undergraduate student. (2) $138,500 for a graduate or professional student. (h) Minimum loan interval . The annual loan limits applicable to a student shall apply to the length of the school's academic year as the term is used under the FFEL Program. (i) Treatment of Federal Direct Consolidation loans and Federal Consolidation loans for purposes of determining loan limits . The percentage of the outstanding balance on a Federal Direct Consolidation loan or Federal Consolidation Loans counted against a borrower's aggregate loan limits_ (1) For the Federal Direct Stafford Loan Program, equals the percentage of the original amount of the Federal Direct Consolidation loan or Federal Consolidation loan attributable to the Federal Direct Stafford and Federal Stafford loans; and (2) For the Federal Direct Unsubsidized Stafford Loan Program, equals the percentage of the original amount of the Federal Direct Consolidation loan or Federal Consolidation loan attributable to the Federal Direct Unsubsidized Stafford Loan and Federal Unsubsidized Stafford loans. (j) Maximum loan amounts . In no case may a Federal Direct Stafford, Federal Direct Unsubsidized Stafford, or Federal Direct PLUS loan amount exceed the student's estimated cost of attendance for the period of enrollment for which the loan is intended, less_ (1) The student's estimated financial assistance for that period; and (2) The borrower's expected family contribution for that period, in the case of a Federal Direct Stafford loan. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1087a et seq .) ยง685.204 Deferment. (a) (1) A Federal Direct Stafford Loan borrower who meets the requirements described in subparagraph (b) is eligible for a deferment during which periodic installments of principal need not be paid, and interest does not accrue. (2) A Federal Direct Unsubsidized Stafford Loan borrower or a Federal Direct PLUS borrower who meets the requirements described in paragraph (b) is eligible for a deferment during which periodic installments of principal need not be paid, but interest does accrue and is capitalized or paid by the borrower. (b) A Direct Loan Program borrower is eligible for a deferment during any period during which the borrower_ (1) Is carrying at least one-half the normal full-time work load for the course of study that the borrower is pursuing, as determined by the eligible school the borrower is attending. (2) Is pursuing_ (i) A course of study pursuant to a graduate fellowship program approved by the Secretary; or (ii) A rehabilitation training program, approved by the Secretary, for individuals with disabilities. (3) Not in excess of three years is seeking and unable to find full-time employment; or
