FR940223-2-00232 FR940223-2-00104 a. Environment. The program will help eliminate environmental risks through education of communities and through risk preparation/prevention. Development of currently unavailable databases could provide the information especially helpful in accident avoidance and response. Hazardous materials planning and training assistant positions at SERC/LEPCs and HMTA State grantee offices are currently going unfilled. b. Education. If students are selected for these positions, this program will meet the ``Education'' national priority. On-the-job training will provide unparalleled opportunities for individuals to learn skills leading to diplomas or equivalent recognition of accomplishment. In addition, this program addresses two Department of Transportation Strategic Goals: (1) Promoting safe and secure transportation, and (2) enhancing the environment through wise transportation decisions. 2.5.3␣Anticipated Outcomes and Results Communities and individuals will benefit from national service participation. Participants can contribute to an increased awareness of environmental protection and emergency response. Community outreach, a possible activity for participants, can help involve residents in discussion of issues and formulation of policy that can directly benefit the community. An ultimate goal of individual programs would be improved emergency response. Schools and community groups can be targets for educational programs, thereby increasing the knowledge level in the community. 2.5.4␣Funding Up to $60,000 of the Federal share of living allowances for participants may be provided by the Research and Special Programs Administration in DOT. DOT intends to apply for any additional funds needed for program costs, including living allowances, educational awards, health insurance, and child care costs, from the National Service Corporation. 2.5.5␣DOT Agencies Involved and Expertise Available The Office of Hazardous Materials Safety within the Research and Special Programs Administration will be the office in DOT that will implement this Program. 2.5.6␣DOT Contact The primary contact for DOT for the Hazardous Materials Transportation Emergency Preparedness Assistance Program will be: Charles Rogoff, HMTA Grants Manager, Office of Hazardous Materials Safety, the Research and Special Programs Administration (RSPA). (202) 366&hyph;0001, The National Service Program contact is: Jim Kabel, Office of Policy and Program Support, RSPA (202) 366&hyph;6714.
