FR941202-2-00150 FR941202-2-00098 Article V_Duties of the Officers Section 1_Chair The Conference Chair is the principal presiding officer at the meetings of the Conference and of the Board of Directors, makes appointments to the several standing and administrative committees, and appoints other Conference officials to serve during his or her term of office. All appointments will be made with the consent of the Board of Directors. Section 2_Chair-Elect The Chair-Elect will: A. serve as acting Chair of the Conference and the Board of Directors in the event that the Chair is unable to carry out the duties of that office; B. perform other duties assigned by the Conference Chair, including presiding over sessions of the meetings of the Conference as assigned by the Conference Chair and assisting the Chair in the discharge of his or her duties; and C. serve on the Board of Directors. Section 3_Past Chair The most recent still-active Past Chair will serve on the Board of Directors and as Chair of the Nominating Committee and perform such duties as may be assigned by the Board of Directors. The Conference Past Chair may preside over sessions of the meetings of the Conference as assigned by the Conference Chair and assist the Chair in the discharge of his or her duties. Section 4_Executive Secretary The Executive Secretary acts as the executive officer of the Conference, the secretary and executive officer of the Board of Directors, and the non-voting secretary to each standing committee; keeps the records of the proceedings of the meetings and manages the conference administration as prescribed in its administrative procedures. Section 5_Treasurer The Treasurer receives and accounts for all monies collected and pays all Conference bills certified by the Conference Management and Funding Committee as correct. The Treasurer is an ex officio member of the Conference Management and Funding Committee. Section 6_Assistant Treasurer The Assistant Treasurer shall assist the Treasurer in the discharge of his or her duties. Section 7_Parliamentarian The Parliamentarian shall assist in assuring meetings of the Conference are conducted according to Robert's Rules of Order and any special rules adopted by the Conference. Article VI_Committees Section 1_General Each administrative committee will consist of five Active Members (except the Contributors Committee) appointed by the Chair of the Conference to serve appropriate terms on a rotating basis or until a successor is appointed. All committee members will be appointed the initial year for appropriate staggered terms to allow for subsequent appointment to full terms. Except for the Nominating Committee, whose chair will be the Conference Past-Chair, each committee annually selects one of its members to serve as its chair, who may succeed himself or herself.
