FR940803-2-00027 FR940803-2-00020 The Commission is interested in obtaining the industry's views on the extent of contractual support for a project that should be required before the Commission expends resources evaluating the project's rate and environmental aspects. The Commission is concerned about authorizing activities that will affect the environment or confer eminent domain powers on an applicant when the applicant offers no support (whether by way of contracts or precedent agreements) for its proposal. The Commission, however, also is aware that some applicants, particularly new entrants to the market, may not be able to obtain the financing needed to attract customers for their project without some indication by the Commission that the project ultimately may be approved and, if so, at what price capacity will be available. Depending on the policy adopted for recovering expansion costs, the Commission is also interested in examining whether its current policy of making rolled-in rate determinations in ยง4 rate proceedings may need to be revised. For example, if the Commission were to adopt a specific policy (such as always pricing on a rolled-in or incremental basis) or definitive criteria, the question of the proceeding (whether a ยง7 certificate or a ยง4 rate case) in which to make the determination could be less important, since pipelines and customers would know in advance how the facilities would be priced. However, if the Commission were to adopt more general criteria, such as a system-wide benefits or commensurate benefits test, the Commission may need to consider whether and how to revise its current policies on when and in what proceeding to make the determination. The Commission is establishing this conference to obtain views from all facets of the gas industry on issues relating to the methods for recovering facility costs. The Commission discusses below some of the issues bearing on the determination of pricing methodologies. The Commission is interested in hearing the industry's views on these issues, as well as other issues related to facility cost recovery, in written submissions and in oral presentations at the conference. II. Issues to be Considered A. Benefits And Effects Resulting From The Adoption Of Rolled-in Or Incremental Pricing The Commission is interested in receiving comments on the competitive effects of adopting rolled-in or incremental pricing as well as other effects resulting from the choice of pricing methodology. The following are some of the questions that will be considered. 1. Which pricing methodology better reflects cost responsibility and provides better market signals about the appropriate scale of construction? Will rolled-in pricing lead to overbuilding because the existing customers are contributing to the costs of construction? On the other hand, does rolled-in pricing better avoid piecemeal expansions, and higher overall costs, by permitting pipelines to build facilities to better serve future needs? Is Commission oversight through its certificate regulation sufficient to prevent overbuilding? 2. What is the effect of each pricing methodology on other national goals, such as promoting the use of natural gas or protecting the environment? For example, which methodology would better permit the market to make the appropriate fuel choice given environmental and other impacts of the choice? 3. Does the choice of pricing methodology have a significant effect on competition among pipelines? For example, does a new pipeline, whose prices reflect current construction costs, have difficulty competing against an existing pipeline that can roll-in new facilities costs? If so, should this be a regulatory concern? 4. Does the choice of pricing methodology have a significant effect on competition in the capacity release market? For example, does an incremental shipper, whose rates reflect the current cost of construction, have difficulty competing in the capacity release market with a shipper paying a pre-expansion rate? 5. Does the adoption of any pricing methodology better comport with a regulatory regime that relies on private contracts and market forces? For example, does the choice of pricing methodology affect business planning and the negotiation of long-term contracts? How important is long-term contracting to the industry?
