FR940323-0-00066 FR940323-0-00020 All eligible applicants seeking AmeriCorps program grants must_ (a) Provide a description of the specific program(s) being proposed, including the type of program and of how it meets the minimum program requirements described in §2522.100; and (b) Comply with any additional requirements as specified by the Corporation in the application package. §2522.310 What are the application requirements for AmeriCorps educational awards only? (a) Eligible applicants may apply for AmeriCorps educational awards only for one of the following eligible service positions: (1) A position for a participant in an AmeriCorps program that: (i) Is carried out by an entity eligible to receive support under part 2521 of this chapter; (ii) Would be eligible to receive assistance under this part, based on criteria established by the Corporation, but has not applied for such assistance; (2) A position facilitating service-learning in a program described in parts 2515 through 2519 of this chapter; (3) A position involving service as a crew leader in a youth corps program or a similar position supporting an AmeriCorps program; and (4) Such other AmeriCorps positions as the Corporation considers to be appropriate. (b) Because programs applying only for AmeriCorps educational awards must, by definition, meet the same basic requirements as other approved AmeriCorps programs, applicants must comply with the same application requirements specified in § 2522.300. §2522.320 May an applicant submit more than one application to the Corporation for the same project at the same time? No. The Corporation will reject an application for a project if an application for funding or educational awards for the same project is already pending before the Corporation. Subpart D_Selection of AmeriCorps Programs §2522.400 How will the basic selection criteria be applied? From among the eligible programs that meet the minimum program requirements and that have submitted applications to the Corporation, the Corporation must select the best ones to receive funding. Although there is a wide range of factors that must be taken into account during the selection process, there are certain fundamental selection criteria that apply to all programs in each grant competition, regardless of whether they receive funding or educational awards directly or through subgrants. States and other subgranting applicants are required to use these criteria during the competitive selection of subgrantees. The Corporation may adjust the relative weight given to each criterion. (Additional and more specific criteria will be published in the applications). §2522.410 What are the basic selection criteria for AmeriCorps programs? The Corporation will consider how well the program will be able to achieve the three impacts mentioned in paragraph (a) of this section as demonstrated by the program design, the capacity of the organization to carry it out and other factors relating to need. The Corporation will also consider the extent to which the program promotes the Corporation's goals; and the extent to which the program contributes to the overall diversity of programs desired by the Corporation. These criteria are discussed in this section. Additional detail relating to these criteria may be published in any notice of availability of funding. (a) Program impacts. The Corporation will consider the extent to which the program: (1) Achieves direct and demonstrable results; (2) Strengthens communities; and (3) Promotes citizenship and increases educational opportunities for participants. (b) Program Criteria. _(1) Program design. The Corporation will consider four factors relating to the program design: (i) The quality of the program proposed to be carried out directly by the applicant or supported by a grant from the applicant; (ii) The innovative aspects of the AmeriCorps program; (iii) The feasibility of replicating the program; and
