FR940503-1-00055 FR940503-1-00011 D. Confidentiality Because today's proposal contemplates the EPA receiving and using information and services from private sources for enforcement activities, the EPA is also proposing to maintain as confidential, upon request, the identity of persons providing information or services. The EPA believes this assurance of confidentiality will encourage persons to assist the EPA in its efforts to enforce compliance with the Act. In this regard, the proposed rule provides, upon request, confidential treatment by the EPA consistent with this proposal, existing law and other EPA regulations. Pursuant to the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA), 5 U.S.C. 552 (b)(6) & (7), the confidentiality of the identity of those providing information and services will be protected from FOIA requests consistent with existing law. The assurance of confidentiality extends to petitions for awards submitted to the EPA. To ensure confidential treatment of such petitions, it is important that persons submitting petitions to the EPA specifically request confidentiality at or prior to the time of providing information or services, and to renew such request at the time of submitting a petition. E. Petitions for Awards Because the information or services provided would be instrumental to the successful prosecution of the EPA's enforcement action, in many cases EPA personnel will be aware of persons potentially eligible for an award, even without a petition being submitted. The EPA expects that in many such situations, award determinations may be made without submission of a petition. Today's proposal recognizes, however, that a person may wish to petition the Agency for consideration for an award and authorizes such petitions. To ensure that such petitions contain sufficient information for the purpose of evaluation, and to ensure that petitions are directed to the appropriate EPA office, the proposal sets forth award petition procedures and requirements. Timing of Petitions The proposed rule requires petitions for consideration to be submitted in writing no later than one year after the judgment of conviction or assessment of a civil penalty. Petitions may be submitted at any time prior to the judgment or assessment, but no award determination will be made before the judgment of conviction is entered or a judicial or administrative civil penalty is finally assessed, agreed, or ordered. Again, payment and the amount of any award granted is within the Administrator's unfettered discretion. The granting of an award is a gratuity, and not an entitlement. Certification of Eligibility The proposed regulation also requires that the petition contain a certification of compliance with the eligibility criteria set forth in the regulation. A statement signed by the person to be considered for an award attesting to having read the eligibility requirements and attesting that the person to be considered for an award is not ineligible to receive an award would meet this requirement. This certification is important to the award determination process because the EPA recognizes that it may be difficult for the Administrator to determine with certainty whether a person meets all eligibility criteria. However, the Act prohibits payment of an award to certain persons. Therefore, the proposal requires a certification of eligibility be signed before the Administrator may pay an award.
