FR941019-1-00039 FR941019-1-00004 Liability would be imposed only if a misstatement or omission is material, made or omitted with scienter, and, for private plaintiffs, relied upon. Materiality would be defined as information that would significantly alter the total mix of information available. Scienter would be defined as actual knowledge or intentional omission to state a material fact. Reliance would be defined as actual knowledge of and actual reliance on the forward-looking statement in connection with the purchase or sale of a security. Under the proposal, there would be no attribution to the issuer of statements made by third parties unless the issuer expressly endorsed or approved of the statement. Finally, an issuer would not have a duty to update a forward-looking statement unless it expressly undertook to do so at the time the statement was made. D. ``Bespeaks Caution'' Proposal Professor John Coffee suggests a safe harbor that would codify a variant of the ``Bespeaks Caution'' doctrine_articulated in terms of an investor's inability to rely in an action for fraud upon statements protected by the safe harbor. Under this proposed safe harbor, which would be available to reporting companies (except penny-stock issuers), a forward-looking statement would be protected so long as it were properly qualified and accompanied by ``clear and specific'' cautionary language that explains in detail sufficient to inform a reasonable person of both the approximate level of risk associated with that statement and the basis therefor. Forward-looking statements made, either orally or in writing, outside the four corners of a Commission filing would be covered only if reaffirmed in a filed document or annual report made publicly available within a reasonable period after the statement is first disseminated. The suggested safe harbor would not require that the forward-looking statement have a ``reasonable basis'' (as under existing Rules 175 and 3b&hyph;6) because, according to Professor Coffee, this requirement often raises factual issues that cannot easily be resolved at the pre-trial stage. Professor Coffee's approach also contemplates amendments to the incorporation-by-reference provisions of the Securities Act registration forms 85 that would exempt qualifying forward-looking statements made in Exchange Act filings from automatic incorporation by reference in Securities Act filings, and therefore from potential liability under the antifraud provisions of the Securities Act. Existing Rule 175 would remain available where registrants affirmatively seek inclusion of Exchange Act filings in Securities Act registration statements. 85 See, e.g., Item 12 of Forms S&hyph;2 and S&hyph;3 (17 CFR 239.12&hyph;13 (1994)); Items 11&hyph;13 of Form S&hyph;4 (17 CFR 239.25 (1994)); Item 12 of Forms F&hyph;2 and F&hyph;3, (17 CFR 239.32&hyph;33 (1994)); Items 11&hyph;14 of Form F&hyph;4 (17 CFR 239.36) (1994)). E. ``Fraudulent Intent'' Proposal Under the ``Fraudulent Intent'' proposal, submitted by Mr. William Freeman, a forward-looking statement would be protected by the safe harbor unless it is shown that the statement was made recklessly or with an actual intent to deceive. In order to demonstrate that a statement was made recklessly, a plaintiff would be required to demonstrate that at the time the statement was made, the issuer was aware of facts that made it highly unlikely that the projection could be achieved. F. ``Disimplication'' Theory Professor Joseph A. Grundfest has suggested that, just as the courts have implied the existence of a private right of action under Rule 10b&hyph;5, the Commission may disimply such a right of action by redefining the element of a private Rule 10b&hyph;5 claim. 86 For example, Professor Grundfest has suggested that if the Commission should decide that if ``projections deserve greater protection than is now afforded by Rule 175, then Rule 10b&hyph;5 can be amended to require a showing of `knowing securities fraud,' demonstrating `actual knowledge that the [projection] is false,' as a precondition for private recovery in a Rule 10b&hyph;5 action complaining of a falsely optimistic projection.'' 87 86 Grundfest, Disimplying Private Rights of Action Under the Federal Securities Laws: The Commission's Authority, 107 Harv. L. Rev. 961 (1994). 87 Id. at 1012 (footnotes omitted). G. Reasonable Basis In Fact Proposal The ``Reasonable Basis In Fact'' proposal, suggested by Jonathan Cuneo on behalf of the National Association of Securities and Commercial Attorneys (``NASCAT'') protects forward-looking statements, whether written or oral and whether or not filed with the Commission, unless it can be shown that the statement was made without a reasonable basis in fact, was seriously undermined by existing facts, was not genuinely believed or was made other than in good faith.
