FR940304-2-00184 FR940304-2-00101 Privacy Act of 1974; Amendment of System of Records_Veterans Mortgage Life Insurance-VA (53VA00) Agency: Department of Veterans Affairs. Action: Amendment of system of records. Notice is hereby given that the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) is revising certain paragraphs in the system of records entitled, ``Veterans Mortgage Life Insurance-VA'' (53VA00) which is set forth on page 959 of the Federal Register Publication, ``Privacy Act Issuances, 1991 Compilation, Volume II.'' The System Location, Routine uses of records maintained in the system, Storage, Safeguards, and Retention and Disposal paragraphs are being revised to reflect the transfer of certain responsibilities from a commercial life insurance company to the St. Paul, Minnesota VA Regional Office and Insurance Center and to make other minor changes. Approval: February 23, 1994. Jesse Brown, Secretary of Veterans Affairs. Notice of Amendment to System of Records 1. The system of records identified as 53VA00, ``Veterans Mortgage Life Insurance-VA'' appearing on page 959 of the Fedeal Register publication, ``Privacy Act Issuances, 1991 Compilation, Volume II'' is amended by eliminating the references to the Bankers Life Insurance Company of Nebraska. Notice of electronic record storage is added and minor changes to the Safeguards and Retention and disposal paragraphs are included as follows: 53VA00 System Name: Veterans Mortgage Life Insurance-VA. System Location: Records (i.e., applications, VA special grant cards, correspondence, records of premium and interest payments and records on death cases) are maintained at the VA Regional Office and Insurance Center, St. Paul Minnesota, and the Benefits Delivery Center, Hines, Illinois, Address locations of VA facilities are listed at VA Apendix 1 at the end of this document. * * * * * 2. In Routine Uses of records maintained in the system, including categories of users and the purpose of such uses, remove paragraph 5 and redesignate paragraph 6 as paragraph 5. 3. Revise Storage, Safeguards, and Retention and Disposal paragraphs to read as follows Policies and practices for storing, retrieving, accessing, retaining and disposing of records in the system: Storage: Records are stored on automated computer files and on paper documents in manual account folders. * * * * * Safeguards: All manual records at the VA Regional Office and Insurance Center are maintained in steel file cabinets, and access to the files is limited to authorized personnel only. Information in these records is restricted to those authorized persons on a ``need to know'' basis. Information on electronic media is protected by `password' and other system safeguards. Retention and disposal: Inactive mortgage life insurance records are placed in a closed file for seven years after the insured's death or until his/her 77th birthday, whichever comes first. Annually, those closed files are reviewed and destroyed as applicable. A record is considered inactive when any one of the following occurs: Mortgage paid in full, insured's 70th birthday, termination of veterans' ownership of the property securing the loan, payment of premiums discontinued by the veteran, entire contract or agreement discontinued, or failure to timely submit required statement. * * * * * [FR Doc. 94&hyph;4961 Filed 3&hyph;3&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8320&hyph;01
