FR941220-2-00038 FR941220-2-00027 OFFICE OF THE UNITED STATES TRADE REPRESENTATIVE Trade Policy Staff Committee; Generalized System of Preferences; Initiation of a Review of ``Reverse Preferences''; Termination of the Reviews of Worker Rights Practices and the Protection of Intellectual Property Rights in the Dominican Republic AGENCY: Office of the United States Trade Representative. ACTION: Notice and solicitation of public comment. SUMMARY: The Uruguay Round Trade Agreements Act (UR Act) renewed the Generalized System of Preferences (GSP) program until July 31, 1995. The Statement of Administrative Action (SAA) that accompanies the UR Act provides that USTR will initiate a review to determine whether any GSP beneficiary country affords preferential treatment, as a result of an economic association agreement or otherwise, to the products of a developed country, other than the United States, that has, or is likely to have, an adverse effect on U.S. commerce. This notice announces the review and invites public comments. This notice also announces the successful termination of the reviews of worker rights practices and the protection of intellectual property rights (IPR) in the Dominican Republic. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: GSP Subcommittee, Office of the United States Trade Representative, 600 17th Street, N.W., Room 513, Washington, D.C. 20506. The telephone number is (202) 395&hyph;6971. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: I. Background The GSP program offers duty-free access to the U.S. market for specified products that are imported from designated developing countries. The GSP program is authorized by Title V of the Trade Act of 1974, as amended (the ``GSP law'') (19 U.S.C. 2461 et seq.). The GSP law expired on September 30, 1994, but the UR Act extended the current GSP program without modification until July 31, 1995. When the GSP program was originally enacted in 1974, the Congress was concerned about giving duty-free privileges to some developing countries that, in turn, treat imports from some developed countries more favorably than imports from the United States. Such favorable treatment is called a ``reverse preference,'' and it discriminates against U.S. export interests. Accordingly, section 502(b)(3) of the GSP law provides that the President shall not designate a country as a GSP beneficiary if the country ``affords preferential treatment to the products of a developed country, other than the United States, which has, or is likely to have, a significant adverse effect on United States commerce.''
