FR941222-0-00030 FR941222-0-00003 Response. This rulemaking does not cover site-specific NRC licensees; however, the NRC is not ignoring them. Under NRC regulations, the utility has two options in using dry cask storage of spent fuel: (1) The licensee may apply for a site-specific license from NRC; or (2) the licensee may use an NRC-approved cask under the general license provisions of Subpart K of 10 CFR Part 72. However, not all licensees may be able to use the general license provisions, either because the fuel type they possess is not storable in any cask listed in 10 CFR 72.214 or because none of the cask designs envelope the reactor site parameters. The NRC is also not ignoring site- specific license considerations relating to modifying cask designs. Quite the contrary, the criteria that apply to modifications of an NRC-approved cask such as the Standardized NUHOMS are the same as the criteria that apply to modifications of site-specific ISFSIs. H.6. Comment. Because the populations of several states and provinces, including two-thirds of the population of Quebec, are based along the St. Lawrence Seaway, one commenter wanted an Economic Impact Statement conducted with a cost/benefit analysis citing possible adverse impact on tourism and sport fishing. Response. A regulatory analysis, which considers both benefits and impacts of adding the Standardized NUHOMS to the list of NRC-approved casks under Subpart K of 10 CFR Part 72, was prepared in support of this rulemaking action. It was included as a part of the notice of proposed rulemaking and is also included in this final rulemaking notice. However, this regulatory analysis reflects the limited scope of this rulemaking. Because the rulemaking does not provide any site-specific NRC approvals, NRC did not evaluate site-specific economic impacts. H.7. Comment. One commenter wanted to restrict the use of the cask to reactor sites that have responded on schedule to NRC Generic Letter 88&hyph;20, Supplement 4, ``Individual Plant Examination of External Events (IPEEE).'' Response. IPEEE response submittals will not address dry cask storage and are not necessary for Standardized NUHOMS use. H.8 Comment. One commenter stated that NUHOMS must not receive generic approval because site-specific characteristics must be considered. The commenter stated that placing this cask on the shores of Lake Erie is potential ecocide and the cask is not terrorist-proof. Another commenter stated that the potential engineering problems of storing high-level nuclear waste in a variety of climatic and geologic regions of the United States are not considered. Response. A utility's use of the Standardized NUHOMS, for the storage of spent fuel in casks at a reactor site, would not have a significant impact on the environment. This finding is supported by the NRC safety and environmental evaluations for the Standardized NUHOMS, including the applicant's demonstration of compliance of the cask with NRC requirements, as well as by the 1990 rulemaking on dry cask storage and the 1984 and 1989 waste confidence proceedings. Because the Standardized NUHOMS can only be used by a licensee if the site parameters are enveloped by the cask design basis, as specified in the SAR and SER, cask storage of spent fuel near the shore of Lake Erie within the specified parameters would not have a significant impact on the environment. I. The following comments relate to the transportability of dry storage casks to an off-site location. I.1. Comment. One commenter questioned how the cask transport methods used at both on-site and off-site locations are related. Response. In this rulemaking, the NRC reviewed the cask vendor's proposed means for transporting the Standardized NUHOMS canister and transfer cask outside the reactor buildings to the on-site storage pad under the storage requirements of 10 CFR Part 72. This on-site movement occurs within an owner-controlled area where access can be limited and where operations would be safely managed by the general licensee. The NRC did not review the Standardized NUHOMS for transport off-site, for example to a DOE MRS or repository. Generally, off-site transport of spent fuel occurs in public places where the shipper has fewer access restrictions and limited control of the surroundings. Off-site spent nuclear fuel shipments must be made in a transportation cask approved by the NRC pursuant to NRC's regulations found in 10 CFR Part 71, ``Packaging and Transportation of Radioactive Material,'' and must also comply with pertinent Department of Transportation (DOT) regulations. At this time, the NRC is approving the Standardized NUHOMS for storage only. I.2. Comment. One commenter, citing a Wisconsin Public Service Commission EIS for Point Beach, questioned the statement, ``The baskets' heavier weight and larger diameter make the transportability of an intact NUHOMS canister to an MRS site or repository questionable.'' Response. The NRC has not reviewed the Standardized NUHOMS in this rulemaking for off-site transportation.
