FR940428-2-00098 FR940428-2-00052 Description of Amendment Request: The proposed Technical Specifications (TS) changes relocate the TS fire protection requirements to the Updated Final Safety Analysis Report. Basis for Proposed No Significant Hazards Consideration Determination: As required by 10 CFR 50.91(a), the licensee has provided its analysis of the issue of no significant hazards consideration, which is presented below: 1. The proposed change does not involve a significant increase in the probability or consequences of an accident previously evaluated. The proposed changes are administrative in nature and are consistent with the guidance provided in NRC GL's [Generic Letters] 86&hyph;10 and 88&hyph;12. They do not affect the initial conditions or precursors assumed in the Updated Final Safety Analysis Report Section 14. These changes do not decrease the effectiveness of equipment relied upon to mitigate the previously evaluated accidents. Therefore, there is no increase in the probability or consequences of an accident previously evaluated. 2. The proposed change does not create the possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any previously evaluated. The proposed changes do not make any physical changes to the plant or changes to operating procedures. Therefore, implementation of the proposed changes will not affect the design function or configuration of any component or introduce any new operating scenarios or failure modes or accident initiation. Therefore, the proposed changes do not create the possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any previously evaluated. 3. The proposed change does not involve a significant reduction in a margin of safety. The proposed changes are administrative in nature and are consistent with the guidance provided in NRC GL's 86&hyph;10 and 88&hyph;12. The proposed changes do not adversely affect the assumptions or sequence of events used in any accident analysis. Therefore, the proposed changes do not involve a reduction in any margin of safety. The NRC staff has reviewed the licensee's analysis and, based on this review, it appears that the three standards of 10 CFR 50.92(c) are satisfied. Therefore, the NRC staff proposes to determine that the amendment request involves no significant hazards consideration. Local Public Document Room Location: Government Publications Section, State Library of Pennsylvania, (Regional Depository) Education Building, Walnut Street and Commonwealth Avenue, Box 1601, Harrisburg, Pennsylvania 17105. Attorney for Licensee: J. W. Durham, Sr., Esquire, Sr. V.P. and General Counsel, Philadelphia Electric Company, 2301 Market Street, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19101. NRC Project Director: Charles L. Miller. Public Service Electric & Gas Company, Docket Nos. 50&hyph;272 and 50&hyph;311, Salem Nuclear Generating Station, Unit Nos. 1 and 2, Salem County, New Jersey Date of Amendment Request: January 21, 1994. Description of Amendment Request: These amendments would revise Technical Specifications 3.8.2.3 for both Salem Unit 1 and Salem Unit 2 to include the battery acceptance criteria, corresponding allowed outage times and additional surveillance requirements recommended in NUREG&hyph;1431, Standard Technical Specifications_Westinghouse Plants. TS 3.8.2.4 ``125 Volt D.C. Distribution_Shutdown'' would also be indirectly affected by these changes because it refers to the surveillance requirements of TS 4.8.2.3.2 to demonstrate the battery and chargers Operable. In addition, Salem Unit 1 TS 3.8.2.3 Limiting Condition for Operation (LCO) would be revised to define the specific battery charger required for each train. Salem Unit 1 TS 3.8.2.3 Action Statement would also be revised to restrict the use of the backup battery charger to a period not to exceed 7 days. Additionally, the Unit 1 action statement for an inoperable 125 volt DC bus would be modified to add the requirement that the bus also be energized. Basis for Proposed No Significant Hazards Consideration Determination: As required by 10 CFR 50.91(a), the licensee has provided its analysis of the issue of no significant hazards consideration, which is presented below: 1. Involve a significant increase in the probability or consequences of an accident previously evaluated. The proposed changes do not alter plant configuration or operation. The proposed changes do not invalidate any of the parameters assumed in the plants UFSAR Design Basis Accident or Transient Analyses. The proposed changes provide additional guidance to be used to ensure operability of the safety related batteries. New surveillance requirements and specific battery cell parameters offer improved monitoring of the battery status. The new guidance and surveillance requirements are consistent with the recommendations of NUREG&hyph;1431, Standard Technical Specifications_Westinghouse Plants, and current industry recommendations. The changes to the Unit 1 LCO and corresponding Action Statement restrict the use of the backup battery charger, thereby limiting the amount of time that one AC Vital bus is allowed to power the chargers of more than one DC train. This change brings the TS for both Units into agreement and results in a more conservative Unit 1 TS. Therefore, the probability or consequences of an accident previously evaluated are not increased by the proposed change. 2. Create the possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any accident previously evaluated. The proposed changes do not introduce any design or physical configuration changes to the facility or change the method by which any safety-related system performs its function. The proposed changes are consistent with the recommendations of NUREG&hyph;1431, Standard Technical Specifications_Westinghouse Plants. Therefore, the proposed changes will not increase the possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any accident previously identified.
