FR940920-1-00093 FR940920-1-00008 Table 5. _ MACT Floor Emission Levels for Existing MWC's at Small MWC Plants 1Pollutant 1MACT floor emission level a SO 2 120 ppmv. HCl 660 ppmv. PM 85 mg/dscm. Cd 1.1 mg/dscm. Pb 15 mg/dscm. Hg 1.2 mg/dscm. Dioxins/furans 1,700 ng/dscm total mass or about 28 ng/dscm TEQ. NO X Uncontrolled. a All emission levels are corrected to 7 percent O 2 , dry basis. As discussed in Section IV.F.3.a. for large plants, the MACT floor could be constructed in a number of different ways including a permit basis (this proposal), a technology basis, or an emission data basis. Comments are requested on what approach is most appropriate and the rationalization for the approach. Based on the EPA's review of the comments received and reanalysis of the data, the MACT floor for the promulgated guidelines may be noticeably higher or lower than the floor included in the proposal. b. Discussion of the Selection of MACT for Small MWC Plants. After establishing the MACT floor for each pollutant based on permit limits, the EPA considered the cost, health and environmental impacts, and energy requirements of selecting MACT for each pollutant at a control level more stringent than the MACT floor. As discussed above for large MWC plants in section IV.F.3.b, in selecting MACT for each pollutant for small plants, the EPA used principally the data base created for establishing the emission guidelines for MWC's proposed in 1989 and promulgated in 1991 under subpart Ca. As discussed, the EPA specifically requests submittal of the most recent MWC emissions test data. Additionally, as discussed, the EPA requests comment on which MWC emissions test data would be the most appropriate to use for establishing MACT for existing MWC's (e.g., if the EPA has multiple emission tests for a given MWC over its operating history, should the EPA utilize the data from all of the emission tests performed for the unit or from only the most recent emission test) and comment on suggestions of analytical methods to use for analyzing the data (e.g., analytical methods that could be used to address emissions variability, including methods for analyzing variable test data for one MWC collected over multiple years and methods of adjusting the best 12 percent of the emissions data to account for variability). The appropriate treatment of variability will be related to the format chosen for the standards (see discussion of alternative formats below).
