FR940208-2-00075 FR940208-2-00061 (8) Grantee institutions in the event that Antarctic Conservation Act violations are alleged against the institution or researchers in connection with investigation or enforcement proceedings; (9) Contractors, in the event an Antarctic Conservation Act violations is alleged against the contractor, its employees, or its subcontractors in connection with investigation or enforcement proceedings; (10) Contractors performing duties on behalf of the agency when relevant to the performance of their duties; (11) To parties who have lawfully subpoenaed these records; (12) To the Department of Justice for consultation in processing Freedom of Information Act requests; (13) In the event of litigation where the defendant is (a) any component of the NSF, or any employee of the NSF acting in official capacity; (b) the United States, where the NSF determines that the claim, if successful, is likely to affect directly the operations of the NSF, or any NSF components, or (c) any NSF employee acting in official capacity where the Department of Justice and/or the Office of General Counsel of the NSF have agreed to represent such an employee, these records may be disclosed to assist in the preparation of an effective defense; or (14) To a congressional office in response to an inquiry from the congressional office made at the request of the individual whose records are sought. Policies and practices for storing, retrieving, accessing, retaining, and disposing of records in the system: Storage: Paper records are stored in file cabinets; automated data, if any, is stored in the Office of Polar Program's Office, which is secured. Retrievability: The records are retrieved by the name of the subject, or by a unique control number assigned to each investigation or permit application. Safeguards: These records are available only to those persons whose official duties require such access. The records are kept in limited access areas during duty hours and in locked file cabinets at other times. Retention and disposal: The files are kept indefinitely. System manager(s) and address: Thomas F. Forhan, Polar Coordination and Information Section, Office of Polar Programs, National Science Foundation, 4201 Wilson Boulevard, room 740, Arlington, VA 22230. Notification procedure: To determine whether this system of records contains a record pertaining to the requesting individual, write to the system manager at the above address. Record access procedures: See notification procedure. Consenting record procedures: Individuals desiring to contest or amend information maintained in this system of records should write to the system manager at the above address. Record source categories: Information in these records is obtained from applicants for permits, NSF staff and NSF records, and from non-NSF persons and records, to the extent necessary to carry out the duties described in the Antarctic Conservation Act. Individuals to be interviewed and records to be examined are selected according to the criteria described explicitly and implicitly in the Antarctic Conservation Act. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;2787 Filed 2&hyph;7&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 7555&hyph;01&hyph;M
