FR940111-0-00090 FR940111-0-00019 III. Other Matters A. Final Regulatory and Regulatory Flexibility Analyses The Commission has determined that these amendments to the Funeral Rule will not have an annual effect on the national economy of $100 million or more, or otherwise have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small business. The preponderance of the evidence in the record indicates that the Rule overall has not significantly increased funeral providers' costs of doing business, and that the amendments will reduce any costs to providers imposed by the Rule's requirements, by making it easier for them to comply. Therefore, pursuant to the exception for Rule amendments contained in section 22(a)(1)(A) of the FTC Act, and the provisions of the Regulatory Flexibility Act, 5 U.S.C. 604, 605, section 22 of the Act requiring that the Commission issue a final regulatory analysis with the promulgation of a final rule does not apply to this amended Rule. List of Subjects in 16 CFR Part 453 Funeral homes, Price disclosure, Trade practices. Accordingly, title 16, part 453 of the Code of Federal Regulations is revised to read as follows: PART 453_FUNERAL INDUSTRY PRACTICES Sec. 453.1␣Definitions. 453.2␣Price disclosures. 453.3␣Misrepresentations. 453.4␣Required purchase of funeral goods or funeral services. 453.5␣Services provided without prior approval. 453.6␣Retention of documents. 453.7␣Comprehension of disclosures. 453.8␣Declaration of intent. 453.9␣State exemptions. Authority: 15 U.S.C. 57a(a); 15 U.S.C. 46(g); 5 U.S.C. 552. §453.1 Definitions. (a) Alternative container. An ``alternative container'' is an unfinished wood box or other non-metal receptacle or enclosure, without ornamentation or a fixed interior lining, which is designed for the encasement of human remains and which is made of fiberboard, pressed-wood, composition materials (with or without an outside covering) or like materials. (b) Cash advance item. A ``cash advance item'' is any item of service or merchandise described to a purchaser as a ``cash advance,'' ``accommodation,'' ``cash disbursement,'' or similar term. A cash advance item is also any item obtained from a third party and paid for by the funeral provider on the purchaser's behalf. Cash advance items may include, but are not limited to: cemetery or crematory services; pallbearers; public transportation; clergy honoraria; flowers; musicians or singers; nurses; obituary notices; gratuities and death certificates. (c) Casket. A ``casket'' is a rigid container which is designed for the encasement of human remains and which is usually constructed of wood, metal, fiberglass, plastic, or like material, and ornamented and lined with fabric. (d) Commission. ``Commission'' refers to the Federal Trade Commission. (e) Cremation. ``Cremation'' is a heating process which incinerates human remains. (f) Crematory. A ``crematory'' is any person, partnership or corporation that performs cremation and sells funeral goods. (g) Direct cremation. A ``direct cremation'' is a disposition of human remains by cremation, without formal viewing, visitation, or ceremony with the body present. (h) Funeral goods. ``Funeral goods'' are the goods which are sold or offered for sale directly to the public for use in connection with funeral services. (i) Funeral provider. A ``funeral provider'' is any person, partnership or corporation that sells or offers to sell funeral goods and funeral services to the public. (j) Funeral services. ``Funeral services'' are any services which may be used to: (1) Care for and prepare deceased human bodies for burial, cremation or other final disposition; and (2) arrange, supervise or conduct the funeral ceremony or the final disposition of deceased human bodies.
