FR941221-0-00067 FR941221-0-00018 (2) Option to reserve greater number of units for non-elderly disabled families . The owner, at the owner's option, and at any time, may reserve a greater number of units for non-elderly disabled families than that provided for in paragraph (c)(1) of this section. The option to provide a greater number of units to non-elderly disabled families will not obligate the owner to always provide that greater number to non-elderly disabled families. The number of units required to be provided to non-elderly disabled families at any time in an elderly project is that number determined under paragraph (c)(1) of this section. (d) Secondary preferences . An owner of an elderly project also may elect to establish secondary preferences in accordance with the provisions of this paragraph (d) of this section. (1) Preference for near-elderly disabled families in units reserved for elderly families . If the owner of an elderly project determines, in accordance with paragraph (f) of this section, that there are an insufficient number of elderly families who have applied for occupancy to fill all the vacant units in the elderly project reserved for elderly families (that is, all units except those reserved for the non-elderly disabled families as provided in paragraph (c) of this section), the owner may give preference for occupancy of such units to disabled families who are near-elderly families. (2) Preference for near-elderly disabled families in units reserved for non-elderly disabled families . If the owner of an elderly project determines, in accordance with paragraph (f) of this section, that there are an insufficient number of non-elderly disabled families to fill all the vacant units in the elderly project reserved for non-elderly disabled families as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, the owner may give preference for occupancy of these units to disabled families who are near-elderly families. (e) Availability of units to families without regard to preference . An owner shall make vacant units in an elderly project generally available to otherwise eligible families who apply for housing, without regard to the preferences and reservation of units provided in this section if either: (1) The owner has adopted the secondary preferences and there are an insufficient number of families for whom elderly preference, reserve preference, and secondary preference has been given, to fill all the vacant units; or (2) The owner has not adopted the secondary preferences and there are an insufficient number of families for whom elderly preference, and reserve preference has been given to fill all the vacant units. (f) Determination of insufficient number of applicants qualifying for preference . To make a determination that there are an insufficient number of applicants who qualify for the preferences, including secondary preferences, provided by this section, the owner must: (1) Conduct marketing in accordance with ยง881.601(a) to attract applicants qualifying for the preferences and reservation of units set forth in this section; and (2) Make a good faith effort to lease to applicants who qualify for the preferences provided in this section, including taking all feasible actions to fill vacancies by renting to such families. (g) Federal preferences . An owner that gives preferences to elderly families and reserves units for non-elderly disabled families in accordance with this section also shall select applicants among each respective group in accordance with the Federal preferences contained in ยง881.613. Projects under National Housing Act programs and receiving section 8 assistance may be subject to preferences in addition to those contained in ยง881.613 which also must be applied in selecting applicants among each respective group. (h) Prohibition of evictions . An owner may not evict a tenant without good cause, or require that a tenant vacate a unit, in whole or in part because of any reservation or preference provided in this section, or because of any action taken by the Secretary pursuant to subtitle D (sections 651 through 661) of title VI of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1992 (42 U.S.C. 13611 through 13620). PART 883_SECTION 8 HOUSING ASSISTANCE PAYMENTS PROGRAM_STATE HOUSING AGENCIES 5. The authority citation for 24 CFR part 883 continues to read as follows: Authority : 42 U.S.C. 1437a, 1437c, 1437f, 3535(d), and 13611&hyph;13619. 6. Section 883.704a is revised to read as follows: ยง883.704a Preference for occupancy by elderly families. (a) Election of preference for occupancy by elderly families. (1) Election by owners of eligible projects . (i) An owner of a project assisted under this part (including a partially assisted project) that was originally designed primarily for occupancy by elderly families (an ``eligible project'') may, at any time, elect to give preference to elderly families in selecting tenants for assisted, vacant units in the project, subject to the requirements of this section. (ii) For purposes of this section, a project eligible for the preference provided by this section, and for which the owner makes an election to give preference in occupancy to elderly families is referred to as an ``elderly project.'' ``Elderly families'' refers to families whose heads of household, their spouses or sole members are 62 years or older. (iii) An owner who elects to provide a preference to elderly families in accordance with this section is required to notify families on the waiting list who are not elderly that the election has been made and how the election may affect them if: (A) The percentage of disabled families currently residing in the project who are neither elderly nor near-elderly (hereafter, collectively referred to as ``non-elderly disabled families'') is equal to or exceeds the minimum required percentage of units established for the elderly project in accordance with paragraph (c)(1) of this section, and therefore non-elderly families on the waiting list (including non-elderly disabled families) may be passed over for covered section 8 units; or (B) The project, after making the calculation set forth in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, will have no units set aside for non-elderly disabled families. (iv) An owner who elects to give a preference for elderly families in accordance with this section shall not remove an applicant from the project's waiting list solely on the basis of having made the election. (2) HUD approval of election not required. (i) An owner is not required to solicit or obtain the approval of HUD before exercising the election of preference for occupancy provided in paragraph (a)(1) of this section. The owner, however, if challenged on the issue of eligibility of the project for the election provided in paragraph (a)(1) of this section must be able to support the project's eligibility through the production of all relevant documentation in the possession of the owner that pertains to the original design of the project. (ii) The Department reserves the right at any time to review and make determinations regarding the accuracy of the identification of the project as an elderly project. The Department can make such determinations as a result of ongoing monitoring activities, or the conduct of complaint investigations under the Fair Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 3601 through 3619), or compliance reviews and complaint investigations under section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 794) and other applicable statutes. (b) Determining projects eligible for preference for occupancy by elderly families . (1) Evidence supporting project eligibility . Evidence that a project assisted under this part (or portion of a project) was originally designed primarily for occupancy by elderly families, and is therefore eligible for the election of occupancy preference provided by this section, shall consist of at least one item from the sources (``primary'' sources) listed in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section, or at least two items from the sources (``secondary'' sources) listed in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section:
