FR941007-1-00059 FR941007-1-00009 In response to these comments, the revised proposal would clarify which institutions would be considered wholesale or limited purpose institutions for purposes of CRA. The definition for institutions eligible for wholesale or limited purpose designation would be as follows: (1) wholesale institutions are institutions that are not in the business of extending home mortgage, small business, small farm, or consumer loans to retail customers; and (2) limited purpose institutions are institutions that offer only a narrow product line (such as credit cards or automobile loans) to a national or regional market. An institution would not be considered in the business of extending loans to retail customers if it does not hold itself out to the retail public as providing such loans and the institution's revenues from extending such loans are insignificant when compared to its overall lending operations. An institution could conduct some incidental retail lending if the retail activity would not cause the institution to exceed these limitations. However, a so-called ``niche institution'' (an institution that is in the business of lending to the public but which specializes in certain types of retail loans or extending credit to a class of borrowers with, for example, certain financial or professional characteristics) would not generally qualify as a wholesale or limited purpose institution. The revised proposal also would require an institution that elects to be evaluated as a wholesale or limited purpose institution to file a written request with the appropriate agency and receive confirmation of its status before the commencement of the examination. The agencies will issue guidelines regarding how long in advance of a scheduled examination an institution must file its request, and under what circumstances an institution will have to reapply to retain wholesale or limited purpose status. An institution whose request for wholesale or limited purpose status has been denied by the appropriate agency would be evaluated under the tests applicable to retail institutions, small institutions, or an institution with approved strategic plans, as appropriate. The OTS did not include provisions for wholesale or limited purpose thrifts in its version of the December proposal. In response to comments, the OTS's revised proposal includes provisions that would allow thrifts the opportunity to request designation as a wholesale or limited purpose institution. Small Institution Assessment Option The December proposal would have offered small banks and thrifts the option of choosing to be evaluated under a streamlined assessment method. The regulations would not have imposed upon small institutions the data collection requirements imposed on other institutions. The agencies stressed in the preamble to the December proposal that, notwithstanding the different assessment methods, examinations of small banks and thrifts would have been meaningful examinations and would not have been implemented as de facto exemptions. Small banks and thrifts were defined in the December proposal as independent institutions with assets of less than $250 million or members of holding companies the total banking and thrift assets of which are less than $250 million. A small institution's CRA rating under the December proposal would have been based primarily on its lending record. An institution would have been presumed to receive a ``satisfactory'' rating if it had a reasonable loan-to-deposit ratio, made the majority of its loans locally, had a good loan mix (i.e., made a variety of loans to the extent permitted by law and regulation and lent across economic levels), had no legitimate, bona-fide complaints from community members, had not committed an isolated act of illegal discrimination of which it had knowledge that it had not corrected fully or was not in the process of correcting fully, and had not engaged in a pattern or practice of illegal discrimination that it had not corrected fully. If an institution was required to report loans under the HMDA, the institution also would have been required to have a reasonable geographic distribution of reported loans.
