FR940719-2-00106 FR940719-2-00062 •From NPOs_documentation of MTO landlord outreach, counseling, program operations, and costs. Data on families will be gathered through the Participant Baseline Survey and use of an existing HUD form for public housing and Section 8 tenants, HUD Form 50058. 14 PHAs submit 50058 data monthly to the HUD Multifamily Tenant Characteristics System. 15 Procedures will be developed to extract the same 50058 data for MTO families (from all three groups) as the basis for long-term tracking. 14 PHAs participating in the MTO demonstration will be asked to provide completed 50058 forms for all participants and to update this information regularly. 15 U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, Office of Public and Indian Housing, Notice PIH 93&hyph;53(HA). Housing agencies with fewer than 100 units in management submit these forms quarterly. Except for Form 50058 data, it is expected that all information collected by PHAs and NPOs will be recorded on paper, copies of which will be submitted to HUD according to a pre-established schedule. HUD's decision to employ paper forms for this demonstration was made after careful consideration of the viability of automated data collection. The cost of developing automated versions of the forms would be prohibitive. The availability and type of computer equipment at NPOs and PHAs may vary considerably. No single automated version could be used in all demonstration sites; moreover, introduction of new software would require more training time for the PHA and NPO staff than instruction on the use of paper forms. If the PHAs and NPOs have existing software that enables them to record the requested information electronically, the Contractor will work with the agency or organization to arrive at a compatible electronic format for easier submission. A4␣Efforts to Avoid Duplication This data collection effort represents the only Federal effort to monitor and assess the Moving to Opportunity for Fair Housing Demonstration. Existing data on applicants, to the extent they are available at the PHAs, will be used in lieu of new data collection. The primary source of existing data on applicants will be HUD 50058 forms, completed at admission or lease-up, at annual recertification, and at the end of participation for Section 8 assisted tenants and for public housing tenants. To differing degrees, PHAs already maintain data on the costs of administering traditional Section 8 programs. To the extent that these data are available, they will obviate the need to collect this information especially for the MTO demonstration. A5␣Why Similar Already-Available Data Cannot Be Used This data collection represents the first attempt to collect information about this new demonstration; no similar data are available. Because of the differences between MTO and other mobility programs, 16 and particularly because of the experimental design (with random assignment to three groups), data must be collected directly about the characteristics of participants and their success in utilizing the MTO or regular Section 8 rental assistance. Wherever HUD has identified similar data on participants that will be useful, these data will be used and not duplicated in MTO instruments. Further, because of the unique nature of program operations under this demonstration, detailed data on agency practices must be gathered. For example, there are no systematic data available on the methods and costs of nonprofit landlord outreach or counseling in different cities. They must therefore be collected under the demonstration. 16 Salient differences include a) the focus on changes from high-poverty to low-poverty areas (instead of the race-based definitions of court-ordered mobility programs); and b) eligibility restricted to current residents of public housing or Section 8 project-based housing developments (not waiting list applicants). A6␣Efforts to Minimize the Burden for Small Entities Respondents for this data collection include MTO program participants, public housing authorities, and nonprofit organizations participating in the MTO demonstration. The PHAs are all very large agencies. However, some of the NPOs may qualify as small entities. Consequently, we have minimized the number of items that the NPOs will be required to collect. In addition, grantees were advised in the Notice of Funding Availability for the demonstration that they would be required to collect data for research purposes. HUD is assisting them with this responsibility, by providing the staff support of a data collection assistant at each site, who is hired by the Contractor to help the NPOs and PHAs with record-keeping and data collection. A7␣Consequences of Less Frequent Data Collection The data gathered from participants is a one-time collection for the intake phase. PHAs and NPOs are required to maintain records and report to HUD on a monthly basis for the intake phase. Any further follow-up will be conducted under a separate procurement and will be the subject of a separate clearance request. A8␣Circumstances Requiring Deviation from Guidelines in 5 CFR 1320.6 The data collection does not deviate from the guidelines in 5 CFR 1320.6. A9␣Consultations Outside the Agency In developing these instruments, HUD has obtained input from a number of sources. First, the Department has hired Abt Associates Inc. to assist in the design of the data collection for the demonstration. Key staff from Abt Associates are: Dr. Judith Feins, Ms. Mary Joel Holin, Ms. Janine Sullivan, Mr. Antony Phipps, Dr. Susan Popkin, Dr. Larry Orr. Second, HUD has convened an experts' panel for the MTO demonstration. The members of the panel are shown in Exhibit A.1. Third, Contractor staff have consulted with staff and reviewed materials provided by the Gautreaux Program in Chicago. These include the Leadership Council's monthly reports to HUD, the information packet provided to potential Gautreaux participants, and Gautreaux program forms (such as the intake and credit check forms). The Contractor has also discussed with Gautreaux Program administrators their methods for tracking participants through the program. Fourth, an extensive review has been conducted of the research literature on mobility programs, to identify all the important areas where baseline data are needed for a long-term evaluation of MTO's effects.
