FR941013-1-00081 FR941013-1-00010 The NESHAP proposed today for the off-site waste and recovery operations source category are a combination of emission standards and equipment, design, work practice, and operational standards. Whenever feasible, emission standards have been proposed. However, in some cases, emission limitations would not adequately ensure that the maximum emission reductions required by the standards are achieved. In those cases, a combination of equipment, design, work practice, and operational standards have been determined by the EPA to be equivalent to the emission standards proposed today. D. Selection of Test Procedures and Compliance Procedures Under the proposed rule, determination of the VOHAP concentration would not be required for materials placed in units that use air emission controls in accordance with the requirements of the rule. To determine whether a particular waste or recoverable material may be placed in a unit subject to the rule but not using the required air emission controls, the owner or operator would be required to conduct initial and periodic determinations of the material VOHAP concentration. The proposed rule would allow the owner or operator to directly measure the VOHAP concentration by analyzing samples of the material or to use knowledge of the waste or recoverable material. E. Selection of Monitoring and Inspection Requirements 1. Air Emission Control Equipment Control devices used to comply with the proposed percent reduction or concentration limit need to be properly operated and maintained if the standards are to be achieved on a long term basis. Continuous monitoring of the control device operation provides a means to help ensure that the control device remains in compliance with the applicable emission standard. The EPA considered two monitoring options for this NESHAP; (1) the use of continuous emissions monitoring (CEM) systems; and (2) the use of monitors that measure operating parameters which can be directly related to the emission control performance of a particular control device. The organic HAP emissions from off-site waste and recovery operations which would be vented to control devices under this NESHAP typically are not composed of a single or a few specific organic HAP chemicals. Rather, these emissions are more likely to be composed of a mixture of many different organic HAP chemicals because of the varying compositions of the wastes or recoverable materials received at off-site waste and recovery operations facilities. As a general rule, CEM systems that uses gas chromatography to measure individual gaseous organic HAP compound chemicals are not practical for applications where the number of organic HAP chemicals to be monitored exceeds five (see proposed PS 101 and 102, Appendix A of 40 CFR part 64, October 22, 1993 at 58 FR 54648). Therefore for many off-site waste and recovery operations applications, a CEM system is not currently commercially available which can measure total organic HAP for the specific set of organic HAP chemicals selected for regulation under the off-site waste and recovery operations NESHAP. A possible alternative would be to use a CEM system to measure total VOC or total hydrocarbons (THC) as surrogate for total organic HAP. However, the EPA concluded that requiring monitoring based on this alternative is not appropriate for this rulemaking. Current CEM systems that measure VOC emissions operate by flame ionization detection (FID), photoionization detection (PID), non-dispersive infrared (NDIR) absorption, or other detection principles that respond to VOC levels. These CEM systems provide a measure of the relative concentration level of a mixture of organic chemicals, rather than a quantification of the organic species present ( i.e. , the total VOC measurement device will have a different instrument response for different organic chemicals). While CEM systems would provide an adequate measure of compliance, monitoring control device operating parameters (as described below) is common practice and provides at least an equivalent measure of control device performance. Based on the reasons explained above, the EPA rejected requiring the use of CEM systems for the off-site waste and recovery operations NESHAP. Instead, the EPA selected monitoring of control device operating parameters indicative of air emission control performance as the most appropriate approach to monitoring for the off-site waste and recovery operations NESHAP source category. However, the proposed rule would not preclude owners or operators choosing to use a CEM system to comply with the rule's monitoring requirements for those cases where it is possible to do so. The proposed off-site waste and recovery operations NESHAP specifies the types of parameters that can be monitored for common types of control devices. These parameters were selected because they are good indicators of control device performance and instrumentation is available at a reasonable cost to monitor these parameters continuously. The proposed rule also would provide provisions under which an owner or operator could be approved, on a case-by-case basis, to monitor parameters not specifically listed in the rule.
