FR940418-0-00035 FR940418-0-00010 The agency notes that there is no objective criteria as to what constitutes ``maintains adjustment.'' In addition, as a general rule, the agency does not establish extended durability testing. The agency believes that to require that the adjustment be maintained throughout the lifetime of the vehicle is unrealistic, dependent upon the vehicle's exposure, and beyond the scope of NHTSA's authority. The requirement adopted today provides an objective requirement that allows the vehicle manufacturer to evaluate conformance to the standard. As Rockwell stated, NHTSA can readily confirm the compliance of a brake system by comparing the actual readjustment limits of the system with those recommended by the manufacturer. Further, the requirement does not use ``maintain'' and therefore avoids the implication that compliance with Standard 121 must be maintained through a vehicle's lifetime. However, as explained below, since NHTSA is specifying a requisite level of performance for the brake adjusters, the agency must also specify when, during compliance testing, NHTSA will evaluate the brake adjusters to determine if they are performing according to the recommendations of the vehicle manufacturer. Inspection During NHTSA's review of the petitions for reconsideration, the agency realized that the standard had no express requirement for when the adjustment indicators are to be inspected. However, the brake adjuster amendment implicitly required that the brakes be inspected, because the amendment states that the readjustment limits must be in accordance with the FHWA inspection standards. Also implicit in this amendment is that inspection will occur at the end of the Standard No. 121 test procedures, since the need for readjustment will only occur after the vehicle has been driven. In addition, inspection of the vehicle at the end of testing for conformance with the braking standard is consistent with the specifications for hydraulic brake systems (Standard No. 105). Accordingly, in this document, NHTSA is including a ``final inspection provision'' at the end of the test procedures to require that the service brake system be inspected at the end of the test sequence. Procedural Concerns NHTSA notes that the petitioners' concerns about the adequacy of notice for the FHWA provisions are now moot. Therefore, these concerns are not further addressed. The amendment to ยง571.121 becomes effective October 20, 1994, the effective date for the automatic brake adjusters. Regulatory Impacts A. Executive Order 12866 and DOT Regulatory Policies and Procedures This notice has not been reviewed under E.O. 12866, ``Regulatory Planning and Review.'' This rulemaking has been determined to be not ``significant'' under the Department of Transportation regulatory policies and procedures. The amendment will not result in any additional cost impacts beyond those resulting from the initial final rule. The agency further concludes that, because the cost impacts are minimal, a full regulatory evaluation is not required. B. Regulatory Flexibility Act NHTSA has also considered the impacts of this rulemaking under the Regulatory Flexibility Act. I hereby certify that it will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. Any impact on small entities from this action will be minimal since the amendments make minimal changes to the Standard that will not impose additional costs or result in any savings. Accordingly, the agency has determined that preparation of a regulatory flexibility analysis is unnecessary. C. Environmental Impacts In accordance with the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, NHTSA has considered the environmental impacts of this rule. The agency has determined that this rule will not have a significant impact on the quality of the human environment. D. Federalism Assessment This action has been analyzed in accordance with the principles and criteria contained in Executive Order 12612. NHTSA has determined that the rulemaking does not have sufficient federalism implications to warrant the preparation of a Federalism Assessment. No state laws will be affected. E. Civil Justice Reform This final rule does not have any retroactive effect. Under section 103(d) of the National Traffic and Motor Vehicle Safety Act (15 U.S.C. 1392(d)), whenever a Federal motor vehicle safety standard is in effect, a state may not adopt or maintain a safety standard applicable to the same aspect of performance which is not identical to the Federal standard. Section 105 of the Act (15 U.S.C. 1394) sets forth a procedure for judicial review of final rules establishing, amending or revoking Federal motor vehicle safety standards. That section does not require submission of a petition for reconsideration or other administrative proceedings before parties may file suit in court. List of Subjects in 49 CFR Part 571 Imports, Motor vehicle safety, Motor vehicles. PART 571_[AMENDED] In consideration of the foregoing, 49 CFR Part 571 is amended as follows: 1. The authority citation for Part 571 continues to read as follows: Authority: 15 U.S.C. 1392, 1401, 1403, 1407; delegation of authority at 49 CFR 1.50. ยง571.121 [Amended] 2. Section 571.121 is amended by revising S5.1.8, S5.2.2, and Table I to read as follows and by adding S5.9: ยง571.121 Standard No. 121; Air brake systems. * * * * *
