FR940822-2-00123 FR940822-2-00061 •Improve the fairness and pace of capital litigation by assigning special capital litigation law clerks to assist trial judges hearing cases involving crimes punishable by death; •Otherwise handle capital habeas corpus cases fairly and efficiently; •Coordinate related State and Federal criminal cases; •Coordinate cases that may be brought under the pending Violence Against Women Act; •Exchange information and coordinating calendars among State and Federal courts; and •Share jury pools, alternative dispute resolution programs, and court services. In previous funding cycles, the Institute has supported national and regional conferences on State-Federal judicial relationships and the Chief Justices' Special Committee of State Judges on Asbestos Litigation. In addition, the Institute has supported projects developing judicial impact statement procedures for national legislation affecting State courts, and projects examining methods of State and Federal court cooperation; procedures for facilitating certification of questions of law; the impact on the State courts of diversity cases and cases brought under section 1983; the procedures used in Federal habeas corpus review of State court criminal cases; the factors that motivate litigants to select Federal or State courts; and the mechanisms for transferring cases between Federal and State courts, as well as the methods for effectively consolidating, deciding, and managing complex litigation. The Institute has also supported a clearinghouse of information on State constitutional law decisions, educational programs for State judges on coordination of Federal bankruptcy cases with State litigation, and a seminar examining the implications of the ``Federalization'' of crime. C. Single Jurisdiction Projects The Board will consider supporting a limited number of projects submitted by State or local courts that address the needs of only the applicant State or local jurisdiction. It has established two categories of Single Jurisdiction Projects: 1. Programs Addressing a Critical Need of a Single State or Local Jurisdiction a. Description of the Program. The Board will set aside up to $600,000 to support projects submitted by State or local courts that address the needs of only the applicant State or local jurisdiction. A project under this section may address any of the topics included in the Special Interest Categories or Statutory Program Areas, and may, but need not, seek to implement the findings and recommendations of Institute supported research, evaluation, or demonstration programs. Concept papers for single jurisdiction projects may be submitted by a State court system, an appellate court, or a limited or general jurisdiction trial court. All awards under this category are subject to the matching requirements set forth in section X.B.1. b. Application Procedures. Concept papers and applications requesting funds for projects under this section must meet the requirements of sections VI. (``Concept Paper Submission Requirements for New Projects'') and VII. (``Application Requirements''), respectively, and must demonstrate that:
