FR941230-2-00078 FR941230-2-00047 Final Judgment Plaintiff, United States of America, filed its Complaint on December 7, 1994. Plaintiff and defendant, by their respective attorneys, have consented to the entry of this Final Judgment without trial or adjudication of any issue of fact or law. This Final Judgment shall not constitute any evidence against, or any admission by, any party with respect to any issue of fact or law. Defendant has agreed to be bound by the provisions of this Final Judgment pending its approval by the Court. Therefore, before the taking any testimony, and without trial or adjudication of any issue of fact or law, and upon the consent of the parties, IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, ADJUDGED AND DECREED as follows: I This Court has jurisdiction over the subject matter of this action and each of the parties consenting to this Final Judgment. The Complaint states a claim upon which relief may be granted against defendant under Section 3 of the Sherman Act (15 U.S.C. 3). II As used in this Final Judgment: A. ``Distilled spirits'' means liquor products of all types intended for human consumption, including, but not limited to, whiskey, gin, vodka, rum, tequila, brandy, liqueurs and cordials, but excluding wine and malt beverages and non-alcoholic beverages. B. ``Person'' means any individual, association, cooperative, partnership, corporation or other business or legal entity. C. ``Virgin Islands'' means the Territory of the Virgin Islands of the United States. D. ``Retailer'' means any person engaged in the business of purchasing distilled spirits from wholesalers, as defined herein, and reselling them to consumers in establishments located in the Virgin Islands, including such Virgin Islands-located establishments as retail liquor stores, grocery stores, convenience stores, restaurants and hotels. E. ``Supplier'' means any licensed manufacturer, distiller or importer of distilled spirits from which defendant or any other wholesaler, as defined herein, purchases distilled spirits or has purchased distilled spirits within one year prior to this Final Judgment.
