FR941221-0-00056 FR941221-0-00018 Project owners should note that the following types of projects or assistance would NOT be covered by this rule: _Section 202 housing projects, _Section 221(d)(3) BMIR housing projects, _Section 221(d)(4) retirement service centers (because such projects have FHA mortgage insurance but no section 8 assistance), _Section 236 housing projects, _Housing projects with contracts for section 8 loan management set aside (unless the projects also have contracts for section 8 assistance involving new construction or substantial rehabilitation, in which case only those units could be covered), _Housing projects with project-based section 8 rental certificates, and _Section 8 tenant-based assistance programs (rental vouchers and certificates). 2. Assisted Under a Contract for Assistance Under Section 8(b)(2) Some newly constructed or substantially rehabilitated projects have unassisted units and assisted units. These projects are often referred to as ``partially assisted projects.'' Because the statutory definition of ``covered section 8 housing'' only applies to housing that is under a contract for assistance, the subtitle D system of preferences would not apply to unassisted units in a partially assisted project. Additionally, nothing in this regulation establishes a cap on the number of unassisted units for disabled families in a partially assisted project. While this regulation does not apply to the unassisted units in a partially assisted project, this regulation also does not relieve any owner of any project, including the owner of a partially assisted project, from complying with the Fair Housing Amendments Act of 1988, section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, the implementing regulations for these statutes, or any other applicable statutory or regulatory requirement, including the requirements of the National Housing Act, with respect to the assisted or unassisted units. However, notwithstanding the foregoing, owners may provide the preferences in accordance with this rule, with respect to the assisted units. 3. Originally Designed Primarily for Occupancy by Elderly Families The final statutory requirement for qualification as a ``covered section 8 housing project'' is that the project must have been originally designed for occupancy by elderly families. The statute does not define the term ``originally'' or define the phrase ``originally designed for occupancy by elderly families.'' However, the House Report offers some insight on this subject. The House Report suggests that to qualify as housing originally designed for occupancy by elderly families, the owner of the project must have expressed an intent to create housing for elderly tenants when the developer negotiated with the Department for Federal financial assistance. (H.R. Rept. No. 760, 102d Cong. 2d Sess. at 141 (1992).) Because the various types of housing projects covered by this rule were developed under several different programs, and over a period of time which spans almost two decades, there is no uniform documentation at HUD which evidences the population group to be served by a project. In many instances, the application in response to a notice of funding availability (NOFA) shows that a project was designed as an elderly housing project. However, an indication of the population group to be served by the housing project does not always appear in any one document. In addition, because one of the previous definitions of ``elderly families'' in section 3(b) of the 1937 Act included disabled families, it is not always clear from documents that indicate a project was developed for ``elderly families'' whether the project for elderly families was intended to mean housing for the broader eligible category of families (i.e., elderly families and disabled families) or for families who qualified by virtue of age alone. Further confusion may be added by the fact that for most of the period when this housing was being developed, HUD policy required all housing for the elderly (defined by age) to incorporate certain accessible features and to design a certain percentage of the units to be accessible for persons with physical disabilities. Typically, these units were made available to eligible families with physical disabilities, regardless of age. Thus, in establishing whether a project was originally designed primarily for occupancy by elderly families within the meaning of subtitle D, two distinctions must be drawn: (1) the project was designed primarily for elderly families (as opposed to non-elderly families); and (2) the project was designed for elderly families (i.e., seniors), and not designed for elderly families under the broader meaning of this term, which formerly included elderly families and disabled families. II. Final Rule_Adoption of Interim Rule With Only Clarifying Changes As discussed in the May 3, 1994 interim rule, subtitle D is very prescriptive in establishing how the system of occupancy preferences is to operate (see 59 FR 22921&hyph;22922). Subtitle D establishes which section 8 housing projects are eligible for the election of preferences provided by subtitle D. Subtitle D establishes that the ``elderly families'' eligible to reside in covered section 8 housing projects for which the owner has made the election of preferences provided by subtitle D are those families who meet the definition of ``elderly families'' as set forth in section 3(b) of the 1937 Act, as amended by section 621 of the HCD Act of 1992. Subtitle D establishes the formula by which an owner will determine the number of units in the covered section 8 housing project that must be reserved for occupancy by disabled families who are not elderly or near-elderly. Subtitle D establishes the secondary system of preferences available to owners if there are insufficient numbers of elderly families and disabled families who are not elderly or near- elderly to occupy all the units reserved for such. Subtitle D also establishes the procedures to be followed if units remain vacant after the owner has elected to provide the secondary system of preferences, and the procedures to be followed concerning the order of selection within groups to whom a preference has been given. Given the statutory framework of the system of preferences for elderly families authorized by subtitle D, most of the provisions of the May 3, 1994 interim rule flow directly from the statute. One provision in the May 3, 1994 interim rule that was not addressed by statute and added by regulation concerns the type of documentation that would support an owner's claim that the owner's project was originally designed primarily for occupancy by elderly families. In the May 3, 1994 interim rule, HUD noted that with the exception of possible further changes to this provision (to add additional types of documentation that should be included in the list) and possible clarifying changes, public comment would not alter the provisions of the interim rule because of the prescriptive nature of the subtitle D. This final rule adopts the May 3, 1994 interim rule with eight clarifying changes, which are as follows: 1. The final rule clarifies that the election of elderly preference by an owner of a covered section 8 housing project can be made at any time. (See ยง880.612a(a)(1)(i), and comparable sections in other parts covered by this rule.) 2. The final rule codifies the guidance provided in the preamble to the May 3, 1994 interim rule that states that where an election of an elderly preference would have an adverse effect on non-elderly families on the waiting list, the owner is required to notify those families of the new policy (i.e., the subtitle D system of preferences) and how this policy may affect them. (See new ยง880.612a(a)(1)(iii), and comparable sections in other parts covered by this rule.) 3. The final rule also codifies the preamble guidance that otherwise qualified families for a section 8 housing project, such as disabled families, near-elderly disabled families and families with children, who are on the waiting list for the project, cannot be removed from the list because of the owner's election of an elderly preference. (See new ยง880.612a(a)(1)(iv), and comparable sections in other parts covered by this rule.)
