FR940712-1-00041 FR940712-1-00011 C. Disease or Predation Predation is not a significant problem for bald eagle populations. Incidents of mortality due to territory disputes between bald eagles have been reported. Diseases such as avian cholera, avian pox, aspergillosis, tuberculosis, and botulism may affect individual eagles, but are not considered to be a significant threat to the population. In the Southwestern population, the Mexican chicken bug, when abundant, is known to occasionally kill young. According to the National Wildlife Health Research Center, National Biological Survey, Wisconsin, only 2.7 percent of bald eagles submitted to the Center between 1985 and 1990 died from infectious disease. D. The Inadequacy of Existing Regulatory Mechanisms The bald eagle is protected by the following Federal wildlife laws in the U.S.: *␣Sections 7 and 9 of the Endangered Species Act (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq. ) protect individual bald eagles (threatened or endangered) and their active nests on public and private land. *␣The Bald Eagle Protection Act (16 U.S.C. 668) prohibits without specific authorization the possession, transport, or take of any bald or golden eagle, their parts, nests or eggs. *␣The Migratory Bird Treaty Act (16 U.S.C. 703) prohibits without specific authorization the possession, transport, or take of any migratory bird (including bald eagles), their parts, nests or eggs. *␣The Lacey Act (16 U.S.C. 3372 and 18 U.S.C. 42&hyph;44) among other provisions, makes it unlawful to export, import, transport, sell, receive, acquire, or purchase any bald eagle, (1) taken or possessed in violation of any law, treaty, or regulation of the United States or in violation of any Indian tribal law or (2) to be taken, sold, or transported in interstate or foreign commerce, in violation of any law or regulation of any state or in violation of any foreign law. This species is afforded uncommonly comprehensive statutory and regulatory protection under Federal and State authorities. E. Other Natural or Manmade Factors Affecting Its Continued Existence Contaminants may affect the survival as well as the reproductive success and health of the bald eagle. The abundance, and potentially more important, the quality of prey may be seriously affected by environmental contamination. Although many of the compounds implicated in reduced reproductive rates and direct mortality are no longer used, contaminants continue to be a major problem. Pesticides in recent times have not impacted the bald eagle on a population level; however, individual poisonings still occur. Carcasses baited with poison may attract bald eagles as well as target animals such as coyotes. Poisonings may occur secondarily when predatory animals are poisoned and subsequently eaten by eagles. Crop insecticides may be taken up by prey animals and may also result in eagle mortality. Organophosphates and carbamates are sometimes used illegally for animal poison. The National Wildlife Health Research Center has diagnosed over 100 cases of pesticide poisonings in bald eagles in the past 15 years. The western plains and Rocky Mountain States are reported to have 300&hyph;600 bald eagle deaths each year in the past decade on western rangelands due, in part, to illegal use of pesticides such as famphur, phorate, and carbofuran, and highly restricted chemicals, such as strychnine, Compound 1080 and others (Tom Jackson, Fish and Wildlife Service, Denver, pers. comm.). This mortality on western rangelands corresponds with the primary wintering areas for most western bald eagles (other than Pacific coast birds). Some illegal uses of pesticides are targeted at bald and golden eagles. Cases of suspected intentional mortality through baiting of carcasses with pesticides has occurred in all western States and may occur in other States. Reducing this level of illegal mortality is important for the complete recovery of the species. Chronic long-term exposure to contaminants is a much more extensive problem than direct mortality. Lifetime exposure to contaminants may limit the eagles' reproductive capabilities, alter their behavior and foraging abilities, and increase their susceptibility to diseases. (Organochlorines, such as DDT, are no longer legally used in the United States. Their presence in bald eagles is generally a consequence of their long persistence in the environment. Consequently, residues of such compounds from historic uses can still contaminate prey animals and be passed to eagles). Exposure to these compounds is also occurring at an early age. For example, approximately 90% of the eaglets sampled in Maine in 1992 had detectable levels of DDE in their blood.
