FR940413-2-00102 FR940413-2-00057 This announcement consists of three parts: Part I_Background, Part II_Application Process and Part III_Reporting Requirements. Part I_Background It is the Department of Labor's experience that few out-of-school youth programs supported by the Job Training Partnership Act (JTPA) have been effective. JTPA programs in general appear to have no positive impact on the earnings, employment, criminal involvement, or welfare dependency of male and female out-of-school youth. Current JTPA Title II&hyph;C programs spend an average of $2,800 per youth and last perhaps four or five months. It may well be that this is too small and too short term of an investment to expect to turn around the lives of economically and educationally disadvantaged youth. We also believe that new and different approaches to serving the needs of youth should be tested. The Employment and Training Administration (ETA) believes that more comprehensive and innovative second-change approaches need to be designed and tested that focus on the needs of youth, particularly, out-of-school youth, on a variety of fronts. This solicitation is a pilot effort by the Department and ETA to move in that direction. In both the single site and multi-site grants, the Department is particularly looking for models that are more comprehensive and intensive than are typically now provided by JTPA Title II&hyph;C. Ideally, the development of new approaches to serving youth occurs in several stages_ (1) An idea or model is developed; (2) The idea is put into practice at one site, and then perhaps at a second site with some modifications; (3) The model program is then pilot-tested a several sites; (4) The model program then enters a demonstration stage in which it is formally evaluated using random assignment of program applicants to treatment and non-treatment group at several sites; and (5) If the random-assignment evaluation results come out positive, the model program is replicated widely across the country. This grant announcement covers stages (2) and (3) of this process_the pilot-testing of a new approach at a first or second site or at multiple sites. Part II_Application Process A. Eligible Applicants All private for-profit, non-profit organizations, educational institutions, and state and local governments can apply for both the single site and multi-site grants. However, any award made as a result of this solicitation will be non-fee bearing. B. Funding Funding for this solicitation is authorized under the Job Training Partnership Act (JTPA) title IV&hyph;D pilot and demonstration funds. The Department has set aside $1 million for a number of single site pilot project grants, and $1 million for one multi-site pilot project grant. C. Application Procedures All Information Required To Submit A Proposal is Contained in This Announcement. 1. Submission of Proposals An original and three (3) copies of the proposal shall be submitted. Applicants should clearly label their proposals to indicate whether they are applying for a single site or multi-site grant. The proposal shall consist of a of two (2) separate and distinct parts: Part I shall contain the cost proposal which includes the following items: Standard Form (SF) 424, ``Application for Federal Assistance:'' (See Appendix A) and SF 424A, ``Budget'' (See Appendix B). Also, the budget shall include on a separate page(s) a detailed cost analysis of each line item in the budget. Part II shall contain a technical proposal that demonstrates the offeror's capabilities in accordance with the Statement of Work of this solicitation. No cost data or reference to price shall be included in the technical proposal. In order to assist offerors in the preparation of their proposals and to facilitate the expeditious evaluation by the panel, proposals should be organized and presented in the same sequential order as the Evaluation Criteria in part II(F) of this solicitation. 2. Hand Delivered Proposals Proposals must be mailed at least five days prior to the closing date. However, if proposals are hand delivered, they must be received at the designated place by 2 p.m., Eastern time by May 16, 1994. All overnight mail will be considered to be hand delivered and must be received at the designated place by the specified closing date. Telegraphed and/or faxed proposals will not be accepted. Failure to adhere to the above instructions will be a basis for a determination of non-responsiveness.
