FR940811-0-00039 FR940811-0-00016 1. Site Designation Process Commentors participating in the mass-mailing were concerned that EPA was ``fast-tracking'' the designation process for the ocean disposal site off San Francisco. Response EPA has expended considerable effort to ensure adequate opportunities for public input in the site designation process. This site designation process is now in its fifth year, as public scoping meetings began in 1989. The Ocean Studies Plan (OSP), which was the blueprint for the extensive biological and oceanographic studies that characterized the study region, was developed with the consensus of the Long Term Management Strategy (LTMS) Ocean Studies Work Group (OSWG). The LTMS is comprised of Federal and State agencies, regional scientific experts, public interest and environmental groups. Based on the studies performed, EPA evaluated alternative sites and selected the preferred alternative site with the consensus of the OSWG. The Draft EIS was then noticed in the Federal Register and issued for public comment in December, 1992. Following revisions to the EIS based on comments received, the Final EIS was prepared and noticed in the Federal Register in September, 1993. A Proposed Rule to designate the preferred alternative site as described in the Final EIS was noticed in the Federal Register and issued for public comment on February 17, 1994. In addition, the proposed Site Management and Monitoring Plan (SMMP) for this ocean disposal site was issued for public comment under a separate EPA Public Notice on April 20, 1994. The comment period for this Public Notice ended on June 6, 1994. Therefore, EPA believes that ample opportunities have been provided for interested parties to comment throughout the site designation process. 2. Need for Ocean Dumping Several commentors stated that the proposal to designate the site for a 50-year period and for up to 300 million cubic yards of dredged material was not based on an evaluation of the actual need for ocean disposal based on comprehensive regional planning. Other commentors stated that it is unlikely that as much as 6 million cubic yards per year of sediments meeting ocean dumping criteria could be dredged from the contaminated San Francisco Bay. Response The Final Rule has been significantly revised regarding site capacity. An interim site capacity of 6 million cubic yards per calendar year is being established from the date of site designation until December 31, 1996, only. Site capacity following December 31, 1996 will be determined based on either a comprehensive long-term management strategy for management of dredged materials from San Francisco Bay (a Long Term Management Strategy draft EIS is currently under development, and is expected to be issued for public review in the spring of 1996) or, should a comprehensive Long Term Management Strategy not be available by that date, on a separate alternatives-based EPA evaluation of the need for ocean disposal. This new site capacity will be established via a separate formal rulemaking process. The volume of sediment assumed in the site designation Final EIS and Proposed Rule to be dredged from San Francisco Bay over the next 50 years (400 million cubic yards total) represents a planning estimate provided by the Corps. The actual volumes dredged over the next 50 years cannot be accurately predicted because the overall need for dredging will depend on many factors, including: Commercial shipping trends (i.e., continued use of Oakland as a major cargo port); decisions to initiate port expansions (i.e., for larger deep-draft vessels); changes in the use of closing military facilities; and resources available to undertake these projects (i.e., availability of funds or Congressional authorizations for specific projects). However, for ocean site evaluation purposes, EPA assumed that 6 million cubic yards per year (which equates to 80% of the assumed dredging average of 8 million cubic yards per year) would meet EPA Ocean Dumping criteria, and used this volume for modeling the fate of dredged material disposed at the alternative ocean disposal sites. The results indicated that disposal of this volume would not result in significant impacts at the proposed disposal site; therefore, this site is being designated with an interim capacity of up to 6 million cubic yards per year. Additional modelling would be necessary if a greater annual disposal volume were to be proposed. No matter the nominal site capacity at any time, it should be noted that site designation is not a blanket approval for disposal of any dredged material at the site. The actual need for ocean dumping is determined on a project-by-project basis at the time of permitting: Each and every project must be individually reviewed to determine both its need for ocean disposal and the suitability of its proposed dredged material for disposal. 3. Alternatives Analysis Several commentors stated that EPA has failed to consider a range of alternatives to ocean dumping of dredged material. Other commentors recommended that the ocean site designation be delayed until other disposal alternatives can be made available ( e.g., via the LTMS process). Response EPA has determined that there is an overall need to designate an ocean disposal site for the San Francisco Bay region at the present time, based on the present lack of available upland and beneficial reuse sites, policies of the state agencies to generally further restrict disposal at in-Bay sites to maintenance dredging projects, impending plans for large new-work dredging projects, and limited existing in-Bay disposal site capacity. However, as discussed above, the ocean site is now being designated with an interim capacity only, which will be reevaluated based on the results of comprehensive management planning efforts now underway. 4. Consistency Wth International Agreements Several commentors wrote that the ocean disposal site designation ignores the precautionary approach which the U.S. has adopted in the context of several international agreements, because the site designation is unconditional except for a very large annual dumping limit for the 50-year period. These commentors recommended that there should be precautionary conditions for site use, including: (1) A waste audit to evaluate all possible options to reduce the amount of dredged materials to be dumped at the ocean site and reduce the contamination of those sediments; (2) implementation of pollution prevention measures for San Francisco Bay and its drainage basin to guarantee that less contaminated sediments would be destined for the ocean site in the future; and (3) specific limitations on the contamination levels in sediments to be dumped at the site, with progressive reduction in those levels over 50 years so that the site will eventually only receive uncontaminated sediments. Response The Final Rule has been revised to establish an interim site capacity only. In addition, even this interim annual dumping limit is only one of many conditions for site use. As noted above, site designation is not in itself a permit for ocean disposal of dredged material. Each project must be reviewed on a case-by-case basis to determine suitability of the proposed dredged material for ocean disposal and to determine the need for ocean dumping (including the availability of alternatives that reduce the amount of dredging). Alternatives such as beneficial use will be encouraged wherever practicable. This process of evaluating disposal options already occurs and will continue during permit reviews. Nevertheless, in addition to project-by-project alternatives analyses, overall dredged material management alternatives are being evaluated via the State/Federal LTMS process on a programmatic basis. The project-by- project need for ocean disposal will be reduced as alternatives to ocean disposal (including beneficial re-use sites) become available.
