FR940325-2-00022 FR940325-2-00004 Comment 14 Petitioner claims that the adjustment for home market credit expenses should be denied or reduced. Petitioner believes that an adjustment for this expense should not be permitted because, of the sales verified, over one-quarter had incorrect shipment/payment dates. If the Department allows this expense, petitioner argues that it should be recalculated exclusive of VAT because Lafarge did not incur any credit expense for payment of the VAT. Respondent maintains that the Department should not deny or reduce home market credit expenses. It argues that the errors found at verification with respect to shipment/payment dates were minor and clerical in nature, and do not have a significant effect on the Department's analysis. According to respondent, by extending credit, Lafarge agrees to forego immediate payment of the total invoice amount which includes the price for the goods and applicable VAT taxes. It, therefore, loses the interest that could have been earned on the total invoice amount. Respondent asserts that the foregone interest represents the opportunity cost of extending credit. Respondent further asserts that, because this opportunity cost includes foregone interest on VAT, the foregone interest on VAT must be included in the credit adjustment. DOC Position We disagree in part with both petitioner and respondent. We have determined that a credit adjustment in general is warranted in this case. The errors found at verification with respect to the credit period reported for two home market transactions were clerical and minor in nature and related to sales made either out of the ordinary course of trade or to a third country which we have excluded from our analysis. ( See the ``Foreign Market Value'' section of this notice.) However, we have also determined that there is no statutory or regulatory basis for including VAT in the credit adjustment. While there may be an opportunity cost associated with extending credit on the payment of invoice value inclusive of VAT, that fact alone is not a sufficient basis for the Department to make an adjustment. We note that virtually every expense associated with less than fair value comparisons is paid for at some point after the cost is incurred. Accordingly, for each post-service payment, there is also an opportunity cost. Thus, to allow the type of adjustment suggested by respondent would imply that in the future the Department would be faced with the impossible task of trying to determine the opportunity cost of every freight charge, rebate, and selling expense for each sale reported in respondent's database. This exercise would make our calculations inordinately complicated, placing an unreasonable and onerous burden on both respondents and the Department. (See e.g., Final Determination of Sales at Less Than Fair Value: Sulfur Dyes, Including Sulfur Vat Dyes, from the United Kingdom, 58 FR 3253, January 8, 1993.) Consequently, we have recalculated home market credit expenses to exclude the VAT included in the gross unit prices used in the original calculation. Comment 15 Petitioner argues that home market product liability costs are indirect rather than direct selling expenses because they are not directly related to sales made during the POI. Respondent disagrees, stating that these premiums are directly related to sales because the premium is assessed on sales value. According to respondent, each additional sale results in an additional product liability premium expense. DOC Position Because these premiums are assessed based on sales value, we have determined that these expenses are characteristic of direct expenses. We note that the U.S. product liability premium rates reported for U.S. sales of flux and cement were also based on sales value. Therefore, we have treated both home market and U.S. product liability expenses as direct selling expenses for purposes of the final determination, and have adjusted FMV and USP accordingly. Comment 16 Petitioner claims that those sales made to a home market customer that were destined for export should not be included as home market sales in the Department's analysis. Petitioner states that the Department verified that Lafarge knew that certain sales of CA flux were to be exported to a third country at the time of sale to the home market customer. Accordingly, petitioner argues that these sales should not be included in the Department's FMV calculation.
