FR940830-1-00053 FR940830-1-00009 Equation 4 implicitly assumes that n-octanol is an appropriate surrogate for lipids in aquatic organisms. The theoretical basis presented by Mackay (1982) and the experimental data suggest that n-octanol is a very reasonable surrogate for lipids. Equation 4 is also supported and consistent with the food-chain model of Gobas (1993). For the Gobas model, the BCF t fd is equal to K ow when the growth rate of the organisms and the metabolism rate of the chemical by the organisms are set equal to zero. Finally, equation 4 is supported and consistent with the equilibrium partitioning theory being developed by EPA for the derivation of sediment quality criteria (Di Toro et al. 1991). EPA believes that predicting the BCF based on equation 4 may provide a more consistent and scientifically defensible basis for establishing a predicted BAF than the equation by Veith and Kosian, 1983. EPA asks for comments on the use of equation 4 for predicting BCFs. 3. Food Chain Multiplier Model The second and third methods in the proposed Guidance for deriving BAFs for organic chemicals both require use of a FCM based on a biomagnification model by Thomann (1989). For the proposed Guidance, EPA calculated the FCMs using Thomann's 1989 model of the step-wise increase in the concentration of an organic chemical from phytoplankton (trophic level 1) through the top predatory fish of a food chain (trophic level 4). Food chain multipliers derived from the model ranged from less than one to 100. Under the proposed Guidance, FCMs greater than one would usually apply to organic chemicals with log K ow values in the range of 4.0 to 6.5. EPA asked for comment on the appropriateness of FCMs based on the Thomann model, and requested possible alternatives to the Thomann model for predicting BAFs from BCFs. In this Notice, EPA requests comment on the use of a model by Gobas (1993) to determine FCMs for non-polar organic chemicals. This model includes both benthic and pelagic food chains thereby incorporating exposures of organisms to chemicals from both the sediment and the water column. The Thomann 1989 model included only the pelagic food chain and therefore did not account for exposure from sediment to the aquatic organisms. The model by Gobas (1993) predicts a) the chemical residues in the organisms, and b) the freely dissolved concentration of the chemical in the water column (C fd ). With this information, bioaccumulation factors for each species in the food chain can be predicted by the equation: BAF l t =Residue in aquatic organism / C w df ␣␣(5) FCM's can then be calculated from the predicted BAFs using the following equation: FCM=BAF l fd / K ow ␣␣(6) where K ow is the n-octanol/water partition coefficient for the chemical and BAF l fd is the BAF reported on a lipid- normalized basis using the freely dissolved concentration of the chemical in water. Since EPA is considering using the following approximation to predict BCFs: FCF l fd =K ow ␣␣(7) substituting equation (7) into equation (6) would give a relationship for calculating FCMs similar to the proposed Guidance where FCM=BAF l fd /BCF l fd .␣␣(8) The resulting FCMs for trophic levels 2, 3, and 4 along with the input parameters for the model, are included in the Technical Support Document, July 1994. Based on the data in the TSD, EPA believes the Gobas model acceptably predicts BAFs for the Great Lakes System. EPA is considering using the food chain model of Gobas for deriving FCMs because a) it is easier to define the input data needed to run the model, b) predicted BAFs are in better agreement with measured BAFs for chemicals with very high log K ow s, and c) the model uses equilibrium partitioning theory to predict chemical residues in benthic organisms, consistent with EPA's sediment criteria approach. EPA is requesting comment on the appropriateness of the Gobas 1993 model for calculating FCMs.
