FR940425-0-00035 FR940425-0-00018 f. Bi-fuel and dual fuel applicability . In the ANPRM, NHTSA discussed whether dual-fuel vehicles should be treated differently than dedicated CNG vehicles. Some commenters recommended that dual-fuel vehicles have separate fuel system integrity tests based on each of the fuels used in the particular vehicle. Under this approach, dual-fuel vehicles would be tested twice: once under current Standard No. 301 as though they operated only on gasoline or diesel fuel and a second time under the proposed CNG standard as though they operated only on CNG. In the NPRM, NHTSA proposed that the energy equivalency of the allowable fuel leakage from dual-fuel vehicles be the same as that for dedicated vehicles. The agency disagreed with commenters to the ANPRM that recommended running two separate tests. The agency believed that approach would result in an allowable level of total fuel leakage for dual-fuel vehicles that is twice what is currently permitted under Standard No. 301 or what the agency proposed to establish for CNG vehicles. In the NPRM, the agency explained that since a real world crash could cause both fuel systems to leak, safety concerns associated with dual-fuel vehicles would be best addressed by establishing a single, overall fuel leakage limit applicable to the combined energy equivalency of the amount of both types of fuel leaked in a single crash test. Six commenters addressed the most appropriate way to regulate the safety of dual-fuel and bi-fuel vehicles. While NFPA, CNG Pittsburgh, and NYCFD agreed with the proposal to require that dual-fuel vehicles comply with a single overall fuel leakage limit based on the combined energy level of both fuel types, AAMA, Blue Bird, and Brunswick disagreed. AAMA, Blue Bird, and Brunswick theoretically agreed with the concept of establishing a combined energy level. However, they stated that because the allowable leakage would be cut in half if the agency adopted the proposal, applying this criterion would make both CNG and liquid fuel leakage unmeasurable. After reviewing the comments, NHTSA has decided to require only one test on dual-fuel and bi-fuel vehicles that permits the amount of gaseous leakage specified in the CNG standard plus the amount of liquid leakage specified in Standard No. 301. Ideally, the agency would have preferred to adopt the proposed approach that would have kept the combined energy equivalency at an amount consistent with dedicated vehicles. However, as discussed in an earlier section, the practicability problems with measuring low levels of CNG leakage using current technology makes that approach impracticable. Along with being practicable, the requirement, as adopted, will reduce the test costs incurred by manufacturers since only one test will have to be run. In addition, NHTSA notes that the allowable leakage levels for liquid fuels under Standard No. 301 and CNG each approximate a ``no leakage'' condition. D. Test Conditions 1. Test Pressure In the NPRM, NHTSA proposed that CNG fuel storage containers be tested at 100 percent of service pressure. The agency believed that this test condition would be consistent with Transport Canada's fuel system integrity standard for CNG vehicles. In addition, this is the pressure at which the container is designed to operate when filled with the gaseous fuel at 20 ○C (68 ○F). The proposal to specify 100 percent of service pressure level departed from the requirement in Standard No. 301 specifying that gasoline fueled vehicles be tested at a level of between 90 to 95 percent of capacity. In the proposal, the agency noted that unlike gaseous fuels, gravity and vehicle attitude play important roles in determining the amount of leakage experienced by a liquid fuel. The fuel fill level is not as critical a test condition for liquid fuels. In contrast, while leakage of gaseous fuels is influenced by the level of pressure inside a ruptured fuel system, it is not influenced by the vehicle's attitude or gravity. Based on these considerations, NHTSA decided to propose that the containers be tested at the maximum fill level (i.e., 100 percent of service pressure) to simulate a worst case accident situation for CNG vehicles. Six commenters addressed the appropriate service pressure at which the CNG containers would be tested. Minnesota Gas, CNG Pittsburgh, and Washington agreed with the agency's proposal to test at 100 percent of service pressure. Minnesota Gas agreed with the proposal because it would be consistent with Transport Canada. AAMA, Navistar, and Thomas stated that some tolerance should be allowed, given practicability concerns. Thomas recommended that a tolerance range of about three percent should be allowed (i.e., # 90 psi on a container with a 3000 psi service pressure.) AAMA recommended a range for fill level between 95 percent to 100 percent, because it believed that temperature in a CNG container may rise significantly as it is filled and that some time would be required for pressure and temperature to stabilize.
