FR940930-2-00215 FR940930-2-00073 [Rel. No. IC&hyph;20572; 812&hyph;9034] Landmark Funds I et al.; Notice of Application September 23, 1994. AGENCY: Securities and Exchange Commission (the ``SEC'' or the ``Commission''). ACTION: Notice of application for exemption under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the ``Act''). Applicants: Landmark Funds I, Landmark Funds II, Landmark Funds III, Landmark Fixed Income Funds, Landmark Tax Free Income Funds, Landmark Multi-State Tax Free Funds, Landmark Premium Funds, Landmark Institutional Funds I, Landmark Institutional Trust, Landmark Tax Free Reserves, and Landmark International Equity Fund, including all existing and future series thereof (the ``Trusts''), and (i) Any future open-end management investment company (including all series thereof) for which Citibank, N.A. (``Citibank'') or any company controlling, controlled by, or under common control with Citibank (a ``Citibank Company'') is the investment adviser or for which The Landmark Funds Broker-Dealer Services, Inc. (``LFBDS'') or any company controlling, controlled by, or under common control with LFBDS (an ``LFBDS Company'') is the principal underwriter (as that term is defined in section 2(a)(29) of the Act), (ii) any existing open-end management investment company (and all existing and future series thereof) not currently advised by Citibank or a Citibank Company or underwritten by LFBDS or an LFBDS Company for which Citibank or a Citibank Company in the future serves as investment adviser or for which LFBDS or an LFBDS Company in the future serves as principal underwriter and (iii) any existing or future open-end management investment company (including all existing and future series thereof) not currently advised by Citibank or a Citibank Company that invests all of the investable assets of such company or any of its series in a management investment company for which Citibank or a Citibank Company is the investment adviser (the investment companies described in (i), (ii), and (iii), together with the Trusts, are referred to collectively as the ``Funds''), Citibank, and LFBDS. Relevant Act Sections: Order requested under section 6(c) for exemptions from section 18(f), 18(g), 18(i), 2(a)(32), 2(a)(35), 22(c), and 22(d) of the Act and rule 22c-1 thereunder. Summary of Application: Applicants seek an order (i) To permit the Funds to issue multiple classes of shares representing interests in the same portfolio of securities (the ``Multiple Distribution System''); and (ii) to permit the Funds to assess and, under certain circumstances, waive, defer, or reduce, a contingent deferred sales charges (``CDSC'') on certain redemptions of their shares. Filing Date: The application was filed on June 6, 1994, and amended on July 20, 1994. By supplemental letter dated September 23, 1994, counsel, on behalf of applicants, agreed to file an amendment during the notice period to make certain technical changes. This notice reflects the changes to be made to the application by such amendment.
