FR940727-2-00044 FR940727-2-00026 Before Federal Trade Commission In the matter of L&S Research Corporation, a corporation, and Scott Chinery, individually and as an officer of said corporation. File No. 912&hyph;3004. Agreement Containing Consent Order To Cease and Desist The Federal Trade Commission, having initiated an investigation of certain acts and practices of L&S Research Corporation, a corporation, and Scott Chinery, individually and as an officer of said corporation, and it now appearing that L&S Research Corporation, a corporation, and Scott Chinery, individually and as an officer of said corporation, hereinafter sometimes referred to as proposed respondents, are willing to enter into an agreement containing an Order to cease and desist from the use of the acts and practices being investigated, It is hereby agreed by and between L&S Research Corporation, by its authorized officer, and Scott Chinery, individually and as an officer of said corporation that, 1. (a) Proposed respondent L&S Research Corporation is a corporation organized, existing, and doing business under and by virtue of the laws of the State of New Jersey, with its office and principal place of business located at 450 Oberlin Ave., S., in the City of Lakewood, State of New Jersey. (b) Proposed respondent Scott Chinery is an officer of said corporation. He formulates, directs, and controls the policies, acts, and practices of said corporation, and his principal place of business is located at the above stated address. 2. Proposed respondents admit all the jurisdictional facts set forth in the draft complaint here attached. 3. Proposed respondents waive: (a) any further procedural steps; (b) the requirement that the Commission's decision contain a statement of facts or conclusion of law; (c) all rights to seek judicial review or otherwise to challenge or contest the validity of the Order entered pursuant to this agreement; and (d) all claims under the Equal Access to Justice Act. 4. This Agreement shall not become part of the public record in the proceeding unless and until it is accepted by the Commission. If this Agreement is accepted by the Commission it, together with the draft of complaint contemplated thereby, will be placed on the public record for a period of sixty (60) days and information in respect thereto publicly released. The Commission thereafter may either withdraw its acceptance of the Agreement and so notify the proposed respondents, in which event it will take such action as it may consider appropriate, or issue and serve its complaint (in such form as the circumstances may require) and decision, in disposition of the proceeding. 5. This Agreement is for settlement purposes only and does not constitute an admission by the proposed respondents of facts, other than jurisdictional facts, or of violations of law as alleged in the draft complaint here attached, or that proposed respondents have engaged in any other unlawful conduct. 6. This Agreement contemplates that, if it is accepted by the Commission, and if such acceptance is not subsequently withdrawn by the Commission pursuant to the provisions of ยง2.34 of the Commission's Rules, the Commission may, without further notice to the proposed respondents, (1) issue its complaint corresponding in form and substance with the draft of complaint here attached and its decision concerning the following Order to cease and desist in disposition of the proceeding, and (2) make information public in respect thereto. When so entered, the Order to cease and desist shall have the same force and effect and may be altered, modified, or set aside in the same manner and within the same time provided by statute for other orders. The Order shall become final upon service. Delivery to the U.S. Postal Service of the complaint and decision containing the agreed-to Order to proposed respondents' addresses as stated in this agreement shall constitute service. Proposed respondents waive any right they may have to any other manner of service. The complaint may be used in construing the terms of the Order, and no agreement, understanding, representation, or interpretation not contained in the Order or the Agreement may be used to vary or contradict the terms of the Order. 7. Proposed respondents have read the proposed complaint and Order contemplated hereby. They understand that once the Order has been issued, they will be required to file one or more compliance reports showing they have fully complied with the Order. Proposed respondents further understand that they may be liable for civil penalties in the amount provided by law for each violation of the Order after it becomes final. 8. If it is accepted by the Commission, this Agreement constitutes a full settlement between the Commission and proposed respondents as to the activities alleged in the complaint to have constituted violations of the Federal Trade Commission Act and which occurred prior to the date of entry of the Order. As to those activities alleged in the complaint, and which occurred prior to the date of entry of the Order, the Commission hereby releases the proposed respondents from all other further liability to the Commission. Order For purposes of this Order the following definitions apply: A. ``Competent and reliable scientific evidence'' shall mean tests, analyses, research, studies, or other evidence, based on the expertise of professionals in the relevant area that has been conducted and evaluated in an objective manner by persons qualified to do so, using procedures generally accepted by others in the profession to yield accurate and reliable results. B. ``Substantially similar product'' shall mean any product that is substantially similar in composition, in terms of the types of ingredients that it contains, or possesses substantially similar properties.
