FR940912-2-00086 FR940912-2-00057 [File No. 9123145] RN Nutrition, et al.; Proposed Consent Agreement With Analysis To Aid Public Comment AGENCY: Federal Trade Commission. ACTION: Proposed consent agreement. SUMMARY: In settlement of alleged violations of federal law prohibiting unfair acts and practices and unfair methods of competition, this consent agreement, accepted subject to final Commission approval, would require, among other things, the California marketers of the calcium supplement product, BoneRestore, to possess competent and reliable scientific evidence to substantiate the claims that any food, drug, or food or dietary supplement products will treat or cure any disease or condition; would prohibit the respondents from using the name BoneRestore in a misleading way; and would restrict the use of testimonial endorsements that do not represent typical results. DATES: Comments must be received on or before November 14, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments should be directed to: FTC/Office of the Secretary, Room 159, 6th St. and Pa. Ave., NW., Washington, DC 20580. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Phoebe Morse, Boston Regional Office, Federal Trade Commission, 101 Merrimac St., Suite 810, Boston, MA 02114&hyph;4719 (617) 424&hyph;5960. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Pursuant to section 6(f) of the Federal Trade Commission Act, 38 Stat. 721, 15 U.S.C. 46 and ยง2.34 of the Commission's Rules of Practice (16 CFR 2.34), notice is hereby given that the following consent agreement containing a consent order to cease and desist, having been filed with and accepted, subject to final approval, by the Commission, has been placed on the public record for a period of sixty (60) days. Public comment is invited. Such comments or views will be considered by the Commission and will be available for inspection and copying at its principal office in accordance with ยง4.9(b)(6)(ii) of the Commission's Rules of Practice (16 CFR 4.9(b)(6)(ii). In the Matter of RN Nutrition, a limited partnership, and George Page Rank and James W. Nugent, individually and as co-partners, trading and doing business as RN Nutrition; Agreement containing consent order to cease and desist. The Federal Trade Commission having initiated an investigation of certain acts and practices of RN Nutrition, a limited partnership, and George Page Rank and James W. Nugent, individually and as co-partners, trading and doing business as RN Nutrition, hereinafter sometimes referred to as proposed respondents, and it is now appearing that proposed respondents are willing to enter into an agreement containing an order to cease and desist from the use of the acts and practices being investigated, It is hereby agreed by and between proposed respondents, and their attorney, and counsel for the Federal Trade Commission that: 1. Proposed respondent RN Nutrition is a limited partnership organized, existing and doing business under and by virtue of the laws of the State of California, with its principal office or place of business at 3402-M West MacArthur, Santa Ana, California 92704. 2. Proposed respondent George Page Rank is an individual who has been, and is now, a general partner of RN Nutrition. As such, he formulates, or participates in the formulation of, directs and controls the acts and practices of RN Nutrition. His business address is 3402-M West MacArthur, Santa Ana, California 92704. 3. Proposed respondent James W. Nugent is an individual who has been, and is now, a general partner of RN Nutrition. As such, he formulates, or participates in the formulation of, directs and controls the acts and practices of RN Nutrition. His business address is 3402-M West MacArthur, Santa Ana, California 92704. 4. Proposed respondents admit all the jurisdictional facts set forth in the draft complaint here attached. 5. Proposed respondents waive: (a) Any further procedural steps; (b) The requirement that the Commission's decision contain a statement of findings of fact and conclusions of law;
