FR940826-0-00041 FR940826-0-00014 (1) Except for situations described in paragraph (i)(2) of this section, Federal awarding agencies shall not require separate depository accounts for funds provided to a recipient or establish any eligibility requirements for depositories for funds provided to a recipient. However, recipients must be able to account for the receipt, obligation and expenditure of funds. (2) Advances of Federal funds shall be deposited and maintained in insured accounts whenever possible. (j) Consistent with the national goal of expanding the opportunities for women-owned and minority-owned business enterprises, recipients are encouraged to use women-owned and minority-owned banks (a bank which is owned at least 50 percent by women or minority group members). (k) Recipients shall maintain advances of Federal funds in interest bearing accounts, unless paragraph (h) (1), (2) or (3) apply: (1) The recipient receives less than $120,000 in Federal awards per year. (2) The best reasonably available interest bearing account would not be expected to earn interest in excess of $250 per year on Federal cash balances. (3) The depository would require an average or minimum balance so high that it would not be feasible within the expected Federal and non-Federal cash resources. (l) For those entities where CMIA and its implementing regulations do not apply, interest earned on Federal advances deposited in interest bearing accounts shall be remitted annually to Department of Health and Human Services, Payment Management System, P.O. Box 6021, Rockville, MD 20852. Interest amounts up to $250 per year may be retained by the recipient for administrative expense. In keeping with Electric Funds Transfer rules, (31 CFR part 206), interest should be remitted to the HHS Payment Management System through an electric medium such as the FEDWIRE Deposit system. Recipients who do not have this capability should use a check. State universities and hospitals shall comply with CMIA as it pertains to interest. If an entity subject to CMIA uses its own funds to pay preaward costs for discretionary awards without prior written approval from the Federal awarding agency, it waives its right to recover the interest under CMIA. (m) Except as noted elsewhere in this subpart, only the following forms shall be authorized for the recipients in requesting advances and reimbursements. Federal agencies shall not require more than an original and two copies of these forms. (1) SF&hyph;270, ``Request for Advance or Reimbursement.'' Each Federal awarding agency shall adopt the SF&hyph;270 as a standard form for all nonconstruction programs where electronic funds transfer or predetermined advance methods are not used. Federal awarding agencies, however, have the option of using this form for construction programs in lieu of the SF&hyph;271, ``Outlay Report and Request for Reimbursement for Construction Programs.'' (2) SF&hyph;271, ``Outlay Report and Request for Reimbursement for Construction Programs.'' Each Federal awarding agency shall adopt the SF&hyph;271 as the standard form to be used for requesting reimbursement for construction programs. However, a Federal awarding agency may substitute the SF&hyph;270 when the Federal awarding agency determines that it provided adequate information to meet Federal needs. ยง12.923 Cost sharing or matching. (a) All contributions, including cash and third party in-kind, shall be accepted as part of the recipient's cost sharing or matching when the contributions meet all of the following criteria. (1) Are verifiable from the recipient's records.
