FR941207-0-00008 FR941207-0-00002 These programs are listed in the Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance under 10.550 and are subject to the provisions of Executive Order 12372 which requires intergovernmental consultation with State and local officials (7 CFR Part 3015, Subpart V and final rule-related notices published at 48 FR 29114, June 24, 1983 and 49 FR 22676, May 31, 1984). This final rule has been reviewed under Executive Order 12778, Civil Justice Reform. This rule is intended to have preemptive effect with respect to any State or local laws, regulations or policies which conflict with its provisions or which would otherwise impede its full implementation. This rule is not intended to have retroactive effect unless so specified in the ``Effective Date'' section of this preamble. Prior to any judicial challenge to the provisions of this rule or the application of its provisions, all applicable administrative procedures must be exhausted. This includes any administrative procedures provided by State or local governments. For disputes involving procurements by State agencies and sponsors, this includes any administrative appeal procedures to the extent required by 7 CFR Parts 3015 or 3016. The Department of Agriculture is committed to carrying out its statutory and regulatory mandates in a manner that best serves the public interest. Therefore, where legal discretion permits, the Department actively seeks to promulgate regulations that promote economic growth, create jobs, are minimally burdensome and are easy for the public to understand, use or comply with. In short, the Department is committed to issuing regulations that maximize net benefits to society and minimize costs imposed by those regulations. Background Section 250.30 of the current Food Distribution Program regulations sets forth the terms and conditions under which distributing agencies, subdistributing agencies, and recipient agencies may enter into contracts with commercial firms for processing donated foods and prescribes the minimum requirements to be included in such contracts. Part 252 sets forth the terms and conditions under which the Food and Consumer Service (FCS) and commercial firms may enter into National Commodity Processing (NCP) Program contracts for the processing and distribution of designated donated foods to eligible recipient agencies. On May 25, 1993, the Department published a proposed rule in the Federal Register (58 FR 29985) which would amend the Food Distribution Program regulations to strengthen provisions concerning the processing of donated foods and to increase uniformity between provisions governing State processing activities, Part 250, and those governing NCP Program, Part 252. The proposed rule provided a 60-day comment period. This final rule addresses those provisions regarding food service management companies, contract renewal, requirements for processing contracts, liquidated damages, alternate value pass-through systems, invoice information, substitution of donated food, time frames for processors to pay refunds, refund applications/performance reports, and list of contracting agencies. Please note that a typographical error in the proposed rule published on May 25, 1993, (58 FR 29995) misidentified section 250.30(k)(3) as section 250.30(k)(4). The Department apologizes for any inconvenience this may have caused in reviewing the proposed rule for comment. Throughout this final rule, the correct section number will be referred to when discussing provisions of that proposed rule in order to avoid further confusion. However, the Department recognizes that the current section 250.30(k)(4) is obsolete, in that it requires distributing agencies to notify processors of the total amount of donated cheese they can receive during the 1988&hyph;1989 school year. Because this requirement is no longer pertinent to current program operations, the Department is removing this language from the regulations. Analysis of Comments The Department received a total of 41 comment letters from distributing agencies, local school food authorities, commercial food processors, a State school food service association, a private sector representative, the American Commodity Distribution Association, and the American School Food Service Association. Food Service Management Companies Sections 250.3 and 250.30(a) of the proposed rule would revise the definition of ``processor'' and associated requirements to remove the blanket exception from the State processing regulations for commercial food service management companies. Additionally, the proposed rule would revise the definition of ``processor'' to exempt any commercial enterprises which handle, prepare, and/or serve products or meals containing donated foods on-site solely for the individual recipient agency under contract. With regard to the removal of the blanket exception for commercial food service management companies from the definition of ``processor,'' twenty-five comments were received. All commenters supported this proposal for the reasons set forth in the preamble of the proposed rule. The Department proposed this change because of problems identified in the past when food service management companies use commercial facilities to produce items for the various school food authorities under contract.
