FR941005-2-00007 FR941005-2-00004 (2) To what extent can the forest health be restored within the project area? (3) What level of timber commodities could result from forest health restoration projects? (4) To what extent will erodable and sensitive soils, and thus long-term soil productivity, be affected by the proposed activities? (5) To what extent will the view from Highways 49 and 89 be affected? What visual character will result from the proposed activities, and to what extent can visual quality be improved in sensitive areas affected by the fire? (6) To what extent will vegetative diversity be improved to support a wide variety of biological communities? (7) To what extent and at what timing will wildlife habitat be restored for the large variety of wildlife using the area? (8) To what extent will watershed conditions be improved and restored by the proposed activities? (9) To what extent will air quality in the Sierra Valley and Truckee areas be affected by the proposed activities? Comments from other Federal, State, and local agencies, organizations, and individuals who may be interested in, or affected by the decision, are encouraged to identify other significant issues. Public participation will be solicited through mailing letters to potentially interested or affected mining claim owners, private land owners, and special use permittees on the Sierraville Ranger District; posting information in local towns; and mailing letters to local timber industries, politicians, school boards, county supervisors, and environmental groups. Continued participation will be emphasized through individual contacts. Public meetings used as a method of public involvement during preparation and review of the draft environmental impact statement will be announced in newspapers of general circulation in the geographic area of such meetings well in advance of scheduled dates. The draft EIS is expected to be filed with the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and to be available for public review by December, 1995. The comment period on the draft EIS will be 45 days from the date the EPA publishes the notice of availability in the Federal Register . The Forest Service believes, at this early stage, it is important to give reviewers notice of several court rulings related to public participation in the environmental review process. First, reviewers of draft environmental impact statements must structure their participation in the environmental review of the proposal so that it is meaningful and alerts an agency to the reviewer's position and contentions. Vermont Yankee Nuclear Power Corp. v. NRDC, 435 U.S. 519, 553 (1978). Also, environmental objections that could be raised at the draft EIS stage but that are not raised until after completion of the final EIS may be waived or dismissed by the courts. City of Angoon v. Hodel, 803 F.2d 1016, 1022 (9th Cir. 1986) and Wisconsin Heritages Inc. v. Harris, 490 F. Supp. 1334, 1338 (E.D. Wis. 1980). Because of the court rulings, it is very important that those interested in this proposed action participate by the close of the 45-day comment period so that substantive comments and objections are made available to the Forest Service at a time when it can meaningfully consider them and respond to them in the final EIS. To assist the Forest Service in identifying and considering issues and concerns on the proposed action, comments on the draft EIS should be as specific as possible. It is also helpful if comments refer to specific pages or chapters of the draft EIS. Comments may also address the adequacy of the draft EIS or the merits of the alternatives formulated and discussed in the statement. Reviewers may wish to refer to the Council on Environmental Quality Regulations for implementing the procedural provisions of the National Environmental Policy Act at 40 CFR 1503.3 in addressing these points. The final EIS is expected to be available by March, 1995. The responsible official is John H. Skinner, Forest Supervisor, Tahoe National Forest. Dated: September 26, 1994. Larry Gruver, Acting Forest Supervisor [FR Doc. 94&hyph;24565 Filed 10&hyph;4&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3410&hyph;11&hyph;M
