FR940513-0-00173 FR940513-0-00034 7. Section 305.8 is amended by revising paragraphs (a) and (b) to read as follows: §305.8 Submission of data. (a) (1) Each manufacturer of a covered product, except manufacturers of fluorescent lamp ballasts, fluorescent lamps, medium base compact fluorescent lamps, incandescent lamps (including incandescent reflector lamps), showerheads, faucets, water closets or urinals, shall submit annually to the Commission a report listing the kilowatt-hour use per year (for refrigerators, refrigerator-freezers and freezers), the energy factor (for clothes washers, dishwashers and water heaters) or the energy efficiency rating (for room air conditioners, central air conditioners, heat pumps and furnaces) for each basic model in current production, determined according to §305.5 and statistically verified according to §305.6. The report must also list, for each basic model in current production: The model number; the total energy consumption, determined in accordance with §305.5, used to calculate the kilowatt-hour per year, energy factor, or energy efficiency rating; the number of tests performed; and its capacity, determined in accordance with §305.7. For those models that use more than one energy source or more than one cycle, each separate amount of energy consumption, or energy cost, measured in accordance with §305.5, shall be listed in the report. Appendix J of this part illustrates a suggested reporting format. Starting serial numbers or other numbers identifying the date of manufacture of covered products shall be submitted whenever a new basic model is introduced in the market. (2) Each manufacturer of a covered fluorescent lamp ballast shall submit annually to the Commission a report for each basic model of fluorescent lamp ballast in current production. The report shall contain the following information: (i) Name and address of manufacturer; (ii) All trade names under which the fluorescent lamp ballast is marketed; (iii) Model number; (iv) Starting serial number, date code or other means of identifying the date of manufacture (date of manufacture information must be included with only the first submission for each basic model); (v) Nominal input voltage and frequency; (vi) Ballast efficacy factor; and (vii) Type (F40T12, F96T12 or F96T12HO) and number of lamp or lamps with which the fluorescent lamp ballast is designed to be used. (3) Each manufacturer of a covered product that is a fluorescent lamp, medium base compact fluorescent lamp, or incandescent lamp (including an incandescent reflector lamp), shall submit annually to the Commission a report for each lamp type in current production. The report shall contain the following information: (i) Name and address of manufacturer; (ii) All trade names under which the lamp is marketed; (iii) Model number; (iv) Starting serial number, date code or other means of identifying the date of manufacture (date of manufacture information must be included with only the first submission for each lamp type); and (v) For all covered lamps, the test results for the lamp's wattage and light output ratings and, in addition, for all covered fluorescent lamps, the test results for the lamp's color rendering index. (4) Each manufacturer of a covered showerhead, faucet, water closet or urinal shall submit annually to the Commission a report for each basic model of such products in current production. The report shall contain the following information: (i) Name and address of manufacturer; (ii) All trade names under which the product is marketed; (iii) Model number; (iv) Starting serial number, date code or other means of identifying the date of manufacture (date of manufacture information must be included with only the first submission for each basic model); (v) The product's water use, expressed in gallons and liters per flush (gpf/Lpf) or gallons and liters per minute (gpm/Lpm) or per cycle (gpc/Lpc) as determined in accordance with §305.5. (b) All data required by §305.8(a) except serial numbers, shall be submitted to the Commission annually, on or before the following dates: ␣ 1Products 1Deadline for data submission Refrigerators Aug. 1. Refrigerator-freezers Aug. 1. Freezers Aug. 1. Central air conditioners July 1. Heat pumps July 1. Dishwashers June 1. Water heaters May 1. Room air conditioners May 1. Furnaces May 1. Clothes washers Mar. 1. Fluorescent lamp ballasts Mar. 1. Fluorescent lamps Mar. 1. [Stayed] Medium Base Compact Fluorescent Lamps Mar. 1. [Stayed] Incandescent Lamps, incl. Reflector Lamps Mar. 1. [Stayed] Showerheads Mar. 1. Faucets Mar. 1. Water closets Mar. 1. Urinals Mar. 1.
