FR940610-0-00031 FR940610-0-00015 a. January through March; b. April through June; c. July through September; and d. October through December. Plant means the total facilities available for production or service. Point means a physical emission point or process, such as a distinct building or a portion of a building, within a plant that results in pollutant emissions. Process rate means a quantity per unit of time of any raw material or process intermediate consumed, or product generated through the use of any equipment, source operation, or process. For a stationary internal combustion unit or any other fuel burning equipment, this term means the quantity of fuel burned per unit time. Segment means components of an emissions point or process, at the level that emissions are calculated. SIC code means the standard industrial classification code. Stack means a (smoke) stack or vent within a plant where emissions are introduced into the atmosphere. Stationary source means any building, structure, facility, or installation which emits, or may emit, any air pollutant subject to regulation under Indiana Code 13&hyph;1&hyph;1 (IC 13&hyph;1&hyph;1). Typical ozone season day means a day typical of that period of the year during the peak ozone season. Compliance Schedule The owner or operator of any source facility located in Clark, Elkhart, Floyd, Lake, Marion, Porter, St. Joseph, or Vanderburgh Counties with the potential to emit VOC or NO X into the ambient air at levels equal to or greater than 10 tons per year must annually submit an emission statement to the Commissioner (of IDEM) by April 15. The owners or operators of other sources to which the emission statement regulations apply must annually submit an emission statement to the Commissioner by July 1. The submittals must cover the time periods covered under the definition of ``emission statement operating year.'' Requirements The emission statement submitted by each applicable facility must contain the following information: 1. Certification that the information contained in the emission statement is accurate to the best knowledge of the individual certifying the emission statement. The certification must include the full name, title, signature, date of signature, and telephone number of the certifying individual. The certifying individual shall be employed by the company and shall take legal responsibility for the accuracy of the emission statement; 2. Source identification information including: (a) The full name, physical location, and mailing address of the facility; (b) source latitude and longitude; and (c) SIC code(s); 3. Operating data, to include the following: a. Percent annual throughput by quarter: i. For those sources of VOC or NO X with the potential to emit equal to or more than 10 tons per year of VOC or NO X in the Counties of: Clark; Elkhart; Floyd; Lake; Marion; Porter; St. Joseph; and Vanderburgh, the quarters are defined as follows: (AA) December through February; (BB) March through May;
