FR940921-0-00101 FR940921-0-00016 (i) They are commercially available; and (ii) Information acceptable to the Administrator is provided to show that only the designated fuel would be used in customer service; and (iii) Written approval from the Administrator of the fuel specifications must be provided prior to the start of testing. (4) The specification range of the fuels to be used under paragraphs (e)(1), (e)(2) and (e)(3) of this section shall be reported in accordance with §86.094&hyph;21(b)(3). (f) Liquefied petroleum gas fuel. (1) Liquefied petroleum gas fuel used for exhaust and evaporative emission testing and in service accumulation shall be commercially available liquefied petroleum gas fuel. (i) Manufacturers shall recommend the liquefied petroleum gas fuel to be used for testing and service accumulation. (ii) The Administrator shall determine the liquefied petroleum gas fuel to be used for testing and service accumulation. (2) Other liquefied petroleum gas fuels may be used for testing and service accumulation provided: (i) They are commercially available; and (ii) Information, acceptable to the Administrator, is provided to show that only the designated fuel would be used in customer service; and (iii) Written approval from the Administrator of the fuel specifications must be provided prior to the start of testing. (3) The specification range of the fuel to be used under paragraphs (f)(1) and (f)(2) of this section shall be measured in accordance with ASTM D2163&hyph;61 and reported in accordance with §86.094&hyph;21(b)(3). (g) Fuels not meeting the specifications set forth in this section may be used only with the advance approval of the Administrator. 51. Section 86.121&hyph;90 of subpart B is amended by revising paragraphs (a)(2) and (b)(3), and adding a new paragraph (d), to read as follows: §86.121&hyph;90 Hydrocarbon analyzer calibration. * * * * * (a) *␣*␣* (2) Optimize on the most common operating range. Introduce into the analyzer a propane (methane as appropriate) in air mixture (methanol in air mixture for methanol-fueled vehicles when optional methanol calibrated HFID procedure is used during the 1994 model year) with a propane (or methane or methanol as appropriate) concentration equal to approximately 90 percent of the most common operating range. * * * * * (b) *␣*␣* (3) Calibrate on each normally used operating range with propane in air calibration gases (either methanol or methane in air as appropriate) having nominal concentrations of 15, 30, 45, 60, 75 and 90 percent of that range. For each range calibrated, if the deviation from a least squares best-fit straight line is two percent or less of the value at each data point, concentration values may be calculated by use of a single calibration factor for that range. If the deviation exceeds two percent at any point, the best-fit non-linear equation which represents the data to within two percent of each test point shall be used to determine concentration. * * * * * (d) FID response factor to methane. When the FID analyzer is to be used for the analysis of natural gas-fueled vehicle hydrocarbon samples, the methane response factor of the analyzer shall be established. To determine the total hydrocarbon FID response to methane, known methane in air concentrations traceable to the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) shall be analyzed by the FID. Several methane concentrations shall be analyzed by the FID in the range of concentrations in the exhaust sample. The total hydrocarbon FID response to methane is calculated as follows: r CH4 =FIDppm/SAMppm Where: (1) r CH4 =FID response factor to methane. (2) FIDppm=FID reading in ppmC. (3) SAMppm=the known methane concentration in ppmC.
