FR941025-0-00046 FR941025-0-00017 40 CFR Part 52 [SD4&hyph;1&hyph;5671a; FRL&hyph;5077&hyph;6] Clean Air Act Approval and Promulgation of Title V, Section 507, Small Business Stationary Source Technical and Environmental Compliance Assistance Program for the State of South Dakota AGENCY: Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). ACTION: Direct final rule. SUMMARY: The EPA is approving the State Implementation Plan (SIP) revision submitted by the State of South Dakota for the purpose of establishing a Small Business Stationary Source Technical and Environmental Compliance Assistance Program (PROGRAM). The implementation plan was submitted by the State to satisfy the Federal mandate, found in section 507 of the Clean Air Act (CAA), to ensure that small businesses have access to the technical assistance and regulatory information necessary to comply with the CAA. The rationale for the approval is set forth in this notice; additional information is available at the address indicated below. DATES: This final rule will become effective on December 27, 1994 unless adverse or critical comments are received by November 25, 1994. If the effective date is delayed, timely notice will be published in the Federal Register . ADDRESSES: Comments should be addressed to Laura Farris, 8ART-AP, at the EPA Regional Office listed. Copies of the State's submittal and other supporting information used in developing this final rule are available for public inspection during normal business hours at the following location: U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Region 8, 999 18th Street, suite 500, Denver, Colorado 80202. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Laura Farris, 8ART-AP, Environmental Protection Agency, Region VIII, 999 18th Street, suite 500, Denver, Colorado 80202&hyph;2405, (303) 294&hyph;7539. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: I. Background Implementation of the provisions of the Clean Air Act (CAA), as amended in 1990, will require regulation of many small businesses so that areas may attain and maintain the National ambient air quality standards (NAAQS) and reduce the emission of air toxics. Small businesses frequently lack the technical expertise and financial resources necessary to evaluate such regulations and to determine the appropriate mechanisms for compliance. In anticipation of the impact of these requirements on small businesses, the CAA requires that states adopt a Small Business Stationary Source Technical and Environmental Compliance Assistance Program (PROGRAM), and submit this PROGRAM as a revision to the federally approved SIP. In addition, the CAA directs the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to oversee these small business assistance programs and report to Congress on their implementation. The requirements for establishing a PROGRAM are set out in section 507 of title V of the CAA. In February 1992, EPA issued Guidelines for the Implementation of Section 507 of the 1990 Clean Air Act Amendments , in order to delineate the Federal and state roles in meeting the new statutory provisions and as a tool to provide further guidance to the states on submitting acceptable SIP revisions. The State of South Dakota has submitted a SIP revision to EPA in order to satisfy the requirements of section 507. In order to gain full approval, the State submittal must provide for each of the following PROGRAM elements: (1) The establishment of a Small Business Assistance Program (SBAP) to provide technical and compliance assistance to small businesses; (2) the establishment of a State Small Business Ombudsman to represent the interests of small businesses in the regulatory process; and (3) the creation of a Compliance Advisory Panel (CAP) to determine and report on the overall effectiveness of the SBAP. The EPA is publishing this action without prior proposal because the Agency views this as a noncontroversial action and anticipates no adverse comments. However, in a separate document in this Federal Register publication, the EPA is proposing approval of the South Dakota PROGRAM should adverse or critical comments be filed. Under the procedures established in the May 10, 1994 Federal Register , this action will be effective on December 27, 1994, unless by November 25, 1994, adverse or critical comments are received. If the EPA receives such comments, this action will be withdrawn before the effective date by publishing a subsequent document that will withdraw the final action. All public comments received will then be addressed in a subsequent final rule based on this action serving as a proposed rule. The EPA will not institute a second comment period. Any parties interested in commenting on this action should do so at this time. If no such comments are received, the public is advised that this action will be effective on December 27, 1994. II. Analysis The State of South Dakota has met all of the requirements of section 507 by submitting a SIP revision that implements all required PROGRAM elements. The South Dakota Codified Laws (SDCL) was amended effective July 1, 1992 to include provisions (34A&hyph;1&hyph;57 through 34A&hyph;1&hyph;60, inclusive) which provide the authority to establish and fund the PROGRAM. The authority to establish and fund the Compliance Advisory Panel is found in SDCL 1&hyph;32&hyph;4.1 through 1&hyph;32&hyph;4.4, inclusive. The South Dakota Department of Environment and Natural Resources held a public hearing on November 6, 1992 to consider amending the South Dakota SIP to include a plan which commits to the development and implementation of the South Dakota PROGRAM. On November 10, 1992, the Governor of South Dakota's designee, Robert E. Roberts, Secretary of the Department of Natural Resources, submitted the South Dakota PROGRAM to the EPA. Additional information was sent by request on January 20 and March 23, 1993. The PROGRAM was initially reviewed for administrative and technical completeness and was deemed complete on April 5, 1993. The submittal was then reviewed for approveability by EPA Region VIII and EPA headquarters. One of the EPA headquarters reviewers, the Office of the Small Business and Asbestos Ombudsman, did not concur on the South Dakota PROGRAM for the following reasons: (1) The State failed to correct deficiencies noted by EPA in their review of the proposed South Dakota PROGRAM; (2) Further clarification and assurances are necessary to insure that the State will implement all the statutory requirements under section 507. The State subsequently made the necessary changes to their PROGRAM, went back through public hearing on January 12, 1994, and resubmitted the PROGRAM on April 11, 1994. The South Dakota PROGRAM then received a concurrence from all reviewers. 1. Small Business Assistance Program Section 507(a) sets forth six requirements 1 that the State must meet to have an approvable SBAP. The first requirement is to establish adequate mechanisms for developing, collecting and coordinating information concerning compliance methods and technologies for small business stationary sources, and programs to encourage lawful cooperation among such sources and other persons to further compliance with the Act. The second requirement is to establish adequate mechanisms for assisting small business stationary sources with pollution prevention and accidental release detection and prevention, including providing information concerning alternative technologies, process changes, products and methods of operation that help reduce air pollution. The State has met these requirements by committing in its SIP to ``Develop, collect, and coordinate information concerning compliance methods and technologies for small businesses ...'' and to ``Assist small businesses with pollution prevention and accidental release detection and prevention.'' The mechanisms the State has committed to use to accomplish these commitments include: ``... workshops, electronic bulletin boards, interaction with other states, ... public service announcements, mailings, workshops in the field and through the Rural Development Telecommunications Network (RDTN), one-on-one with the small businesses, and any other methods that are determined during the development and implementation of the Program.'' 1 A seventh requirement of section 507(a), establishment of an Ombudsman office, is discussed in the next section. The third requirement is to develop a compliance and technical assistance program for small business stationary sources which assists small businesses in determining applicable requirements and in receiving permits under the Act in a timely and efficient manner. The State has met this requirement by committing in its SIP to ``Provide compliance assistance to small businesses to help them determine applicable requirements and in receiving permits in a timely and efficient manner.'' The fourth and fifth requirements are to develop adequate mechanisms to assure that small business stationary sources receive notice of their rights and obligations under the Act, including mechanisms for referring such sources to qualified auditors or, at the option of the State, for providing audits of the operations of such sources to determine compliance with the Act. This must be done in such manner and form as to assure reasonably adequate time for such sources to evaluate compliance methods and any relevant or applicable proposed or final regulation or standards issued under the Act. The State has met these requirements by committing in its SIP to ``Notify small businesses of their rights under the Federal Clean Air Act and assure reasonably adequate time for such sources to evaluate compliance methods and any relevant or applicable proposed or final regulation or standard issued under the Federal Clean Air Act;'' and ``Inform small businesses of their obligations under the Federal Clean Air Act. If the state does not provide audits of the operations of such sources to determine compliance with state and Federal air pollution regulations, then the state will refer such sources to qualified auditors.'' The mechanisms the State has committed to use to accomplish these commitments include: ``... workshops, electronic bulletin boards, interaction with other states, ... public service announcements, mailings, workshops in the field and through the Rural Development Telecommunications Network (RDTN), one-on-one with the small businesses, and any other methods that are determined during the development and implementation of the Program.'' The sixth requirement is to develop procedures for consideration of requests from a small business stationary source for modification of: (A) Any work practice or technological method of compliance; or (B) the schedule of milestones for implementing such work practice or method of compliance preceding any applicable compliance date, based on the technological and financial capability of any such small business stationary source. The State has met this requirement by committing in its SIP to ``Provide procedures for considering requests from small businesses for modifications of any work practice or technological methods of compliance or the schedule of milestones for implementing these modifications. No such modification may be granted unless it is in compliance with the applicable state and Federal requirements.'' 2. Ombudsman Section 507(a)(3) requires the designation of a State office to serve as the Ombudsman for small business stationary sources. The State has met this requirement by stating in its SIP that the Office of the Small Business Ombudsman will be located in the Department of Environment and Natural Resources. 3. Compliance Advisory Panel Section 507(e) requires the State to establish a Compliance Advisory Panel (CAP) that must include two members selected by the Governor who are not owners or representatives of owners of small businesses; four members selected by the State legislature who are owners, or represent owners, of small businesses; and one member selected by the head of the agency in charge of the Air Pollution Permit Program. The State has met this requirement by committing in its SIP to appoint the members of the CAP as stated above. In addition to establishing the minimum membership of the CAP the CAA delineates four responsibilities of the Panel: (1) To render advisory opinions concerning the effectiveness of the SBAP, difficulties encountered and the degree and severity of enforcement actions; (2) to periodically report to EPA concerning the SBAP's adherence to the principles of the Paperwork Reduction Act, the Equal Access to Justice Act, and the Regulatory Flexibility Act 2 ; (3) to review and assure that information for small business stationary sources is easily understandable; and (4) to develop and disseminate the reports and advisory opinions made through the SBAP. The State has met this requirements by listing the duties of the CAP in its SIP, which are consistent with those stated above. 2 Section 507(e)(1)(B) requires the CAP to report on the compliance of the SBAP with these three Federal statutes. However, since State agencies are not required to comply with them, EPA believes that the State PROGRAM must merely require the CAP to report on whether the SBAP is adhering to the general principles of these Federal statutes. 4. Eligibility Section 507(c)(1) of the CAA defines the term ``small business stationary source'' as a stationary source that: (A) Is owned or operated by a person who employs 100 or fewer individuals; (B) Is a small business concern as defined in the Small Business Act; (C) Is not a major stationary source; (D) Does not emit 50 tons per year (tpy) or more of any regulated pollutant; and (E) Emits less than 75 tpy of all regulated pollutants. The State of South Dakota has established a mechanism for ascertaining the eligibility of a source to receive assistance under the PROGRAM, including an evaluation of a source's eligibility using the criteria in section 507(c)(1) of the CAA. This mechanism is contained in the State's SIP. The State of South Dakota has provided for public notice and comment on grants of eligibility to sources that do not meet the provisions of sections 507(c)(1)(C), (D), and (E) of the CAA but do not emit more than 100 tpy of all regulated pollutants. This provision is contained in the State's SIP. The State of South Dakota has provided for exclusion from the small business stationary source definition, after consultation with the EPA and the Small Business Administration Administrator and after providing notice and opportunity for public comment, of any category or subcategory of sources that the State determines to have sufficient technical and financial capabilities to meet the requirements of the CAA. This provision in contained in the State's SIP. III. This Action In today's action, EPA is approving the SIP revision submitted by the State of South Dakota. The State of South Dakota has submitted a SIP revision implementing each of the required PROGRAM elements required by section 507 of the CAA. The members of the South Dakota CAP have been appointed, and the Ombudsman for the South Dakota PROGRAM has been hired. EPA is therefore approving this submittal. This action has been classified as a Table 2 action by the Regional Administrator under the procedures published in the Federal Register on January 19, 1989 (54 FR 2214&hyph;2225), as revised by an October 4, 1993 memorandum from Michael H. Shapiro, Acting Assistant Administrator for Air and Radiation. A future document will inform the general public of these tables. On January 6, 1989, the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) waived Table 2 and 3 SIP revisions from the requirements of section 3 of Executive Order 12291 for 2 years. The EPA has submitted a request for a permanent waiver for Table 2 and Table 3 SIP revisions. The OMB has agreed to continue the temporary waiver until such time as it rules on EPA's request. This request continues in effect under Executive Order 12866 which superseded Executive Order 12291 on September 30, 1993. Under the Regulatory Flexibility Act, 5 U.S.C. 600 et seq. , EPA must prepare a regulatory flexibility analysis assessing the impact of any proposed or final rule on small entities. 5 U.S.C. 603 and 604. Alternatively, EPA may certify that the rule will not have a significant impact on a substantial number of small entities. Small entities include small businesses, small not-for-profit enterprises, and government entities with jurisdiction over populations of less than 50,000. By today's action, EPA is approving a State program created for the purpose of assisting small businesses in complying with existing statutory and regulatory requirements. The program being approved today does not impose any new regulatory burden on small businesses; it is a program under which small businesses may elect to take advantage of assistance provided by the State. Therefore, because the EPA's approval of this program does not impose any new regulatory requirements on small businesses, I certify that it does not have a significant economic impact on any small entities affected. List of Subjects in 40 CFR Part 52 Air pollution control, Incorporation by reference, Small business assistance program. Dated: September 14, 1994. Jack W. McGraw, Acting Regional Administrator. Part 52, chapter I, title 40 of the Code of Federal Regulations is amended as follows: PART 52_[AMENDED] 1. The authority citation for part 52 continues to read as follows: Authority: 42 U.S.C. 7401&hyph;7671q. Subpart QQ_South Dakota 2. Section 52.2170 is amended by adding paragraph (c)(15) to read as follows: §52.2170 Identification of plan. * * * * * (c) *␣*␣* (15) On November 10, 1992, the Governor of South Dakota's designee submitted a plan for the establishment and implementation of a Small Business Assistance Program to be incorporated into the South Dakota State Implementation Plan as required by section 507 of the Clean Air Act. An amendment to the plan was submitted by the Governor's designee on April 1, 1994. (i) Incorporation by reference. (A) November 10, 1992 letter from the Governor of South Dakota's designee submitting a Small Business Assistance Program plan to EPA. (B) April 1, 1994 letter from the Governor of South Dakota's designee submitting an amendment to the South Dakota Small Business Assistance Program plan to EPA. (C) The State of South Dakota amended plan for the establishment and implementation of a Small Business Assistance Program, adopted January 12, 1994 by the South Dakota Department of Environment and Natural Resources. (D) South Dakota Codified Laws 34A&hyph;1&hyph;57, effective July 1, 1992 and 34A&hyph;1&hyph;58 through 60, effective July 1, 1993, which gives the State of South Dakota the authority to establish and fund the South Dakota Small Business Assistance Program. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;26355 Filed 10&hyph;24&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;F
