FR940318-0-00125 FR940318-0-00023 6. Global Warming Potential The Agency requires data on the potential total global warming of the substitute in its particular end-use (e.g., as a refrigerant, foam blowing agent, etc.). The total global warming considers both direct and indirect impacts. Direct impacts refer to the direct contribution to global warming of using a substitute. Calculation of the global warming potential (GWP) index for a 100, 500, and 1000 year time horizon, as well as the atmospheric lifetime and infrared adsorption spectrum of the substitute used to calculate the GWP is required. The Agency is requesting that all GWPs be referenced to CO 2 using the methodology recommended by the Intergovernmental Panel for Climate Change (IPCC).(2) Indirect impacts explicitly consider the effect on global warming arising from changes in energy consumption associated with the use of a substitute (e.g., an alternative refrigerant). This latter measure can be identified as changes in energy efficiency resulting from use of the substitute relative to that of the substance being replaced. 7. Toxicity Data To assess the overall risks to human health and the environment, information is required on the acute and chronic toxicity of a substitute chemical, its impurities, and its degradation products on any organism (e.g., humans and other mammals, fish, wildlife, and plants). To characterize the risk to humans, the Agency is requesting a minimum submission of the following mammalian tests: A rangefinding study that considers the appropriate exposure pathway for the specific use (e.g. inhalation, oral, etc), and a 90-day subchronic repeated dose study in an appropriate rodent species (e.g. rats or mice). For some substitutes, a cardiotoxicity study, usually measuring cardiotoxic effects in the dog, is also required. Additional mammalian toxicity tests will be identified by EPA on a case-by-case basis depending on the particular substitute and application being evaluated. To characterize aquatic toxicity, both acute and chronic toxicity data for a variety of species are required. The Agency requires a minimum aquatic data set to be submitted as described in ``Guidelines for Deriving Numerical National Water Quality Criteria for the Protection of Aquatic Organisms and Their Uses,'' which is available through the National Technical Information Service ( # PB 85&hyph;227049). All toxicity data in the submitter's possession and any other available hazard information, including Material Safety Data Sheets (MSDS), must also be submitted. Submission of the actual toxicity studies is recommended; however, it is not necessary to submit these reports if they have been supplied to the Agency as part of other regulatory submissions. If studies are not submitted, however, the submitter must provide sufficiently clear references that the Agency can locate the studies without delay. As discussed below in section V.C.3., data concerning the objectives, methodology, results or significance of any toxicity, metabolism, translocation, or persistence test for a substitute and its degradation products cannot be held as CBI where such data are also submitted under TSCA and FIFRA to the extent that confidential treatment is prohibited under those statutes. Submitters providing information on new chemicals for joint review under the TSCA and SNAP programs may be required to supply additional toxicity data under TSCA section 5.
