FR941031-0-00028 FR941031-0-00011 40 CFR Parts 52 and 81 [IN15&hyph;4&hyph;6647; FRL&hyph;5096&hyph;1] Approval and Promulgation of Implementation Plans and Designation of Areas for Air Quality Planning Purposes; State of Indiana AGENCY: Environmental Protection Agency. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: On July 8, 1994, the United States Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA) published direct final rulemaking approving the redesignation of St. Joseph, Elkhart, Marion, and Vanderburgh Counties, Indiana to attainment of the ozone National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS) and their accompanying maintenance plans as State Implementation Plan (SIP) revisions. On the same day (July 8, 1994), a proposed rule was also published which established a 30-day public comment period noting that, if adverse comments were received regarding the direct final rule, the USEPA would withdraw the direct final rule and publish an additional final rule to address the public comments. Adverse comments were received during the public comment period and the USEPA published a withdrawal of the direct final rule on August 26, 1994. This final rule summarizes these comments and USEPA's responses and finalizes the approval of the redesignation of St. Joseph, Elkhart and Marion Counties. However, due to preliminary, non-quality industrial assured ozone data recently received from the State of Indiana for Warrick County, (which is adjacent to Vanderburgh County) indicating that a violation of the ozone standard may have occurred in 1994, USEPA is not finalizing the approval of the redesignation of Vanderburgh County at this time. The USEPA will address the Vanderburgh County redesignation request when an evaluation of these monitoring data are available. EFFECTIVE DATE: This final rule will be effective November 30, 1994. ADDRESSES: Copies of the SIP revision, public comments and USEPA's response are available for inspection at the following address: (It is recommended that you telephone Edward Doty at (312) 886&hyph;6057 before visiting the Region 5 Office.) United States Environmental Protection Agency, Region 5, Air and Radiation Division, 77 West Jackson Boulevard, Chicago, Illinois 60604. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Edward Doty, Regulation Development Section (AR&hyph;18J), Regulation Development Branch, Air and Radiation Division, United States Environmental Protection Agency, Region 5, 77 West Jackson Boulevard, Chicago, Illinois 60604, Telephone Number (312) 886&hyph;6057. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: I. Background Information The redesignation requests and maintenance plans discussed in this rule were submitted by the Indiana Department of Environmental Management (IDEM) for the following ozone nonattainment areas: South Bend/Elkhart (St. Joseph and Elkhart Counties, submitted on September 22, 1993); and Indianapolis (Marion County, submitted on November 12, 1993). On July 8, 1994, (59 FR 35044) USEPA published a direct final rule approving the redesignation requests and maintenance plans as revisions to the Indiana ozone SIP. On the same day, USEPA published a proposed rule noting that if adverse comments were received regarding the direct final rule, the USEPA would withdraw the direct final rule and publish another final rule addressing the public comments (For further information refer to 59 FR 35044 and 59 FR 36731). Adverse comments were received regarding the direct final rule and USEPA, therefore, withdrew the direct final rule on August 26, 1994, (59 FR 44040). The final rule contained in today's Federal Register addresses the comments which were received during the public comment period and announces USEPA's final action regarding the redesignation of St. Joseph, Elkhart and Marion Counties. The State of Indiana has provided the USEPA with preliminary, non-quality assured ozone data for Warrick County (which is adjacent to Vanderburgh County) indicating that a violation of the ozone standard may have occurred in 1994. During four days in 1994, June 18 through June 21, ozone standard exceedances may have been recorded at an Alcoa operated facility site (AIRS site 18&hyph;173&hyph;0002). The USEPA will defer final rulemaking on the redesignation of Vanderburgh County until an evaluation of these monitoring data are available for this period. Based on evaluation of these data, the redesignation of Vanderburgh County to attainment will have to be reconsidered. USEPA will summarize and respond to the adverse comments received regarding the Vanderburgh County redesignation in a subsequent final rulemaking action. II. Public Comments and USEPA Responses The following discussion summarizes and responds to the comments received regarding the redesignation of St. Joseph, Elkhart, and Marion Counties. Comment A commenter notes that, in reviewing Indiana's ozone redesignation request, the USEPA should consider the transport of ozone and ozone precursors into nonattainment areas currently part of the Lake Michigan Ozone Control Program (LMOP) (also referred to as the Lake Michigan Ozone Study [LMOS] area). Given the ongoing concerns about the control of transported ozone and ozone precursors as part of the attainment strategies being considered for the LMOP area, the commenter believes the Indiana ozone nonattainment areas (as well as those of Illinois, Michigan, and Wisconsin) should not be redesignated to attainment until the Lake Michigan Air Directors Consortium (LADCO) has conducted and completed an analysis of the ozone impacts of controlling transported ozone precursors. USEPA Response Although the 1991 field study conducted for LMOS produced high ozone concentrations aloft near the upwind edge of the LMOS modeling domain, implying transport of relatively high ozone concentrations into the LMOS domain, the 1991 field study did not establish the source(s) of the transported ozone. No studies have been conducted demonstrating that the Indiana nonattainment areas are the source areas responsible for the transported ozone. As there is currently no conclusive evidence that these Indiana areas are responsible for the transported ozone, USEPA does not believe that it would be appropriate to continue the nonattainment classification of these areas. USEPA further notes that these areas remain subject to obligations under sections 110(a)(2)(A) and 110(a)(2)(D) of the Clean Air Act (Act) to deal with ozone transport even after redesignation to attainment. It should be noted that the LADCO States are conducting modeling analyses which will allow an assessment of the ozone impacts of controlling emissions in attainment areas as well as in ozone nonattainment areas. In addition, the USEPA is considering analyzing the impacts of some national controls covering both attainment areas and nonattainment areas through the use of the Regional Oxidant Model, which can cover a larger domain than the Urban Airshed Model used in LMOS and LMOP. The results of these modeling analyses may lead to new emission control requirements for attainment areas. Comment A commenter notes that the State of Indiana has not fully predicted the impact of future transportation projects and their effects on Vehicle Miles Travelled (VMT) and mobile source emissions growth. Specifically, the State of Indiana is planning to build a new four-lane highway between Marion and Vanderburgh Counties. In addition, the City of Indianapolis has recently proposed changes to its public transportation system, including the elimination of routes. Conformity analyses have not been performed for either of these proposals. The commenter argues that the September 4, 1992 redesignation guidance from USEPA's Director of the Air Quality Management Division, Office of Air Quality Planning and Standards, requires that the State prove that its State Implementation Plan (SIP) provisions are consistent with the Act's section 176(c)(4) conformity requirements.
