FR940810-0-00259 FR940810-0-00021 a. ``Quantitative Fit Test'' means the measurement of the effectiveness of a respirator seal in excluding the ambient atmosphere. The test is performed by dividing the measured concentration of challenge agent in a test chamber by the measured concentration of the challenge agent inside the respirator facepiece when the normal air purifying element has been replaced by an essentially perfect purifying element. b. ``Challenge Agent'' means the air contaminant introduced into a test chamber so that its concentration inside and outside the respirator may be compared. c. ``Test Subject'' means the person wearing the respirator for quantitative fit testing. d. ``Normal Standing Position'' means standing erect and straight with arms down along the sides and looking straight ahead. e. ``Fit Factor'' means the ratio of challenge agent concentration outside with respect to the inside of a respirator inlet covering (facepiece or enclosure). 3. Apparatus a. Instrumentation. Corn oil, sodium chloride or other appropriate aerosol generation, dilution, and measurement systems shall be used for quantitative fit test. b. Test chamber. The test chamber shall be large enough to permit all test subjects to freely perform all required exercises without distributing the challenge agent concentration or the measurement apparatus. The test chamber shall be equipped and constructed so that the challenge agent is effectively isolated from the ambient air yet uniform in concentration throughout the chamber. c. When testing air-purifying respirators, the normal filter or cartridge element shall be replaced with a high-efficiency particular filter supplied by the same manufacturer. d. The sampling instrument shall be selected so that a strip chart record may be made of the test showing the rise and fall of challenge agent concentration with each inspiration and expiration at fit factors of at least 2,000. e. The combination of substitute air-purifying elements (if any), challenge agent, and challenge agent concentration in the test chamber shall be such that the test subject is not exposed in excess of PEL to the challenge agent at any time during the testing process. f. The sampling port on the test specimen respirator shall be placed and constructed so that there is no detectable leak around the port, a free air flow is allowed into the sampling line at all times and so there is no interference with the fit or performance of the respirator. g. The test chamber and test set-up shall permit the person administering the test to observe one test subject inside the chamber during the test. h. The equipment generating the challenge atmosphere shall maintain the concentration of challenge agent constant within a 10 percent variation for the duration of the test. i. The time lag (interval between an event and its being recorded on the strip chart) of the instrumentation may not exceed 2 seconds. j. The tubing for the test chamber atmosphere and for the respirator sampling port shall be the same diameter, length and material. It shall be kept as short as possible. The smallest diameter tubing recommended by the manufacturer shall be used. k. The exhaust flow from the test chamber shall pass through a high-efficiency filter before release to the room. l. When sodium chloride aerosol is used, the relative humidity inside the test chamber shall not exceed 50 percent. 4. Procedural Requirements a. The fitting of half-mask respirators should be started with those having multiple sizes and a variety of interchangeable cartridges and canisters such as the MSA Comfo II-M, Norton M, Survivair M, A&hyph;O M, or Scott-M. Use either of the tests outlined below to assure that the facepiece is properly adjusted. (1) Positive pressure test. With the exhaust port(s) blocked, the negative pressure of slight inhalation should remain constant for several seconds. (2) Negative pressure test. With the intake port(s) blocked, the negative pressure slight inhalation should remain constant for several seconds. b. After a facepiece is adjusted, the test subject shall wear the facepiece for at least 5 minutes before conducting a qualitative test by using either of the methods described below and using the exercise regime described in 5.a., b., c., d. and e. (1) Isoamyl acetate test. When using organic vapor cartridges, the test subject who can smell the odor should be unable to detect the odor of isoamyl acetate squirted into the air near the most vulnerable portions of the facepiece seal. In a location which is separated from the test area, the test subject shall be instructed to close her/his eyes during the test period. A combination cartridge or canister with organic vapor and high-efficiency filters shall be used when available for the particular mask being tested. The test subject shall be given an opportunity to smell the odor of isoamyl acetate before the test is conducted. (2) Irritant fume test. When using high-efficiency filters, the test subject should be unable to detect the odor of irritant fume (stannic chloride or titanium tetrachloride ventilation smoke tubes) squirted into the air near the most vulnerable portions of the facepiece seal. The test subject shall be instructed to close her/his eyes during the test period. c. The test subject may enter the quantitative testing chamber only if she or he has obtained a satisfactory fit as stated in 4.b. of this Appendix.
