FR940920-1-00120 FR940920-1-00012 (2) The preparation of arson unit management guides; and (3) The development and dissemination of new public education materials relating to the arson problem; proposals should address all three subactivities in support of the management of an arson squad. (e) To combat civil unrest as a cause of arson, and to advance research at the State and local levels on the prevention and control of arson linked to urban disorders. (f) To combat juvenile arson, such as juvenile fire setter counseling programs and similar intervention programs, and to advance research at the State and local levels on the prevention of juvenile arson. (g) To combat drug-related arson, and to advance research at the State and local levels on the causes and prevention of drug-related arson. (h) To combat domestic violence as a cause of arson, and to advance research at the State and local levels on the prevention of arson arising from domestic violence. (i) To combat arson in rural areas and to improve the capability of firefighters to identify and prevent arson initiated fires in rural areas and public forests. (j) To improve the capability of firefighters to identify and combat arson through expanded training programs, including: (1) Training courses at the State fire academies; and (2) Innovative courses at the (National Fire) Academy and made available to volunteer firefighters through regional delivery methods, including teleconferencing and satellite delivered television programs. (k) Proposals addressing goals in paragraphs (a), (i), and (j) of this section would be encouraged to rely, at least in part on training course materials and offerings currently available through the National Fire Academy (NFA). Proposals should specifically identify which training components would be utilized and how they would be delivered. In the event Course content, other than that available from the NFA is proposed, the applicant will include copies of the proposed training materials with the proposal. (l) In addition, applicants should make specific reference in their proposal(s) as to those efforts being made to provide improved and more widely available arson training courses which demonstrate particular emphasis on the needs of volunteer firefighters. ยง152.5 State qualification criteria. Each State or consortium of States will demonstrate by appropriate means and provide such assurances as are deemed adequate by the Administrator that the State, or consortium of States: (a) Will obtain at least 25 percent of the cost(s) funded by the grant, in cash or in kind, from non-Federal sources. (1) State's contribution. Applicants will identify the source and amount of their respective contribution (in cash or in kind) in the work plan and budget detail sections of the application. (2) Cash contributions will be sourced or certified by responsible authority to be derived entirely from non-Federal sources. (3) In kind contributions will be specifically detailed and clearly demonstrate the type, nature, value and quantity of the contribution offered to satisfy this requirement. The applicant(s) may offer current staff in support of the contribution requirement, in so far as the offering would not effect the restriction against decreasing the prior levels of spending detailed in paragraph (b) of this section. (4) In kind contributions will also be sourced and certified to be derived from non-Federal sources. (b) Will not as a result of receiving the grant decrease the prior level of spending of funds of the State or consortium from non-federal sources for arson research, prevention, and control programs. The applicant(s) will provide a concise overview of the level of funding dedicated to these areas for each of the two previous fiscal years. This information will be included in the grant file and is subject to post audit reviews. The applicant's responsible official will provide appropriate certification that the recipient is cognizant of this condition of award, and that no diminution of funding is to result in such anti-arson efforts in the event of a grant award. Violation of this grant award condition may subject the recipient to termination of the grant, and forfeiture of unused portions of grant funds, and other applicable administrative or criminal sanctions. (c) Will use no more than 10 percent of the funds provided under the grant for administrative costs of the programs. Actual administrative cost incurred, not to exceed 10 percent for the funds provided, may be funded through the grant. It is recognized that the administrative costs may exceed the allocation limit, in such cases the additional expense will be born by the recipient. Excess administrative costs will not be considered part of the recipients required ``contribution'' as noted in paragraph (a) of this section; and (d) Is making efforts to ensure that all local jurisdictions will provide arson data to the National Fire Incident Reporting System (NFIRS) or the Uniform Crime Reporting (UCR) program. (1) The State, or consortia of States, will provide, as part of the application process, such information as will describe its current efforts to ensure that all local jurisdictions will provide data to NFIRS or UCR. (2) This description should include the current level of local jurisdiction participation in each of the respective data collection programs. It should detail the State's reporting criteria, and data collection requirements, and statutory reporting mandates, if applicable. It should specifically identify the constructive efforts (both incentives and penalties to local jurisdiction's participation) underway to achieve complete reporting, and identify the actions, if any, to be taken under the proposed grant to achieve the participation target; and (e) Has a policy to promote actively the training of its firefighters in cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR). The applicant(s) may demonstrate their fulfillment of this requirement by providing a true copy of the policy with the proposal, or by such other means as would reasonably attest to the applicant's active promotion of CPR training for all firefighters. ยง152.6 Grant application procedures. (a) Applicants, both singularly and in consortia, must format their proposals so as to assure the grant goal(s) identified in ยง152.4 are clearly addressed and that the work plan descriptions of the level of effort, program activity, and program budgets are specific to each of the selected target goals.
