FR940318-0-00137 FR940318-0-00023 As provided in section 612(d), any petition must ``include a showing by the petitioner that there are data on the substance adequate to support the petition.'' Petitioners may provide citations to scientific literature, where appropriate. However, submitters are advised that furnishing copies of supporting articles, reports, or letters will expedite the review process. If the Agency receives a petition with insufficient data, EPA will not commence review until the petitioner submits the missing information to the best of the petitioner's ability. EPA will inform the petitioner when the petition is complete for purposes of initiating the 90-day review period. To the extent the petitioner does not have the required information, EPA may also seek data from sources other than the petitioner, including manufacturers or users of products that contain the substitute. In such cases, section 612(d) explicitly provides that ``the Administrator shall use any authority available to the Administrator, under any law administered by the Administrator, to acquire such information.'' These authorities include section 114 of the CAA as well as information collection provisions of other environmental statutes. Where EPA cannot obtain sufficient data within the statutory 90-day review period, the Agency may deny the petition for lack of adequate technical support. D. Criteria for Evaluating Petitions In evaluating petitions, the Agency will follow the same criteria as for review of the SNAP Information Notice which notifies EPA of the intent to introduce a substitute into interstate commerce. This will ensure that both petitions and notifications are judged by the same standards. E. Petition Review Process 1. Petition Submittal This final rule describes a generic petition process. Petitions should be sent to the docket number listed in the beginning of this final rule as well as to the SNAP Coordinator. 2. Petition Reviews When the Agency receives a petition, it will log the petition into the SNAP tracking system. If the petition concerns a substitute previously either found acceptable or unacceptable under the SNAP program, the Agency will as a courtesy contact the initial submitter of that substitute. The Agency will grant or deny the petition within 90 days of receiving a complete application. If the Agency grants a petition to add a substitute to the list of unacceptable substitutes or to remove a substitute from either list, the decision will be made through notice and comment rulemaking. In such cases, the statute requires EPA to propose, take comment on, complete final action, and publish the revised lists within six months of the grant of the petition. Otherwise, responses to petitions, including explanations of petition denials, will be included in the next 3-month Federal Register notice updating the SNAP determinations. Regardless of the final determination, the Agency will inform petitioners within 90 days whether their request has been granted or denied. IX. Listing of Substitutes A. Overview This section presents EPA's listing decisions for class I substitutes in the following industrial sectors: Refrigeration and air conditioning, foam blowing, solvents cleaning, fire suppression and explosion protection, sterilants, aerosols, tobacco expansion and adhesives, coatings and inks. Parts D through K below present a detailed discussion of the substitute listing determinations for each of the major use sectors. Tables that summarize listing decisions in this section are included in appendix B. Listings of substitutes within the pesticides sector will be added in future notices, as information on these substitutes becomes available to the Agency. This final rule focuses on substitutes for class I substances, given the accelerated production phaseout schedule for class I substances. One of the goals of SNAP is to encourage transition away from class I substances as rapidly as possible. SNAP will begin analyzing alternatives to class II substances in the near future. Results of these analyses will appear in quarterly updates to the SNAP lists, which will be published in the Federal Register as described in Sections III.C.4. and VII.A.3.g. of this final rule. To develop the lists of unacceptable and acceptable substitutes, EPA conducted screens of health and environmental risks posed by various substitutes for class I compounds in each use sector. These screens are presented in individual background documents entitled ``Risk Screen on the Use of Substitutes for Class I Ozone-Depleting Substances'' for each use sector. These background documents are available for review in the public docket supporting this rulemaking. Whenever the initial risk screen indicated a potential risk, the substitute was evaluated further to ascertain whether the potential risk was accurately estimated and if management controls could reduce any risk to acceptable levels. Based on these analyses, EPA classified as unacceptable only uses of substitutes that pose significantly higher human health and environmental risks than those risks that would accrue through either continued use of the class I substances themselves or through use of other available substitutes.
