FR940505-1-00061 FR940505-1-00012 It is not necessary for EPA to determine to what extent at the local level the State or certain Indian Tribes would have authority over specific geographic areas within the scope of the FIPs. The State has failed to make required SIP submittals to protect the NAAQS and any affected Tribes lack authority to make such submittals at this time. In these circumstances the CAA empowers EPA to protect air quality throughout the affected areas. Id. at 553 (``the underground drinking water provisions of the SDWA apply throughout the country, border to border, ocean to ocean''). 2. Common Elements a. Mobile source regulations. The mobile source control measures which are discussed in section III.D. of this NPRM range in scope from national application to restricted application in one or more of the three FIP areas depending on the category. Technology improvements are generally required in phases, with new national emission standards applicable in the early years, and California, or FIP area requirements scheduled for implementation later. In some cases, the mobile source measures are applied only locally because they are adopted to fill a lack in a particular area's plan, such as enhanced I/M or the employee commute options program. Local strategies are also proposed to deal with the emissions from transportation and military facilities that contain more than one type of mobile emission source. Following is a brief classification of the measures according to the breadth of their application: (1) Nationwide. New emission standards have recently been proposed or are shortly scheduled for proposal for several mobile source emission categories. Both on-highway and off-road heavy duty engines will meet tighter NO X standards, as will locomotives. Lawn and garden, recreational marine, and other small nonroad equipment are the subject of new exhaust and evaporative hydrocarbon standards. (2) Statewide. In California, it is also possible to adopt standards more stringent than those applied at the national level, if it is necessary to do so for attainment purposes. The market for vehicles and equipment in California is large enough to encourage manufacturers to supply a full range of product in the state, even though it may be different than similar product in the rest of the country. Today's NPRM proposes special standards for medium duty vehicles, heavy duty highway engines, and onroad and off-road motorcycles sold and used in California and gives notice that such standards may become necessary for lawn and garden equipment and other small engines. (3) FIP areas. In the nonroad heavy duty engine category, the FIP proposal contains special NO X and evaporative HC requirements for engines used in the FIP areas. The standards represent a significant challenge for heavy duty engine manufacturers and are not considered to be necessary for attainment in other areas of the United States. Engines used in highway applications are regulated in the FIP at the statewide level, but the approach to the special NO X and evaporative HC standards for the nonroad engines will involve an engine registration and sticker enforcement system. For that reason, the standards are applied to engines actually used in each individual FIP area, and not to all engines sold in California. In several categories, the FIP proposes emission bubbles to allow facilities or entities with many mobile sources as much flexibility as possible to find reductions across different mobile emission sources. These bubbles are proposed for commercial airlines, marine vessels, railroads (South Coast only), and military installations in the FIP areas. In some cases, fees are proposed to encourage the purchase and use of the cleanest engines, to encourage activity reductions, or to promote the use of lower emitting operational procedures. These fees would apply to heavy-duty nonroad fleets, recreational marine engines, commercial and general aviation, and ships in the FIP areas only. Finally, the FIP proposes two light duty vehicle measures in only the FIP areas of California, namely motor vehicle inspection and maintenance (I/M), and parking cash out (a transportation control measure). b. Stationary and area source regulations. As discussed in section III.C of this NPRM, the proposed stationary source control package includes five general strategies: •Regulations for specific sources; •Regulations for specific source categories in the FIP areas; •Regulations imposed statewide; •Cap regulations; and •New technology measures for the South Coast pursuant to section 182(e)(5) of the Act. Regulations for specific sources are, by definition, particular to individual sources and thus not common to the three FIP areas. In fact, all the source-specific regulations proposed in this NPRM apply only in the Sacramento area. Similarly, new technology measures proposed for the South Coast apply only in the South Coast as specified in section 182(e)(5) of the Act. Some or all regulations from the other three categories, however, are proposed for implementation in all three FIP areas. These are summarized briefly below. (1) Regulations for specific source categories. Sections III.C.3.b&hyph;p of this NPRM describe eighteen rules proposed for specific source categories in one or more FIP areas. Categories were selected for regulation generally because a State or local agency had already published a regulation that could be adapted for implementation in the FIP, or a previously unregulated category contributed substantial VOC or NO X emissions. Because the FIP areas have different emission inventories and local rules, the projected impact of new federal rules varies from area to area. Therefore, EPA is proposing to implement these FIP rules only in the areas where they may have a significant impact. As a result, only a few of the rules are common to all three FIP areas. (2) Regulations imposed statewide. As discussed in section III.C.4, EPA is proposing several stationary source rules for implementation statewide: Architectural coating, pesticides, aerosol paints and other consumer products. EPA believes that statewide implementation of these rules is necessary to assure compliance in the FIP areas. (3) Cap regulations. As discussed in section III.C.5, EPA is proposing cap regulations for both VOC and NO X in this NPRM. These rules cap emissions at 1989&hyph;1990 levels and require sources to reduce emissions below this level by a fixed annual percent, beginning in the year 2001. 25 The VOC regulations are common to all three areas. The NO X cap rules apply only to Ventura, since stationary sources contribute only a small part of the NO X inventory in Sacramento and NO X sources in the South Coast are now controlled under the recently adopted SCAQMD NO X RECLAIM rules. 25 For Sacramento's alternative 1999 attainment demonstration, the cap program will require full reductions by 1990. 3. Sacramento Ozone a. Reduction requirements for 1999 and 2005. Anthropogenic emissions in the Sacramento area in 1990 totaled approximately 236 tons per day of VOC and 185 tons per day of NO X . There are many existing State and local regulatory requirements in the Sacramento area. These requirements include numerous State and local stationary source regulations and the existing CARB standards on new engines and equipment which will deliver increasing reductions each year as a result of replacement of old engines and equipment with newer cleaner engines and equipment. Sections II.B.2., II.B.5., and III.H. of today's NPRM discuss the adopted CARB and local districts' rules and EPA's assignment of credit to the rules as part of the FIP/SIP attainment demonstration. Unfortunately, projected emissions reductions from the State and local requirements must compete with projected growth in the area's population, automobile traffic and industrial activity.
