FR940616-0-00032 FR940616-0-00008 FRA also makes a clarification with respect to walkways in section 214.103(c). Many railroad bridges now include vehicular roadways replacing second or multiple railroad tracks that have been removed. For the purposes of this rule, FRA views these roadways as walkways. These roadways are at least as stable as the typical walkway built beside track on a railroad bridge, and footing and movement on these roadways is as secure as on a walkway or on the track portion of the railroad bridge. Because of these safety factors, FRA believes that employees working or moving at least six feet from the edge of such a roadway are not at risk of falling over the side of the bridge. Therefore, where employees are six or more feet from the edge of a vehicle roadway, fall arrest systems, safety nets, railings and handrails are not required. Section 214.103(c)(2) now permits work without fall protection on roadway bridges so long as employees remain at least six feet from the edge of the roadway. Also, FRA is clarifying the rule with respect to personal protective equipment. FRA has received questions from the regulated community concerning the interplay of sections 214.111 and 214.115. To alleviate any confusion, section 214.111 has been clarified by stating that railroads and their contractors must require the use of protective footwear, but need not necessarily furnish that equipment. As written, section 214.115 of the final rule clearly states that employers must require workers to wear foot protection, but does not contain the requirement present in the other personal protective equipment sections stating the ``employees shall be provided'' such equipment. Section 214.111, which sets out personal protection standards generally, appears to contradict section 214.115 by stating that the railroads and contractors ``must provide and require the use of'' the equipment required by Subpart B of the rule, including footwear. That contradiction is now removed. The practical difference involved here, as in other industries, is that footwear is a personal item that the employer cannot reasonably be required to retain in stock, while other safety items are easily supplied with a store of backup units should they be required. Therefore, section 214.111 is amended to exclude protective footwear from the group of personal protective devices that the railroads and their contractors must provide. This change reflects the status of protective footwear in the railroad, construction, and other industries where the equipment is needed, reiterates FRA's original intent, and does not in any way interfere with collective bargaining agreements that address who ultimately bears the expense for personal protective equipment. Finally, FRA is correcting sections 214.113, 214.115, and 214.117 by replacing outdated ANSI references with the most recent standards for head, foot, and eye and face protection. As noted by commenters to the NPRM, these new standards were generally used in industry when the NPRM and final rule were published, but FRA erroneously printed outdated standards. Regulatory Impact E.O. 12866 and DOT Regulatory Policies and Procedures This correction of the final rule has been evaluated in accordance with existing policies and procedures and is not considered significant under Executive Order 12866 or under DOT policies and procedures. The minor technical changes made in this amendment will not increase the costs or alter the benefits associated with this regulation to any measurable degree. Regulatory Flexibility Act The Regulatory Flexibility Act of 1980 (5 U.S.C. 601 et seq. ) requires a review of rules to assess their impact on small entities. This amendment to the final rule removes a requirement originally placed on railroads and their contractors and clarifies an existing requirement. The changes will have no new direct or indirect economic impact on small units of government, businesses, or other organizations. Therefore, it is certified that this rule will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities under the provisions of the Regulatory Flexibility Act. Paperwork Reduction Act There are no paperwork requirements associated with this amendment of the final rule. Environmental Impact FRA has evaluated this amendment in accordance with its procedures for ensuring full consideration of the environmental impact of FRA actions, as required by the National Environmental Policy Act (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq. ), other environmental statutes, Executive Orders, and DOT Order 5610.1c. The amendment meets criteria establishing this as a nonmajor action for environmental purposes.
