FR940406-0-00096 FR940406-0-00011 3. Heavy Duty Vehicles 4. Applicability to California Vehicles 5. Fuels Covered B. Implementation 1. Leadtime, Effective Model Year and Phase-in Requirements 2. Small Volume Manufacturers 3. Inclusion of Inherently Low Refueling Emission Vehicles C. Refueling Emission Test Procedures and Standard 1. Refueling Emissions Test 2. Integrated System Preconditioning 3. Non-Integrated System Preconditioning 4. Seal Test 5. Cap Removal Emissions 6. Spitback Test 7. Nozzle Geometry Standards 8. Level of the Standard D. Safety of ORVR Systems 1. Background 2. Test Procedure/Safety 3. DOT Consultation 4. EPA Assessment 5. Safety Reviews 6. Alternative Control Technologies E. Certification Provisions 1. General 2. Fees 3. Fuel Economy F. Onboard Diagnostics Requirements G. Enforcement and In-Use Performance 1. Liability Periods 2. Selective Enforcement Audit Testing 3. Nonconformance Penalties (NCPs) 4. In-Use Performance III. Public Participation IV. Regulatory Impact Analysis A. Environmental Impact B. Costs of Control C. Cost Effectiveness D. Other Benefits E. Benefit-Cost Ratio V. Consultation with DOT VI. Judicial Review VII. Statutory Authority VIII. Executive Order 12866 IX. Compliance With the Regulatory Flexibility Act X. Information Collection Requirements List of Key Acronyms AA␣Attainment Area AAMA␣American Automobile Manufacturers Association AIAM Association of International Automobile Manufacturers CAA␣Clean Air Act CAAA␣CAA Amendments DoT␣Department of Transportation FMVSS␣Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards GVWR␣Gross Vehicle Weight Rating HDV␣Heavy-Duty Vehicle LDV␣Light-Duty Vehicle LDT␣Light-Duty Truck LLDT␣Light LDT HLDT␣Heavy LDT NAA␣Non-Attainment Area NCP␣Nonconformance Penalty NHTSA␣National Highway Traffic Safety Administration NPV␣Net Present Value ORVR␣Onboard Refueling Vapor Recovery RIA␣Regulatory Impact Analysis RPE␣Retail Price Equivalent RVP␣Reid Vapor Pressure VOC␣Volatile Organic Compounds I. Background On August 19, 1987, EPA published in the Federal Register a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (NPRM) for the control of vehicle refueling emissions (52 FR 31162). The proposal described the need for these controls as well as the conclusions of an EPA study of gasoline marketing emissions comparing the relative merits of the two available control technologies: Systems incorporated into the gasoline dispensing pump system design (known as Stage II vapor recovery) and systems incorporated into the design of the vehicle (known as onboard refueling vapor recovery (ORVR)) (see Public Docket A&hyph;84&hyph;07). Based on this study, along with EPA's analysis and response to public comments published in documents separate from the NPRM (Evaluation of Air Pollution Regulatory Strategies for Gasoline Marketing Industry_Response to Public Comments (II&hyph;A&hyph;20), Draft Regulatory Impact Analysis: Proposed Refueling Emission Regulations for Gasoline-Fueled Motor Vehicles, Vols. I and II) (II&hyph;A&hyph;18, 19), and technical support documents related to ORVR test procedure (II&hyph;A&hyph;08) and ORVR vehicle safety (II&hyph;A&hyph;17), EPA proposed to require refueling emission control through ORVR systems. The above mentioned studies are available in public docket A&hyph;87&hyph;11. All future references of this nature can be found at the cited location in public docket A&hyph;87&hyph;11 unless otherwise indicated. Subsequent to the publication of the NPRM, EPA held a public hearing in October 1987, followed by an extensive public comment period which closed in February 1988. Comments were analyzed by EPA and key issues were assessed. As a result, EPA determined that the final rulemaking should be delayed pending the resolution of safety concerns expressed by both the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) (part of the Department of Transportation (DoT)) and a number of the commenters. The final rule was further delayed when it became evident that Congress would address issues concerning refueling controls in the 1990 Clean Air Act Amendments (CAAA). The 1990 Amendments revised section 202(a)(6) of the CAA to read as follows: Within 1 year after the date of the enactment of the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990, the Administrator shall, after consultation with the Secretary of Transportation regarding the safety of vehicle-based (`onboard') systems for the control of vehicle refueling emissions, promulgate standards under this section requiring that new light-duty vehicles manufactured beginning in the fourth model year after the model year in which the standards are promulgated and thereafter shall be equipped with such systems. Subsequent to the enactment of the CAAA, EPA continued its consultation with DOT/NHTSA related to the potential safety concerns regarding the implementation of vehicle-based refueling emission controls. In July 1991, NHTSA completed an updated safety study entitled ``An Assessment of the Safety on Onboard Refueling Vapor Recovery Systems''. On September 3, 1991, EPA published an additional Federal Register notice (56 FR 43682) releasing the NHTSA report for public review and seeking further comment on key issues involved with ORVR controls, most notably on circumstances that had changed since the publication of the NPRM. The notice also described and sought comment on a document entitled ``Summary of Changed Circumstances'', which discussed statutory changes, technology development, and potential modifications to the refueling test procedure.
