FR941110-0-00084 FR941110-0-00016 Response: As previously stated in the preamble to the proposed rule, HCFA has implemented an exhaustive surveyor training and testing program that will ensure that surveyors are adequately trained and competent at performing surveys. This requirement is in §488.314. Comment: Some commenters advocate the review of every statement of deficiencies by survey agency supervisory personnel for compliance with the requirements before the statement is sent to the provider. Response: As stated in the preamble of the proposed rule, surveyors will, based upon their collective information, match the data to the legal standards the facilities are obligated to meet in order to determine if deficiencies exist. Most State survey agencies already employ some type of supervisory review for all statements of deficiencies prior to provider notification. However, we will not require a 100 percent supervisory review in all State survey agencies. Comment: A few commenters suggested that a procedure for maintaining and monitoring records of individual surveyor's proficiency should be initiated and these records should be considered in the preparation of deficiency reports for facilities. Response: We are not making changes suggested by this commenter because there is no statutory basis for using the records of individual surveyor's proficiency in the preparation of deficiency reports. Compliance is something achieved or not achieved by the facility; therefore, individual surveyor proficiency records do not obviate the obligation of each facility to abide by Federal regulations. All decisions regarding the preparation of deficiency reports are made as a team, rather than by individual members. In fact, we require team decision making and provide comprehensive training on the regulations and documentation techniques in order to enhance consistency. Comment: One commenter claimed the section of the proposed regulation regarding consistency violates the Congressional mandate to establish new programs to improve consistency by stating ``*␣*␣* the collective exercise of surveyor judgements, which has always been the vehicle for the identification of deficiencies, will remain unchanged.'' (57 FR 39290) Response: We do not agree with this comment. The above passage refers to the method by which the survey team collects the data for the identification of deficiencies. Following the above passage, as stated in the preamble of the proposed rule, this ``collective exercise'' is described as how ``*␣*␣* surveyors will gather information based upon direct observations, record review, and interviews with residents, staff, and family members'' (emphasis added). (57 FR 39290) Through training, surveyors are instructed on this method of information gathering which assists them in identifying situations that are indicative of a facility's compliance with the regulations. Additionally, the Congressional mandate refers to the `` establishment of new programs, studies and analyses'' (emphasis added), not to the method in which the information is gathered. Comment: A few commenters stressed the importance of consistency being sought in the application of enforcement remedies as well as the survey procedures. Response: We agree with the commenters. The final regulation requires that State survey agencies conduct programs designed to enhance consistency in the application of enforcement remedies as well as in survey results. Comment: A few commenters questioned the inclusion of the application of remedies as part of the evaluation of survey consistency. They assume it is not the surveyors who would be responsible for the selection and implementation of remedies.
