FR941028-2-00201 FR941028-2-00109 1. Duct systems using UVGI are not recommended as a substitute for HEPA filters if air from isolation rooms must be recirculated to other areas of a facility. 2. UVGI alone is not recommended as a substitute for HEPA filtration or local exhaust of air to the outside from booths, tents, or hoods used for cough-inducing procedures. 3. UVGI is not a substitute for negative pressure. The use of UV lamps and HEPA filtration in a single unit would not be expected to have any infection-control benefits not provided by use of the HEPA filter alone. The effectiveness of UVGI in killing airborne tubercle bacilli depends on the intensity of UVGI, the duration of contact the organism has with the irradiation, and the relative humidity ( 66,108,111 ). Humidity can have an adverse effect on UVGI effectiveness at levels >70% relative humidity for S. marcescens ( 135 ). The interaction of these factors has not been fully defined, however, making precise recommendations for individual UVGI installations difficult to develop. Old lamps or dust-covered UV lamps are less effective; therefore, regular maintenance of UVGI systems is crucial. C. Safety Issues Short-term overexposure to UV radiation can cause erythema and keratoconjunctivitis ( 136,137 ). Broad-spectrum UV radiation has been associated with increased risk for squamous and basal cell carcinomas of the skin (138). UV&hyph;C was recently classified by the International Agency for Research on Cancer as ``probably carcinogenic to humans (Group 2A)'' ( 138 ). This classification is based on studies suggesting that UV&hyph;C radiation can induce skin cancers in animals; DNA damage, chromosomal aberrations and sister chromatid exchange and transformation in human cells in vitro; and DNA damage in mammalian skin cells in vivo. In the animal studies, a contribution of UV&hyph;B to the tumor effects could not be excluded, but the effects were greater than expected for UV&hyph;B alone ( 138 ). Although some recent studies have demonstrated that UV radiation can activate HIV gene promoters (i.e., the genes in HIV that prompt replication of the virus) in laboratory samples of human cells ( 139&hyph;144 ), the implications of these in vitro findings for humans are unknown. In 1972, the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) published a recommended exposure limit (REL) for occupational exposure to UV radiation ( 136 ). The REL is intended to protect workers from the acute effects of UV exposure (e.g., erythema and photokeratoconjunctivitis). However, photosensitive persons and those exposed concomitantly to photoactive chemicals may not be protected by the recommended standard. If proper procedures are not followed, HCWs performing maintenance on such fixtures are at risk for exposure to UV radiation. Because UV fixtures used for upper-room air irradiation are present in rooms, rather than hidden in ducts, safety may be much more difficult to achieve and maintain. Fixtures must be designed and installed to ensure that UV exposure to persons in the room (including HCWs and inpatients) are below current safe exposure levels. Recent health hazard evaluations conducted by CDC have noted problems with overexposure of HCWs to UVGI and with inadequate maintenance, training, labelling, and use of personal protective equipment ( 145&hyph;147 ). The current number of persons who are properly trained in UVGI system design and installation is limited. CDC strongly recommends that a competent UVGI system designer be consulted to address safety considerations before such a system is procured and installed. Experts who might be consulted include industrial hygienists, engineers, and health physicists. Principles for the safe installation of UV lamp fixtures have been developed and can be used as guidelines ( 148,149 ). If UV lamps are being used in a facility, the general TB education of HCWs should include: 1. The basic principles of UVGI systems (i.e., how they work and what their limitations are). 2. The potential hazardous effects of UVGI if overexposure occurs. 3. The potential for photosensitivity associated with certain medical conditions or use of some medications. 4. The importance of general maintenance procedures for UVGI fixtures. Exposure to UV intensities above the REL should be avoided. Lightweight clothing made of tightly woven fabric and UV-absorbing sunscreens with solar-protection factors (SPFs) "15 may help protect photosensitive persons. HCWs should be advised that any eye or skin irritation that develops after UV exposure should be examined by occupational health staff. D. Exposure Criteria for UV Radiation The NIOSH REL for UV radiation is wavelength dependent because different wavelengths of UV radiation have different adverse effects on the skin and eyes ( 136 ). Relative spectral effectiveness (S ) is used to compare various UV sources with a source producing UV radiation at 270 nm, the wavelength of maximum ocular sensitivity. For example, the S at 254 nm is 0.5; therefore, twice as much energy is required at 254 nm to produce an identical biologic effect at 270 nm ( 136 ). Thus, at 254 nm, the NIOSH REL is 0.006 joules per square centimeter (J/cm2); and at 270 nm, it is 0.003 J/cm2.
