FR941219-2-00128 FR941219-2-00068 (d) The term ``Fund or Funds'' means any diversified open-end investment company or companies registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940 for which the Bank serves as investment adviser, and may also provide custodial or other services as approved by such Funds; (e) The term, ``net asset value'' means the amount for purposes of pricing all purchases and sales calculated by dividing the value of all securities, determined by a method as set forth in a Fund's prospectus and statement of additional information, and other assets belonging to each of the portfolios in such Fund, less the liabilities charged to each portfolio, by the number of outstanding shares. (f) The term, ``relative,'' means a ``relative'' as that term is defined in section 3(15) of the Act (or a ``member of the family'' as that term is defined in section 4975(e)(6) of the Code), or a brother, a sister, or a spouse of a brother or a sister. (g) The term, ``Second Fiduciary,'' means a fiduciary of a plan who is independent of and unrelated to the Bank. For purposes of this exemption, the Second Fiduciary will not be deemed to be independent of and unrelated to the Bank if: (1) Such Second Fiduciary directly or indirectly controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with the Bank; (2) Such Second Fiduciary, or any officer, director, partner, employee, or relative of such Second Fiduciary is an officer, director, partner, or employee of the Bank (or is a relative of such persons); (3) Such Second Fiduciary directly or indirectly receives any compensation or other consideration for his or her own personal account in connection with any transaction described in this exemption. If an officer, director, partner, or employee of the Bank (or a relative of such persons), is a director of such Second Fiduciary, and if he or she abstains from participation in (i) the choice of the Plan's investment manager/advisor, (ii) the approval of any purchase or sale by the Plan of shares of the Funds, and (iii) the approval of any change of fees charged to or paid by the Plan, in connection with any of the transactions described in sections I and II above, then paragraph (g)(2) of section III above, shall not apply. (h) The term, ``Secondary Service,'' means a service, other than an investment management, investment advisory, or similar service, which is provided by the Bank to the Funds, including but not limited to custodial, accounting, brokerage, administrative, or any other service. (i) The term, ``Termination Form,'' means the form supplied to the Second Fiduciary, at the times specified in paragraphs (k), (l), and (n) of section II above, which expressly provides an election to the Second Fiduciary to terminate on behalf of the Plans the authorization, described in paragraph (h) of section II. Such Termination Form may be used at will by the Second Fiduciary to terminate such authorization without penalty to the Plans and to notify the Bank in writing to effect such termination by selling the shares of the Fund held by the Plans requesting termination within one business day following receipt by the Bank, either by mail, hand delivery, facsimile, or other available means at the option of the Second Fiduciary, of written notice of such request for termination; provided that if, due to circumstances beyond the control of the Bank, the sale cannot be executed within one business day, the Bank shall have one additional business day to complete such sale. EFFECTIVE DATE: The exemption is effective retroactively, as of November 12, 1993. Written Comments In the Notice of Proposed Exemption (the Notice), the Department invited all interested persons to submit written comments and requests for a hearing on the proposed exemption within sixty (60) days of the date of the publication of the Notice in the Federal Register on August 17, 1994. All comments and requests for hearing were due by October 17, 1994. During the comment period, the Department received no requests for a hearing. However, the Department did receive a comment letter from the applicant, dated October 17, 1994. The comment from the applicant requested certain modifications and clarifications of the conditions of the exemption and certain corrections of the language of the Summary of Facts and Representation in the Notice. The applicant's comments are as follows:
