FR940128-1-00041 FR940128-1-00006 (5) Forty percent had discrepancies relating to storage facilities that were not clean, sanitary, or in good repair. For established participants in the NMFS program (as opposed to entrants), the percentages with discrepancies in the above areas for 1989 were: 49 percent; 47 percent; 25 percent; 49 percent; and 33 percent (Ref. 35, p. 42). FDA has tentatively concluded on the basis of all of these findings that HACCP-type controls for sanitation as proposed below are needed. The sanitation measures required under proposed §123.10 are fundamental to good sanitation practices and can have a bearing on human safety. The agency recognizes, however, that depending on the conditions in a facility, additional measures may be necessary (see, e.g., part 110). FDA will expect processors to include those measures in their sanitation practices but tentatively concludes that it is not necessary to include them in the fundamental core of required steps. FDA acknowledges the conclusion of the MSSP project that, for seafood at least, it is possible to include sanitation within an HACCP system without unduly overburdening that system with large numbers of critical control points. The FDA/NOAA HACCP-based seafood pilot program included critical control points for sanitation. For these regulations, however, FDA has tentatively decided to propose specific HACCP-type requirements for sanitation, rather than require that processors identify critical control points for sanitation in their HACCP plans. The proposed requirements in §123.10 potentially relate to an entire facility, not just to a limited number of critical control points. FDA tentatively concludes that this step is necessary to fully implement section 402(a)(4) of the act and yet at the same time not overload the HACCP system. FDA invites comments on this approach. In particular, FDA invites comment on whether sanitation requirements should be enumerated as in proposed §123.10. The logical alternative would be to leave sanitation as one of the procedures that is to be identified and addressed in HACCP plans for the control of microbiological and physical hazards (see proposed §123.6(b)(1)(ii), (b)(1)(ix), and (b)(4)), but not to have specific provisions in the regulations as to how sanitation is to be achieved. Good sanitation blocks avenues for the introduction of pathogens, harmful chemicals, and physical objects and is an essential preventive control for safety. Even if a product is to be cooked by the consumer, the load of microbiological pathogens on that product when received by the consumer is still relevant to safety. FDA's prescriptive approach to sanitation in proposed §123.10 is intended to assist processors to provide the greatest protection for consumers. Nonetheless, FDA invites comment on whether an alternative approach as described above would ensure this protection at less cost. FDA is proposing in §123.10(a) to require that processors conduct sanitation inspections to ensure that the sanitation conditions in §123.10(a)(1) through (a)(17) are met. FDA recognizes that the nature of the operations conducted by a processor affects the hazards that may be presented by the product. Processing other than storing usually involves manipulation of exposed, i.e., unpackaged, fish and fishery products. Both the manipulation and the exposure subject the product to all the hazards that can occur from unsanitary practices. Storage, on the other hand, can subject the product to some, but nowhere near all, of the hazards associated with insanitation. Consequently, FDA is proposing to require that processors of fish and fishery products inspect for those conditions in §123.10(a)(1) through (a)(17) that are appropriate to their circumstances. FDA expects that, at a minimum, in, for example, storage facilities, such inspections will include ensuring against the presence of vermin, because this is a frequent problem in warehouses that can affect products even when they are being stored in a packaged state. In §123.10(a)(1), the agency is proposing to require that processors ensure that water that contacts the product or food-contact surfaces, or that is used in the manufacture of ice, is derived from a safe and sanitary source or is treated to render it of safe and sanitary quality. Water is used in virtually all fish and fishery product processing facilities for washing raw materials, product contact surfaces, and employees' hands. It is used to transport fish through the plant in water flumes. In addition, water is often an ingredient, as in soups and glazes. Contaminated water can serve as a vehicle for contamination of the product, both directly and indirectly (Refs. 63, 64; 65, p. 49; 66, 67, and 68, pp. 1 and 2). It can also serve as a vehicle for contamination as the ice in which the product is stored. The safety and sanitary quality of water from United States and some foreign public water systems is generally ensured through public water treatment, chlorination, or monitoring and control by local health authorities. Where this assurance exists, FDA does not anticipate that processors will need to implement any additional controls.
