FR940524-2-00088 FR940524-2-00052 C. Inconsistency With the Act Some commenters assert that the NYSE proposal is inconsistent with the Act. 38 These commenters state that Regulation T and SEC Rule 15c3&hyph;3 permit a broker-dealer to apply to any SRO for an extension. Thus, broker-dealers should be free to choose an SRO on the basis of convenience, service and cost efficiency. 39 For example, the CHX states that approval of the NYSE proposal would be contrary to the intent of Regulation T and Rule 15c3&hyph;3, which is to provide flexible SRO oversight of the processing of Regulation T extensions. Lehman Brothers argues that the current extension procedures can only be altered by petitioning the FRB or the Commission to make a rule change since both Regulation T and Rule 15c3&hyph;3 permit broker-dealers to send extension requests to any SRO. 40 38 See e.g., 1989 CHX Letter; 1988 and January 1989 CSE Letters; 1989 PHLX Letter, supra note 9; and 1993 CSE Letter and Lehman Brothers Letter, supra note 11. 39 See Bartlett and Co. Letter; 1989 PHLX Letter; 1989 PSE Letter; 1989 NASD Letter; Securities Settlement Corp. Letter; First of Michigan Letter; Gradison Letter; July 1989 CSE Letter, supra note 9; and Lehman Brothers Letter; A.G. Edwards Letter, supra note 11. 40 See Lehman Brothers Letter, supra note 11. D. Claims of Forum Shopping The PHLX states that it is unaware of any instance in which a broker-dealer changed from one SRO to another in order to circumvent an SRO's extension guidelines. The PHLX states that the reasons that its members have given for choosing to send extension requests to one SRO over another are, inter alia, convenience, turn-around time and information provided by the SRO, such as providing the number of requests emanating from a particular branch. Similarly, the CSE states that there is no evidence to support the NYSE's assertions that several NYSE members began using the CSE for extension processing after the NYSE took restrictive action against them. 41 The CSE states that, had it been aware of such restrictive action by the NYSE, it would have cooperated in restricting the firm. 41 See July 1989 CSE Letter, supra note 9. E. Harm to the NASD That Would Result From Implementation of the NYSE Proposal The NASD's comment letter asserts that it would be harmed in a number of unique ways if the NYSE proposal is approved. 42 The NASD states that it has significant regulatory and examination responsibility for all of its members, and that extension information is not relevant exclusively to financial and operational monitoring as the NYSE seems to assert. The NASD believes that extension requests contain valuable data which is useful to an SRO for general market surveillance to detect possible market or trading abuses. 42 See 1989 NASD Letter, supra note 9. In addition, the NASD notes that a significant portion of customer activities involving NASDAQ and OTC securities is handled by NASD/NYSE members, and if it were mandated that such members file all extension requests with the NYSE, then the NASD would be deprived of significant important regulatory data involving the marketplace that it is required to regulate. The NASD further asserts that the resulting fragmentation of NASDAQ and OTC market data would be counterproductive to establishing efficient regulation. It states that approval of the NYSE proposal, therefore, would deprive the NASD of significant and important regulatory data currently used to fulfill its SRO functions. F. Miscellaneous Comments •Extension Requests Should be Granted by Broker-Dealers The Bear Stearns and A.G. Edwards Letters assert that brokers-dealers should not be required to submit requests for extensions of time for payment or delivery of securities to any SRO. These commenters esentially assert that broker-dealer is in the best position to know when exceptional circumstances warrant an extension and, in any event, assume the financial risk from such extensions. The Bear Stearns Letter asserts that suitable procedures can be established for broker-dealers to control the time periods within which payment or delivery of securities are made, without the need for the formal submission of requests for permission to extend the time periods. The A.G. Edwards Letter disagrees with the FRB's concern that broker-dealers may grant favorable extension review to certain customers. It believes that broker-dealers should be required periodically to notify an SRO to act as a monitor for abuses of the Rule and provide its members with periodic reports. 43 43 See A.G. Edwards, Letter, supra note 11. A.G. Edwards submitted similar comments to the FRB in response to its 1992 request for comments. •Fees from Extensions Help Defray the Cost of DEA Functions The CSE states that it is relieving the NYSE of the cost of processing extensions since the NYSE is allocated only the on-site portion of the broker-dealer examination relating to extensions, and the cost associated with the NYSE's DEA function is already covered by the NYSE's fee structure in that, pursuant to NYSE Rule 142, the NYSE charges its members $.42 per $1,000 gross revenue for regulatory services. Therefore, according to the CSE, the NYSE has no need for additional revenue to subsidize its DEA functions. 44 44 See January 1989 CSE Letter, supra note 9. The fee cited by the CSE was in effect as of January 1989.
