FR941221-2-00125 FR941221-2-00080 Policy Three elements would be considered in a decision regarding the status of a possible distinct population segment as endangered or threatened under the Act. These would be applied similarly for addition to the lists, reclassification, and removal from the lists: 1. Discreteness of the population segment in relation to the remainder of the species to which it belongs; 2. The significance of the population segment to the species to which it belongs; and 3. The population segment's conservation status in relation to the Act's standards for listing (i.e., is the population segment, when treated as if it were a species, endangered or threatened?). Discreteness: A population segment of a vertebrate species may be considered discrete if it satisfies either one of the following criteria: 1. It is markedly separated from other populations of the same taxon as a consequence of physical, physiological, ecological, or behavioral factors. Quantitative measures of genetic or morphological discontinuity may provide evidence of this separation. 2. It is delimited by international governmental boundaries within which differences in control of exploitation, management of habitat, conservation status, or regulatory mechanisms exist that are significant in light of section 4(a)(1)(D) of the Act. Significance: If a population segment satisfies one or more of the above criteria for discreteness, its biological and ecological significance will then be considered in light of Congressional guidance that the authority to list distinct population segments be used ``*␣*␣* sparingly'' while encouraging the conservation of genetic diversity. In carrying out this examination, the Services will consider available scientific evidence of the discrete population segment's importance to the taxon to which it belongs. This consideration may include, but is not limited to, the following: 1. Persistence of the discrete population segment in an ecological setting unusual or unique for the taxon, 2. Evidence that loss of the discrete population segment would result in a significant gap in the range of a taxon, 3. Evidence that the discrete population segment represents the only surviving natural occurrence of a taxon that may be more abundant as an introduced population outside its historic range, or 4. Evidence that the discrete population segment differs markedly from other populations of the species in its genetic characteristics. Because precise circumstances are likely to vary considerably from case to case, it is not possible to describe prospectively all the classes of information that might bear on the biological and ecological importance of a discrete population segment. Status: If a population segment is discrete and significant (i.e., it is a distinct population segment) its evaluation for endangered or threatened status will be based on the Act's definitions of those terms and a review of the factors enumerated in section 4(a). It may be appropriate to assign different classifications to different distinct population segments of the same vertebrate taxon. Relationship to Other Activities The Fish and Wildlife Service's Listing and Recovery Priority Guidelines (48 FR 43098; September 21, 1983) generally afford ``distinct population segments'' the same consideration as subspecies, but when a subspecies and a distinct population segment have the same numerical priority, the subspecies receives higher priority for listing. The Services will continue to generally accord subspecies higher listing priority than distinct population segments. Any distinct population segment of a vertebrate taxon that was listed prior to implementation of this policy will be evaluated on a case-by-case basis as recommendations are made to change the listing status for that distinct population segment. The appropriate application of the policy will also be considered in the 5-year reviews of the status of listed species required by section 4(c)(2) of the Act. Effects of Policy This draft policy would, if adopted, guide the evaluation of distinct vertebrate population segments for the purposes of listing, delisting, and reclassifying under the Act. The only direct effect of any policy would be to accept or reject population segments for these purposes. More uniform treatment of distinct population segments would allow the Services, various other government agencies, private individuals and organizations, and other interested or concerned parties to better judge and concentrate their efforts toward the conservation of biological resources at risk of extinction. Listing, delisting, or reclassifying distinct vertebrate population segments may allow the Services to protect and conserve species and the ecosystems upon which they depend before large-scale decline occurs that would necessitate listing a species or subspecies throughout its entire range. This would allow protection and recovery of declining organisms in a more timely and less costly manner, and on a smaller scale than the more costly and extensive efforts that might be needed to recover an entire species or subspecies. The Services' ability to address local issues (without the need to list, recover, and consult rangewide) would result in a more effective program.
