FR940404-2-00050 FR940404-2-00035 2. Background The voluntary programs for commercial office equipment and luminaires will be developed by separate organizations composed of interested parties associated with each industry, and the efforts to develop these programs will be monitored and evaluated by the Secretary of Energy. Not later than three years after the date of enactment of EPACT (October 24, 1995), the Secretary shall make a determination as to whether the voluntary programs are positioned to achieve the objectives established for the sale and purchase of commercial office equipment and luminaires. If the Secretary determines that either of the voluntary programs is not consistent with the objectives of the legislation, the Secretary shall, after consultation with the National Institute of Standards and Technology, develop test procedures for that set of products. One year later, the Federal Trade Commission will prescribe labeling rules. The Department recognizes that the clarification of evaluation criteria is an important guiding element as the testing and information programs take shape. As part of the monitoring and evaluation process, DOE would like to solicit comments on how the evaluation criteria should be determined within the context of the emerging programs. After oral and written comments have been submitted, DOE will analyze the suggestions, determine the specific evaluation criteria, and publish its findings in the Federal Register . 3. Discussion The purpose of the public meeting is twofold: (1) To provide an opportunity to inform DOE on the progress of the voluntary programs; and (2) to request suggestions from all interested parties on the best means of evaluating the potential effectiveness of the programs. Some specific areas for comment are identified below; however, these areas are not intended to limit the content of submissions. •The type, use, and standardization of test procedures. •The extent of market penetration represented by the products selected as ``widely used'' and the extent of participation across the respective industries. •The dissemination of information to potential consumers. •The amount of energy saved. •Provisions to update the program in future years and incorporate new products. •Provisions for DOE to monitor the progress of the program. 4. Public Meeting Procedure DOE will make a presentation at the outset of each meeting to provide background and explain the goals for the meeting. DOE will then accept oral comments limited to a time which will be set in light of the number of persons who request to speak. The official conducting the meeting will accept comments and questions from those attending to afford the DOE staff and interested parties an opportunity to discuss and explore issues surrounding the proposed evaluation criteria. Issued in Washington, DC, on March 25, 1994. Frank M. Stewart, Jr., Acting Chief of Staff, Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;7870 Filed 4&hyph;1&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6450&hyph;01&hyph;P
