FR940429-0-00262 FR940429-0-00015 (iii) If a student takes an approved leave of absence, within 30 days after the last recorded date of class attendance by the student, as documented by the institution. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1091b, 1092, 1094) 16. Section 668.23 is revised to read as follows: ยง668.23 Audits, records, and examinations. (a) An institution or a foreign institution as defined in 34 CFR 600.52 that participates in the Federal Perkins Loan, FWS, FSEOG, Federal Stafford Loan, Federal PLUS, Federal Pell Grant, PAS, or FDSL Program shall comply with the regulations for that program concerning_ (1) Fiscal and accounting systems; (2) Program and fiscal recordkeeping; and (3) Record retention. (b)(1) An institution or a foreign institution as defined in 34 CFR 600.52 that participates in any Title IV, HEA program shall cooperate with an independent auditor, the Secretary, the Department of Education's Inspector General, the Comptroller General of the United States, or their authorized representatives, a guaranty agency in whose program the institution participates, the appropriate nationally recognized accrediting agency, and the appropriate State postsecondary review entity designated under 34 CFR part 667, in the conduct of audits, investigations, and program reviews authorized by law. (2) A third-party servicer shall cooperate with an independent auditor, the Secretary, the Department of Education's Inspector General, and the Comptroller General of the United States, or their authorized representatives, a guaranty agency in whose program the institution contracting with the servicer participates, the appropriate nationally recognized accrediting agency of an institution with which the servicer contracts, and the State postsecondary review entity designated under 34 CFR part 667, in the conduct of audits, investigations, and program reviews authorized by law. (3) The institution's or servicer's cooperation must include_ (i) Providing timely access, for examination and copying, to the records (including computerized records) required by the applicable regulations and to any other pertinent books, documents, papers, computer programs, and records; (ii) Providing reasonable access to personnel associated with the institution's or servicer's administration of the Title IV, HEA programs for the purpose of obtaining relevant information. In providing reasonable access, the institution or servicer shall not_ (A) Refuse to supply any relevant information; (B) Refuse to permit interviews with those personnel that do not include the presence of the institution's or servicer's management; and (C) Refuse to permit interviews with those personnel that are not tape recorded by the institution or servicer. (c)(1)(i) An institution or a foreign institution as defined in 34 CFR 600.52 that participates in the FDSL, Federal Perkins Loan, FWS, FSEOG, Federal Stafford Loan, Federal PLUS, Federal SLS, Federal Pell Grant, or PAS Program shall have performed at least annually a compliance audit of its Title IV, HEA programs. (ii) A third-party servicer shall have performed at least annually a compliance audit of every aspect of the servicer's administration of the participation in the Title IV, HEA programs of each institution with which the servicer has a contract, unless_ (A) The servicer contracts with only one participating institution; and (B) The audit of that institution's participation involves every aspect of the servicer's administration of that Title IV, HEA program. (iii) To meet the requirements of paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section, a third-party servicer that contracts with more than one participating institution may submit a single compliance audit report that covers every aspect of the servicer's administration of the participation in the Title IV, HEA programs for each institution with which the servicer contracts. (iv) The audit required under paragraph (c)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section shall be conducted by an independent auditor in accordance with the general standards and the standards for compliance audits in the U.S. General Accounting Office's (GAO's) Standards for Audit of Governmental Organizations, Programs, Activities, and Functions. (This publication is available from the Superintendent of Documents, U.S. Government Printing Office, Washington, DC 20402.) (2)(i) The institution's first audit must cover the institution's activities for the entire period of time since the institution began to participate in the Title IV, HEA program for which the audit is performed. Each subsequent audit must cover the institution's activities for the entire period of time since the preceding audit. (ii) The servicer's first audit must cover the servicer's activities for its first full fiscal year beginning on or after July 1, 1994, and include any period from the effective date to the beginning of the first full fiscal year. Each subsequent audit that the servicer has performed must cover the servicer's activities for the entire period of time since the servicer's preceding audit. (3) The institution or servicer, as applicable, shall submit its audit report to the Department of Education's Inspector General within 120 days of the end of the institution's or servicer's fiscal year or, if applicable, in accordance with deadlines established in the Single Audit Act. (4) The Secretary may require the institution or servicer to provide, upon request, to cognizant guaranty agencies and eligible lenders under the FFEL programs, State agencies, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, nationally recognized accrediting agencies, and State postsecondary review entities designated under 34 CFR part 667, the results of any audit conducted under this section. (d) Procedures for audits are contained in audit guides developed by, and available from, the Department of Education's Office of Inspector General. These audit guides do not impose any requirements beyond those imposed under applicable statutes and regulations and GAO's Standards for Audit of Governmental Organizations, Programs, Activities, and Functions. (This publication is available from the Superintendent of Documents, U.S. Government Printing Office, Washington, DC 20402.) (e)(1) An institution, a foreign institution as defined 34 CFR 600.52, or a third-party servicer that has an audit conducted in accordance with this section shall_ (i) Give the Secretary and the Inspector General access to records or other documents necessary to review the audit; and (ii) Include in any arrangement with an individual or firm conducting an audit described in this section a requirement that the individual or firm shall give the Secretary and the Inspector General access to records or other documents necessary to review the audit. (2) A third-party servicer shall give the Secretary and the Inspector General access to records or other documents necessary to review an institution's audit. (3) An institution shall give the Secretary and the Inspector General access to records or other documents necessary to review a third-party servicer's audit. (f) The Secretary considers the audit requirement in paragraph (c) of this section to be satisfied by an audit conducted in accordance with_ (1) The Single Audit Act (Chapter 75 of title 31, United States Code); or (2) Office of Management and Budget Circular A&hyph;133, ``Audits of Institutions of Higher Education and Other Nonprofit Organizations.'' (g) Upon written request, an institution, a foreign institution as defined in 34 CFR 600.52, or a third-party servicer shall give the Secretary access to all Title IV, HEA program and fiscal records, including records reflecting transactions with any financial institution with which the institution or servicer deposits or has deposited any Title IV, HEA program funds. (h)(1) In addition to the records required under the applicable program regulations and this part, for each recipient of Title IV, HEA program assistance, the institution or foreign institution as defined in 34 CFR 600.52 shall establish and maintain, on a current basis, records regarding_ (i) The student's admission to, and enrollment status at, the institution;
