FR940505-1-00082 FR940505-1-00012 Evaluation of the environmental, economic, and other impacts are discussed in detail in EPA's technical support document. The rule is expected to affect approximately 100 IC engines in the Sacramento FIP area. Although there are additional IC engines in the FIP area, these sources are already meeting the proposed FIP limits or would be exempt from the proposed measure. As described in the technical support document, 1990 uncontrolled NO X emissions from subject sources were estimated at 2.6 tons/day (tpd). Implementation of this rule is expected to reduce those emissions by 2.3 tpd at an average estimated cost of $7,200 per ton of NO X reduced. It is important to note that this proposed rule will be amended in the final promulgation to further clarify which engines are subject to the rule's provisions. The effect of such amendment may be to exempt from the requirements of this rule any new IC engines which will be subject to proposed FIP nonroad engine rules or national nonroad engine regulations issued under EPA's authority for regulating mobile sources in accordance with Title II of the Act. These mobile IC engines are proposed to be governed by specific emission standards and other requirements discussed below in section III.D.4. The emission reduction estimates presented above are associated with reductions only from existing IC engines reflected in the 1990 emissions inventory. In the final FIP, EPA will attempt to adjust this calculation of credit to clarify the relationship between reductions from this proposed rule and reductions from the nonroad engine rule proposed in III.D.5., which applies to newly manufactured nonroad IC engines. The adjustment would amend NO X reduction credits attributed to proposed rule 40 CFR 52.2961(m), by a factor relating to the expected turnover of existing IC engines through the year of attainment. (o) Industrial, Commercial, and Institutional Boilers, Steam Generators, and Process Heaters (Sacramento). (1) Biomass Boilers. Proposed 40 CFR 52.2961(n) controls NO X emissions resulting from biomass boilers. Biomass boilers typically burn wood, wood waste, and/or bark as a fuel source. Almond shells, landfill gas, or natural gas have also been used as a supplemental fuel source. Emission reductions are achieved through application of selective noncatalytic reduction or selective catalytic reduction. Both systems are post-combustion NO X control techniques in which ammonia (or urea) is injected into the flue gas to reduce NO X to nitrogen and water. The proposed rule applies to any owner or operator of a biomass boiler or steam generator with a rated heat input capacity equal to or greater than 5 million British thermal units per hour (mmBtu/hr) and an annual heat input greater than or equal to 9 billion Btu/yr. After May 15, 1997, biomass boilers shall either meet a 70 ppm NO X standard or reduce uncontrolled NO X emissions by 50 percent. The proposed rule limits are based largely on demonstrated controls at approximately 30 different biomass boilers located in the U.S. Although a SIP rule written solely for biomass boilers does not exist in any other California districts, the FIP rule is modeled after currently adopted NO X boiler rules in California. Evaluation of the environmental, economic, and other impacts are discussed in detail in EPA's technical support document. The rule is expected to affect biomass boilers at five sources (Michigan California Lumber, SierraPine Limited, Lausmann Lumber and Moulding, Formica Corporation, and Blue Diamond) in the Sacramento FIP area. Three of these sources (Michigan California Lumber, SierraPine Limited, and Formica Corporation) are also subject to RACT rules in this FIP proposal (see section III.C.2). Although additional biomass boilers are located in the FIP area, these boilers are already meeting the proposed FIP limits. As described in the technical support document, 1990 uncontrolled NO X emissions from these five sources were 0.8 tpd. Implementation of this proposed rule is projected to reduce those emissions by 0.34 tpd at an average estimated cost of $2,500 per ton of NO X reduced. Additional reductions could be achieved by requiring replacement of the biomass boilers with new boilers which burn cleaner fuels (e.g., natural gas), although this may not be a cost effective option for some sources. (2) Gaseous/Liquid Fuel Fired Boilers with a Rated Heat Input Capacity of Equal to or Greater than 5 mmBtu/hr. Proposed 40 CFR 52.2961(u) controls NO X emissions resulting from boilers, steam generators, and process heaters which have a rated heat input capacity of greater than 5 mmBtu/hr. A boiler or steam generator is used to produce steam which is then used to produce mechanical power, thermal energy, or electricity. A process heater is combustion equipment used to transfer heat indirectly to water or process streams. These units can be fired with natural gas, propane, distillate or residual oil, or landfill or sewage gas. Emission reductions are achieved through: (1) Retrofitting units with low-NO X burners; (2) retrofitting units with flue gas recirculation systems; (3) application of selective noncatalytic reduction (e.g., installing an ammonia injection system); or (4) application of selective catalytic reduction (e.g., installing an ammonia injection system with a catalyst). The proposed rule applies to any owner or operator of a boiler, steam generator, and process heater which has a rated heat input capacity of equal to or greater than 5 mmBtu/hr. After May 15, 1997, all units with an annual heat input rate greater or equal to 9 billion Btu per year (10 9 Btu/yr) and using gaseous fuels shall meet a 30 ppm NO X standard; units using liquid fuels shall meet a 40 ppm NO X standard. Units that operate with an annual heat input rate less than 9×10 9 Btu/yr shall be tuned once every six months or after 750 hours of operation. The proposed rule limits and requirements are based largely on SCAQMD Rule 1146, VCAPCD Rule 74.15, Yolo-Solano AQMD Rule 2.27, CARB's RACT/BARCT guidance, and EPA's ACT document for process heaters. Evaluation of the environmental, economic, and other impacts are discussed in detail in EPA's technical support document. The rule is expected to affect approximately 60 units in the Sacramento FIP area. Approximately nine of these units are already scheduled for replacement with cleaner burning cogeneration gas turbines. As described in the technical support document, 1990 uncontrolled NO X emissions from these sources were 1.2 tpd. Implementation of this proposed rule is projected to reduce those emissions by 0.78 tpd at an average estimated cost of $6,900 per ton of NO X reduced. (3) Gaseous/Liquid Fuel-Fired Boilers with a Rated Heat Input Capacity of less than 5 mmBtu/hr but greater than 1 mmBtu/hr. Proposed 40 CFR 52.2961(v) controls NO X emissions resulting from boilers, steam generators, and process heaters which have a rated heat input capacity of less than 5 mmBtu/hr but greater than 1 mmBtu/hr. A boiler or steam generator is used to produce steam which is then used to produce mechanical power, thermal energy, or electricity. A process heater is combustion equipment used to transfer heat indirectly to water or process streams. These units are typically fired with natural gas or propane. Emission reductions are achieved through retrofitting units with low-NO X burners. The proposed rule applies to any owner or operator of a boiler, steam generator, and process heater which has a rated heat input capacity of less than 5 mmBtu/hr but greater than 1 mmBtu/hr. After May 15, 1997, all units with an annual heat input rate greater than or equal to 1.8×10 9 Btu/yr shall meet a 30 ppm NO X standard. Units that operate with an annual heat input rate less than 1.8×109 Btu/yr but greater than 0.3×10 9 Btu/yr shall be tuned once every six months or after 750 hours of operation. The proposed rule limits and requirements are based largely on SCAQMD Rule 1146.1 and VCAPCD Rule 74.15.1. Evaluation of the environmental, economic, and other impacts are discussed in detail in EPA's technical support document.
