FR941202-2-00017 FR941202-2-00007 The GOI's response in this investigation is consistent with the information provided in Grain-Oriented Electrical Steel. Therefore, we preliminarily determine that this program is not limited to a specific enterprise or industry, or group of enterprises or industries and, therefore, is not countervailable. C. ECSC Article 54 Loans Under Article 54 of the 1951 ECSC Treaty, the European Commission provides loans directly to iron and steel companies for modernization and the purchase of new equipment. The loans finance up to 50 percent of an investment project. The remaining financing needs must be met from other sources. The Article 54 loan program is financed by loans taken by the Commission, which are then re-lent to iron and steel companies in the member states at a slightly higher interest rate than that at which the Commission obtained them. Consistent with the Department's finding in Grain-Oriented Electrical Steel, we preliminarily determine that this program is limited to the iron and steel industry. As a result, loans under this program are specific. Of the Article 54 loans Dalmine had outstanding during the POI, some were denominated in U.S. dollars and others were in Dutch guilders (``NLG''). To determine whether the loans were provided on terms inconsistent with commercial considerations, we used benchmark interest rates for the currencies in which the loans were denominated. That is, for the U.S. dollar loans we used the average interest rate on long-term fixed-rate U.S. dollar loans obtained in the United States, as reported by the Federal Reserve. For the NLG denominated loan, we used the average long-term bond rate for private borrowers in the Netherlands, as reported by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (``OECD''). Because the interest rate spaid on Dalmine's Article 54 loans are higher than the benchmark interest rates, the Department preliminarily determines that loans provided under this program are not preferential and, therefore, not countervailable. D. 1989 Provisional Payment in Connection With 1989 Equity Infusion In March 1989, ILVA made a payment to Dalmine in anticipation of purchasing new shares in Dalmine. The payment was provisional in nature because EC authorization of the capital increase was necessary, and if authorization was not granted, the money would have been repaid to ILVA. The capital increase was not finalized until November 1989, due to delays in EC approval. At that time, the payment became equity capital. Consistent with the Department's position in Final Affirmative Countervailing Duty Determination: Grain-Oriented Electrical Steel from Italy ( Grain-Oriented Electrical Steel ), 59 FR 18357 (April 18, 1994), we preliminarily determine that the funds provided by ILVA to Dalmine are countervailable. During the period March&hyph;November 1989, Dalmine had use of the money and paid no interest on it. Therefore, we have treated the funds provided by ILVA to Dalmine as an interest-free short-term loan from March 1989 to November 1989. Because any benefit from this interest-free loan would be allocable entirely to 1989, no benefit is attributable to the POI. III. Programs Preliminarily Determined to be Not Used Based on the information provided in the responses, we preliminarily determine that the following programs were not used. This determination is subject to verification. 1. Preferential IMI Export Financing Under Law 227/77 2. Preferential Insurance Under Law 227/77 3. Retraining Grants under Law 181/89 4. Benefits under ECSC Article 56 Verification In accordance with section 776(b) of the Act, we will verify the information submitted by respondents prior to making our final determination. Suspension of Liquidation In accordance with section 703(d) of the Act, we are directing the U.S. Customs Service to suspend liquidation of all entries of OCTG from Italy, which are entered or withdrawn from warehouse, for consumption on or after the date of the publication of this notice in the Federal Register, and to require a cash deposit or bond for such entries of the merchandise in the amounts indicated below. This suspension will remain in effect until further notice. OCTG Country-Wide Ad Valorem Rate_1.42 percent ITC Notification In accordance with section 703(f) of the Act, we will notify the ITC of our determination. In addition, we are making available to the ITC all nonprivileged and nonproprietary information relating to this investigation. We will allow the ITC access to all privileged and business proprietary information in our files, provided the ITC confirms that it will not disclose such information, either publicly or under an administrative protective order, without the written consent of the Deputy Assistant Secretary for Investigations, Import Administration.
