FR940620-1-00068 FR940620-1-00009 (iii) Assertions may be challenged whether or not supporting documentation was requested. Challenges must be in writing and issued to the person asserting in restriction. (4) Extension of response time. The contracting officer, at his or her discretion, may extend the time for response contained in a challenge, as appropriate, if the contractor submits a timely written request showing the need for additional time to prepare a response. (e) Validating or denying asserted restrictions. (1) Contracting officers must promptly issue a final decision denying or sustaining the validity of each challenged assertion unless the parties have agreed on the disposition of the assertion. When a final decision denying the validity of an asserted restriction is made following a timely response to a challenge, the Government is obligated to continue to respect the asserted restrictions through final disposition of any appeal unless the Agency Head notifies the person asserting the restriction that urgent or compelling circumstances do not permit the Government to continue to respect the asserted restriction. See 252.227&hyph;7019(g) for restrictions applicable following a determination of urgent and compelling circumstances. (2) Only a contracting officer's final decision, or actions of an agency Board of Contract Appeals or a court of competent jurisdiction, that sustain the validity of an asserted restriction constitute validation of the restriction. (f) Multiple challenges to an asserted restriction. When more than one contracting officer challenges an asserted restriction, the contracting officer who made the earliest challenge is responsible for coordinating the Government challenges. That contracting officer shall consult with all other contracting officers making challenges, verify that all challenges apply to the same asserted restriction and, after consulting with the contractor, subcontractor, or supplier asserting the restriction, issue a schedule that provides that person a reasonable opportunity to respond to each challenge. ยง227.503&hyph;14 Conformity, acceptance, and warranty of computer software and computer software documentation. (a) Computer software documentation. Computer software documentation is technical data. See 227.403&hyph;14 for appropriate guidance and statutory requirements. (b) Computer software. (1) Conformity and acceptance. Solicitations and contracts requiring the delivery of computer software shall specify the requirements the software must satisfy to be acceptable. Contracting officers, or their authorized representatives, are responsible for determining whether computer software tendered for acceptance conforms to the contractual requirements. Except for nonconforming restrictive markings (follow the procedures at 227.503&hyph;12(a) if nonconforming markings are the sole reason computer software tendered for acceptance fails to conform to contractual requirements), do not accept software that does not conform in all respects to applicable contractual requirements. Correction or replacement of nonconforming software, or an equitable reduction in contract price when correction or replacement of the nonconforming data is not practicable or is not in the Government's interests, shall be accomplished in accordance with_ (i) The provisions of a contract clause providing for inspection and acceptance of deliverables and remedies for nonconforming deliverables; or, (ii) The procedures at FAR 46.407(c) through (g), if the contract does not contain an inspection clause providing remedies for nonconforming deliverables. (2) Warranties. (i) Weapon systems. Computer software that is a component of a weapon system or major subsystem should be warranted as part of the weapon system warranty. Follow the procedures at 246.770. (ii) Non-weapon systems. Approval of the chief of the contracting office must be obtained to use a computer software warranty other than a weapon system warranty. Consider the factors at FAR 46.703 in deciding whether to obtain a computer software warranty. When approval for a warranty has been obtained, the clause at 252.246&hyph;7001, ``Warranty of Data'', and its alternates, may be appropriately modified for use with computer software or a procurement specific clause may be developed. ยง227.503.15 Subcontractor rights in computer software or computer software documentation. (a) Subcontractors and suppliers at all tiers should be provided the same protection for their rights in computer software or computer software documentation as is provided to prime contractors.
