FR941003-0-00016 FR941003-0-00004 Par. 2. Section 1.174&hyph;2 is amended as follows: 1. Paragraph (a)(1) is revised. 2. Paragraphs (a) (2) and (3) are redesignated as paragraphs (a) (8) and (9), respectively. 3. New paragraphs (a) (2) through (7) are added. 4. Paragraph (c) is amended by removing the reference ``sections 615'' and adding ``sections 617'' in its place. 5. The additions and revisions read as follows: ยง1.174&hyph;2 Definition of research and experimental expenditures. (a) In general. (1) The term research or experimental expenditures, as used in section 174, means expenditures incurred in connection with the taxpayer's trade or business which represent research and development costs in the experimental or laboratory sense. The term generally includes all such costs incident to the development or improvement of a product. The term includes the costs of obtaining a patent, such as attorneys' fees expended in making and perfecting a patent application. Expenditures represent research and development costs in the experimental or laboratory sense if they are for activities intended to discover information that would eliminate uncertainty concerning the development or improvement of a product. Uncertainty exists if the information available to the taxpayer does not establish the capability or method for developing or improving the product or the appropriate design of the product. Whether expenditures qualify as research or experimental expenditures depends on the nature of the activity to which the expenditures relate, not the nature of the product or improvement being developed or the level of technological advancement the product or improvement represents. (2) For purposes of this section, the term product includes any pilot model, process, formula, invention, technique, patent, or similar property, and includes products to be used by the taxpayer in its trade or business as well as products to be held for sale, lease, or license. (3) The term research or experimental expenditures does not include expenditures for_ (i) The ordinary testing or inspection of materials or products for quality control (quality control testing); (ii) Efficiency surveys; (iii) Management studies; (iv) Consumer surveys; (v) Advertising or promotions; (vi) The acquisition of another's patent, model, production or process; or (vii) Research in connection with literary, historical, or similar projects.
