FR940328-0-00066 FR940328-0-00013 (1) (i) Safe handling instructions shall accompany the poultry products, specified in this paragraph (b), destined for household consumers, hotels, restaurants, or similar institutions and shall appear on the label. The information shall be in lettering no smaller than one-sixteenth of an inch in size and shall be prominently placed with such conspicuousness (as compared with other words, statements, designs or devices in the labeling) as to render it likely to be read and understood by the ordinary individual under customary conditions of purchase and use. (ii) The safe handling information shall be presented on the label under the heading ``Safe Handling Instructions'' which shall be set in type size larger than the print size of the rationale statement and handling statements as discussed in paragraphs (b)(2) and (b)(3) of this section. The safe handling information shall be set off by a border and shall be one color type printed on a single color contrasting background whenever practical. (2) (i) The labels of the poultry products, specified in this paragraph (b) and prepared from inspected and passed poultry, shall include the following rationale statement as part of the safe handling instructions, ``This product was prepared from inspected and passed meat and/or poultry. Some food products may contain bacteria that could cause illness if the product is mishandled or cooked improperly. For your protection, follow these safe handling instructions.'' This statement shall be placed immediately after the heading and before the safe handling statements. (ii) The labels of the poultry products, specified in this paragraph (b) and prepared pursuant to §381.10(a) (2), (5), (6), and (7), shall include the following rationale statement as part of the safe handling instructions, ``Some food products may contain bacteria that could cause illness if the product is mishandled or cooked improperly. For your protection, follow these safe handling instructions.'' This statement shall be placed immediately after the heading and before the safe handling statements. (3) Poultry products, specified in this paragraph (b), shall bear the labeling statements. (i) Keep refrigerated or frozen. Thaw in refrigerator or microwave. (Any portion of this statement that is in conflict with the product's specific handling instructions may be omitted, e.g., instructions to cook without thawing.) (A graphic illustration of a refrigerator shall be displayed next to the statement.); (ii) Keep raw meat and poultry separate from other foods. Wash working surfaces (including cutting boards), utensils, and hands after touching raw meat or poultry. (A graphic illustration of soapy hands under a faucet shall be displayed next to the statement.); (iii) Cook thoroughly. (A graphic illustration of a skillet shall be displayed next to the statement.); and (iv) Keep hot foods hot. Refrigerate leftovers immediately or discard. (A graphic illustration of a thermometer shall be displayed next to the statement.) (4) Poultry products intended for further processing at another official establishment are exempt from the requirements prescribed in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(3) of this section. 6. Section 381.134 is amended by deleting the word ``or'' following the semicolon at the end of paragraph (b)(12), replacing the period at the end of paragraph (b)(13) with a semicolon followed by the word ``or'', and adding a new paragraph (b)(14) to read as follows: §381.134 Generically approved labeling. * * * * * (b) *␣*␣* (14) The addition of safe handling instructions as required by §381.125 of this subchapter. Done at Washington, DC, on March 23, 1994. Patricia Jensen, Acting Assistant Secretary, Marketing and Inspection Services. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;7217 Filed 3&hyph;25&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3410&hyph;DM&hyph;M
