FR940830-1-00075 FR940830-1-00012 The agency notes that there are a number of different designs for rear doors and for their installation. Four typical back doors used in production vehicles are: (1) Door opens upward, with latch (or striker) at the bottom center of the door with a single striker (or latch) on the back floor panel or door sill; (2) Door opens sideways, with striker located at the center of the back side frame and latch located at the side edge of the door (for example, back doors of large station wagons); (3) Split doors with top, usually glass, opening upward and bottom tailgate opening downward, with striker at the bottom of the top glass door and latches or rod/pin connectors at top and sides of the tailgate (for example, back doors of sport utility vehicles); and (4) Double cargo-type doors, a two-part door that latches to itself with one latch located at the center between the doors (for example, back doors of some passenger vans). It is possible that other door designs, such as sliding back doors, may be used in future production vehicles. Therefore, the agency must also include the sliding back door in this rulemaking. Given the wide variety of back door designs and latch and hinge orientations, NHTSA believes it is desirable to specify back door load test requirements in terms of the latch and hinge rather than in terms of longitudinal and transverse vehicle orientation. In addition, given the nature of the loading that back door latches and hinges are likely to experience in the event of a side impact to the rear quarter panel of a vehicle, NHTSA believes it is appropriate to require latches and hinges on doors that open upward to meet load requirements in three rather than two directions. B. Door Latches 1. Requirements for Secondary Latch Position Standard No. 206 requires, for hinged side doors other than cargo-type doors, that each door latch and striker assembly must be provided with a fully latched position and a secondary latched position. Load tests are specified for each position. As previously indicated, the secondary position serves as a backup to the primary latched position in the event the primary is not properly engaged and adds an additional level of protection in case the primary latch position fails. The requirement for a secondary latch position does not apply to hinged cargo-type doors or sliding doors. As part of proposing to extend Standard No. 206 to back doors, NHTSA is considering applying the requirement for a secondary latch position to some or all back doors. The agency requests comments on which types of back doors should be included/excluded from this requirement and why.
