FR940803-1-00019 FR940803-1-00004 (e) Oral responses to inquiries 1. Application of rule. Credit unions need not provide rate information orally. 2. Relation to advertising. An oral response to a question about rates is not covered by the advertising rules. 3. Disclosures. For dividend-bearing accounts other than term share accounts, a credit union must state either the dividend rate and annual percentage yield as of the last dividend declaration date, or, if such rate might be inaccurate due to known or contemplated dividend rate changes, a prospective rate and annual percentage yield determined in good faith by the board of directors, or, both the past and prospective rates. For interest-bearing accounts and for dividends-bearing term share accounts, a credit union would specify the interest (dividend) rate and annual percentage yield offered during the most recent seven calendar days; state that the rate and yield are accurate as of an identified date; and give a number for members to call for current rate information. These rate disclosures are identical to rate disclosures made upon request (ยง707.4(a)(2)(ii)), in account disclosures (ยง707.4(b)(1)(i)), and in advertising disclosures (ยง707.8(c)(2)). (f) Rounding and accuracy rules for rates and yields (f)(1) Rounding 1. General. The annual percentage yield, annual percentage yield earned and dividend rate must be rounded to the nearest one-hundredth of one percentage point (.01%) when disclosed. For example, if a credit union calculated an annual percentage yield to be 5.644%, it would be rounded down and shown as 5.64%; 5.645% would be rounded up and disclosed as 5.65%. (f)(2) Accuracy 1. Annual percentage yield and annual percentage yield earned. The tolerance for annual percentage yield and annual percentage yield earned calculations is designed to accommodate inadvertent errors. Credit unions may not purposely incorporate the one-twentieth of one percentage point (.05%) tolerance into their calculation of yields. 2. Dividend rate. There is no tolerance for an inaccuracy in the dividend rate. Section 707.4_Account disclosures. (a) Delivery of account disclosures (a)(1) Account opening 1. New accounts. New account disclosures must be provided when: A term share account that does not automatically rollover is renewed by a member A member changes the term for a renewable term share account (from a one-year term share account to a six-month term share account, for instance) Funds in a money market share account are transferred by a credit union to open a new account for the member, such as a share draft account, because the member exceeded transaction limitations on the money market share account. A credit union accepts a share deposit from a member to an account the credit union previously deemed to be ``closed'' by the member. New account disclosures are not required when: A credit union acquires an account through an acquisition of or merger with another credit union (but see ยง707.5(a) regarding advance notice requirements if terms are changed). A member opens separate subaccounts (suffix designations) from a main (suffix) account, if the terms of the subaccounts are identical to that of the main account and disclosures for the main account have already been given to the member. (a)(2) Requests (a)(2)(i) 1. Inquiries versus requests. A response to an oral inquiry (by telephone or in person) about rates and yields or fees does not trigger the duty to provide account disclosures. However, when a member asks for written information about an account (whether by telephone, in person, or by other means), the credit union must provide disclosures. 2. General requests. When a member or potential member generally asks for information about a type of account (a share draft account, for example), a credit union that offers several variations may provide disclosures for any one of them. No disclosures need be made to nonmembers, though a credit union may provide disclosures to nonmembers within its sole discretion. 3. Timing for response. Twenty calendar days is a reasonable time for responding to a request for account information that a member does not make in person. (a)(2)(ii)(B) 1. Term. Describing the maturity of a term share account as ``1 year'' or ``6 months,'' for example, illustrates a response stating the maturity of a term share account as a term rather than a date (e.g., ``June 1, 1995''). (b) Content of account disclosures (b)(1) Rate information (b)(1)(i) Annual percentage yield and dividend rate 1. Rate disclosures. In addition to the dividend rate and annual percentage yield, a periodic rate corresponding to the dividend rate may be disclosed. No other rate or yield (such as ``tax effective yield'') is permitted. If the annual percentage yield is the same as the dividend rate, credit unions may disclose a single figure but must use both terms. 2. Fixed-rate accounts. To disclose the period of time the dividend rate will be in effect, credit unions may state the maturity date for fixed-rate term share accounts that pay the opening rate until maturity. (See Appendix B, B&hyph;5_Sample Form.) For other fixed-rate accounts, credit unions may disclose a date (such as ``This rate will be in effect through June 30, 1994'') or a period (such as ``This rate will be in effect for at least 30 days''). 3. Tiered-rate accounts. Each dividend rate, along with the corresponding annual percentage yield for each specified balance level (or range of annual percentage yields, if appropriate), must be disclosed for tiered-rate accounts. (See Appendix a, Part I, Paragraph D.) 4. Stepped-rate accounts. A single annual percentage yield must be disclosed for stepped-rate accounts. (See Appendix A, Part I, Paragraph B.) However, the dividend rates and the period of time each will be in effect also must be provided. When the initial rate offered on a variable-rate account is higher or lower than the rate that would otherwise be paid on the account, the calculation of the annual percentage yield must be made as if for a stepped-rate account. (See Appendix A, Part I, Paragraph C.) 5. Minimum-balance accounts. If a credit union sets a minimum balance to earn dividends, the credit union need not state that the annual percentage yield is 0% for those days the balance in the account drops below the minimum balance level when using the daily balance method. Nor is a disclosure of 0% required for credit unions using the average daily balance method, if the member fails to meet the minimum balance required for the average daily balance period. (b)(1)(ii) Variable rates (b)(1)(ii)(B) 1. Determining dividend rates. To disclose how the dividend rate is determined, credit unions must: Identify the index and specific margin, if the dividend rate is tied to an index State that rate changes are solely within the credit union's discretion, if the credit union does not tie changes to an index (b)(1)(ii)(C)
