FR940607-1-00026 FR940607-1-00005 DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION Coast Guard 33 CFR Part 100 [CGD 05&hyph;94&hyph;017] RIN 2115&hyph;AE46 Special Local Regulations for Marine Events; Atlantic Ocean, Ocean City, MD agency: Coast Guard, DOT. action: Notice of proposed rulemaking. summary: The Coast Guard is proposing to establish permanent special local regulations for the Ocean City Offshore Grand Prix held annually in the Atlantic Ocean off Ocean City. The effect of these regulations will be to restrict general navigation in the regulated area for the safety of spectators and participants. These regulations are needed to provide for the safety of life, limb, and property on the navigable waters during the event. dates: Comments must be received on or before August 8, 1994. addresses: Comments should be mailed or hand carried to Commander (bb), Fifth Coast Guard District, 431 Crawford Street, Portsmouth, Virginia 23704&hyph;5004. The comments will be available for inspection and copying in room 209 of this address. Normal office hours are between 8 a.m. and 4:30 p.m., Monday through Friday, except holidays. for further information contact: Stephen L. Phillips, Chief, Boating Affairs Branch, Fifth Coast Guard District, 431 Crawford Street, Portsmouth, Virginia 23704&hyph;5004 (804) 398&hyph;6204. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Request for Comments Interested persons are invited to participate in this rulemaking by submitting written views, data, or arguments. Persons submitting comments should include their names and addresses, identify this notice (CGD 05&hyph;94&hyph;017) and the specific section of the proposal to which their comments apply. Reasons should be given for each comment. The regulations may be changed in light of comments received. All comments received before the expiration of the comment period will be considered before final action is taken. No public hearing is planned, but one may be held if written requests for a hearing are received and it is determined that the opportunity to make oral presentations will aid the rulemaking process. The receipt of comments will be acknowledged if a stamped self-addressed postcard or envelope is enclosed. Drafting Information The drafters of this notice are QM2 Gregory C. Garrison, project officer, Boating Affairs Branch, Fifth Coast Guard District, and LT Monica L. Lombardi, project attorney, Fifth Coast Guard District Legal Staff. Discussion of Proposed Regulations The United States Offshore Racing Association annually sponsors the Ocean City Offshore Grand Prix. Each year the United States Offshore Racing Association requests that the Coast Guard provide control of spectator and commercial traffic within the regulated area, as part of their application. Since this is a regular, yearly event, the Coast Guard proposes to develop a special local regulation. Specifically the Coast Guard seeks to regulate the waterways surrounding the race course. The course runs from Ocean City Inlet to Maryland Beach. To provide for the safety of participants, spectators, and vessels transiting the area, the Coast Guard will restrict vessel movement in the regulated area. A temporary spectator anchorage area will be established for what is expected to be a large spectator fleet. Coast Guard patrol vessels will be positioned at Ocean City Inlet to direct vessels around the regulated area, or to the temporary spectator anchorage area. The sponsor usually provides 29 vessels to assist the Coast Guard and local government agencies in patrolling the event. Medical vessels will display flourescent orange placards, and patrol boats will display flourescent green placards. Regulatory Evaluation This proposal is not a significant regulatory action under section 3(f) of Executive Order 12866 and does not require an assessment of potential costs and benefits under section 6(a)(3) of that order. It has been exempted from review by the Office of Management and Budget under that order. It is not significant under the regulatory policies and procedures of the Department of Transportation (DOT) (44 FR 11040; February 26, 1979). The Coast Guard expects the economic impact of this proposal to be so minimal that a full Regulatory Evaluation under paragraph 10e of the regulatory policies and procedures of DOT is unnecessary. This regulation will only be in effect for several hours, one day a year, and the impact on routine navigation is expected to be minimal. Small Entities Under the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. 601 et seq. ), the Coast Guard must consider whether this proposal will have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. ``Small Entities'' include independently owned and operated small businesses that are not dominant in their field and that otherwise qualify as ``small business concerns'' under section 3 of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 632). It is anticipated that the impact of this proposal on non-participating small entities will actually benefit their business due to the increase in local tourism. The Coast Guard will certify under 5 U.S.C. 605(b), that this proposal, if adopted, will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. Collection of Information This proposed rule contains no collection of information requirements under the Paperwork Reduction Act (44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq. ).
