FR940617-2-00087 FR940617-2-00052 [FRL&hyph;4998&hyph;6] Conformity; General Preamble for Exemption From Nitrogen Oxides Provisions AGENCY: Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). ACTION: General preamble for future proposed rulemakings. SUMMARY: This General Preamble clarifies how EPA believes that nonclassifiable (i.e., submarginal, transitional, and incomplete/no data) ozone nonattainment areas which are outside the Northeast ozone transport region and have ambient monitoring data demonstrating attainment of the national ambient air quality standard for ozone may be exempted from the conformity rules' nitrogen oxides (NO x ) requirements. This notice also references a recent memorandum which states EPA's preliminary interpretation for such ozone nonattainment areas which are classified as marginal or above. Clarification of EPA policy for areas with monitoring data which demonstrates attainment is particularly important because many areas already have such data and appear to qualify for exemption from the conformity NO x requirements. In order to avoid repetition, this General Preamble describes guidance on NOx exemptions with respect to the transportation conformity rule. However, this guidance for transportation conformity is intended to also apply with respect to general conformity. This General Preamble explains EPA's policy generally for future notice-and-comment rulemakings taking action on requests for NOx exemptions for specific areas. It contains EPA's preliminary interpretations of relevant provisions of the Clean Air Act and the conformity rules. The interpretations contained herein are not binding as a matter of law until final rulemaking action is taken on each specific area. Opportunity for public comment on NOx exemption determinations made by EPA will be provided separately for each area during these individual rulemakings. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: For issues related to transportation conformity, Kathryn Sargeant, Emission Control Strategies Branch, Emission Planning and Strategies Division, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, 2565 Plymouth Road, Ann Arbor, MI 48105. (313) 668&hyph;4441. For issues related to redesignation, David Cole, (919) 541&hyph;5565, and for issues related to general conformity and NOx RACT and NSR, Doug Grano, (919) 541&hyph;3292, Ozone/CO Programs Branch (MD&hyph;15), Air Quality Management Division, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina 27711.
