FR940902-2-00026 FR940902-2-00020 The following procedures were used for the intended deletion of this Site: (1) EPA Region 10 has determined that the Site was successfully remediated through a Removal Action which took place in the fall of 1992. On June 29, 1993, EPA issued a No Further Action Record of Decision (ROD) after the public comment period ended. No comments were received. (2) EPA Region 10 has recommended deletion of the Site and has made the relevant documents available to the public for review in the information repositories. (3) The Oregon Department of Environmental Quality has concurred with the deletion decision. Deletion of the Allied Plating Site from the NPL does not itself create, alter, or revoke any individual rights or obligations. The NPL is designed primarily for informational purposes to assist EPA management. As mentioned in Section II of this Notice, 40 CFR 300.425(e)(3) states that deletion of a site from the NPL does not preclude eligibility for future Fund-financed response actions. For deletion of this Site, EPA's Regional Office will accept and evaluate public comments on EPA's Notice of Intent to Delete before making a final decision to delete. The EPA will prepare a Responsiveness Summary, if necessary, addressing significant public comments. A deletion occurs when the Regional Administrator places a final notice in the Federal Register . Generally, the NPL will reflect deletions in the final update following the notice. Public notices and copies of the Responsiveness Summary will be made available to local residents by the Regional EPA office. IV. Basis for Intended Site Deletion The following site summary provides EPA Region 10's rationale for the intention to delete the Allied Plating Site from the NPL. The Allied Plating Site is located at 8135 Martin Luther King, Jr. (MLK) Boulevard, in an industrial and commercial district of northeastern Portland, Multnomah County, Oregon. The Site covers approximately 12 acres, and contained the buildings which formerly housed a plating operation and a waste disposal area approximately 3 acres in size. In 1957, the buildings were leased for the operation of Allied Plating, Inc., a chrome plating facility which operated from that year until 1984, when the company declared bankruptcy and ceased operations. Prior to 1969, wastewater from the facility was discharged to a swale leading to the Columbia Slough (an off-site water body). After 1969, landfilling north of the property cut off natural drainage, and as a result the discharge of liquid wastes from the plating facility created a lagoon on-site. The metals in the plating wastewater precipitated out, forming a layer of plating waste at the bottom of the lagoon. Aerial photographs indicate that the lagoon covered approximately 3 acres during the time when the company was discharging plating wastes into the lagoon. After the company ceased its discharges, the lagoon receded, leaving a small pond with the surrounding area covered with plating waste. EPA conducted a Remedial Investigation (RI) at the Site between January 1990 and April 1992. The RI determined that the Site contamination was mainly limited to the area formerly covered by the lagoon. Following the RI, the Site was evaluated for a potential Removal Action as part of the Superfund Accelerated Cleanup Model (SACM) Program. The Site met the criteria for remediation under a Removal Action. This Removal Action took place between October 20 and November 10, 1992. During the Removal Action, the pond was drained, and the pond sludges and the plating waste in the surrounding areas were excavated and shipped off-site for disposal at Envirosafe Services, Inc., in Grandview, Idaho (a facility identified by EPA as being eligible to receive CERCLA wastes). Approximately 1100 cubic yards of sludge and waste were excavated and disposed of in this manner. The Site owner also placed a deed restriction on the Site property, preventing the use of the shallow groundwater beneath the Site. The RI had determined that one well in this aquifer had nickel concentrations above drinking water standards. Following the Removal Action, EPA conducted a risk assessment on the contaminant concentrations remaining in the surface soils of the Site. Although the remediated area had been backfilled during the Removal Action by at least one foot of rock, to be conservative in the analysis, it was assumed that there would be direct human exposure to the remaining residual contaminant concentrations. The results indicated that the Removal Action achieved a site cleanup level which left the health threat associated with site-related contaminants well below a 1×10 ^4 excess cancer risk. The remaining hazard index was 2 for a residential scenario and 0.2 for an industrial scenario. A hazard index of 1 is the level where no toxic effects are expected to occur.
