FR941028-2-00010 FR941028-2-00006 FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Dr. David S. King, (301) 975&hyph;2369. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Catalog of Federal domestic assistance name and number: 11.609_Measurement and Engineering Research and Standards. Authority The Act of March 3, 1901, as amended (15 U.S.C. 278g&hyph;l) authorizes the National Institute of Standards and Technology to expend up to 1 per centum of the funds appropriated for activities of NIST in any fiscal year, as the Director deems appropriate, for financial assistance awards in the form of cooperative agreements to students at institutions of higher learning within the United States. These students must show promise as present or future contributors to the missions of NIST. Cooperative Agreements are awarded to assure continued growth and progress of science and engineering in the United States, including the encouragement of women and minority students to continue their professional development. Program Description The objective of this partnership will build upon a 1993 summer pilot program funded by NIST as a proof of concept and the 1994 SURFing program partially funded by the NSF Physics Division as a Research Experience for Undergraduates Site. Of the 40 students involved during the past two years about 40% were Hispanic Americans and 40% were African Americans, half were women and 1 was legally blind. Between 20 to 50% of the associated student stipends, travel and housing was provided in cost sharing by the individual participating institutions. NIST is the nation's premiere institute for the physical sciences and, as the lead agency for technology transfer, is providing a strong interface between government, industry, and academia; on-site researchers at NIST come from a broad range of colleges and industries. Owing to its unique mission to support the U.S. economy by working with industry, NIST embodies a special science culture, developed from a large and well equipped research staff that enthusiastically blends programs that address the immediate needs of industry with longer-term research that anticipates future needs. This occurs in few other places and enables the Physics Laboratory to offer unique research and training opportunities for undergraduates, providing them a research-rich environment and exposure to state of the art equipment, to scientists at work and to professional contacts that represent future employment possibilities. Attending to the long term needs of many U.S. high-technology industries, NIST's Physics Lab conducts basic research in the areas of quantum, electron, optical, atomic, molecular, and radiation physics. This is complemented by applied research devoted to overcoming barriers to the next technological revolution, in which individual atoms and molecules will serve as the fundamental building blocks of electronic and optical devices. To achieve these goals, staff develop and utilize highly specialized equipment, such as polarized electron microscopes, scanning tunneling microscopes, lasers, and x-ray and synchrotrons radiation sources. Research projects can be theoretical or experimental, and will range in focus from quantum electrodynamics, through trapping atoms and choreographing molecular collisions, to ionizing radiation. SURFers will work one-on-one with our nation's top physical scientists both from NIST and from some of our nation's leading, high tech industries. It is anticipated that successful SURFers will move from a position of reliance on guidance from their research advisors to one of research independence during the twelve week period. One goal of this partnership is to provide opportunities for our nation's next generation of scientists and engineers to engage in world class scientific research at NIST, especially in ground breaking areas of emerging technologies. This carries with it the hope of motivating these individuals to pursue a Ph.D. in physics, and to consider alternative research careers. SURFing the Physics Lab will attempt to forge partnerships with NSF and with post-secondary institutions that demonstrate strong, hands-on undergraduate science curricula, especially those with a demonstrated commitment to the education of women, minorities and students with disabilities. This program will be open to all U.S. citizens interested in AMO physics. Eligibility Colleges and universities with degree granting programs in areas of AMO physics. Funding Availability The NIST Physics Laboratory will commit approximately $50,000 to support cooperative agreements under this program. The NIST Physics Laboratory's REU Program is supported by NSF at the level of $55,000 per year. The anticipated direct and indirect cost for stipends, travel and housing and conference attendance for twenty students is about $140,000. The actual number of awards made under this announcement will depend on the level of cost sharing by our academic partners. Proposal Review Process All proposals will be reviewed by a panel of three NIST scientists appointed by the Program Director. Proposals should include the following: (A) Student Information: (1) Official transcript for each student nominated with a recommended G.P.A. of 3.0 or better; (2) a personal statement from each student and statement of commitment to participate in the 1995 SURF, including a description of the student's prioritized research interests; (3) a résumé for each student; and (4) two letters of recommendation for each student. All references to student include the proposed alternate. (B) Information About the Applicant Institution: (1) Description of the applicant's education and research philosophy, faculty interests, on-campus research program(s) and opportunities, and overlapping research interests of NIST and the institution; and (2) a statement addressing issues of academic credit and commitment to cost sharing. Application Kit An application kit, containing all required application forms and certifications is available by calling Arvella Kuehl at (301) 975&hyph;2378. An application kit includes the following: SF 424 (Rev 4/92)_APPLICATION FOR FEDERAL ASSISTANCE SF 424A (Rev 4/92)_BUDGET INFORMATION_Non-Construction Programs SF 424B (Rev 4/92)_ASSURANCES_Non-Construction Programs CD 511 (7/91)_CERTIFICATION REGARDING DEBARMENT, SUSPENSION, AND OTHER RESPONSIBILITY MATTERS; DRUG-FREE WORKPLACE REQUIREMENTS AND LOBBYING
