FR941103-2-00057 FR941103-2-00031 c. Comment: By its own terms the 1983 Agreement between Reclamation and Western does not apply to State and private projects or developments and that the agreement reveals the parties' intent to use full depletion levels in setting rates under the terms of the Agreement. Response: Western disagrees that the intent of the 1983 Agreement was for Western to use ``full'' (or ultimate) depletion levels in setting rates. Rather, a provision of the agreement that addresses depletions only requires that water depletion schedules used for power repayment studies ``. . . be consistent with construction schedules for participating projects.'' Western agrees that provisions of the 1983 Agreement between Western and Reclamation did not explicitly address State and private projects or developments. In defining a ``reasonable expectation standard,'' the 1983 Agreement establishes necessary steps by Reclamation to demonstrate the potential for construction of future Federal participating projects before the costs of these projects would be included in the ratesetting years. This reasonable expectation standard has been applied to the future development of all water development projects for ratesetting purposes by Western in setting the lowest possible rates consistent with sound business principles. Therefore, Western has included total depletions forecasted by the Upper Basin States for the use of Colorado River water for all projects, with deferral of less-certain water developments (depletions) beyond the ratesetting period in the proposed rate. Future rate adjustments will allow for movement of depletions into the rate- setting years. d. Comment: Western arbitrarily suppressed depletions from 2010 through 2090 only justified by the fact that such a method of suppression (capping) was utilized in the 1990 study and did so without adequate consultation with Reclamation. Response: The decision by Western to defer uncertain depletions beyond the ratesetting period is not arbitrary. In the 1990 rate process, Western gave considerable attention to the reasonableness of the then-proposed depletion deferral and to the associated rate effect when applied. Further, Western has given renewed and height- ened attention to the treatment of depletions in the proposed rate through preparation of numerous issue papers, informal discussions with both customer and water user representatives, and in Western's April 1994 rate brochure. Figure 1, on page 12&hyph;5 of the rate brochure, shows that Western presently assumes full development (full depletions) of all Upper Basin water projects by FY 2090. Projects with uncertain schedules have been placed in the PRS so that they do not impact the rate at this time, in accordance with Western's practice to set the lowest possible rate consistent with sound business principles. Western also disagrees with the claim that inadequate consultation occurred with Reclamation in the past on this deferral treatment. Reclamation, along with other interested parties, has either participated in or has attended many of the public forums scheduled in the development of all Integrated Projects rate proposals. In these public forums, Western has detailed the components of the rate adjustment, including the treatment of depletions. Reclamation and interested parties have been and will continue to be afforded ample notice and opportunity to comment on future rate proposals. e. Comment: Five comments said: DOE RA 6120.2 seems to require the use of operation studies based on historical streamflows including hydrologic data current to within 5 years. Response: Western believes that it is in compliance with DOE RA 6120.2. This requirement is valid for most projects. However, exceptions, as discussed in DOE RA 6120.2, Section 10.e.(4), are provided for those projects which are anticipated to have extensive water development in the future. CRSP operation studies are based on historic streamflows, which are then reduced by projected water depletions supplied by the Upper Basin States and modified by Reclamation. f. Comment: Western suggests that its departure from the 1990 depletion schedule represents better data than utilized by Reclamation in its energy and capacity studies. Response: Both Reclamation and UCRC staff have told Western infor- mally that the depletion schedule used in this process is a more accurate reflection of the current situation than the earlier ``Energy and Capacity Studies'' which was available when the ratesetting PRS was prepared. g. Comment: The 1990 cap at 2010 resulted in an approximate 11-percent reduction of Basin States' depletions and an artificially low power rate. The proposed super-imposition of a 1990 mentality beginning in 2010 to a substantially revised 1992 unofficial depletion schedule results in excess of 20-percent reduction of depletions and does not even fully recognize the future depletions of projects currently under construction. Response: Western agrees that the deferral of some estimated deple- tion effects until 2060 suggests a significant (20-percent) reduction from the 1992 depletion schedule contained in the CRSM demand data. Western believes there should be greater certainty of development regarding this 20-percent prior to including the associated reduction in hydrogeneration in the PRS in a way that affects the firm power rates. Also, Western agrees that its deferral postpones future depletions of projects currently under construction, based on the principles of the 1983 agreement. Again, because the timing of the development of the associated consumptive use is uncertain, Western chooses to not include future depletions within the ratesetting years. As more current information is supplied by the UCRC to Reclamation, Western will apply the ``reasonable expectation'' standard to these updated depletions. h. Comment: Western did not use the depletion schedule dated July 1994 which was received in draft form in April 1994.
