FR941130-1-00014 FR941130-1-00001 Recommended Further Amendment of the Marketing Agreement and Order The following amendment of the marketing agreement and order, both as amended, is recommended as the detailed means by which the foregoing conclusions may be carried out: PART 945_IRISH POTATOES GROWN IN CERTAIN DESIGNATED COUNTIES IN IDAHO, AND MALHEUR COUNTY, OREGON 1. The authority citation for 7 CFR part 945 continues to read as follows: Authority: 7 U.S.C. 601&hyph;674. 2. Section 945.9 is revised as follows: §945.9 Ship or handle. Ship is synonymous with handle and means to pack, sell, consign, transport or in any other way to place potatoes grown in the production area, or cause such potatoes to be placed, in the current of commerce within the production area or between the production area and any point outside thereof, so as to directly burden, obstruct, or affect any such commerce: Provided, That the definition of ship or handle shall not include the transportation of ungraded potatoes within the production area for the purpose of having such potatoes stored or prepared for market, except that the committee may impose safeguards pursuant to §945.53 with respect to such potatoes. 3. Section 945.20 is amended by revising paragraph (a) and adding a new paragraph (d) to read as follows: §945.20 Establishment and membership. (a) The Idaho-Eastern Oregon Potato Committee is hereby established consisting of eight members, of whom four shall currently be producers of potatoes for the fresh market who produced such potatoes during at least three of the last five years; at least one member shall be a producer predominately of potatoes for seed during a similar period; and three shall be handlers. For each member of the committee, there shall be an alternate who shall have the same qualifications as the member. The number of producer and/or handler members and alternates on the committee may be increased and the composition of the committee between producers and handlers may be changed as provided in §945.23. * * * * * (d) At least every six years, the committee shall review committee size, composition, and representation and recommend to the Secretary whether changes should be made, as provided in §945.23. 4. Sections 945.22 through 945.24 are revised to read as follows: §945.22 Districts. For the purpose of selecting committee members and alternate members, the following districts of the production area are hereby established: Provided, That these districts may be changed as provided in §945.23. (a) District No. 1: The counties of Bonneville, Butte, Clark, Fremont, Jefferson, Madison, and Teton; (b) District No. 2: The counties of Bannock, Bear Lake, Bingham, Caribou, Franklin, Oneida, and Power; and (c) District No. 3: Malheur County, Oregon, and the remaining designated counties in Idaho included in the production area, and not included in District No. 1 or District No. 2. §945.23 Redistricting and reapportionment. (a) The Secretary, upon recommendation of the committee, may reestablish districts within the production area, may reapportion committee membership among the various districts, may increase the number of producer and/or handler members and alternates on the committee, and may change the composition of the committee by changing the ratio between producer and handler members, including their alternates. At least every six years, the committee shall review committee size, composition and representation and recommend to the Secretary whether changes should be made. In recommending any such changes, the committee shall give consideration to: (1) Shifts in potato acreage within districts and within the production area during recent years; (2) The importance of new potato production in its relation to existing districts;
