FR940930-0-00141 FR940930-0-00028 As is discussed below in Section II.c., EPA cannot at this time make the determination that each set of CARB standards is, in the aggregate, at least as protective as the federal standards that apply to CFVs. Therefore, this final rule promulgates the emission standards and requirements for CFVs found in sections 242 and 243 of the CAA. EPA's reasoning to support this conclusion is included in Section II.c. Finally, CAA section 244 provides requirements regarding the administration and enforcement of CFV exhaust emission standards. In the event that numerical emission standards for CFVs up to 8,500 lbs. GVWR are the same under the federal and California LEV program, EPA is to administer and enforce those standards in the same manner and with the same flexibility as CARB does under the California LEV program. This requires utilizing the same interpretations and policy judgments including, but not limited to, requirements regarding certification, production-line testing, and in-use compliance. The application of California's administration and enforcement practices does not depend on whether EPA replaces federal requirements with California requirements under section 243(e). If the Administrator determines that adopting California's administration and enforcement approaches would not meet the criteria for a waiver under section 209, then federal administration and enforcement procedures and interpretations would apply. b. CARB's Low-Emission Vehicle Standards. Pursuant to CAA section 209, the State of California applied to EPA for a waiver on October 4, 1991 for its ``Low-Emission Vehicle and Clean Fuels Regulations''. EPA granted the waiver on January 7, 1993 (58 FR 4166, January 13, 1993). (Although states are generally preempted by CAA section 209 from adopting their own motor vehicle standards, California may adopt its own standards provided that EPA waivers the preemption provision of section 209.) California's regulations establish four new levels of vehicle emission standards, termed ``vehicle emission categories'', for LDVs, LDTs, and medium-duty trucks (MDTs). 9 These new standards are effective with 1994 model year vehicles. 10 The California emission categories are, in order of increasing stringency: TLEV (Transitional Low Emission Vehicle); LEV (Low Emission Vehicle); ULEV (Ultra Low Emission Vehicle); and ZEV (Zero Emission Vehicle). The TLEV exhaust emission standards for NMOG, CO, NO X , PM, and HCHO are identical to the federal Phase I CFV standards described above. The LEV exhaust emission standards are identical to the federal Phase II CFV standards. The California ULEV and ZEV standards are the same as the federal ULEV and ZEV categories, established for purposes of the CFF and Pilot program credit programs. CARB defines a ZEV as: 9 The medium-duty truck class is a vehicle class unique to CARB and includes trucks between 6,000 and 14,000 lbs GVWR. 10 See CARB's Proposed Regulations for Low-Emission Vehicles and Clean Fuels, Staff Report, available in EPA Air Docket A&hyph;91&hyph;23. *␣*␣*␣any vehicle which is certified *␣*␣* to produce zero emissions of any criteria pollutants under any and all possible operational modes and conditions. A ZEV may be equipped with a fuel fired heater provided that the fuel fired heater cannot be operated at ambient temperatures above 40 degrees Fahrenheit and the heater is demonstrated to have zero evaporative emissions under any and all possible operational modes and conditions. 11 11 California Code of Regualtions, Title 13, Definitions Section, Paragraph 15. CARB is allowing the use of intermediate in-use compliance standards that are intended to facilitate compliance by vehicle manufacturers. These in-use standards are numerically half way between the certification standards of the new emission category and the old emission category (e.g., half way between TLEV and LEV standards). These intermediate standards will be effective through MY 1995 for TLEVs and through MY 1998 for LEVs and ULEVs. c. Comparison of CAA and CARB Requirements. As discussed above, CAA section 243(e) provides that CARB's standards shall replace the federal CFV and other motor vehicle standards if the CARB standards are, in the aggregate, at least as protective of public health and welfare as the CAA standards. While EPA believes that Congress preferred that the statutory standards be replaced with the CARB standards, EPA cannot at this time make the determination that CARB standards are, in the aggregate, at least as protective as the federal standards. Therefore, as mentioned earlier, EPA is at this time establishing federal standards that will apply to CFVs in the CFF and Pilot program. As stated in the proposal, EPA believes that section 243(e)(2) requires a separate comparison of federal Phase I and Phase II standards to CARB standards. For the least stringent set of federal CFV standards (the Phase I standards), the appropriate comparison is to the least stringent set of California CFV standards (the TLEV standards). Similarly, the appropriate comparison for the federal Phase II standards is with the California LEV standards. The Phase I standards will apply to the Pilot program in the 1996 MY. The phase II standards will apply to the CFF program in the 1998 MY, and to the Pilot program in the 2001 MY. Therefore, the federal Phase I standards will not apply to any federal CFV program after MY 2001. For this reason, EPA considers the California LEV standards to be the least stringent set of qualifying California standards after MY 2001, and currently intends to apply the California LEV standard to the CFF and Pilot programs at that time if replacement of the federal Phase II standards is warranted under section 243(e)(2). EPA requested comment in the proposal on this interpretation of the CAA and no adverse comments were received.
