FR940916-1-00067 FR940916-1-00015 (c) The complete package, including the COR's approval memorandum, shall be delivered to the Building Pass Application Unit, Room 309, State Annex Number 1, Columbia Plaza, 2401 E Street NW., Washington, DC. The employee(s) for whom the pass(es) is/are being requested may be required to personally submit the application and to provide evidence of identity and United States citizenship. (d) All contractor employees shall wear the passes in plain sight at all times while in Department of State buildings. All contractor employees shall show their passes when entering these buildings and upon request. (e) All passes shall be returned to the COR upon separation of the employee, or expiration or termination of the contract. Final payment under this contract shall not be made until all passes are returned to the COR. (End of clause) 180. Section 652.237&hyph;72 is added to read as follows: 652.237&hyph;72 Observance of Legal Holidays and Administrative Leave. As prescribed in 637.110(c), insert the following clause: Observance of Legal Holidays and Administrative Leave (Aug 1994) (a) The Department of State observes the following days as holidays: New Year's Day Martin Luther King's Birthday Presidents' Day Memorial Day Independence Day Labor Day Columbus Day Veterans Day Thanksgiving Day Christmas Day Any other day designated by Federal law, Executive Order, or Presidential Proclamation. (b) When any such day falls on a Saturday, the preceding Friday is observed; when any such day falls on a Sunday, the following Monday is observed. Observance of such days by Government personnel shall not be cause for additional period of performance or entitlement to compensation except as set forth in the contract. If the contractor's personnel work on a holiday, no form of holiday or other premium compensation will be reimbursed either as a direct or indirect cost, unless authorized pursuant to an overtime clause elsewhere in this contract. (c) When the Department of State grants administrative leave to its Government employees, assigned contractor personnel in Government facilities shall also be dismissed. However, the contractor agrees to continue to provide sufficient personnel to perform round-the-clock requirements of critical tasks already in operation or scheduled, and shall be guided by the instructions issued by the contracting officer or his/her duly authorized representative. (d) For fixed-price contracts, if services are not required or provided because the building is closed due to inclement weather, unanticipated holidays declared by the President, failure of Congress to appropriate funds, or similar reasons, deductions will be computed as follows: (1) The deduction rate in dollars per day will be equal to the per month contract price divided by 21 days per month. (2) The deduction rate in dollars per day will be multiplied by the number of days services are not required or provided. If services are provided for portions of days, appropriate adjustment will be made by the contracting officer to ensure that the contractor is compensated for services provided. (e) If administrative leave is granted to contractor personnel as a result of conditions stipulated in any ``Excusable Delays'' clause of this contract, it will be without loss to the contractor. The cost of salaries and wages to the contractor for the period of any such excused absence shall be a reimbursable item of direct cost hereunder for employees whose regular time is normally charged, and a reimbursable item of indirect cost for employees whose time is normally charged indirectly in accordance with the contractor's accounting policy. (End of clause) 181. Section 652.242&hyph;70 is amended by revising the introductory text; by revising the clause date from ``(JUL 1988)'' to ``(AUG 1994)''; by designating the existing clause text as paragraph (a); and, by adding a new paragraph (b) to read as follows: 652.242&hyph;70 Contracting Officer's Representative (COR).
