FR941026-0-00029 FR941026-0-00008 (iii) A description of how the EDC will contribute to short- and long-term job creation and economic redevelopment of the base and community, including projected number, and type of new jobs it will assist in creating. (iv) A business and development plan for the EDC parcel, including such elements as: (A) A development timetable, phasing plan and cash flow analysis. (B) A market and financial feasibility analysis describing the economic viability of the project, including an estimate of net proceeds over a fifteen-year period, the proposed consideration or payment to the Department of Defense, and the estimated fair market value of the property. (C) A cost estimate and justification for infrastructure and other investments needed for the development of the EDC parcel. (D) Local investment and proposed financing strategies for the development. (v) A statement describing why other authorities_such as negotiated sale and public benefit transfers for education, parks, public health, aviation, historic monuments, prisons, and wildlife conservation_cannot be used to accomplish the economic development and job creation goals. (vi) If a transfer is requested for less than the estimated fair market value (``FMV''), with or without initial payment at the time of transfer, then a statement should be provided justifying the discount. The statement should include the amount and form of the proposed consideration, a payment schedule, the general terms and conditions for the conveyance, and projected date of conveyance. (vii) A statement of the LRA's legal authority to acquire and dispose of the property. (7) After receipt of an application for an EDC, the Secretary of the Military Department will determine whether an EDC is needed to spur economic development and job creation and examine whether the terms and conditions proposed are fair and reasonable. The Military Department may also consider information independent of the application, such as views of other Federal agencies, appraisals, caretaker costs and other relevant material. The Military Department may propose and negotiate any alternative terms or conditions that it considers necessary. (8) The following factors will be considered, as appropriate, in evaluating the application and the terms and conditions of the proposed transfer, including price, time of payment and other relevant methods of compensation to the Federal Government. (i) Adverse economic impact of closure on the region and potential for economic recovery after an EDC. (ii) Extent of short- and long-term job generation. (iii) Consistency with overall Redevelopment Plan. (iv) Financial feasibility of the development, including market analysis and need and extent of proposed infrastructure and other investments. (v) Extent of State and local investment and level of risk incurred. (vi) Current local and regional real estate market conditions. (vii) Incorporation of other Federal agency interests and concerns, and applicability of, and conflicts with, other Federal property disposal authorities. (viii) Relationship to the overall Military Department disposal plan for the installation. (ix) Economic benefit to the Federal Government, including protection and maintenance cost savings and anticipated consideration from the transfer. (x) Compliance with applicable Federal, State, and local laws and regulations. (f) Consideration. (1) For conveyances made pursuant to section 91.7(e), Economic Development Conveyances , the Secretary of the Military Department will review the application for an EDC and negotiate the terms and conditions of each transaction with the LRA. The Military Departments will have the discretion and flexibility to enter into agreements that specify the form, amount, and payment schedule. The consideration may be at or below the estimated fair market value, with or without initial payment, in cash or in-kind and paid over time. An EDC must be one of the two following types of agreements:
