FR941004-1-00083 FR941004-1-00018 Paragraph (b)(2) states the requirements in section 432 (a) and (b) of the Act that a plan will be approved only if it was developed through a process of joint planning between ACF and the State (or the Indian tribe), and only after broad consultation by the State (and the Indian tribe as indicated) with appropriate public and nonprofit private agencies and community-based organizations with experience in administering programs of services for children, youth and families. Paragraph (b)(3) proposes to require that the Annual Progress and Services Report will be approved only if it was developed through a process of joint planning between ACF and the State (or the Indian tribe) and if it meets the requirements of §1357.16 of this Part. Paragraph (b)(4) proposes to give the State and the Indian tribe the option of submitting the FY 1995&hyph;1999 CFSP and the FY 1996 Annual Progress and Services Report in the format of its choice, but requires that these two documents be submitted to the appropriate ACF Regional Office no later than June 30, 1995. Section 1357.15(c)␣Assurances We are proposing in §1357.15(c) that the CFSP must contain the assurances applicable to both title IV&hyph;B programs. Once signed by the appropriate official, the assurances will remain in effect on an ongoing basis (not just during the five-year plan) and will need to be re-submitted only if significant changes in the State's or the Indian tribe's program affects an assurance. In the interest of clarity and convenience for grantees, ACYF will develop a compilation of all assurances for the two title IV&hyph;B programs. Section 1357.15(d)␣The Child and Family Services Plan (CFSP): General Section 1357.15(d) proposes that the CFSP must be developed based on three important planning activities, two of which are found in both subparts of title IV&hyph;B (sections 422 and 432 of the Act). Subsequent paragraphs of this section contain specific requirements for these activities. The two statutory requirements are: •Broad involvement and consultation with a wide range of appropriate public and nonprofit private agencies and community-based organizations, parents, and others (see also §1357.15(l)); and •Coordination of the provision of services with other Federal and federally assisted programs serving children and families, including youth and adolescents (see also §1357.15(m)). In addition, we propose to add, as a necessary basis for planning and developing the CFSP, the collection of baseline information (see also §1357.15 (k)). We are not proposing the collection of extensive new data by States or Indian tribes, but are emphasizing the use of existing and available data supplemented, if needed, by specific studies. We believe such information will help States and Indian tribes determine those programmatic and/or geographic areas where the well-being of children and families is threatened; assess needs and existing services and resources; identify gaps in services; select priorities for services funding; assist in the selection of goals and objectives; and develop opportunities for bringing about more effective and accessible services for children, youth, and families. Child welfare information systems which States currently are designing and implementing based on recently authorized enhanced funding will be one source of valuable information during the implementation of the CFSP.
