FR940324-1-00022 FR940324-1-00007 These standards cover documentary materials created or received by electronic mail (E-mail) systems in Federal agencies. Because of the widespread use of E-mail for conducting agency business, many E-mail documents meet the definition of a ``record'' under the Federal Records Act (44 U.S.C. chapters 29, 31, and 33). The definition of ``record'' in the Federal Records Act encompasses documentary materials in all media. The Act requires the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA) to issue records management standards for all Federal agencies (44 U.S.C. 2094 and 2905). NARA has issued records management regulations on electronic records (36 CFR part 1234), guidance on electronic recordkeeping entitled Managing Electronic Records (1992), and General Records Schedules 20, Electronic Records, and 23, Records Common to Most Offices. The standards being proposed here expand the existing issuances and apply established records management and archival principles and techniques to records created or received on E-mail systems. They provide instructions to program officials, information specialists, records managers, and other E-mail users on the proper means of identifying, maintaining, and disposing of E-mail records. 2. Definitions The following definitions of terms used in these standards are included for clarity and convenience. We have provided citations to those that are based on definitions in the Federal Records Act or existing NARA guidance or regulations. ␣ Electronic Mail System. A computer application used to create, receive, and transmit messages and other documents or create calendars that can be used by multiple staff members. Excluded from this definition are file transfer utilities (software that transmits files between users but does not retain any transmission data), data systems used to collect and process data that have been organized into data files or data bases on either personal computers or mainframe computers, and word processing documents not transmitted on an E-mail system. ␣ Electronic Record. Numeric, graphic, text, and any other information recorded on any medium that can be read by using a computer and satisfies the definition of a Federal record in 44 U.S.C. 3301. This includes, but is not limited to, both on-line storage and off-line media such as tapes, disks, and optical disks. (36 CFR 1234.1) ␣ Electronic Mail Message. A document created or received on an E-mail system including brief notes, more formal or substantive narrative documents, and any attachments, such as word processing documents, which may be transmitted with the message. ␣ General Records Schedules. Schedules authorizing the disposal, after the lapse of specified periods of time, of records common to several or all agencies if such records will not, at the end of the periods specified, have sufficient administrative, legal, research, or other value to warrant their further preservation by the United States Government. (44 U.S.C. 3303a(d)) ␣ Nonrecord Material. Materials that do not meet the statutory definition of records (44 U.S.C. 3301), i.e., they were not created or received under Federal law or in connection with Government business, or they are not preserved or considered appropriate for preservation because they lack evidence of agency activities or information of value. In addition, the statute specifically excludes from coverage extra copies of documents kept only for convenience of reference, stocks of publications and processed documents, and library or museum materials intended solely for reference or exhibit. (36 CFR 1220.14, 1222.34(d)) Nonrecord materials also include personal papers and materials. ␣ Permanent Record. Any Federal record that NARA has determined to have sufficient value to warrant its continued preservation by the National Archives and Records Administration. (36 CFR 1220.14) ␣ Preserved Record. Documentary materials that have been deliberately filed, stored, or otherwise systematically maintained as evidence of the organization, functions, policies, decisions, procedures, operations, or other activities of the Government or because of the informational value of the data in them. This applies to documentary materials in a file or other storage system, including electronic files and systems, and those temporarily removed from the files or other storage system. ␣ Records. All books, papers, maps, photographs, machine readable materials, or other documentary materials, regardless of physical form or characteristics, made or received by an agency of the United States under Federal law or in connection with the transaction of public business and preserved or appropriate for preservation by that agency or its legitimate successor as evidence of the organization, functions, policies, decisions, procedures, operations, or other activities of the Government or because of the informational value of data in them. (44 U.S.C. 3301) ␣ Recordkeeping System. A system for collecting, organizing, and storing records in order to facilitate their preservation, retrieval, use, and disposition and to fulfill recordkeeping requirements. ␣ Records Management. The planning, controlling, directing, organizing, training, promoting, and other managerial activities involved with respect to records creation, records maintenance and use, and records disposition in order to achieve adequate and proper documentation of the policies and transactions of the Federal Government and effective and economical management of agency operations. (36 CFR 1220.14)
