FR940324-2-00160 FR940324-2-00091 Part F_Instructions for Completing Application Package. 1. SF&hyph;424_``Application for Federal Assistance''. 2. SF&hyph;424A_``Budget Information_Non-Construction Programs''. 3. SF&hyph;424B_``Assurances_Non-Construction''. 4. Restrictions on Lobbying Activities. 5. Disclosure on Lobbying Activities_SF&hyph;LLL. 6. Project Narrative. Part G_Application Procedures. 1. Availability of Forms. 2. Application Submission. 3. Intergovernmental Review. 4. Application Consideration. 5. Criteria for screening applications. a. Initial screening. b. Pre-rating review. c. Evaluation criteria. Part H_Post Award Information and Reporting Requirements. Part A_Preamble 1. Legislative Authority Section 681 of the Community Services Block Grant Act, as amended, authorizes the Secretary of Health and Human Services to make funds available under several programs to support program activities which will result in direct benefits to low-income people. This Program Announcement covers the grant authority found in Section 681(a)(2)(F) which authorizes the Secretary to make funds available to national or regional programs designed to provide instructional activities for low-income youth. The legislation further states that any instructional activity carried out under this program shall be carried out on the campus of an institution of higher education (as defined in Section 1201(a) of the Higher Education Act of 1965) and shall include: a. Access to the facilities and resources of such institution; b. An initial medical examination and follow-up referral or treatment, without charge, for youth during their participation in such activity; c. At least one nutritious meal daily, without charge, for participating youth during each day of participation; d. High quality instruction in a variety of sports (that shall include swimming and that may include dance and any other high quality recreational activity) provided by coaches and teachers from institutions of higher education and from elementary and secondary schools (as defined in sections 1471(8) and 1471(21) of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965); and e. Enrichment instruction and information on matters relating to the well-being of youth, such as educational opportunities and study practices, the prevention of drug and alcohol abuse, health and nutrition, career opportunities, and job responsibilities. 2. Definitions of Terms For purposes of this Program Announcement the following definitions apply: _Low-income youth: a child between the ages of 10 through 16 whose family income does not exceed the DHHS Poverty Income Guidelines, _Eligible applicant: States, public and private non-profit agencies and organizations with a demonstrated ability to successfully develop and implement programs and activities similar to those enumerated above. _Budget period: The interval of time into which a grant period of assistance is divided for budgetary and funding purposes. _Project period: The total time for which a project is approved for support, including any approved extensions. Part B_Application Prerequisites 1. Eligible Applicants OCS will only consider those applications received from entities which are eligible applicants as specified in Part A 2. of this announcement. Non-profit organizations must include proof of their non-profit status in their applications. Failure to do so will result in rejection of their applications. 2. Availability of Funds and Grant Amount a. FY'94 funding: The funds available for grant awards under the National Youth Sports Program are $12,000,000. b. Grant amounts: Grant applications may be submitted for an amount up to $12,000,000. c. Matching requirements: The grants require a match of either cash or third party in-kind of one dollar for each dollar awarded. For any application requesting Federal funds in excess of $9,400,000, the applicant must provide cash or in-kind of one dollar for each Federal dollar requested up to $9,400,000 and a cash match of 29% of the Federal funds requested in excess of $9,400,000. 3. Project Period and Budget Period The project and budget periods must not exceed 12 months, with significant amount of program activities to be undertaken in the period covering July and August 1994. 4. Administrative Costs/Indirect Costs There is no administrative cost limitation for projects funded under this program. Indirect costs consistent with approved Indirect Cost Rate Agreements are allowable. Applicants should enclose a copy of the current approved rate agreement. However, it should be understood that indirect costs are part of, and not in addition to, the amount of funds awarded in the subject grant. 5. Program Beneficiaries Projects proposed for funding under this announcement must result in direct benefits targeted toward 10&hyph;16 year olds from low-income families. Attachment A to this announcement is an excerpt from the most recently published Poverty Income guidelines. Annual revisions of these Guidelines are normally published in the Federal Register in February or early March of each year and are applicable to projects being implemented at the time of publication. Grantees will be required to apply the most recent Guidelines throughout the project period. The Federal Register may be obtained from public libraries, Congressional offices, or by writing the Superintendent of Documents, U.S. Government Printing Office, Washington, DC 20402. No other government agency or privately defined poverty guidelines are applicable to the determination of low-income eligibility for this OCS program.
