FR940912-2-00073 FR940912-2-00056 [File No. 941 0085] Roche Holding Ltd., et al.; Proposed Consent Agreement With Analysis To Aid Public Comment AGENCY: Federal Trade Commission. ACTION: Proposed Consent Agreement. SUMMARY: In settlement of alleged violations of federal law prohibiting unfair acts and practices and unfair methods of competition, this consent agreement, accepted subject to final Commission approval, would permit, among other things, Roche Holding Ltd. to acquire Syntex Corporation and its subsidiary, Syva, and would require Roche to divest Syva's drugs of abuse testing (DAT) business within 12 months to a Commission-approved buyer, to operate the Syva assets separately from its own DAT business pending the divestiture, and to obtain, for ten years, prior Commission approval before acquiring assets or interests of any entity involved in the market for drugs of abuse reagent products. DATES: Comments must be received on or before November 14, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments should be directed to: FTC/Office of the Secretary, Room 159, 6th St. and Pa. Ave., NW., Washington, DC 20580. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Claudia Higgins or Ann Malester, FTC/S&hyph;2224, Washington, DC 20580. (202) 326&hyph;2682. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Pursuant to Section 6(f) of the Federal Trade Commission Act, 38 Stat. 721, 15 U.S.C. 46 and ยง2.34 of the Commission's Rules of Practice (16 CFR 2.34), notice is hereby given that the following consent agreement containing a consent order to cease and desist, having been filed with and accepted, subject to final approval, by the Commission, has been placed on the public record for a period of sixty (60) days. Public comment is invited. Such comments or views will be considered by the Commission and will be available for inspection and copying at its principal office in accordance with ยง4.9(b)(6)(ii) of the Commission's Rules of Practice (16 CFR 4.9(b)(6)(ii)). In the Matter of: Roche Holding Ltd, a corporation, and Syntex Corporation, a corporation; Agreement Containing Consent Order. The Federal Trade Commission (``Commission''), having initiated an investigation of the proposed acquisition by Roche Capital Corporation, a Panamanian corporation and an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Roche Holding Ltd, a Swiss corporation (collectively referred to as ``Roche''), of Syntex Corporation (``Syntex''), and it now appearing that Roche and Syntex, hereinafter sometimes referred to as ``Proposed Respondents,'' are willing to enter into an agreement containing an order to divest certain assets and cease and desist from making certain acquisitions, and providing for certain other relief: It is hereby agreed by and between Proposed Respondents, by their duly authorized officers and attorneys, and counsel for the Commission that:
