FR940118-1-00024 FR940118-1-00006 (d) In the case of a royalty fee distribution proceeding, each party must state in the written direct case its percentage or dollar claim to the fund. In the case of a rate adjustment proceeding, each part must state its requested rate. No party will be precluded from revising its claim or its requested rate at any time during the proceeding up to the filing of the proposed findings of fact and conclusions of law. (e) No evidence, including exhibits, may be submitted in the written direct case without a sponsoring witness, except where the Panel has taken official notice, or in the case of incorporation by reference of past records, or for good cause shown. (f) Written rebuttal cases of the parties shall be filed at a time designated by a CARP upon conclusion of the hearing of the direct case in the same form and manner as the direct case, except that the claim or the requested rate shall not have to be included if it has not changed from the direct case. ยง251.44 Filing and service of written cases and pleadings. (a) Copies filed with a Copyright Arbitration Royalty Panel. In all filings with a Copyright Arbitration Royalty Panel, the submitting party shall deliver, in such a fashion as the Panel shall direct, an original and three copies to the Panel. The submitting party shall also deliver one copy to the Copyright Office at the address listed in ยง251.1. In the case of exhibits whose bulk or whose cost of reproduction would unnecessarily encumber the record or burden the party, a CARP may reduce the number of copies required by the Panel, but a complete copy must still be submitted to the Copyright Office. In no case shall a party tender any written case or pleading by facsimile transmission. (b) Copies filed with the Librarian of Congress. In all pleadings filed with the Librarian of Congress, the submitting party shall deliver an original and five copies to the Copyright Office. In no case shall a party tender any pleading by facsimile transmission. (c) English language translations. In all filings with a CARP or the Librarian of Congress, each submission that is in a language other than English shall be accompanied by an English-language translation, duly verified under oath to be a true translation. Any other party to the proceeding may, in response, submit its own English-language translation, similarly verified. (d) Affidavits. The testimony of each witness in a party's written case, direct or rebuttal, shall be accompanied by an affidavit or a declaration made pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 1746 supporting the testimony. (e) Subscription and verification. (1) The original of all documents filed by any party represented by counsel shall be signed by at least one attorney of record and shall list the attorney's address and telephone number. All copies shall be conformed. Except for English-language translations, written cases, or when otherwise required, documents signed by the attorney for a party need not be verified or accompanied by an affidavit. The signature of an attorney constitutes certification that he or she has read the document, that to the best of his or her knowledge and belief there is good ground to support it, and that it has been interposed for purposes of delay. (2) The original of all documents filed by a party not represented by counsel shall be both signed and verified by that party and list that party's address and telephone number. (3) The original of a document that is not signed, or is signed with the intent to defeat the purpose of this section, may be stricken as sham and false, and the matter shall proceed as though the document had not been filed.
