FR940602-1-00052 FR940602-1-00013 (b) Snatch blocks shall be used to provide a fair lead for the bull line so as to avoid unnecessary dragging of the bull line against coamings and obstructions. (c) Snatch blocks shall not be used with the point of the hook resting on the flange of a beam, but shall be hung from padeyes, straps, or beam clamps. Snatch blocks or straps shall not be made fast to batten cleats or other insecure fittings. (d) Beam frame clamps shall be so secured as to prevent their slipping, falling, or being pulled from their stationary attachment. (e) Falls led from cargo booms of vessels shall not be used to move scows, lighters or railcars. ยง1918.85 Containerized cargo operations. (a) Container markings. Every intermodal container shall be legibly and permanently marked with: (l) The weight of the container when empty, in pounds; (2) The maximum cargo weight the container is designed to carry, in pounds; and (3) The sum of the weight of the container and the maximum cargo weight, in pounds. (b) Container weight. No container shall be hoisted by any lifting appliance unless the following conditions have been met: (1) The employer shall ascertain from the carrier whether a container to be hoisted is loaded or empty. Empty containers shall be identified before loading or discharge in such a manner as will inform every supervisor and foreman on the site and in charge of loading or discharging, or every crane or other hoisting equipment operator and signalman, if any, that such container is empty. Methods of identification may include cargo plans, manifests, or markings on the container. (2) In the case of a loaded container: (i) The actual gross weight shall be plainly marked so as to be visible to the crane or other hoisting equipment operator or signalman, or to every supervisor or foreman on site and in charge of the operation; or (ii) The cargo stowage plan or equivalent permanently recorded display serving the same purpose, containing the actual gross weight and the serial number or other positive identification of that specific container, shall be provided to the crane or other hoisting equipment operator and signalman, if any, and to every supervisor and foreman on site and in charge of the operation. (3) Every outbound container which is received at a marine terminal ready to load aboard a vessel without further consolidation or loading shall be weighed to obtain the actual gross weight, either at the terminal or elsewhere, before being hoisted. (4) (i) When container weighing scales are located at a marine terminal, any outbound container with a load consolidated at that terminal shall be weighed to obtain the actual weight before being hoisted. (ii) If the terminal has no scales, the actual gross weight may be calculated on the basis of the container's contents and the container's empty weight. The weights used in the calculation shall be posted conspicuously on the container, with the name of the person making the calculation, and the date. (5) Open top vehicle carrying containers, and those built specifically and used solely for the carriage of compressed gases, are excepted from paragraphs (b)(3) and (b)(4) of this section. (6) Closed dry van containers carrying vehicles are exempted from paragraph (b)(4) of this section provided that: (i) The container carries only completely assembled vehicles and no other cargo; (ii) The container is marked on the outside in such a manner that an employee can readily discern that the container is carrying vehicles; and (iii) The vehicles were loaded into the container at the marine terminal. (7) The weight of loaded inbound containers from foreign ports shall be determined by weighing, by the method of calculation described in paragraph (b)(4)(ii) of this section or by shipping documents. (8) Any scale used within the United States to weigh containers for the purpose of the requirements of this section shall meet the accuracy standards of the state or local public authority in which the scale is located.
