FR940610-2-00130 FR940610-2-00068 E. Master Service means the entity that is a party to the pooling and servicing agreement relating to trust assets and is fully responsible for servicing, directly or through subservicers, the assets of the trust. F. Subservicer means an entity which, under the supervision of and on behalf of the master servicer, services receivables contained in the trust, but is not a party to the pooling and servicing agreement. G. Servicer means any entity which services receivables contained in the trust, including the master servicer and any subservicer. H. Trustee means the trustee of the trust, and in the case of certificates which are denominated as debt instruments, also means the trustee of the indenture trust. I. Insurer means the insurer or guarantor of, or provider of other credit support for, a trust. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a person is not an insurer solely because it holds securities representing an interest in a trust which are of a class subordinated to certificates representing an interest in the same trust. J. Obligor means any person, other than the insurer, that is obligated to make payments with respect to any obligation or receivable included in the trust. Where a trust contains qualified motor vehicle leases or qualified equipment notes secured by leases, obligor shall also include any owner of property subject to any lease included in the trust, or subject to any lease securing an obligation included in the trust. K. Excluded Plan means any plan with respect to which any member of the Restricted Group is a ``plan sponsor'' within the meaning of section 3(16)(B) of the Act. L. Restricted Group with respect to a class of certificates means: (1) Each underwriter; (2) Each insurer; (3) The sponsor; (4) The trustee; (5) Each servicer; (6) Any obligor with respect to obligations or receivables included in the trust constituting more than 5 percent of the aggregate unamortized principal balance of the assets in the trust, determined on the date of the initial issuance of certificates by the trust; or (7) Any affiliate of a person described in (1)&hyph;(6) above. M. Affiliate of another person includes: (1) Any person directly or indirectly, through one or more intermediaries, controlling, controlled by, or under common control with such other person; (2) Any officer, director, partner, employee, relative (as defined in section 3(15) of the Act), a brother, a sister, or a spouse of a brother or sister of such other person; and (3) Any corporation or partnership of which such other person is an officer, director or partner. N. Control means the power to exercise a controlling influence over the management or policies of a person other than an individual. O. A person will be ``independent'' of another person only if: (1) Such person is not an affiliate of that other person; and (2) The other person, or an affiliate thereof, is not a fiduciary who has investment management authority or renders investment advice with respect to any assets of such person. P. Sale includes the entrance into a forward delivery commitment (as defined in section Q below), provided: (1) The terms of the forward delivery commitment (including any fee paid to the investing plan) are no less favorable to the plan than they would be in an arm's length transaction with an unrelated party; (2) The prospectus or private placement memorandum is provided to an investing plan prior to the time the plan enters into the forward delivery commitment; and (3) At the time of the delivery, all conditions of this exemption applicable to sales are met. Q. Forward delivery commitment means a contract for the purchase of sale of one or more certificates to be delivered at an agreed future settlement date. The term includes both mandatory contracts (which contemplate obligatory delivery and acceptance of the certificates) and optional contracts (which give one party the right but not the obligation to deliver certificates to, or demand delivery of certificates from, the other party). R. Reasonable compensation has the same meaning as that term is defined in 29 CFR 2550.408c&hyph;2. S. Qualified Administrative Fee means a fee which meets the following criteria: (1) The fee is triggered by an act or failure to act by the obligor other than the normal timely payment of amounts owing in respect of the obligations;
