FR940414-2-00105 FR940414-2-00074 [Rel. No. IC&hyph;20205; 812&hyph;8824] ITT Hartford Life and Annuity Insurance Company, et al. April 8, 1994. AGENCY: The Securities and Exchange Commission (the ``SEC'' or the ``Commission''). ACTION: Notice of Application for Exemption under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the ``1940 Act''). APPLICANTS: ITT Hartford Life and Annuity Insurance Company (``ITT Hartford''), ITT Hartford Life and Annuity Insurance Company/Putnam Capital Manager Trust Separate Account Two (the ``Separate Account'') and Hartford Equity Sales Company, Inc. (``HESCO''), collectively, the ``Applicants.'' RELEVANT 1940 ACT SECTIONS: Order requested under section 6(c) of the 1940 Act for exemptions from sections 26(a)(2)(C) and 27(c)(2) of the 1940 Act. SUMMARY OF APPLICATION: Applicants seek an order permitting the deduction of a mortality and expense risk charge from the assets of the Separate Account which serves as the funding medium for certain deferred variable annuity contracts issued by ITT Hartford (the ``Contracts''). FILING DATE: The Application was filed initially on February 7, 1994, and subsequently amended on March 24, 1994, and April 4, 1994. HEARING OR NOTIFICATION OF HEARING: An order granting the application will be issued unless the Commission orders a hearing. Interested persons may request a hearing on the application by writing to the Secretary of the Commission and serving the Applicants with a copy of the request, either personally or by mail. Hearing requests must be received by the Commission by 5:30 p.m. on May 3, 1994, and should be accompanied by proof of service on the Applicants in the form of an affidavit or, for lawyers, by certificate. Hearing requests should state the nature of the interest, the reason for the request, and the issues contested. Persons may request notification of the date of a hearing by writing to the Secretary of the Commission. ADDRESSES: Secretary, SEC, 450 5th Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549. Applicants, c/o Kathleen A. McGah, Counsel, Hartford Life Insurance Company, 200 Hopmeadow Street, Simsbury, CT 06089. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Patrice M. Pitts, Attorney, or Michael V. Wible, Special Counsel, Office of Insurance Products, Division of Investment Management, at (202) 272&hyph;2060. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The following is a summary of the Application. The complete application is available for a fee from the Commission's Public Reference Branch. Applicants' Representations 1. ITT Hartford, formerly ITT Insurance Corporation, is a stock life insurance company domiciled in Wisconsin. 2. On May 20, 1991, the Board of Directors of Hartford Life established the Separate Account. The Separate Account issues only flexible premium tax deferred variable annuity contracts. The Separate Account consists of several subaccounts (the ``Subaccounts''), each of which invests in certain underlying registered investment companies. 3. In December 1993, the Separate Account filed a Form N&hyph;4 to register interests of a new flexible premium contract to be funded by the Separate Account (the ``New Contract''). 4. HESCO will serve as the principal underwriter for the Contracts (including the New Contract). HESCO is registered with the Commission as a broker dealer under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and is a member of the National Association of Securities Dealers. 5. Contract owners may allocate purchase payments to any one or more of the Subaccounts, to the fixed account (the ``Fixed Account'') which is part of the general account of ITT Hartford, or to a combination of the Subaccounts and the Fixed Account. 6. A Contract owner may select one of four annuity options: life annuity; life annuity with 120, 180 or 240 monthly payments; joint and last survivor annuity; and payments for a designated period. Each annuity option provides for a series of annuity payments commencing on the annuity commencement date. 7. If upon death, prior to the annuity commencement date, the annuitant or the Contract owner, as applicable, had not attained his or her 90th birthday, the beneficiary of the Contract will receive the greatest of: (i) The Contract value determined as of the day written proof of death of such person is received by ITT Hartford; (ii) 100% of the total purchase payments made to such Contract; or (iii) The maximum anniversary value 1 increased by the dollar amount of any purchase payments made and reduced by the dollar amount of any partial surrenders (commonly referred to as a ``stepped up'' death benefit). If the deceased, the annuitant or the Contract owner, as applicable, has attained age 90, the death benefit will equal the Contract value. 1 The maximum anniversary value is equal to the greatest anniversary value attained as follows. The anniversary value is equal to the Contract value on a Contract anniversary (anniversary of the effective date of the Contract), increased by the dollar amount of any premium payments made since that anniversary and reduced by the dollar amount of any partial surrenders since that anniversary. As of the date of death, Hartford Life will calculate anniversary value for each Contract anniversary prior to the decedent's 81st birthday. 8. Contract Owners will not pay a sales charge at the time of purchase. However, a contingent deferred sales charge (``CDSC'') may be assessed against Contract values when they are surrendered. The length of time from receipt of a premium payment to the time of surrender determines the contingent deferred sales charge. Purchase payments will be deemed to be surrendered in the order in which they are received and all surrenders will be first from purchase payments and then from other Contract values. The CDSC equals 6% the first year, 6% the second year, 5% the third year, 5% the fourth year, 4% the fifth year and 3% the sixth year, and 2% the seventh year, and 0% the eighth year. 9. During the first seven Contract years, on a non-cumulative basis, a Contract owner may make a partial surrender of Contract values of up to 10% of the aggregate premium payments made to the Contract (as determined on the date of the requested withdrawal) without the application of the CDSC. After the seventh Contract year, the Contract owner may make a partial surrender of the greater of 10% of premium payments made during the seven years prior to the surrender, or 100% of the Contract value less the premium payments made during the seven years prior to the surrender, without the application of a CDSC. 10. ITT Hartford will deduct from Contract value each year a daily administrative charge at the rate of .15% per annum. In addition, for Contracts with Contract value less than $50,000, ITT Hartford will deduct from Contract value each year, on the Contract anniversary, a maintenance fee of $30. The annual maintenance fee is designed to reimburse ITT Hartford for expenses relating to the administration and maintenance of a Contract and the Subaccounts. 11. The Applicants represent that neither the annual maintenance charge nor the administrative charge may be increased during the life of the Contracts. Moreover, Applicants do not expect the annual maintenance and administrative charges to exceed ITT Hartford's average expected costs of administering the Contracts. 12. ITT Hartford will deduct a daily charge at the rate of 1.25% per annum to compensate it for providing mortality and expense guarantees with respect to the Contracts. (The Applicants estimate that of the 1.25% charge, 0.90% is for mortality risk and 0.35% is for expense risk.)
