FR940805-1-00078 FR940805-1-00013 (2) Unit size. The detention facility shall operate with living units of no more than twenty-five juveniles each. (3) Co-located adult and juvenile facility. If the juvenile facility is on the grounds of any other type of detention facility, it shall be a separate, self-contained unit. The facility shall comply with the separation criteria of 49 CFR Parts 2054 through 2055, which require: (i) separation between spatial areas so that there could be no accidental contact between juveniles and adults in their respective facilities; (ii) total separation in all juvenile and adult program activities within facilities, including recreation, education, counseling, health care, dining, sleeping and general living activities; (iii) separate juvenile and adult staff, including management, security and direct care staff, such as recreation, education and counseling. Specialized services staff, such as cooks, bookkeepers and medical professionals who are not normally in contact with detainees or whose infrequent contacts occur under conditions of separation of juvenile and adults, can serve both. (iv) compliance with BIA standards and BIA accreditation. (4) Separation of classifications. The facility shall be designed and constructed so that juveniles can be separated according to the requirements identified in these standards and the facility's classification plan. (5) Separation of males and females. Male and female juveniles shall not share the same sleeping room. (6) Supervision. All living areas shall be constructed to facilitate continuous staff observation, excluding electronic surveillance, of living and activity areas, such as dayrooms and recreation spaces. (7) Continuously observable housing. The facility shall provide a minimum of two single occupancy cells that can be continuously observed by staff and which allow juveniles to communicate with staff. (8) Rated capacity. The number of juveniles shall not exceed the facility's rated capacity with the exception of mass arrests. (9) Location. The facility shall be located conveniently for juvenile justice agencies, the health authority, community agencies and juveniles' legal representatives, families and friends. (c) Environmental conditions _(1) Artificial light levels. Lighting levels in juvenile cells or rooms shall be at least twenty footcandles at the desk and in the personal grooming areas. Lighting levels throughout the facility shall be appropriate to the tasks and activities carried out in its spaces. An independent, qualified source shall document lighting levels. (2) Noise levels. Noise levels shall not exceed seventy decibels in the daytime and forty five decibels at night. An independent, qualified source shall document noise levels. (3) Indoor air quality. Air circulation shall be at least ten cubic feet of outside or recirculated filtered air per minute per occupant. An independent, qualified source shall document air circulation. (4) Use of tobacco. The administrator shall prohibit the use of tobacco in the facility by staff, juveniles and the public except in traditional ceremonies and then only in designated areas. (5) Heating and cooling. Temperatures shall be appropriate to the summer and winter comfort zones. (d) Security _(1) Control center. In secure facilities, a twenty-four hour control area shall monitor and coordinate the facility's security, safety and communications systems. The facility shall have a communication system between a continuously staffed location and the juvenile living areas. (2) Perimeter security. The perimeter shall be secured in a way that juveniles remain in the perimeter and that access by the general public is denied without proper authorization. There shall be security doors between juvenile areas and areas to which the public has access. (3) Security equipment storage. The facility shall provide space for the secure storage of chemical agents, restraining devices and related security equipment. The equipment shall be located outside juvenile living and activity areas in a place that is readily accessible to authorized persons only. Firearms shall not be stored in the facility other than on a temporary basis, in gunlockers located outside the security perimeter. (4) Emergency exits. In compliance with 29 CFR 1910.37, designated exits in the facility shall permit prompt evacuation of juveniles and staff members in an emergency. Facility exits shall be properly positioned, clear and distinctly and permanently marked. (5) Protective holding cells. Other than as indicated in the mass arrest policy, single occupancy protective holding cells shall be used only for the temporary holding of persons during the admission process for periods of up to eight hours. Each room or cell shall have, at a minimum: (i) sixty square feet of floor space; (ii) toilet facilities that are located above floor level, provide some degree of privacy and are available for use without staff assistance twenty-four hours a day; (iii) hot and cold running water; and (iv) a bed or fixed bench at or above floor level. (6) Emergency equipment. The facility shall have the equipment necessary to maintain essential lights, power, ventilation, power-operated doors or locks and communication in an emergency. (7) Visual surveillance equipment. When visual electronic surveillance is used, it shall be located primarily in hallways, elevators, corridors, or at points on the security perimeter such as entrances and exits. (e) New facility planning process _(1) New facility planning requirement. All new construction, renovation and expansion projects shall follow the Planning of New Institutions (PONI) process as required by 25 CFR Part 296. (2) Safety management review. The design and specifications for all new construction, renovation and expansion projects shall be reviewed by the Bureau of Indian Affairs in compliance with 29 CFR 1960, Subparts B through D. (f) New construction, renovation and expansion _(1) Single occupancy requirements (general population). Only one juvenile shall occupy each cell or detention room designed for single occupancy. All single general population rooms or cells shall have at least sixty square feet of floor space, provided juveniles spend no more than ten hours per day locked in. When confinement exceeds ten hours per day, there shall be at least seventy square feet of floor space. In general population, each room or cell shall have, at a minimum: (i) natural light; (ii) toilet facilities with some degree of privacy that are located above floor level and are available for use without staff assistance twenty-four hours a day; (iii) a wash basin with hot and cold running water; (iv) access to showers; and (v) a bed above floor level, a desk or writing surface, safety-type hooks or closet space, and a chair or stool. (2) Single occupancy requirements (special management). Only one juvenile shall occupy each cell or detention room designed for single occupancy. The facility shall provide single cell occupancy for special management classifications and other classifications as defined and justified in the PONI program. At least one special management cell shall be vented directly to the exterior. In special management, segregation rooms shall provide living conditions that approximate those of the general juvenile population. All exceptions shall be clearly documented. Each special management room or cell shall have, at a minimum: (i) natural light; (ii) a minimum of seventy square feet of floor space; (iii) toilet facilities with some degree of privacy that are located above floor level and that are available for use without staff assistance twenty-four hours a day; (iv) access to showers; (v) hot and cold running water; and (vi) a bed at or above floor level, a desk or writing surface, and a stool. (3) Multiple occupancy requirements. Where used, multiple occupancy rooms or cells shall house juveniles, who have been screened for suitability to group living and classified accordingly. The rooms shall provide: (i) continuous observation by staff;
