FR941025-2-00067 FR941025-2-00045 Researchers struggle alone or in small groups with the ramifications of the research process. Some are unclear about their obligations to report disclosures of abuse or neglect in research situations. Researchers also are of varied opinions about: •Inquiring directly of young children about abuse and neglect; •Reporting families to systems where services are unavailable or may be punitive; and •Providing treatment services within their projects designed for research. With a working group, NCCAN intends to provide assistance to the field in cooperation with the Inter-Agency Task Force by providing a forum for the development of consensus on ethical issues as recommended in the NRC report. (For details, see NRC, ``Ethical and Legal Issues in Child Maltreatment Research,'' pp. 324&hyph;336.) Background papers could include working papers on legal ethical issues, treatment issues, and reporting issues. Products could include: policy recommendations for Institutional Review Boards (IRBs), policy guidelines for grantees and others conducting research in child abuse and neglect, and (pending the cooperation of a professional association or journal) a summary monograph or special journal issue publication. Coordination with the NCCAN Clearinghouse project on State statutes would be required. D. Symposia In addition to the above activities, NCCAN proposes to convene symposia in FY 1995 and 1996 with selected experts on subject areas of critical concern to the field of child abuse and neglect. The selection of topics for the symposia will focus on issues in which some research and demonstration efforts have occurred but for which there may be no synchronized or congruous direction. The purpose of each symposium is to review what is known to the field, but needs further exploration, and to identify areas about which little is known and which require closer examination. The symposia should result in recommendations for multi-year strategies for further exploring some topics and for identifying new areas for examination. Comments are requested on the following symposia topics which NCCAN proposes to address in FY 1995 or 1996: •Domestic Violence and Child Abuse and Neglect Studies of domestic violence indicate that child abuse and neglect frequently occur within families where there is violence between the adults (Strauss, Gelles and Steinmetz, 1980; Walker, 1985; Stark and Flitcraft, 1985, 1988; Bowker, 1988; McCloskey and Koss, 1992). There is also a growing awareness that children who witness physical violence between their parents are at risk of emotional abuse and neglect (Rosenbaum and O'Leary, 1981; Goodman and Rosenberg, 1987; Crites and Coker, 1988). In the 1980's NCCAN supported demonstration projects to provide services to children whose mothers are in domestic violence shelters, to train clinicians to identify both domestic violence and child abuse in families in a hospital setting, to prevent both domestic violence and child abuse. NCCAN also supported a research project on psychiatric and behavioral consequences for children of battered women during this period. Programs that train child welfare practitioners in the clinical issues of domestic violence or vice versa, and programs that link domestic violence shelters and child welfare agencies have been created in a number of communities.
