FR940603-2-00057 FR940603-2-00039 2. Objectives for the new budget period are realistic, specific, and measurable; 3. Proposed changes in described long-term objectives, methods of operation, need for cooperative agreement support, and/or evaluation procedures will lead to achievement of project objectives; and 4. The budget request is clearly justified and consistent with the intended use of cooperative agreement funds. Funding Priorities Applicants must demonstrate the abilities described earlier in the Program Requirements section of this announcement. Priority will be given for the following: 1. Geographic distribution across the entire United States. 2. Representation from both agricultural and industrial States. 3. Electronic data management/transfer capabilities, and in-kind technical support. Public Comments are not being solicited regarding the funding priority because time does not permit solicitation and review prior to the funding date. Executive Order 12372 Review Applications are subject to Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs as governed by Executive Order (E.O.) 12372. E.O. 12372 sets up a system for State and local government review of proposed Federal assistance applications. Applicants (other than federally recognized Indian tribal governments) should contact their State Single Point of Contact (SPOC) as early as possible to alert them to the prospective applications and receive any necessary instructions on the State process. For proposed projects serving more than one State, the applicant is advised to contact the SPOC of each affected State. A current list of SPOCs including their names, addresses, and telephone numbers is included in the application kit. If SPOCs have any State process recommendations on applications submitted to CDC, they should forward them to Henry S. Cassell, III, Grants Management Officer, Grants Management Branch, Procurement and Grants Office, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), 255 East Paces Ferry Road, NE., Atlanta, Georgia 30305, no later than 60 days after the application deadline. The granting agency does not guarantee to ``accommodate or explain'' for State process recommendations it receives after that date. Indian tribes are strongly encouraged to request tribal government review of the proposed application. If tribal governments have any tribal process recommendations on applications submitted to CDC, they should forward them to Henry S. Cassell, III, Grants Management Officer, Grants Management Branch, Procurement and Grants Office, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), 255 East Paces Ferry Road, NE., Mail Stop E&hyph;13, Atlanta, Georgia 30305. This should be done no later than 60 days after the application deadline date. The granting agency does not guarantee to ``accommodate or explain'' for tribal process recommendations it receives after that date. Public Health System Reporting Requirements This program is not subject to the Public Health System Reporting Requirements. Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance Number The Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance number is 93.161. Other Requirements Paperwork Reduction Act Projects that involve collection of information from 10 or more individuals and funded by cooperative agreement will be subject to review by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) under the Paperwork Reduction Act. OMB clearance has been obtained for the Hazardous Substances Emergency Events Data Collection Form OMB Number 0923&hyph;008, expiration date June 30, 1995.
