FR940525-1-00026 FR940525-1-00007 Example 1B_A First Loss Position That Qualifies for the Low-Level Recourse Rule Bank A issues three classes of securities that are backed by a $212 million, well-diversified pool of consumer loans that individually qualify for the 100% risk-weight category_a bottom-level subordinated class of $12 million, a middle-level subordinated class of $20 million and a senior class of $180 million. Bank A retains the bottom-level class and sells the other two classes to banking organizations or thrifts. Without the proposed low-level recourse rule, Bank A's capital requirement for the $12 million bottom-level subordinated class would be $16.96 million, i.e. , a full risk-based capital requirement of 8% against the $212 million mortgage pool enhanced by this class. The low-level recourse rule, however, would allow the risk-based capital requirement to fall below the full effective capital requirement when the recourse obligation falls below the full effective capital requirement. Thus, the capital requirement would be the lesser of either the maximum contractual recourse obligation or the full effective capital requirement. Consequently, the bottom-level class in this example would be assessed dollar-for-dollar capital up to its $12 million carrying value, for a capital requirement of $12 million. Because the bottom-level subordinated class provides sufficient first dollar loss enhancement, a nationally recognized statistical rating organization gives the $20 million middle class an investment grade rating. Since this class is rated investment grade, risk-based capital would be assessed against it at the 100% risk-weight, based solely on its carrying value. That is, the holder of the middle-level class would not be assessed any capital against the senior class it supports. The same rating organization gives its highest credit rating to the $180 million senior class. Since this is the most senior class, has the highest possible credit rating, and all prior enhancements are performance risk-free, risk-based capital would be assessed against this class at the 20% risk-weight. Table 2 summarizes this example.
