FR940719-2-00018 FR940719-2-00003 B. ``Average Daily Settlement Price'' means the average derived by totaling the Kansas City Board of Trade commodity futures daily final closing settlement price for wheat for each full active trading day during the month and dividing this sum by the number of full active trading days during the month. For purposes of determining the Average Daily Settlement Price, there must be fifteen (15) or more full active trading days during the applicable month. If there are fourteen (14) or less full active trading days during the applicable month, no indemnity shall be payable as to Your wheat Crop. A full active trading day is any trading day on the Kansas City Board of Trade commodity futures market during which more than 50 wheat futures contracts are traded. C. In the event that trading on the Kansas City Board of Trade commodity futures market for wheat is suspended or terminated so that for purposes of determining the Average Daily Settlement Price there are fourteen (14) or less active trading days during the applicable month, no indemnity shall be payable under this Policy as to such wheat Crop, and that portion of the Premium paid by You which is applicable to such wheat Crop shall be refunded by Us. Article XIV_Definitions is amended by adding, after paragraph H, the following new paragraph I: I. ``Fall Wheat'' is defined as a wheat crop seeding during the fall months of the year, overwintered in the field and harvested the following season: Pursuant to the ``Insurance Period'' Section of Article III of the Policy: The coverage provided by the policy and this endorsement for your fall wheat crop is not continuous. You must renew the coverage provided by the Policy and this endorsement on you fall wheat crop no later than September 30 of each year for coverage to be effective for the succeeding year. Fall Wheat Endorsement (MGE) Name Insured: Policy Period: Insured by (Insurance Company): Endorsement Number: Policy Number: Effective Date of Endorsement: The above needs to be completed only when this endorsement is issued subsequent to preparation and issuance of the Market Value Protection Policy. How this endorsement effects your coverage: The Losses Insured Against under the ``Cause of Loss'' Section of Article III of the Policy shall include: Unavoidable financial loss resulting directly from an increase in the Minneapolis Grain Exchange futures settlement prices for Wheat, as specifically set forth in this endorsement and the Policy, and provided that Your sustain a Fall Wheat production loss, during the Insurance Period, caused by an insured peril(s) under the MPCI Policy and an MPCI Policy Indemnity Payment is made to You. Under paragraph ``A'' of the ``Indemnity Payment'' Section of Article V of the Policy, the indemnity payable to You for loss to Your Fall Wheat Crop shall be calculated as follows: A. As to any loss under the MPCI Policy, during the Insurance Period, to any Fall Wheat Crop: 1. Ninety-five percent (95%) of the June Average Daily Settlement Price for wheat to be delivered during the month of July, of the then current crop year, shall be established (hereinafter the ``Wheat Futures Price''); 2. The ``Wheat Base Price'' shall be established as the highest MPCI Policy Crop Price Election for Wheat available under the MPCI Policy for the then current crop year. 3. The Wheat Base Price shall be subtracted from the Wheat Futures Price to determine the ``Wheat Price Change''. 4. The ``Maximum Price Change'' per bushel shall be that amount selected by You ($1.00, $1.50, or $2.00 per bushel) on Your application for coverage and shown on the Summary of Coverage provided by Us to You. 5. The ``Indemnity Per Bushel'' shall be the lesser of: a. The Wheat Price Change; and b. The Maximum Price Change. 6. The MPCI Policy Indemnity Payment shall be divided by Your MPCI Policy Crop Price Election for wheat to determine the ``Wheat Production Loss'' in bushels. 7. The Indemnity Per Bushel shall be multiplied by the Wheat Production Loss to determine the total indemnity to be paid to You. B. ``Average Daily Settlement Price'' means the average derived by totaling the Minneapolis Grain Exchange commodity futures daily final closing settlement price for wheat for each full active trading day during the month and dividing this sum by the number of full active trading days during the month. For purposes of determining the Average Daily Settlement Price, there must be fifteen (15) or more full active trading days during the applicable month. If there are fourteen (14) or less full active trading days during the applicable month, in indemnity shall be payable as to Your wheat Crop. A full active trading day is any trading day on the Minneapolis Grain Exchange commodity futures market during which more than 50 wheat futures contracts are traded. C. In the event that trading on the Minneapolis Grain Exchange commodity futures market for wheat is suspended or terminated so that for purposes of determining the Average Daily Settlement Price there are fourteen (14) or less active trading days during the applicable month, no indemnity shall be payable under this Policy as to such wheat Crop, and that portion of the Premium paid by You which is applicable to such wheat Crop shall be refunded by Us.
