FR940223-2-00080 FR940223-2-00039 Order For the purposes of this Order: 1. ``Competent and reliable scientific evidence'' shall mean tests, analyses, research, studies, or other evidence based on the expertise of professionals in the relevant area that has been conducted and evaluated in an objective manner by persons qualified to do so, using procedures generally accepted by others in the profession to yield accurate and reliable results. 2. ``Video advertisement'' shall mean any advertisement intended for dissemination through television broadcast, cablecast, home video, or theatrical release. I It is ordered, That respondent Thomas L. Fenton, individually and as a former officer and director of Synchronal Corporation and Synchronal Group, Inc., and respondent's agents, representatives and employees, directly or through any partnership, corporation, subsidiary, division or other device, in connection with the advertising, packaging, labeling, promotion, offering for sale, sale or distribution of any product or service in or affecting commerce, as ``commerce'' is defined in the Federal Trade Commission Act, do forthwith cease and desist from selling, broadcasting or otherwise disseminating, or assisting others to sell, broadcast or otherwise disseminate, in part or in while, the program-length television advertisement for Omexin described and identified in the Complaint as ``Can You Beat Baldness?'' II It is further ordered, That respondent Thomas L. Fenton, individually and as a former officer and director of Synchronal Corporation and Synchronal Group, Inc., and respondent's agents, representatives and employees, directly or through any partnership, corporation, subsidiary, division or other device, do forthwith cease and desist from: A. Representing, directly or by implication, in connection with the advertising, packaging, labeling, promotion, offering for sale, sale or distribution of Omexin or any other substantially similar hair loss treatment product or service in or affecting commerce, as ``commerce'' is defined in the Federal Trade Commission Act, that: 1. Such product or service contains an ingredient that can or will curtail hair loss for a large majority of balding men and women; 2. Such product or service contains an ingredient that can or will promote the growth of significant numbers of new, pigmented terminal hairs where hair has previously been lost for a large majority of men and women; 3. Such product or service contains an ingredient that has been scientifically proven to curtail hair loss for a large majority of men and women; 4. Such product or service contains an ingredient that has been scientifically proven to promote the growth of new, pigmented terminal hairs where hair has previously been lost for a large majority of men and women; or 5. Such product or service has successfully curtailed hair loss and promoted new hair growth for thousands of balding men and women. For purposes of this Order a ``substantially similar hair loss treatment product or service'' shall be defined as any product or service that is advertised or intended for sale over-the-counter to treat, cure or curtail hair loss and which contains omentum or any extract thereof. B. Representing, directly or by implication, in connection with the advertising, packaging, labeling, promotion, offering for sale, sale or distribution of any other product or service in or affecting commerce, as ``commerce'' is defined in The Federal Trade Commission Act, that: 1. The use of the product or service can or will prevent, cure, relieve, reverse, or reduce loss of hair; 2. The use of the product or service can or will promote the growth of hair where hair has already been lost; 3. The product or service is an effective remedy for hair loss in a substantial number of cases; or 4. Any test or study establishes that the product or service relieves, cures, prevents or reverses hair loss, unless such representation is true and unless, at the time of making such representation, respondent possesses and relies upon competent and reliable scientific evidence that substantiates the representation. C. Advertising, packaging, labeling, promoting, offering for sale, selling, or distributing any product that is represented as promoting hair growth or preventing hair loss, unless the product is the subject of an approved new drug application for such purpose under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, 21 U.S.C. 301 et seq., provided that, this subpart shall not limit the requirements of Part II.A and B herein.
