FR940627-0-00003 FR940627-0-00001 §330.301 Coverage. This subpart covers the Interagency Placement Program for employees who will be displaced or have been separated from their Federal jobs as a result of agency work force reductions, compensable on-the-job injury, discontinued service retirement or disability retirement. Agencies have the primary responsibility for providing placement assistance to their surplus or displaced employees, and for operating positive placement programs as set forth in §330.307 of this subpart. OPM supplements these agency efforts by administering an Interagency Placement Program which gives surplus or displaced employees priority referral to positions in other agencies. §330.302 OPM Interagency Placement Program. OPM operates the Interagency Placement Program (IPP) which provides placement assistance to employees who have received a Certification of Expected Separation or specific notice of separation, or who have been separated. 3. In section 330.303, paragraph (a) is removed and reserved, and paragraphs (b) introductory text and (b)(4)(iii) are revised to read as follows: §330.303 Eligibility. * * * * * (b) For the IPP, the registrant must: (4) *␣*␣* (iii) Has fully or partially recovered from a compensable injury in accordance with the provisions of sub-chapter I of chapter 81 of title 5, United States Code, when the agency is unable to restore the employee; * * * * * 4. Section 330.304 is revised to read as follows: §330.304 Period of eligibility. Employees registered in the IPP receive 2 years of OPM placement assistance renewable in 6 month increments by the registered employee. 5. In section 330.305, paragraphs (a), (b) and (d) are revised to read as follows: §330.305 Placement assistance. (a) IPP registrants are referred ahead of other candidates when they are qualified and available for vacancies expected to last more than 1 year and that are filled through competitive appointments. No individual may be selected for such a vacancy as long as a qualified IPP registrant is available. Referrals are based on qualifications of registrants. (b) Placement assistance is nationwide except that registrants who decline transfer or reassignment outside the commuting area may register for placement assistance only within the commuting area of the position from which they will be or were separated. However, these registrants may transfer their eligibility to another commuting area if they later relocate. * * * * * (d) When an agency selects an IPP registrant, it employs him or her under appropriate appointments such as reinstatement, transfer, position change, or excepted appointment. 6. Section 330.306 is revised to read as follows: §330.306 Termination of eligibility. Eligibility for assistance under the IPP will be terminated if one of the following occurs: (a) A registrant's 2 year period of eligibility expires (except for preference eligibles who are eligible for up to 1 year of additional assistance as specified in §330.407); (b) The registrant requests, in writing, that placement assistance be terminated; (c) The registrant is placed in a nontemporary position in either the competitive or excepted service; (d) The registrant declines an offer of continuing employment in the competitive or excepted service under conditions (i.e., grade, salary, geographic location, or work schedule) the registrant previously indicated were acceptable, unless OPM determines that an exception is warranted; or (e) The agency notifies OPM that the registrant no longer meets the eligibility criteria for program registration and placement assistance. 7. In §330.307, paragraphs (a)(1), (b) and (c) are revised to read as follows: §330.307 Agency responsibilities. (a) Agency program . (1) Each agency has primary obligation to assist, to the maximum extent practical and in keeping with the requirements set forth in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, in the placement of surplus and displaced employees. OPM's placement program only supplements these efforts and is not intended to relieve an agency of its responsibility to provide the maximum placement assistance possible. * * * * * (b) Registration of eligible employees. In accordance with subpart H of part 351 of this chapter, agencies must inform affected employees about the Interagency Placement Program at the same time that Certifications of Excepted Separation or specific reduction in force notices are distributed. Employees who receive a Certification of Expected Separation may register up to 6 months prior to separation. Agencies are responsible for assisting employees with their registration forms, for completing the information requested on the forms, for ensuring employees meet the minimum qualification requirements for the position(s) registered, and for sending them to the appropriate office as instructed by OPM.
