FR940513-2-00019 FR940513-2-00014 DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION National Advisory Committee on Institutional Quality and Integrity; Education AGENCY: National Advisory Committee on Institutional Quality and Integrity; Education. ACTION: Notice of public meeting. SUMMARY: This notice sets forth the proposed agenda of the National Advisory Committee on Institutional Quality and Integrity. Notice of this meeting is required under section 10(a)(2) of the Federal Advisory Committee Act. This document is intended to notify the general public of its opportunity to attend this public meeting. DATES AND TIMES: June 28&hyph;30, 1994_8 a.m. until 5 p.m. LOCATION: The Holiday Inn Hotel, 4610 North Fairfax Drive, Arlington, Virginia 22203. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Charles I. Griffith, Executive Director, National Advisory Committee on Institutional Quality and Integrity, U.S. Department of Education, 400 Maryland Avenue, SW., room 3919&hyph;ROB # 3, Washington, DC 20202&hyph;5151. Telephone: (202) 708&hyph;9486. Individuals who use a telecommunications device for the deaf (TDD) may call the Federal Information Relay Service (FIRS) at 1&hyph;800&hyph;877&hyph;8339 between 8 a.m. and 8 p.m., Eastern time, Monday through Friday. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The National Advisory Committee on Institutional Quality and Integrity is established under section 1205 of the Higher Education Act (HEA) as amended by Public Law 102&hyph;325 (20 U.S.C. 1145). The Committee advises the Secretary of Education with respect to the establishment and enforcement of the standards of accrediting agencies or associations under subpart 2 of part H of Title IV, HEA, the recognition of a specific accrediting agency or association, the preparation and publication of the list of nationally recognized accrediting agencies and associations, and the functions of the Secretary under subpart 1 of part H of Title IV, HEA relating to State institutional integrity standards. The Committee also develops and recommends to the Secretary standards and criteria for specific categories of vocational training institutions and institutions of higher education for which there are no recognized accrediting agencies, associations, or State agencies, in order to establish eligibility for such institutions on an interim basis for participation in federally funded programs. AGENDA: The meeting on June 28&hyph;30, 1994 is open to the public. The Advisory Committee will begin with a general discussion of its role and responsibilities. In addition, the Committee will discuss the Department's new regulations governing the recognition of accrediting agencies and the State Postsecondary Review Program. The regulations to be discussed during this meeting were published in the Federal Register on April 29, 1994. The Advisory Committee's agenda will also include the review of petitions and interim reports of accrediting agencies and State approval agencies relative to their continued recognition by the Secretary of Education. The Committee will hear presentations by representatives of these petitioning agencies and any third parties who have requested to be heard. The following petitions and interim reports are scheduled for review: Nationally Recognized Accrediting Agencies and Associations Interim Reports (An interim report is a follow-up report on an agency's compliance with specific criteria for recognition that was requested by the Secretary when the Secretary granted recognition to the agency)_ 1. Accrediting Association of Bible Colleges, Commission on Accrediting. 2. Accrediting Council on Education in Journalism and Mass Communications, Accrediting Committee. 3. American Board of Funeral Service Education, Committee on Accreditation. 4. American Council for Construction Education. 5. American Dietetic Association, Division of Education Accreditation/Approval. 6. American Society of Landscape Architects, Landscape Architectural Accreditation Board. 7. Association for Clinical Pastoral Education, Inc., Accreditation Commission. 8. Association of Advanced Rabbinical and Talmudic Schools, Accreditation Commission. 9. Computer Sciences Accreditation Board, Inc., Computer Sciences Accreditation Commission. 10. Council on Chiropractic Education, Commission on Accreditation. 11. Council on Education for Public Health. 12. Council on Naturopathic Medical Education, Commission on Accreditation. 13. Council on Social Work Education, Commission on Education. 14. Foundation for Interior Design Education Research, Committee on Accreditation. 15. Middle States Association of Colleges and Schools, Commission on Higher Education. 16. Middle States Association of Colleges and Schools, Commission on Secondary Schools. 17. National Accrediting Commission of Cosmetology Arts and Sciences. 18. National Architectural Accrediting Board, Inc. 19. National Association of Industrial Technology. 20. National Association of Schools of Art and Design, Commission on Accreditation. 21. National Association of Schools of Dance, Commission on Accreditation. 22. National Association of Schools of Music, Commission on Accreditation. 23. National Association of Schools of Theatre, Commission on Accreditation. 24. National Council for Accreditation of Teacher Education. 25. New England Association of Schools and Colleges. 26. North Central Association of Colleges and Schools, Commission on Institutions of Higher Education. 27. Northwest Association of Schools and Colleges, Commission on Colleges. 28. Western Association of Schools and Colleges, Accrediting Commission for Community and Junior Colleges.
