FR940603-1-00166 FR940603-1-00009 ␣ 1Unit No. 1Unit labor price ␣ l SECTION UK_UNDERGROUND SECONDARY AND SERVICE ASSEMBLY UNITS An underground secondary and service assembly unit consists of the installation of the secondary or service cable terminal housing. It includes the installation of the power pedestal, stake (when required), mounting hardware, warning sign, directional marker, housing identification marking, and the cable identification tags. It does not include the installation of the cable terminations, ground rod, or pad, when required. ␣ 1Unit No. 1Unit labor price ␣ l SECTION UM_MISCELLANEOUS UNDERGROUND ASSEMBLY UNITS A miscellaneous underground assembly unit consists of the installation of an additional unit needed in the Project for new construction, but not otherwise listed in the Proposal. This section includes the installation of the miscellaneous assembly units as shown on the respective underground construction drawings. Where miscellaneous units consist of or include the installation of a primary cable termination, the unit includes the preparation of the cable to accommodate the termination, the installation of the stress cone, and the connection of the cable to the terminal equipment. Pad assembly units are in this section and include the installation of the bedding, drainable material (when specified), cable slot, and site preparation, backfilling and tamping. ␣ 1Unit No. 1Unit labor price ␣ l SECTION UR_UNDERGROUND EXCAVATION ASSEMBLY UNITS UR1&hyph;S (D) Plowing Assembly Unit, Soil_Consists of one (1) lineal foot of plowing in soil, measured parallel to the surface of the ground, to a specified depth (D), in inches, including the compacting, except as specifically provided for in other units. This unit includes all labor required in the repair and/or replacement of streets, roads, drives, fences, lawns, shrubbery, watermains, pipes, pipelines and contents, underground power and telephone facilities, buried sewerage and drainage facilities, and any other property damaged during the plowing of the cable, except as specifically provided for in other units. Note: Where in the judgment of the Owner greater than normal difficulty will be involved in plowing because of the presence of underground facilities of other utilities, this unit will be suffixed by the letter ``T''. This will be applicable only in those areas predesignated by the Owner on the detail maps herein. All plowing outside of the predesignated area on the map, regardless of the difficulty in placement actually experienced, will be inventoried as the regular UR1&hyph;S (D) units. If field conditions show the existence of rock to prevent the placing of the cable in soil to the depth required in the specifications the Owner may specify UR2&hyph;R units. Where more than one cable is to be installed in the slot, the UR1&hyph;S unit designation should be modified by a suffix corresponding to the number of cables installed. For example, UR1&hyph;S (D) 3c for 3 cables plowed at one time. UR2&hyph;S (D&W) Trenching Assembly Unit, Soil_Consists of one (1) lineal foot of trenching in soil, measured parallel to the surface of the ground, to a specified depth (D) and width (W), in inches, including the excavation, and backfilling and compacting. This unit includes all labor required in the repair and/or replacement of streets, roads, drives, fences, lawns, shrubbery, watermains, pipes, pipelines and contents, underground power and telephone facilities, buried sewerage and drainage facilities, and any other property damaged by the trenching, except as specifically provided for in other units. Note: Where in the judgment of the Owner greater than normal difficulty will be involved in trenching because of the presence of underground facilities of other utilities, this unit will be suffixed by the letter ``T''. This will be applicable only in those areas predesignated by the Owner on the detail maps herein. Where more than one cable is to be installed in the trench, the regular UR2&hyph;S unit designation should be modified by a suffix corresponding to the construction drawing for the type of cable placement desired. UR2&hyph;R (D&W) Trenching Assembly Unit, Rock_Consists of one (1) lineal foot of trenching in rock, measured parallel to the surface of the ground, to specified depth (D) and width (W), in inches, including the excavation, and backfilling and compacting to place cable to the depth specified in the Specifications. This unit will be specified by the Owner only when field conditions at the site show the existence of rock at a depth preventing the placing of the cable in soil to the depths required in the Specifications. This unit includes all labor required in the repair and/or replacement of streets, roads, drives, fences, lawns, shrubbery, watermains, pipes, pipelines and contents, underground power and telephone facilities, buried sewerage and drainage facilities, and any other property damaged by the trenching, except as specifically provided for in other units. This unit does not include underground cable facilities installed in the trench or cable bedding assembly units, when required. UR&hyph;3 Cable Bedding Assembly Unit_Consists of the installation of one (1) lineal foot of a 2-inch bed of clean sand or soil placed in the trench under the cable and a 4-inch layer of clean sand or soil backfill over the cable to the width of the trench. Note: The exact location and number of units shall be determined by the Owner after the trenches are open in those areas where rock or other conditions make special bedding necessary. UR&hyph;4a Pavement Assembly Unit, Asphalt_Consists of the labor necessary to remove and restore one (1) lineal foot of asphalt pavement, measured along the route of the cable, including any trenching necessary to place the cable at the required depth. All work shall be performed in accordance with the requirements of State or local authorities.
