FR940104-2-00076 FR940104-2-00048 5. Applicants state that the conduct that gave rise to the Final Judgment was not in any way related to activities of applicants as investment advisers. Applicants further state that neither applicants' senior management nor anyone involved in the management of investment advisory services on applicants' behalf were involved in the activities giving rise to the SEC Action. 6. Applicants assert that denial of the requested order would cause irreparable injury to applicants and to the Funds' investors because the investors would no longer have the services of their investment adviser. In addition, investors could be harmed by the uncertainty caused by applicants being prohibited from serving as investment advisers to the Funds. 7. NBD has implemented policies and procedures designed to prevent a recurrence by other account holders of the type of conduct that gave rise to the SEC Action. In addition, pursuant to the Final Judgment, NBD has taken or will take the following steps to remedy its conduct and prevent the recurrence of violations: a. NBD will maintain policies and procedures to ensure that it complies with Regulation U, including policies to ensure that purchases of securities in custodial accounts are not paid for with proceeds from sales of the same securities in the accounts. b. Within thirty days after the entry of the Final Judgment, NBD will retain an independent consultant who will review NBD's custodial securities clearing operations and who will make such recommendations as are necessary with respect to NBD's policies and procedures to ensure that NBD complies with Regulation U. c. The consultant will issue a report within sixty days of its retention setting forth its findings and recommendations and will forward the report to the New York Regional Office. 3 Unless the Commission objects to the consultant's recommendations within thirty days, applicants will implement the consultant's recommendations by no later than forty days after the end of the period for the Commission to object. 3 Applicants state that in a report dated July 12, 1993, an independent consultant concluded that, based on its review, the policies and procedures of the custodian securities clearing operations for non-investment adviser accounts of NBD are reasonably designed to ensure compliance with the requirements of Regulation U. Applicants state that the recommendations of the independent consultant have been implemented. 8. Applicants state that they have not been the subject of prior Commission enforcement proceedings, and have not previously filed an application for relief pursuant to section 9(c) of the Act. Applicants' Condition Applicants agree that any order granted by the Commission pursuant to the application will be subject to the condition that NBD will comply with the Final Judgment. For the SEC, by the Division of Investment Management, pursuant to delegated authority. Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;48 Filed 1&hyph;3&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
