FR941006-2-00148 FR941006-2-00103 No-Build_The No-Build Alternative consists of the Mobility Plan for 2010 as adopted by NCTCOG with the exception of improvements in the Northeast Corridor. TSM_The Transportation System Management (TSM) Alternative includes all of the improvements included in the No-Build Alternative plus a number of low-to-moderate-cost travel efficiency and travel demand management (TDM) strategies. LRT_Light Rail Transit along the MKT Railroad corridor connecting with the LRT Starter System station at Mockingbird Lane and continuing to the Central Garland Transit Center in downtown Garland with a possible extension to a station in downtown Rowlett will be considered. Consideration is also being given to the concept of Intermediate Capacity Light Rail Transit, which is a staged implementation phase of the ultimate double track LRT alternative. The Intermediate Capacity LRT option would consist of a single-track LRT alignment along the MKT with passing sidings at key points. Commuter Rail_This alternative involves the use of the MKT Railroad right-of-way to provide service to the Garland and Rowlett areas. The commuter rail alternative is generally described in the NCTCOG 2010 Mobility Plan. This alternative would follow the MKT Railroad right-of-way from the Mockingbird Station to Garland with a possible extension to Rowlett. IV. Potential Impacts For Analysis The subjects and level of detail addressed in the EIS will be consistent with the requirements of the joint FTA/FHWA environmental regulations (Environmental Procedures for Project Development, 23 CFR 771 and 40 CFR 1500&hyph;1508) and other related regulations. The EIS will evaluate the following: local and regional economic concerns; transportation service including future corridor capacity; transit cost; transit ridership and effect on traffic movement community impacts, including land use, displacements, noise, neighborhood compatibility, and aesthetics; cultural resource impacts including impacts on historic and archaeological resources and parklands; natural resource impacts including air quality, wetlands, water resources, and wildlife; and transit financial implications. The proposed impact assessment and evaluation will take into account both positive and negative impacts, direct and indirect impacts, short term (construction) and long term impacts, and site specific and corridor wide impacts. Evaluation criteria will be consistent with all Federal, State of Texas and local criteria, regulations and policies. Mitigation measures will be identified for any adverse environmental impacts. Other potential impact issues may be added as a result of scoping and agency coordination efforts. Issued on: September 30, 1994. Scott E. Tuxhorn, Deputy Regional Adminstrator. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;24691 Filed 10&hyph;5&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;57&hyph;P
