FR941230-0-00134 FR941230-0-00021 Sec. 3. In this section, applicants should substantiate clearly the institution's position that it presently provides a major, productive, and recognized program of graduate study and research at the level(s) of study in the area of national need in which selected Fellows would be engaged. Applicants should include evidence of the quality of existing academic attributes and resources of the institution such as teaching and research faculty, instructional and research instrumentation and facilities, library resources, computing resources, and other such indicators of academic quality. Also, applicants should discuss the extent to which graduate students have access to such institutional resources. Sec. 4. In this section, applicants should document thoroughly the institution's plans and procedures for managing fellowship appointments. Applicants should explain in-depth the plan for recruiting academically outstanding Fellows and procedures for selecting Fellows of superior quality who appear to be highly motivated to prepare for and pursue a career as a food or agricultural scientist or professional. In addition, applicants should cite specific plans for advising and guiding Fellows through a program of study, as well as any special programs or activities that will be offered to enrich the Fellows' graduate study. Particular attention should be given to the plans and procedures for recruiting and retaining members of underrepresented groups. Sec. 5. In this section, applicants should include important supplementary summary data for the institution relevant to the national need area for which funding is requested. Examples of appropriate data are indices of student quality, enrollments and degrees awarded for recent years, placement of graduates, facilities, faculty research support, and publications of previous graduate students. To the extent possible, applicants should present the supplementary summary data in tabular form. §3402.13 Budget. Applicants must prepare the Proposal Budget, Form CSRS&hyph;703, identifying all costs associated with the proposal. Instructions for completing the ``Proposal Budget'' are provided on the form. Pagination for the budget page should be continuous following the national need narrative and so indicated in the table of contents. §3402.14 Faculty vitae. This section should include a Summary Vita, Form CSRS&hyph;708, for each faculty member contributing significantly to institutional competence at the level of graduate study for the national area addressed in the proposal. Applicants should arrange the faculty vitae with the project director(s) first, followed by the remaining faculty, in alphabetical order. Pagination for the faculty vitae should be continuous following the budget page and so indicated in the table of contents. §3402.15 Appendix. Any additional supporting information deemed essential for clarifying and/or strengthening the proposal should be included in an Appendix and referenced in the national need narrative. To the extent possible, applicants should present supporting information included in the Appendix in tabular form. Pagination for the Appendix should be continuous following the faculty vitae and so indicated in the table of contents. Subpart D_Submission of a Proposal §3402.16 Intent to submit a proposal. To assist HEP in preparing for review of fellowship proposals, institutions planning to submit proposals for fellowships may be requested to complete and return an Intent to Submit a Proposal form (Form CSRS&hyph;706). When required, applicants should complete and return one form for each proposal they anticipate submitting. Sending this form does not commit an institution to any course of action. The program announcement published in the Federal Register will delineate if, when, and where the Intent to Submit a Proposal Forms should be sent. §3402.17 Where to submit a proposal. The program announcement published in the Federal Register will delineate the date for submission of proposals and the number of proposal copies required to apply for a grant. In addition, the program announcement will provide the address to which the proposal, its accompanying duplicate copies, and the institution's latest graduate catalog should be mailed.
