FR940706-0-00021 FR940706-0-00001 (2) Issuance of protective order. In issuing a protective order, the ALJ may make any order which justice requires to protect a party or person from annoyance, embarrassment, oppression or undue burden or expense, including one or more of the following: (i) That discovery not be had; (ii) That the discovery may be had only through a method of discovery other than that requested; (iii) That certain matters not be inquired into, or that the scope of discovery be limited to certain matters; (iv) That discovery be conducted with no one present except persons designated by the ALJ; and (v) That the contents of discovery or evidence be sealed. (f) Failure to respond to discovery _(1) Motions to compel. If a deponent fails to respond or gives an evasive or incomplete answer to a question propounded at a deposition pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section or a party fails to respond or gives evasive or incomplete answers to written interrogatories or admissions, or fails to respond, in full or in part, to a request for production of documents served pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section, the party seeking discovery may apply for an order compelling an answer by filing and serving a motion on all parties and deponents. (2) Filing motion to compel. (i) Such motion must be filed within 20 days following the service of the unresponsive answer upon deposition or within 20 days after expiration of the period allowed for answers to interrogatories or production of documents. (ii) On matters related to an oral examination, the proponent of the question may complete or adjourn the examination before he applies for an order. (3) Responding to motion to compel. A response to the motion may be filed in accordance with §283.18(d). (g) Decision of the ALJ. (1) The ALJ may grant a motion to compel production or deny a motion for a protective order only if the ALJ finds that the discovery sought is necessary for the expeditious, fair, and reasonable consideration of the issues; it is not unduly costly or burdensome; it will not unduly delay the proceeding; and the information sought is not privileged. (2) The initial decision of the ALJ regarding the motion to compel the production of privileged documents or the motion for a protective order shall become final and effective 10 days after service unless either party pursues the options as discussed in §§283.17(d) and 283.20. (h) Failure to comply with an order. (1) If a party or other witness refuses to be sworn or refuses to answer any question after being directed to do so by order of the ALJ, such refusal may subject the refusing party to proceedings to compel compliance with the ALJ's order in the appropriate United States district court.
