FR940616-2-00139 FR940616-2-00093 Budget The organization must submit a comprehensive line item budget. Costs for US and NIS students are to be listed separately. Details are available in the application packet. Grants awarded to eligible organizations with less than four years of experience in conducting international exchange programs will be limited to $60,000. Organizations should be familiar with grant regulations described in OMB circulars A110, A122, and A133. Cost sharing is encouraged. Cost sharing may be in the form of allowable direct or indirect costs. The grant recipient must maintain written records to support all allowable costs which are claimed as being its contribution to cost participation, as well as costs to be paid by the Federal government. Such records are subject to audit. The basis for determining the value of cash and in-kind contributions must be in accordance with OMB Circular A110, Attachment E_Cost Sharing and Matching should be described in the proposal. In the event the recipient does not provide the minimum amount of cost sharing as stipulated will be reduced in proportion to the recipient's contribution. Review Process USIA will acknowledge receipt of all proposals and will review them for technical eligibility. Proposals will be deemed ineligible if they do not fully adhere to the guidelines established herein and in the application packet. Eligible proposals will be forwarded to panels of USIA officers for advisory review. All eligible proposals will also be reviewed by the appropriate geographical office of the U.S. Information Agency, and the Agency's budget and contract offices. Proposals may also be reviewed by the Agency's Office of the General Counsel. Funding decisions are at the discretion of the Associate Director of Education and Cultural Affairs. Final technical authority for grant awards resides with the Agency's Office of Contracts. Review Criteria Technically eligible applications will be competitively reviewed according to the following criteria: 1. Quality of the Program Idea Proposals should exhibit originality, substance, rigor, and adherence to the criteria and conditions described above. 2. Reasonable, Feasible, and Flexible Objectives Proposals should clearly demonstrate how the institution will meet the program's objectives and plan. 3. Multiplier Effect/Impact Proposed programs should strengthen long-term mutual understanding, to include maximum sharing of information and establishment of long-term institutional and individual linkages. A program is also considered to have a strong ``multiplier effect'' if it affects a significant number of persons in addition to the actual program participants. For example, a group of high school students may have extensive interaction with community groups. 4. Value to U.S._Partner Country Relations Assessments by USIA's geographic area desk, and USIS officers overseas of the need, potential, impact, and significance in the partner country(ies), as demonstrated by a sustainable partnership with an organization in the former Soviet Union. 5. Cost Effectiveness The overhead and administrative components of grants, as well as salaries and honoraria, should be kept as low as possible. All other items should be necessary and appropriate. Proposals should to the extent possible maximize cost-sharing through other private sector support as well as institutional direct funding contributions. Other things being equal, a proposal with a low cost per participant and/or a low cost per participant program day will have a competitive advantage. 6. Institutional Capacity The proposed personnel and institutional resources of both the U.S. applicant and the NIS partner organization should be adequate and appropriate to achieve the program or project's goals. 7. Proposals Should Demonstrate Potential for Program Excellence and/or Track Record of Applicant Institution The Agency will consider the past performance of prior grantees and the demonstrated potential of new applicants. A documented record of successful exchange programs, whether USIA financed or not, is one way in which an applicant may demonstrate strength in this area. 8. Follow-On Activities In accordance with the stated objective of a sustainable partnership with an organization in the former Soviet Union, proposals should provide a plan for continued follow-on activity which ensures that USIA supported programs are not isolated events. 9. Evaluation Plan Proposals should provide a thoughtful and comprehensive description of how the project will be evaluated in terms of meeting the objectives listed above and how such an evaluation would present quantitative data on participants, contacts, interactions, activities, achievements, etc., as well as qualitative appraisals of successes and shortcomings and suggestions for program improvement. 10. Selection Process All participants must be between the ages of 14 and 17 at the time they begin the program. In all cases, selection should be merit-based. Selection criteria should include actual or potential leadership qualities, and may also include some or all of the following: Maturity, academic achievement, interest in the program, motivation, recommendations of teachers, and language ability, although no participant should be chosen solely on the basis of his or her language ability. As far as possible, participants should reflect the diversity of the communities from which they come. Ability to pay should not be a determining factor for either American or foreign participants. 11. Geographic Diversity To the extent possible, the Agency will seek to fund programs from different geographic areas within the former Soviet Union and within the United States. 12. Participant Diversity Programs should strive for a diversity of participants and include members of underrepresented groups; e.g., racial and ethnic minorities and persons with disabilities. Notice The terms and conditions published in this RFP are binding and may not be modified by any USIA representative. Explanatory information provided by the Agency that contradicts published language will not be binding. Issuance of the RFP does not constitute an award commitment on the part of the Government. A final award cannot be made until funds have been fully appropriated by Congress, allocated, and committed through internal USIA procedures. Notification All applicants will be notified of the results of the review process on or about March 1, 1995. Awarded grants will be subject to periodic reporting and evaluation requirements. Dated: June 8, 1994. John P. Loiello, Associate Director, Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;14511 Filed 6&hyph;15&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8230&hyph;01&hyph;M
