FR941125-1-00040 FR941125-1-00008 7.1.6␣Data Recorder Resolution. Review the output from the calibration error test; the COMS data recorder shall provide output capable of being resolved into 0.5 percent opacity increments. 7.2␣Preliminary Field Adjustments. Install the COMS on the affected facility according to the manufacturer's written instructions and the specifications in section 4, and perform the following preliminary adjustments: 7.2.1␣Optical and Zero Alignment. When the facility is not in operation, optically align the light beam of the transmissometer upon the optical surface located across the duct or stack (i.e., the reflector or photodetector, as applicable) in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions; verify the alignment with the optical alignment sight. Under clear stack conditions, verify the zero alignment (performed in section 7.1.1) by assuring that the monitoring system zero response for the installation zero check coincides with the instrument actual zero measured by the COMS as set for the monitor pathlength prior to installation. Record these values. Adjust the instrument actual zero response, if necessary, and only if a clear stack condition exists. Then, after the affected facility has been started up and the effluent stream reaches normal operating temperature, recheck the optical alignment. If the optical alignment has shifted, realign the optics. Note: Careful consideration should be given to whether a ``clear stack'' condition exists. The stack shall be monitored and the data output (instantaneous real-time basis) examined to determine whether fluctuations from zero opacity are occurring before a clear stack condition is assumed to exist. Check and record the upscale calibration value. 7.2.2␣Optical and Zero Alignment (Alternative Procedure). The procedure given in section 7.2.1 is the preferred procedure and should be used whenever possible. However, if the facility is operating and a zero stack condition cannot practicably be obtained, use the zero alignment obtained during the preliminary adjustments (section 7.1.1.2) before installing the COMS on the stack. After completing all the preliminary adjustments and tests required in section 7.1, install the system at the source and align the optics, i.e., align the light beam from the transmissometer upon the optical surface located across the duct or stack in accordance with the manufacturer's instruction. Verify the alignment with the optical alignment sight. The zero alignment conducted in this manner must be verified and adjusted, if necessary, the first time a clear stack condition is obtained after the operation test period has been completed. 7.3␣Operational Test Period. Prior to conducting the operational testing, the owner and operator, or the manufacturer as appropriate, should have successfully completed all prior testing of the COMS. After completing all preliminary field adjustments (section 7.2), operate the COMS for an initial 336-hour test period while the source is operating. Except during times of instrument zero and upscale calibration checks, the owner and operator must ensure that they analyze the effluent gas for opacity and produce a permanent record of the COMS output. During this period, the owner and operator may not perform unscheduled maintenance, repair, or adjustment. The owner or operator may perform zero and calibration adjustments, exposed optical and other CEMS surface cleaning, and optical realignment only at 24-hour intervals. Automatic zero and calibration adjustments, made by the COMS without operator intervention or initiation, are allowable at any time. During the operational test period, record all adjustments, realignments, and exposed surface cleaning. At the end of the operational test period, verify and record that the COMS optical alignment is correct. If the operational test period is interrupted because of source breakdown, continue the 336-hour period following resumption of source operation. If the test period is interrupted because of COMS failure, record the time when the failure occurred, after the failure is corrected, the 336-hour period and tests are restarted. During the operational test period, perform the following test procedures: 7.3.1␣Zero Calibration Drift Test. At the outset of the 336-hour operational test period and at each 24-hour period, record the initial (Reference A) zero calibration value and upscale calibration value (UC Value), see example format figure 1&hyph;8. These values are the initial 336-hour value established during the optical and zero alignment procedure (see section 7.2.1). After each 24-hour interval, check and record the COMS zero response reading before any cleaning and adjustment. Perform the zero and upscale calibration adjustments, exposed optical and other instrument surface cleaning, and optical realignment only at 24-hour intervals (or at such shorter intervals as the manufacturer's written instructions specify). If shorter intervals of zero and span adjustment are conducted, record the drift adjustment. However, adjustments and cleaning must be performed when the accumulated zero calibration or upscale CD exceeds the 24-hour drift specification ( # 2 percent opacity). From the initial and final zero readings, calculate the zero drift for each 24-hour period. Then, calculate the arithmetic mean, standard deviation, and confidence coefficient of the 24-hour zero drift and the 95 percent confidence interval using equations 1&hyph;3, 1&hyph;4, and 1&hyph;5. Calculate the sum of the absolute value of the mean and the absolute value of the confidence coefficient, and report this value as the 24-hour zero drift. At the conclusion of the 336-hour operational test period, record and report the 336-hour accumulated drift.
