FR940324-0-00052 FR940324-0-00020 Objection: The requirement that a person generating phosphogypsum must first place it in a stack, and then measure and certify the radium activity in the stack, before removing phosphogypsum from the stack and distributing it for alternative use is cumbersome and unnecessary. Instead, if phosphogypsum is designated for reuse, segregated, and routed to a distribution holding point, the radium-226 content of the phosphogypsum can be measured at either the segregation or the distribution point. Response: The provisions permitting distribution of phosphogypsum for alternative uses are specific exceptions to the work practice requirements which require persons generating phosphogypsum to dispose of the material in a stack and to manage the stack in a specified manner. For the provisions in the rule to operate properly, the generator of phosphogypsum must determine that a given quantity of phosphogypsum conforms to all of the requirements for distribution for alternative uses before such distribution occurs. To the extent that TFI is suggesting that persons other than those who generated the phosphogypsum in the first instance should be permitted to measure the radium-226 activity levels after distribution of the phosphogypsum has already occurred, this cannot be reconciled with the Agency's objective to assure safe disposal in managed and monitored stacks of all phosphogypsum which does not meet the threshold requirements for distribution for alternative uses. EPA notes that 40 CFR 61.201(c) defines any pile of phosphogypsum waste as a phosphogypsum stack. If the person who generates the phosphogypsum in the first instance wishes to segregate phosphogypsum designated for alternative use in a separate stack and measure the activity levels in that stack separately, the rule permits this approach. However, any materials in any additional stack which are not lawfully distributed for an alternative use must be managed by the owner or operator in the manner specified by the rule. Objection: The limitation to 700 pounds of phosphogypsum for each specific research and development activity necessarily means that research and development in the field will be impossible. Response: EPA notes that it has decided to reconsider the 700 pound limitation. However, 40 CFR 61.205 was designed to permit research and development activities involving phosphogypsum to proceed in the laboratory, not to authorize large scale field research. Proposals to conduct field studies utilizing phosphogypsum should instead be submitted for prior EPA approval pursuant to 40 CFR 61.206. Objection: The procedures for certification in 40 CFR 61.208 are overly burdensome and unnecessary. They require a multi-party paperwork trail for materials that are presumptively safe. EPA should just require the person who generates phosphogypsum to certify at the end of the year that all of its shipments met applicable legal requirements. Response: EPA believes that the procedures requiring distributors, retailers, or resellers to prepare certification documents and to retain copies of certification documents provided by the person from whom the phosphogypsum was obtained are necessary to adequately monitor compliance with the requirements in the rule. Without such documentation, it would be much more difficult or even impossible to investigate and take appropriate enforcement action if non-conforming phosphogypsum is found to have been distributed or sold for an alternative use. EPA notes that farmers or agricultural end-users who purchase phosphogypsum for an agricultural use are not required to prepare or maintain records, but that distributors who sell phosphogypsum for an agricultural use must do so. Objection: Risks associated with phosphogypsum use should be controlled by state and local governments through restrictions on building construction rather than by EPA. Response: EPA hopes that state and local governments will adopt appropriate measures to control hazards associated with radon emissions at building sites. However, EPA does not believe that it is appropriate for EPA to sanction specific activities which unduly increase the radium content of the land and the risks associated with building construction, based on an assumption that state or local building codes will mitigate the resultant problem. V. Judicial Review The decision by EPA to partially deny the August 3, 1992 TFI petition for reconsideration is final agency action based on a determination of nationwide scope or effect. TFI may seek review of the decision by EPA to partially deny its petition in the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit within 60 days from the date this notice is published in the Federal Register . EPA notes that TFI has previously agreed that, if TFI seeks judicial review of the decision by EPA to partially deny its petition for reconsideration, TFI will move to consolidate such review with the review of the 1992 rule which is currently pending in The Fertilizer Institute v. Environmental Protection Agency , No. 92&hyph;1320 (DC Cir.) and ManaSota&hyph;88 v. Browner , No. 92&hyph;1330 (DC Cir.). The decision by EPA to partially grant the TFI petition does not constitute final agency action and is therefore not presently subject to judicial review. After EPA takes final action in the resulting reconsideration proceeding, any person who participated in that proceeding may seek judicial review of such action. VI. References BE75␣Beck, H.L., ``The Physics of Environmental Gamma Radiation Fields,'' Proceedings, Natural Radiation in the Environment II, 1975. DOE88␣U.S. Department of Energy, External Dose-Rate Conversion Factors for Calculation of Dose to the Public, DOE/EH&hyph;0070, 1988.
