FR940404-0-00095 FR940404-0-00023 The Bureau's internal implementing instructions to staff regarding the IFRP clearly state that inmates may be temporarily exempt from IFRP participation when it is impossible for them to meet minimum payment schedules because of their inability to secure institution employment beyond maintenance pay and because of their absence of community resources. Such inmates will not be placed in IFRP refuse status. Therefore, they would not be affected by telephone restrictions based upon refusal to participate in the IFRP. Further discussion concerning telephone access for inmates without funds is discussed below, in the section entitled ``7. COSTS...d. Inmates without funds.'' A commenter objected to the IFRP provision, stating that an inmate with a fine who refused to participate in the IFRP could not call home or use the telephone at all. This commenter also claimed that the regulation ``cuts off'' all outside contact, including mail and visiting, if no fine is paid. These contentions are not true. As noted in other sections of this preamble, inmates who refuse to participate in the IFRP have a variety of ways to communicate, including written correspondence. They also may make a limited number of telephone calls, as discussed above. Therefore, an inmate's outside contact is not ``cut off'' if the inmate refuses to participate in the IFRP. This same commenter complained that conditioning inmate telephone use upon IFRP participation in effect forced him to work in an industrial assignment and alleged that many inmates (20%) would not work in Federal Prison Industries assignments except for the IFRP. The Bureau first notes that industrial positions have long been requested by inmates because of the higher wages and the opportunity to learn skills for employment upon release. As noted by the Third Circuit Court of Appeals, ``[a] Federal Prison industries job assignment *␣*␣* is considered by many inmates to be more desirable than other types of work assignments *␣*␣*'' James v. Quinlan, 866 F.2d 627, 628 (3rd Cir., 1989). In fact, many institutions historically have had waiting lists of applicants for these positions. Even so, the Bureau believes that the operation of both the IFRP and the ITS will result in increased interest in industrial assignments, as suggested by this commenter, whose very complaint demonstrates one of the Bureau's purposes in amending these regulations. As a final note, even though institutions may have waiting lists for industrial assignments, existing Bureau policy provides for IFRP participants with obligations of at least $250.00 to receive priority placement on industrial assignment waiting lists. In conclusion, the IFRP remains a voluntary program. The amended telephone regulations are intended to encourage inmates to work, accept personal responsibility, responsibly manage their finances, and pay their fines and other legal obligations. For the reasons stated in the section entitled `` Purpose of the Amended Regulations, '' above, the Bureau believes that it is appropriate to provide telephone privileges that are consistent with these correctional management goals. 5. List of Numbers To Be Called Several commenters objected to the portion of the proposed rule in §540.101(a) that specified that inmate calls ordinarily shall be placed to a number on their approved telephone lists, which may contain up to 20 telephone numbers. Some commenters seemed to object to having any list at all or favored no restrictions as to who goes on the list, with the Bureau giving notice prior to a name being taken off the list. Other comments concerned the limitation of 20 numbers. There are sound correctional reasons for requiring that inmate calls ordinarily be placed to a number on an approved telephone list. Among them are the following: Under the former collect call system, there have been instances in which members of the public, including court personnel, victims, and family of former inmate associates, reported receiving abusive or harassing telephone calls from inmates and requested that the Bureau preclude the inmate from calling them in the future. As noted above in the section entitled ``Purpose of the Amended Regulations,'' there were also cases in which inmates used the telephone to engage in criminal activity. Short of standing next to the telephone and watching every call the inmate made_a nearly impossible task given the large number of inmates and the limited number of staff at the institutions_the Bureau has no practical way to prevent such an inmate from making additional improper calls through the former collect call system.
