FR940907-0-00007 FR940907-0-00002 (A) The debtor acted in good faith with regard to the delinquent loan. The casefile must reflect the debtor's cooperation in exploring servicing alternatives. The casefile should contain no evidence of fraud, waste, or conversion by the debtor, and no evidence that the debtor violated the loan agreement or FmHA regulations. (B) The delinquency was caused by circumstances beyond the control of the debtor. This determination will be based on the debtor's narrative on this issue, which is a required part of the application for debt restructuring, and a separate review of the debtor's casefile and operations. (C) As part of the application for debt restructuring, the debtor submitted a proposed operating plan that presents feasible alternatives for addressing the delinquency. (ii) Debtor determined eligible. If the debtor is determined to be eligible for debt restructuring, a determination of a net recovery value and level of debt the facility will support will be made. It is anticipated that meetings with the debtor, the contractor who performed the operations review, and others, as appropriate, could be necessary to develop these values; although it should be emphasized throughout these meetings that any calculations and conclusions reached are preliminary in nature, pending final review by the Administrator. For debt restructuring calculations and computing a feasible cash-flow projection, the following order and combinations of loan servicing actions will be followed: (A) Loan deferral for up to 6 months. (B) Interest rate reduction to not less than the poverty line rate as determined by FmHA Instruction 440.1, exhibit B (available in any FmHA Office). Interest rate reduction will be considered only in conjunction with an extension of the term of the loan to the remaining useful life of the facility or 40 years, whichever is less. (C) Debt writedown. Other creditors of the debtor, representing a substantial portion of the total debt, are expected to participate in the development of a restructuring plan which includes debt writedown. Debt writedown participation by other creditors should be on a pro rata basis with the FmHA writedown. However, failure of these creditors to agree to participate in the plan shall not preclude the use of principal and interest writedown by FmHA if it is determined that this option results in the least cost to the Federal Government. (iii) Debtor determined ineligible. If the State Director concludes that the debtor is not eligible for debt restructuring consideration for any of the reasons listed in paragraph (c)(3)(i) of this section, then the debtor will be notified by a letter that includes the following information: (A) The basis for the determination; (B) The next step in servicing the loan: possible acceleration if the delinquency is not cured; and (C) The debtor may appeal this determination in accordance with subpart B of part 1900 of this chapter. (iv) State Director's recommendation. Upon completion of the determination of net recovery value and restructured debt in accordance with paragraph (c)(3)(ii) of this section, and prior to formal presentation to the borrower, the State Director will forward a recommendation to the National Office with the following documentation: (A) That all other servicing efforts have been exhausted as required in paragraph (b) of this section. (B) Financial statements including balance sheets, income and expense, cash-flows for the most recent actual year, and projections for the next 3 years. The amount of FmHA's restructured debt and reserve account requirements are to be clearly indicated on the projected statements. Also, operating statistics including number of beds, patient days of care, outpatient visits, occupancy percentage, etc., for the same periods of time must be included. (C) Copies of the operations review, developed for the particular loan, and appraisal. (D) Calculations of the net recovery value. (E) Debt restructuring calculations including a listing of the various servicing combinations used in these calculations as contained in paragraph (c)(3)(ii) of this section. For example: ( 1 ) Interest rate reduced from the applicant's current rate on all loans to the poverty line rate as determined by FmHA instruction 440.1, exhibit B (available in any FmHA Office); and ( 2 ) Extension of the terms from 25 to 30 years. (F) Information concerning discussions with the debtor and their agreement or disagreement with the calculations and recommendations. (G) If debt restructuring is proposed: ( 1 ) A draft of Form FmHA 1951&hyph;33, if applicable, and any other necessary comments or requirements that may be required by OGC and Bond Counsel in ยง1951.223 (c)(3) and (4) of subpart E of part 1951 of this chapter. ( 2 ) A draft of Form FmHA 1956&hyph;1, if applicable. Complete only parts I, II, VI, and VIII. Part VI, ``Debtor's Offer and Certification,'' will be in a separate attachment and contain the adjusted unpaid principal amount for which FmHA approval is requested. In Part VI of the form, type ``see attached.'' (H) If the proposed restructured debt will not cash-flow or is less than the net recovery value, omit the items in paragraph (c)(3)(iv)(G) of this section. (d) National Office processing of State Director's request. (1) After reviewing the recommendation to either debt restructure or liquidate for the net recovery value, the Administrator, after concurring, modifying, or not concurring in the recommendation, will return the submission for further processing. (2) If a debt writedown is used in the restructuring process, the amount will be included in the National Office transmittal memorandum. The draft Form FmHA 1956&hyph;1 will not need to be finalized and returned to the Administrator for signature. The State Director's signature on the final copy will be sufficient. However, a copy of the National Office memorandum is to be attached to the form when completed. (e) Debtor notification of debt restructuring and net recovery value calculations. The State Director will provide a copy of the basis for the debt restructuring or net recovery determination to the debtor. (1) If the value of the restructured loan is equal to, or greater than, the recovery value, the debtor will be made an offer to accept the restructured debt by using language similar to that provided in Guide 2 of this subpart (available in any FmHA Office) and including the following paragraphs: (i) An introductory paragraph indicating that FmHA has concluded its consideration of the debtor's request; (ii) A paragraph indicating FmHA's approval of the debt restructuring request and that acceptance must be received by FmHA within 45 days from receipt of this letter; and (iii) That the debtor's acceptance will require the execution of a Shared Appreciation Agreement similar to Guide 4 of this subpart (available in any FmHA Office) and possible new debt instruments accompanied by Bond Counsel opinions.
