FR940414-0-00007 FR940414-0-00001 (iii) In order for the Licensee to realize a full five (5) year warranty the warranty period must start with the delivery of possession and control from the Licensor. If it began at the Completion of Installation, the warranty period would be diminishing while the equipment was still under control of the Licensor. (iv) Performance of the software must be in accordance with both the Specification and Licensor documentation. The documentation is furnished to assist the Licensee in the operation, administration, and maintenance of the System. REA has made no change in the obligations of the Licensor as stated in the Contract. (v) REA does not feel the term ``free from errors and incompleteness'' fully describes the intent of this section (2)(ix). This language has not been added to section (2)(ix). (vi) This License was specifically designed for use with REA Forms 525 Central Office Equipment Contract (Including Installation) and 545 Central Office Equipment Contract (Not Including Installation) and does not apply to special equipment contracts, therefore, there is no need for a one (1) year warranty clause for special equipment. Comments were received on section (2)(x) as follows: (i) Two commenters wanted the ability to modify the Licensed Software or replace it with equivalent software at Licensor's option. (ii) One commenter suggested that section (2)(x) disclaim any special, indirect or consequential damages in connection with the use or performance of the Licensed Software. (iii) One commenter wanted the infringement clause to apply only to United States patents, copyrights and trademarks and the right to remove the enjoined Licensed Software and refund some of the Right-to-Use Fee if modification or replacement is not feasible. (iv) One commenter wanted the Licensee to indemnify the Licensor in like manner for any claim, suit or proceeding brought against the Licensor for infringement caused by the Licensee. The commenter also wanted to remove the phrase ``This shall be in addition to any other rights or claims which the Licensee may have'' and suggested that section (2)(x) disclaim any liability for any settlement made without Licensee's consent. Response: (i) The option of modifying or replacing the Licensed Software is in the current language. (ii) REA's intent is to limit liability for special, indirect and consequential damages to provide the Licensor with reasonable protection against losses related to product failure; protect the government's loan security; and serve as a standard that bidders and owners alike can expect to see on all central office equipment contracts so competitive bidding can be facilitated. This language has not been changed. (iii) REA feels that the Licensor should know what software can be legally licensed by the Licensor, and the Licensee should expect that the Licensed Software furnished with the System is not going to be subject to infringement challenges. Simply allowing the Licensor to refund some of the Right-to-Use Fee and remove the enjoined Licensed Software gives the Licensor the right to ``buy back'' equipment or software when a copyright problem is encountered. To the Licensee, this means that essential features or capability could be lost and would remain unavailable for the entire useful life of the new switching equipment. The resulting reduction in value of the contract to the Licensee cannot be predicted, and certainly cannot be limited to the price of the infringing equipment or software less depreciation. These requirements have not been changed. (iv) Section (2)(x) specifically exempts the Licensor from liability if the infringing software is of the Licensee's design or selection. REA feels that the existing language sufficiently protects the Licensor from unwarranted claims caused by the Licensee. REA also feels the Licensee should not have to relinquish its rights as covered in the Contract because the Licensor is involved in an infringement dispute. This language has not been changed. Also, the Licensee cannot commit the Licensor to any settlement, therefore, the suggested additional language is not required. Comments were received on section (2)(xi) as follows: (i) Two commenters suggested that software support after the warranty period should have a specific time period.
