FR940613-0-00074 FR940613-0-00015 The individual commented that offtracking of these specialized trailers will be greater than conventional 28-foot trailers since the distance from the kingpin to the trailer's axle will increase by up to 3 feet. Also, using the techniques of SAE J695, he calculated the offtracking for conventional and beverage semitrailers as shown in the following table: Comparison of Offtracking of Selected Semitrailers 1Radius conventional curve semitrailer 1Conventional 28-foot semitrailer 1Beverage semitrailer 148-foot 50 feet 6.86 feet 8.70 feet ␣ 120 feet 2.55 feet 3.17 feet 8.53 feet. The FDOT responded that the potential of an extra 2 or 3 feet to the kingpin setting may be important with units running as a tandem combination; however, as a single-unit semitrailer, the difference would be insignificant when considering the 41-foot kingpin setting that is being discussed as a de facto national limit for such settings. Based on the comments, the FHWA concludes that the offtracking characteristics of the beverage semitrailer being designated as specialized equipment are not significantly greater than those of conventional 28-foot semitrailers. 5. Other comments. The Caltrans, FDOT, and MnDOT expressed concerns about future petitions for the FHWA to propose a similar rule for longer beverage semitrailers or semitrailers of a similar design for carrying other goods. The Caltrans' concern is that the beverage semitrailer is another small step toward allowing larger vehicles by means of an exception process. For example, since the weight of the beverage semitrailer and load rest on the upper coupler plate extending from the front of the semitrailer, why not allow the van portion to the semitrailer to be extended over the plate? Also, if a weight supporting upper coupler plate is permitted for a 28-foot beverage semitrailer, is a 48-foot beverage semitrailer next? The possibility of a 48-foot beverage semitrailer raises strong concerns about offtracking. A typical semitrailer has the kingpin located 3 feet from the front of the semitrailer. The Caltrans' evaluation of the State Highway System for designation of terminal access routes is on the basis of a 48-foot trailer with a 43-foot kingpin-to-center of the rearmost axle which is equivalent to the 41-foot kingpin-to-center of tandem axles. The FDOT responded that the proposed rule needs to be modified to assure that other trailers/semitrailers do not grow in length as a result of this proposed rule. It should be expected that other segments of the industry will seek the same benefits as are being provided to the beverage haulers under this proposed rule. Similarly, the MnDOT would discourage the FHWA from further ``piecemeal'' exemptions until a comprehensive review of the commercial vehicle length definition is conducted. The State finds that this examination is warranted in light of the recent research from the Roads and Transportation Association of Canada, which demonstrates that the U.S. may in fact be discouraging uniformity and the use of more stable vehicle configurations on U.S. highways, due to current vehicle definitions. The State supported the use of the terms ``box length'' and uniform ``kingpin or wheelbase'' for specifying length limits for commercial vehicle equipment. On the other hand, the MnDOT also commented that the configuration under discussion here would not have adverse effects on pavements, bridges, or maneuvering. The FHWA understands the concerns of these States about its handling of petitions from other segments of the trucking industry for relief similar to that being provided for beverage semitrailers. The FHWA also recognizes that different ways to specify trailer length provisions do exist. Future petitions for similar relief provisions will be evaluated with these concerns in mind. Finally, the Caltrans commented that the 28-foot beverage semitrailer was not specialized equipment, but rather another attempt to incrementally increase (by regulatory action) the limits set by the STAA. The FHWA disagrees. This equipment as defined by this rulemaking is highly specialized. Conclusions In order to remove any doubt about using 28-foot beverage semitrailers with an upper coupler plate that extends beyond the front of the semitrailer on the NN without a special permit, the FHWA is designating them as specialized equipment pursuant to our authority under section 411(d) of the STAA (49 U.S.C. app. 2311(d)). This designation as specialized equipment applies only to van-type, drop-frame, side-loading only, beverage semitrailers for which the upper coupler plate extends beyond the front of the semitrailer, and the distance from the centerline of the kingpin connection to the rear of the semitrailer is not greater than 28 feet. The rule preempts States from imposing an overall length limit on such vehicles operating in semitrailer or double trailer combinations and guarantees these truck tractor-single beverage semitrailer combinations the same access to points of loading and unloading as 28-foot (28.5-foot if grandfathered) semitrailers in 23 CFR 658.19. After reviewing the comments to the docket, the FHWA has concluded that this action would allow for a productivity gain without adversely effecting public safety. A definition of beverage semitrailer has been added to §658.5, and regulatory language has been added to §658.13. This action concludes the FHWA rulemaking proceeding that was designated with the regulation identification number 2125&hyph;AC57. Certification Section 1023(c) of the ISTEA amended 23 U.S.C. 141(b) by adding a new sentence at the end which reads as follows: Each State shall also certify that it is enforcing and complying with the provisions of section 127(d) of this title and section 411(j) of the Surface Transportation Assistance Act of 1982. (49 U.S.C. app. 2311(j)). As implemented by 23 CFR 657.13, 23 U.S.C. 141(b) requires each State to certify annually that it is enforcing its size and weight laws on the Federal-aid Primary System (FAP), Federal-aid Urban System (FAU), Federal-aid Secondary System (FAS), and the Interstate System in accordance with 23 U.S.C. 127.
