FR940505-1-00113 FR940505-1-00012 (c) Network Type. Two basic types of inspection networks have existed since the start of I/M programs_centralized, test-only networks and decentralized, test-and-repair networks. A centralized, test- only network consists of inspection and retest at high-volume, multi-lane, usually highly automated stations, run by either a government agency or a single, state-hired contractor within a defined area. A decentralized, test-and-repair network consists of inspection and retest of vehicles at privately owned, licensed facilities, such as gas stations and other shops which may also do repair work. California's current I/M program is of this latter variety. While the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990 called for EPA to develop performance standards for both basic and enhanced I/M programs, they also established minimum requirements for certain program parameters. In the case of enhanced I/M programs, network type was one of these prescribed parameters. Specifically, section 182(c)(3)(C) of the Act states that enhanced programs must include, at a minimum, ``operation of the program on a centralized basis, unless the State demonstrates to the satisfaction of the Administrator that a decentralized program will be equally effective.'' Based upon its evaluation of current decentralized, test-and-repair programs, as well as upon data gathered by individual states on their own I/M programs' effectiveness, EPA provided for the approval of a decentralized test-only network as an equally effective alternative, because the inherent conflict of interest found in test-and-repair programs had been removed. It may be that the State of California will ultimately choose to design a decentralized test-only system in order to guarantee that there are many independent businesses which participate in providing inspection services. But it is not a practical choice for a federally implemented I/M program. Given the significantly lower implementation burden of a centralized system, EPA has determined that it is appropriate to propose a centralized program for the FIP. Although EPA has the authority to forbid the State of California to register vehicles which do not have a certificate of compliance with the prescribed enhanced I/M program, it does not have the authority to order the State to write the program rules, oversee the construction or licensing of test-only stations or carry out any of the tasks involved in program implementation and oversight. Therefore, it is necessary for EPA to design a program which will divert as few as possible resources from the national environmental effort to the day to day operation of what would ordinarily be a state-run emission control program.
