FR940912-1-00031 FR940912-1-00010 Volatile organic compounds are regulated due to their contribution to the formation of ozone in the lower atmosphere. Ozone is a listed criteria pollutant. Exposure to ozone has been linked to both health and welfare impacts. Health and welfare risks from these include impaired respiratory function, eye irritation, deterioration of materials such as rubber, and necrosis of plant tissue. The potential for VOC emissions from wastewater can be assessed based on the characteristics of the wastewater at its point of generation. Based on information and data gathered on the concentration of organics in SOCMI wastewater streams and on the flow rate of these streams, the VOC emissions from SOCMI wastewater streams are considered to cause or contribute significantly to air pollution. D. Selection of Affected Facility The choice of the affected facility for an NSPS is based on the Agency's interpretation of section 111 of the Act. Under section 111, the NSPS must apply to ``new sources''; ``source'' is defined as any building, structure, facility, or installation which emits or may emit ``any air pollutant.'' Most industrial plants, however, consist of numerous pieces or groups of equipment which emit air pollutants, and which might be viewed as ``sources.'' The EPA uses the term ``affected facility'' to designate the equipment, within a particular kind of plant, which is chosen as the ``source'' covered by a given standard. In choosing the affected facility, the EPA must decide which pieces or groups of equipment are the appropriate units for separate emission standards in the particular industrial context involved and in light of the terms and purpose of section 111. One major consideration in this examination is that the use of a broader definition means that replacement equipment is less likely to be regulated under the NSPS; if, for example, an entire plant were designated as the affected facility, no part of the plant would be covered by the standard unless the plant as a whole were ``modified.'' Because the purpose of section 111 is to minimize emissions by the application of the best demonstrated control technology (considering cost, other health and environmental effects, and energy requirements) at all new and modified sources, there is a presumption that a narrower designation of the affected facility is appropriate. This ensures that new emission sources within plants will be brought under the coverage of the standards as they are installed. This presumption can be overcome, however, if the Agency concludes that the relevant statutory factors (technical feasibility, cost, energy, and other environmental impacts) point to a broader definition. Another factor considered in the selection of an affected facility for the NSPS is the definition used in existing environmental rules. The application of these factors is discussed below.
