FR940318-0-00198 FR940318-0-00023 (5) HCFC&hyph;22 and HCFC&hyph;142b. Limited use of these chemicals as substitutes is anticipated since section 610 imposes significant restrictions as of January 1, 1994, on their use as aerosol propellants. (6) Alternative processes. Alternative processes, such as manually operated pumps and sprays, provide an alternative delivery mechanism in place of the aerosol dispenser. Development of alternative process replacements depends on technological feasibility. Some products, such as aerosol foams, cannot now be easily formed with alternative processes, making the replacement of the propellant difficult. In other products, the alternative process may not provide proper dispersion or accurate application of the product, limiting its use. Persons using manual pumps or sprays (in applications where alternative processes function adequately as replacements) on a continuous basis may become fatigued with the constant pumping motion, thus producing poor product performance. Nonetheless, these substitutes can serve as viable alternatives in certain applications. b. Substitutes for solvent/diluents. (1) Petroleum hydrocarbons (C6&hyph;C20). Petroleum hydrocarbons are generally defined as C6&hyph;C20 hydrocarbons fractionated from the distillation of petroleum. These compounds are loosely grouped into paraffins (six carbon chains to ten carbon chains_n-hexane, n-heptane, etc.) and light aromatics (toluene and xylene) and come in various grades of purity. Components with up to twenty carbons are now also being used in an effort to reduce flammability. These compounds have good solvent properties, are relatively inexpensive (about half the price of MCF), and are readily available from chemical distributors. When a controlled substance is used only as a diluent, such as in automotive undercoatings, substitution using petroleum hydrocarbons can be achieved with minor reformulation. Many of these products containing petroleum hydrocarbons even outperform their chlorinated counterpart. Petroleum hydrocarbons are, however, flammable, and thus cannot be used as replacement solvents in applications where the solvent must be nonflammable such as electronic cleaning applications. In addition, pesticide aerosols formulated with certain petroleum hydrocarbons must adhere to requirements imposed under the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act (FIFRA). (2) Oxygenated organic solvents. Oxygenated organic solvents are compounds based on hydrocarbons containing appendant oxygen (alcohols and ketones), integral oxygens (ethers), or both (esters). These compounds are relatively inexpensive compared to MCF_about half the cost_and are readily available from chemical distributors. These compounds are also flammable, however, and cannot be used as substitute solvents in applications where the solvent must be nonflammable. These compounds are currently being blended with class I substances to reduce the amount of class I substances used in a product's formulation. Since the quantity of these compounds is small, the product still remains nonflammable. Some manufacturers, however, are completely reformulating products such as spot removers with ketones, esters, ethers, or alcohols. To continue the safe use of these convenient products, consumers may have to be educated about the product's increased flammability. (3) Hydrochlorofluorocarbons (HCFCs). HCFC&hyph;141b is a potential substitute to replace CFC&hyph;11 and CFC&hyph;113 used in solvent/diluent applications in aerosols and pressurized dispensers. HCFC&hyph;141b's ODP is similar to that of MCF, making it unlikely that aerosol manufacturers would reformulate their products away from MCF towards HCFC&hyph;141b. HCFC&hyph;141b has a number of characteristics that make it a suitable alternative solvent, namely: It is nonconductive, nonflammable according to U.S. Department of Transportation specifications, and evaporates quickly. However, HCFC&hyph;141b is expensive compared to the pretax price of CFC&hyph;113_almost three times the cost. Further, HCFC&hyph;141b is slightly corrosive to plastic parts, and could not serve as a drop-in replacement for all the uses of CFC&hyph;11 and CFC&hyph;113 as a solvent. (4) Terpenes. Terpenes are unsaturated hydrocarbons based on isoprene subunits. They have good solvent properties and could replace ozone-depleting compounds in some solvent cleaning applications. They are flammable, which limits their use in applications that require nonflammable solvents. Some terpenes have a slight citrus scent while others have stronger, unpleasant odors, making them difficult to use over an extended period of time.
