FR940224-2-00152 FR940224-2-00094 SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Regional Conflict Resolution in Sub-Saharan Africa USIA will accept proposals to conduct a two-way exchange program to encourage and support the development of conflict resolution capability in African regional or subregional institutions. The amount requested from USIA should not exceed $125,000. For technical information, interested organizations may contact E/P Program Specialist Charlotte Peterson at (202) 619&hyph;5319. Project Themes and Objectives This project will encourage Africans to support conflict resolution within the region as an activity in the common interest of all, fostering stability and economic development in the region as a whole. The project should help strengthen relevant regional organizational capabilities, and the grantee is expected to work closely with an Africa-based multilateral organization interested in conflict resolution for this purpose. Together with that body and area U.S. Information Service (USIS) posts, the grantee will identify key government, military and NGO leaders to participate in the exchanges; these participants should represent several African countries as well as the regional organization. The project will include at least two phases: (1) A U.S. phase designed to introduce African participants to American specialists and approaches to local and international conflict resolution and (2) one or more visits of American specialists to Africa to conduct consultations, workshops or other activities with local counterparts. The project should be designed to: _Help develop resources and skills for conflict management/resolution in an Africa-based international or multilateral organization whose goals include management/resolution of conflicts in the region; _Introduce African participants to principles of American pluralism and American institutions and modalities for peaceful management and resolution of differences among ethnic and interest groups; _Emphasize U.S. commitment to peaceful resolution of conflicts at home and abroad; _Arrange meetings of African participants with leading American authorities on international and regional conflict resolution theories and techniques; _Provide opportunities for African participants to engage in substantive discussions with American specialists, with representatives of an African regional organization, and with one another on conflict resolution in the African area; _Facilitate cross-disciplinary and cross-national networking among African participants to help form constituencies in support of multilateral efforts to prevent, manage, and resolve conflicts in Africa. Conflict Resolution in South Africa USIA will accept proposals for the development of an exchange program to support conflict resolution in South Africa. The amount requested from USIA should not exceed $125,000. Applicants are encouraged to present their own creative program ideas within the general theme of conflict resolution in South Africa. For technical information, interested organizations may contact E/P Program Specialist Charlotte Peterson at (202) 619&hyph;5319. Promoting Cooperation and Understanding Between Arab and Jewish Municipal Government Inside Israel USIA will accept proposals for the development of a two-way exchange program to reduce tensions and increase cooperation between municipal governments in the Jewish and Arab sectors inside Israel. The amount requested from USIA should not exceed $125,000. For technical information, interested organizations may contact E/P Program Specialist Charlotte Peterson at (202) 619&hyph;5319. Background/Objectives As Israelis and Palestinians work toward implementing the declaration of principles, the U.S. Mission in Israel is encouraging greater cooperation among Israeli-Arabs and Jews. This project will contribute to the overall peace process and resolution of conflict between the two ethnic groups by encouraging interaction and advancing successful Arab integration into Israeli society. Bringing mayors and municipal officials from both sides together with American counterparts, the program will enhance leadership skills, including the skills of negotiation and conflict resolution, and emphasize the economic and social benefits of increased intermunicipal cooperation.
