FR941021-0-00162 FR941021-0-00022 72. Regardless of our general authority to conduct an auction in the Big LEO service, TRW contends that we may not auction the allocated 2.4 GHz band downlink frequencies because the pending applications for these frequencies are not mutually exclusive. According to TRW, all four applicants desiring to use the 2.4 GHz band could do so on a shared basis using the CDMA technology that all of them propose. 84 Similarly, since the same four applicants are the only ones proposing to use the lower six MHz of 1.6 GHz band, TRW argues that we cannot use auctions to assign authorizations for that frequency range either. As TRW sees it, the only portion of the Big LEO spectrum that we can auction consistently with the mutual exclusivity proviso of Subsection 309(j)(1) is the sector of the 1.6 GHz band between 1616&hyph;1626.5 MHz, where both Motorola and the CDMA proponents have competing applications on file. 84 LQP contends, moreover, that segmentation of the 2.4 GHz band pursuant to the tentative auction plan outlined in the NPRM would be impracticable because any CDMA system would require use of all 16.5 MHz of the available 2.4 GHz band, whether it intends to share that spectrum in common with other CDMA systems or to use it exclusively. 73. We do not agree with TRW that Subsection 309(j)(1) bars us from using an auction to award licenses for the lower portion of the 1.6 GHz band. There is simply not enough spectrum in the band to accommodate all pending applications. While we recognize that there are certain portions of the spectrum in which sharing among CDMA systems is possible ( i.e., the 1610&hyph;1616 MHz and the 2483.5&hyph;2500 MHz bands), these frequencies cannot in themselves accommodate all proposed CDMA systems, including AMSC's. Consequently, these bands cannot be separated from the rest of the MSS frequencies in determining whether mutual exclusivity exists and whether auctions can be employed. Moreover, we are not proposing to conduct an auction until after the applicants have had an opportunity to amend their applications to conform with our rules. If our spectrum sharing plan does not then accommodate the systems of all qualified applicants, the plan will not be implemented. Rather, the 1.6 GHz band spectrum would be segmented and the qualified applicants will be required, in order to preserve their eligibility, to apply for a separate license for each segment that they want to use. Consistent with the mutual exclusivity prerequisite of Subsection 309(j)(1), in the event that only a single eligible application is filed for a particular segment within the filing window, the segment will be assigned to the applicant requesting it. We would not assign the license for a segment through competitive bidding unless two or more eligible applications for it were on file. Winners would be permitted to employ their choice of CDMA or TDMA/FDMA architectures. 74. We do agree with TRW that there is no need to assign 2.4 GHz band authorizations by competitive bidding. Because CDMA systems must use 1.6 GHz uplink and corresponding 2.4 GHz downlink frequencies to operate, we proposed in the Notice to pair 1.6 GHz and 2.4 GHz spectrum blocks for auctioning. 85 All applicants requesting authority to use the 2.4 GHz band concede that they can share it using CDMA technology, however. We therefore conclude that would be more appropriate to license all winners of auctioned 1.6 GHz spectrum blocks to operate in the space-to-Earth transmission direction in the 2483.5&hyph;2500 MHz band on a shared basis using CDMA techniques. 85 Notice, note 2, supra, at para. 45. 75. TRW contends that dividing sharable spectrum into segments and assigning a license for each segment to the highest bidder, as we proposed in the Notice, rather than assigning co-extensive licenses for the entire bandwidth to as many as could share it, would be ``spectrum-inefficient'' and therefore ``manifestly contrary to the auction legislation.'' Constellation likewise asserts that assigning licenses for discrete segments of the Big LEO spectrum by competitive bidding would probably eliminate any chance of CDMA sharing, as auction winners would probably not consent to share use of their licensed segments with competing service providers. Constellation, accordingly, contends that such a licensing procedure would not promote efficient spectrum use. Similarly, LQP asserts that assigning Big LEO licenses by auction would deter multiple entry and competition. 76. We do not agree that auctioning the 1.6 GHz band in band segments would disserve the statutory objectives of promoting competition and efficient spectrum use. First, it is not clear that using an auction licensing mechanism would discourage spectrum sharing. Applicants who obtain licenses for band segments by competitive bidding could negotiate post-auction sharing agreements among themselves and request license modifications, as TRW acknowledges in its comments. 86 If, in fact, the potential economic value of some or all of the available 1.6 GHz band could best be realized through frequency sharing, licensees will have an incentive to enter into such mutually beneficial sharing agreements, no matter how they acquire their licenses. Second, there is no evident reason to conclude that competitive bidding would impede competition. Our auction rules will ensure that there will be at least two providers. Further, by dividing the available bandwidth into relatively small segments and allowing bidders to acquire several segments and aggregate them, the number of initial licensees and the amounts of spectrum held by particular licensees will be determined largely by market forces. 86 TRW Comments at 102&hyph;103. 77. We recognize it is possible that an auction might result in fewer licensees than could otherwise have been accommodated using a sharing plan. As discussed above, however, we have been unable to develop a sharing plan that avoids mutual exclusivity, assuming all applicants are deemed qualified. If mutual exclusivity cannot be avoided by sharing, implementing an auction may achieve countervailing public interest benefits. As we have explained, assigning spectrum rights to those who place the highest value on them generally serves the public interest because it ensures an award to the highest-valued use. 78. We do not agree with LQP that using auctions is contrary to our established policy of favoring multiple entry in new satellite services. We have ensured that our competitive bidding framework will result in at least two licensees, thereby ensuring the benefits of a competitive market structure. 87 Moreover, insofar as our policy permits marketplace incentives to determine the number of service providers, the policy is fully consistent with our ``open skies'' satellite policy, which was based on similar considerations. 88 87 See para. 89, infra. 88 Domestic Communications Satellite Facilities, 22 FCC 2d (1970), 35 FCC 2d 844 (1972), recon. in part, 38 FCC 2d 665 (1972) ( DOMSAT I, II, and III, respectively). 79. TRW also suggests that we may not lawfully use an auction to assign Big LEO licenses because of the statutory mandate concerning promotion of economic opportunity. TRW claims, for instance, that the statute requires the Commission, consistent with the public interest and the characteristics of the proposed service, to ``prescribe *␣*␣* bandwidth assignments that promote *␣*␣* economic opportunity for a wide variety of applicants'' (emphasis added), 89 which is impossible here given the number of Big LEO licenses that can be awarded. TRW further asserts we cannot meet the statute's requirements to afford opportunity for small businesses, businesses owned by members of minority groups or women, and rural telephone companies, since there are no representatives of those ``designated entity'' (DE) classes among the existing applicants, that it is virtually impossible for a company qualifying as a small business to raise enough capital to finance construction and operation of a Big LEO system, and that it would be a daunting task to devise a system of viable set-asides for designated entities without drastically impairing the ability of other applicants to implement service. 89 47 U.S.C. 309(j)(4)(c).
