FR940819-0-00086 FR940819-0-00019 In addition, the written procedures for establishing duty period limitations and rest requirements for operators certificated under part 135 must include the limitations contained in subpart F, except for provisions for on-board rest facilities, as appropriate to the operation being conducted. Part 121 and 135 certificate holders are required to provide flight attendants on aircraft with certain passenger seating configurations in accordance with §§121.391, 135.107, or the certificate holder's operations specifications, as appropriate. The number of flight attendants required on an aircraft to meet the provisions of §§121.391, 135.107, or the certificate holder's operations specifications, whichever is greater, is referred to as the minimum flight attendant crew complement. Any operator that elects the option to apply flight crewmember flight, duty, and rest requirements to flight attendants and has established written procedures for augmenting the minimum flight crewmember complement must establish procedures for augmenting the minimum flight attendant complement. The augmenting procedures must be based on the number of flight crewmembers assigned to the flight that is in addition to the minimum flight crewmember complement as specified in the aircraft type certificate data sheet. For example, if the minimum flight crewmember complement on a Boeing 747&hyph;300 is three, as specified in the aircraft type certificate data sheet, an operator that schedules four flight crewmembers for an extended long-range flight will be required to schedule one flight attendant in addition to the minimum flight attendant crew complement that is required by §§121.391, 135.107, or the certificate holder's operations specifications. For example, if the operations specifications for a certain airplane requires 8 flight attendants, and if the operator adds 1 flight crewmember, that operator would be required to add 1 additional flight attendant, for a total of 9 flight attendants. In addition, any operator that elects the option of applying the flight crewmember flight, duty, and rest requirements to flight attendants, must ensure that the definition of ``rest period'' in this final rule is applied to those flight attendants. (See the detailed discussion on ``Rest Period Requirements'' and ``Reserve Status, Stand-by Status, or Similar Assignments'' in this final rule.) Under the provision for applying flight crewmember flight, duty, and rest requirements to flight attendants, if the Administrator finds that revisions to the written procedures are necessary for the continued adequacy of the procedures for applying flight crewmember flight, duty, and rest requirements to flight attendants, the Administrator will require the operator to make necessary changes within 30 days after being notified by the Administrator. In addition, an operator may petition the Administrator to reconsider the notice to change the procedures. This procedure for requiring changes is consistent with the current regulatory language for aircraft inspection programs and pilot training programs contained in §§91.415 and 121.405, respectively, as well as a number of other regulations. Any operator that establishes written procedures to apply the flight crewmember flight, duty, and rest requirements to flight attendants and that subsequently wishes to revise this practice and schedule flight attendants according to the duty period limitations and rest requirements in §§121.467 or 135.273 must amend their operations specifications in accordance with §§121.79(c) and 135.17(b). These sections require a certificate holder to file an application for an amendment of operations specifications at least 15 days before the effective date proposed by the applicant for the amendment, unless a shorter filing period is approved by the Flight Standards District Office charged with the overall inspection of the certificate holder. Unscheduled Operations The NPRM proposed duty period limitations and rest requirements for flight attendants in all domestic, flag, supplemental, and commercial operations conducted under part 121 and part 125, and in all operations conducted under part 135. No new requirements for operations conducted under part 91 were proposed. The FAA received comments from part 121 and 135 operators about the applicability of the proposed requirements to certain unscheduled operations. Those commenters included AMR Combs, ATA, American Cyanamid Company, Delta Airlines, Great American Airways, North American Airlines, and Southwest Airlines.
