FR940628-0-00057 FR940628-0-00018 Section 1: Dwellings Subject to the New Construction Requirements of the Fair Housing Act The issues addressed in this section concern the types of multifamily dwellings (or portions of such dwellings) designed and constructed for first occupancy after March 13, 1991 that must comply with the design and construction requirements of the Fair Housing Act. 1. Townhouses (a) Q. Are townhouses in non-elevator buildings which have individual exterior entrances required to be accessible? A. Yes, if they are single-story townhouses. If they are multistory townhouses, accessibility is not required. ( See the discussion of townhouses in the preamble to the Guidelines under ``Section 2_Definitions [Covered Multifamily Dwellings]'' at 56 FR 9481, March 6, 1991, or 24 CFR Ch. I, Subch. A, App. III.) (b) Q. Does the Fair Housing Act cover four one-story dwelling units that share common walls and have individual entrances? A. Yes. The Fair Housing Act applies to all units in buildings consisting of four or more dwelling units if such buildings have one or more elevators; and ground floor dwelling units in other buildings consisting of four or more dwelling units. This would include one-story homes, sometimes called ``single-story townhouses,'' ``villas,'' or ``patio apartments,'' regardless of ownership, even though such homes may not be considered multifamily dwellings under various building codes. (c) Q. What if the single-story dwelling units are separated by firewalls? A. The Fair Housing Act would still apply. The Guidelines define covered multifamily dwellings to include buildings having four or more units within a single structure separated by firewalls. 2. Commercial Space Q. If a building includes three residential dwelling units and one or more commercial spaces, is the building a ``covered multifamily dwelling'' under the Fair Housing Act? A. No. Covered multifamily dwellings are buildings consisting of four or more dwelling units, if such buildings have one or more elevators; and ground floor dwelling units in other buildings consisting of four or more dwelling units. Commercial space does not meet the definition of ``dwelling unit.'' Note, however, that title III of the ADA applies to public accommodations and commercial facilities, therefore an independent determination should be made regarding applicability of the ADA to the commercial space in such a building. ( See the introduction to these questions and answers, which provides some background on the ADA.) 3. Condominiums (a) Q. Are condominiums covered by the Fair Housing Act? A. Yes. Condominiums in covered multifamily dwellings are covered by the Fair Housing Act. The Fair Housing Act makes no distinctions based on ownership. (b) Q. If a condominium is pre-sold as a shell and the interior is designed and constructed by the buyer, are the Guidelines applicable? A. Yes. The Fair Housing Act applies to design and construction of covered multifamily dwellings, regardless of whether the person doing the design and construction is an architect, builder, or private individual. ( See discussion of condominiums in the preamble to Guidelines under ``Section 2_Definitions [Dwelling Units]'' at 56 FR 9481, March 6, 1991, or 24 CFR Ch. I, Subch. A, App. III.) 4. Additions (a) Q. If an owner adds four or more dwelling units to an existing building, are those units covered by the Fair Housing Act? A. Yes, provided that the units constitute a new addition to the building and not substantial rehabilitation of existing units.
