FR940513-2-00188 FR940513-2-00091 UNITED STATES INFORMATION AGENCY The Role of Legislative Staff and Information Resources in the Legislative Process (Africa); Public and Private Non-Profit Organizations in Support of International Educational and Cultural Activities AGENCY: Notice_Request for proposals. SUMMARY: The Office of Citizen Exchanges (E/P) of the United States Information Agency (USIA) proposes the development of a multi-phased exchange program for legislative staff of four francophone African countries. The participating countries are Benin, Cote d'Ivoire, Mali and Niger The project should introduce participants to the responsibilities of various professional staff in conducting the business of a legislature, emphasizing professional non-partisan roles. The project may address a wide range of administrative, legal, fiscal, and research services or concentrate on a few of notable priority. It also should illustrate the role of information resources in conducting policy analysis and drafting legislation as well as the role of archival materials in establishing the legislature's official legal record. The project should facilitate access to resource materials to promote the the study of the legislative process and should law the foundation for collaboration between U.S. and African legislatures and professional support organizations. A U.S. not-for-profit institution will design and execute the program and select the American presenters. The institution should demonstrate success in coordinating international exchange programs for senior-level foreign participants. The applicant institution should have substantive working relationships with U.S. public and private sector organizations involved with legislative affairs and the professional development of key staff in Congress or in state assemblies. The program will begin in the fall of 1994. Interested applicants are urged to read the complete Request for Proposals (RFP) announcement before addressing inquires to the Office. After the RFP deadline, the Office of Citizen Exchanges may not discuss this competition in any way with applicants until the final decisions are made. ANNOUNCEMENT NUMBER: This Announcement number is E/P&hyph;94&hyph;30. Please refer to this number and the title given above in all correspondence or telephone calls to USIA. DATES: Deadline for Proposals: All copies must be received at the U.S. Information Agency by 5 p.m. Washington, DC time on July 8, 1994. Faxed documents will not be accepted, nor will documents postmarked July 8, 1994, but received at a later date. It is the responsibility of the grant applicant to ensure that proposals are received by this deadline. Grant activity should begin after October 1, 1994. ADDRESSES: You must submit the original and 14 copies of the proposal as instructed in the application checklist provided in the Application Package. The original and two copies should contain all applicable TABS. The rest of the copies should contain TABS A through D only. Please submit your proposal and copies by the application deadline to: U.S. Information Agency, REF: Citizen Exchanges: Role of Legislative Staff and Information Resources in the Legislative Process, (Africa), E/P&hyph;94&hyph;30, Office of Grants Management (E/XE), 301 Fourth Street, SW., room 336, Washington, DC 20547. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Interested organizations should contact the Office of Citizen Exchanges (E/PS), U.S. Information Agency, 301 Fourth Street, SW., room 224, Washington, DC, 20547, telephone: 202&hyph;619&hyph;5319, fax: 202&hyph;619&hyph;4350, to request a detailed application package which includes all necessary forms and guidelines for preparing proposals, including specific budget preparation instructions. Agency representatives are able to answer only technical questions about this competition. For technical information, contact Stephen Taylor, Program Specialist, Africa, Near East and South Asia Division, Office of Citizen Exchanges. Project Overview Several francophone African countries are strengthening their democratic institutions, having recently completed the transition to a representative system of government. National legislatures in these countries have the opportunity to gain greater independence, develop more effective legislation and take steps to serve more forcefully as a balance to executive power. The viability and institutional independence of these legislative bodies could be enhanced by the services of trained staff prepared to play a support role for lawmakers and the legislative process. Legislative staff also are well paced to provide continuity regardless of the legislature's partisan make-up or the political fortunes of elected representatives. In the United States, Congress and state legislatures employ professional staff to conduct research, draft legislation, analyze budgets, maintain records, monitor compliance with legislation and perform other duties. In many cases, professional staff provide these services on a non-partisan basis. For example, on Capitol Hill, the Office of the Legislative Counsel assists committees in drafting and amending legislation. The clerk of the House and secretary of the Senate, selected by the majority party, assist in processing legislation and performing various reporting functions. The House Office of the Law Revision Counsel updates and publishes an official classification of U.S. laws. In drafting bills, lawmakers rely on non-partisan support organizations such as the Congressional Research Service, which analyzes public policy issues, and the Congressional Budget Office, which provides analyses of fiscal issues.
