FR940114-0-00050 FR940114-0-00020 Comment : The National Manufactured Housing Advisory Council should be convened, as required by law, to consider the standards proposed by the Department. Response : Despite the infeasibility of convening the Advisory Council within the timeframe originally proposed for the implementation of improved standards, the Department made an extraordinary effort to consult with the individual members of the Advisory Council. The responses of a number of the individual members of the Advisory Council have been considered and included in the docket file for this rulemaking. Later, because of the Department's extension of the comment period and recognition that a final rule could not be in place in time for the 1993 hurricane season, the Department immediately convened the Advisory Council so that it could discuss the proposal as a panel. The resulting recommendations of the Advisory Council, as a panel, also have been considered carefully in determining both the scope and the specific requirements of this final rule. Additional discussion of the proceedings of the Advisory Council can be found elsewhere in this preamble. Comment : Several commenters questioned the impact of the rule on families, in the context of Executive Order 12606, which requires consideration of the impact of a regulation on family formation, maintenance, and general well-being. Response : In the proposed rule, the Department indicated that the rule was not subject to review under the Executive Order. The commenters questioned this position based on information that some potential consumers would be unable to purchase manufactured homes if the prices of those homes were raised to cover the costs of the new standards. To the extent that production cost increases resulting from this rule will be passed on to consumers, one effect of the rule is expected to be the loss of marginal consumers from the market. Some of these marginal consumers will have to find less expensive, rental housing; some will opt for comparably priced site-built housing. However, the significance of this result is not a loss of housing, but a redistribution of the kinds of housing available. Although as a result some families may lose an ownership option, the general well-being of families, and society, is served better by ensuring adequate quality standards for such housing. Although the Department does not believe this final rule implicates family concerns within the spirit of the Executive Order, the Department has analyzed the rule as required under the Order. Therefore, in the paragraph on Executive Order 12606 under the ``Other Matters'' section of this preamble, the Department certifies that the requirements of the Order have been met in the issuance of this rule. Comment : The proposed rule indicated that manufacturers should anticipate the contents of the final rule and should prepare to comply with the more stringent standards soon after publication of the final rule. This schedule for implementation of the new standards fails to recognize the need for lead time to design, test, and seek approval of changes necessitated by the standard changes. In addition, while personnel resources are concentrated on the redesign requirement, production personnel may have to be laid off. This problem is compounded by the possibility that another redesign will be necessary as a result of the new Federal energy standards. Response : To a large extent, the Department already has been responsive to the concerns expressed in this comment by conceding that the rule will not become effective for 180 days. The Department is sensitive to the procedural requirements that a manufacturer faces when undertaking design changes. However, there is no doubt that by the time this rule becomes effective, all aspects of the industry should have had sufficient advance notice of the necessary product improvements to prepare for implementation of the new standards. Innovative solutions and safer products generally depend on some commercial incentive. The Department believes, based on the knowledge of its technical staff, the reports they have reviewed, and some of the comments received, that those parties involved in the production, sales, and siting of manufactured housing will be able to comply with these standards reasonably quickly, when continued sales depend on such compliance. Cost Considerations Comment : The cost impact of the standard changes should be analyzed, as required by Executive Order 12291 and 42 U.S.C. 5403(f), and a regulatory impact analysis should be prepared. Response : As stated in the ``Other Matters'' section of the preamble of the proposed rule (57 FR 19539), the Department agreed that it would prepare and submit a regulatory impact analysis before publication of the final rule, in accordance with established Office of Management and Budget (OMB) guidance. Although many of the benefits, and some costs, of increased standards are difficult to quantify for purposes of such an economic analysis (e.g., loss of life, uninsured costs, insurance deductibles, and injuries), the Department has complied with the requirements of Executive Order 12866 (September 30, 1993) and OMB. As noted under ``Significant Regulatory Action'' in the ``Other Matters'' section of this preamble, a final regulatory analysis based on the provisions in this final rule is available to the public. However, while economic concerns have always been an important component of the Department's decisionmaking process and, in this case, resulted in modification of the rule, the Department stresses that its statutory mandate to reduce the number of personal injuries and deaths and the amount of insurance costs and property damage resulting from manufactured home accidents, and to improve the quality and durability of manufactured homes, requires that the Department look beyond affordability issues. In promoting homeownership opportunities for lower-income persons, the Department strongly believes that such housing must also be safe. The concern with safety extends beyond the occupants of the housing, to all those who may be affected by the failure of such housing to meet minimum performance standards under reasonably foreseeable conditions. For example, in a Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) report on ``Building Performance: Hurricane Andrew in Florida'' (FIA&hyph;22, 2/93), cited by commenter 76, It was observed that the breakup of corrugated metal siding and roofed buildings such as manufactured homes and pre-engineered metal frame buildings contributed significantly to the generation of airborne debris. This was evident from debris damage to nearby downwind structures. As stated by another commenter (205 (2) ): ``The prospect of reducing the loss of life and property and reducing the cost of disaster relief efforts from such losses as Hurricane Andrew would certainly be to the benefit of the entire housing industry and the individual and corporate citizen taxpayers of the United States.'' In addition, the upgrades required under this rule also would increase the ability of the homes to withstand damage during transportation and installation of the units, and the improved windows would be more energy efficient (see comment 150).
