FR940323-0-00105 FR940323-0-00024 Under sections 8331(3) and 8401(4) of title 5, United States Code, allowances (which includes COLAs) are excluded from basic pay in the computation of Federal annuities under the Civil Service Retirement System and the Federal Employees' Retirement System. It would be inappropriate to adjust COLA to take into consideration that which the law has specifically excluded. Therefore, OPM believes that no adjustments to the pensions and investments portion of the model are in order. Comments About the Virgin Islands Surveys A number of employees from the Virgin Islands felt that the COLA surveys did not accurately reflect living costs, particularly in St. Croix. The employees said that the COLA rates were too low. One commenter questioned the validity of the price data collected in St. Croix. OPM closely monitors Runzheimer's work and believes that the surveys and analyses are accurate. OPM specifically reviewed in great detail all survey data from the Virgin Islands. We are satisfied that Runzheimer followed appropriate procedures in collecting data, analyzing, and reporting data. Some commenters from St. Croix referred to a Virgin Island Department of Labor survey that indicated that food costs in St. Croix were 25 percent higher than food costs in the Washington, DC, area. The employees cited this as evidence that the St. Croix COLA rate should be higher. Runzheimer priced a wide variety of food items in each allowance area, including St. Croix. The results of the food portion of the survey were provided in Appendix 4 of the report and were part of the Federal Register notice. These results showed that food consumed at home was approximately 28 percent more expensive in St. Croix than in the DC area. COLA rates, however, are based on more than just the relative cost of food; and in St. Croix, the relative costs of other items were generally lower than the relative cost of food. Therefore, the St. Croix COLA rate is lower than the food index. Over 200 employees from St. Croix, stated that their COLA rate should be the same as the rate for St. Thomas and St. John. The COLA surveys for the two areas showed that some prices were higher in St. Croix than in St. Thomas and that some were lower. Overall, St. Croix prices were about 4 percentage points lower than St. Thomas prices. The difference in the final COLA rates for the two areas generally reflects this overall price difference. OPM notes that the American Chamber of Commerce Research Association (ACCRA) surveyed living costs in the Virgin Islands in 1992. The results of the ACCRA survey also showed that living costs in St. Thomas were higher than living costs in St. Croix. One commenter stated that the Virgin Island COLA surveys should not be conducted during the summer. He maintained that pricing in the summer reflected lower, off-season prices. OPM recognizes that survey timing is an important consideration, and COLA surveys are scheduled to collect prices in a ``typical'' month. OPM believes that the current surveys are conducted at a reasonable time of year but will consider timing changes. Survey timing will be part of OPM's report to Congress. Several commenters from the Virgin Islands stated that certain medical services were not available in their area and that they had to fly to other areas to obtain these services. One commenter from Alaska also noted this problem. In addition, many commenters in St. Croix stated that the local hospital was not accredited. They said they had to fly to Puerto Rico or to the U.S. mainland for hospital services. OPM is studying the availability and cost of medical services in the allowance areas. In addition, OPM's employee survey included questions regarding where Federal employees obtain medical services. OPM plans to include the results of its research and the employee survey in its report to Congress. Many employees in St. Croix cited the high cost of air travel for medical treatment. They also noted the cost of air ambulance service. As part of its research, OPM is studying the cost of obtaining medical services in the appropriate area if such services are not available locally. OPM is also researching the issue of air ambulance insurance. OPM plans to include the results of this research in its report to Congress. Many commenters from St. Croix criticized the quality of public schools in their area and said that a high percentage of Federal employees sent their children to private schools. The commenters believed that OPM should consider the cost of private education in the survey. OPM is studying private education issues. In addition, OPM asked employees in the employee survey whether they sent their children to public or private schools. OPM plans to include the results of this research in its report to Congress. Some employees in St. Croix want OPM to take into account the cost of sending children to out-of-area colleges and universities. They noted the high cost of travel, campus housing, and out-of-state tuition. OPM is studying the cost of college and university education, and the employee survey included questions concerning college and university education. OPM plans to include the results of its research and the employee survey in its report to Congress. Regulatory Flexibility Act I certify that this regulation will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities because the regulation will affect only Federal agencies and employees. List of Subjects in 5 CFR Part 591 Government employees, Travel and transportation expenses, Wages. U.S. Office of Personnel Management. James B. King, Director.
