FR940822-0-00040 FR940822-0-00013 Since 1984, courts in a number of jurisdictions have ruled that section 1902(a)(17)(D) of the Act, which limits whose income and resources can be counted (unless actually made available), overrides section 1902(a)(10) of the Act, which requires that the AFDC methods be used to determine Medicaid eligibility for AFDC-related non-cash assistance cases. These rulings left open the issue of what method should be used uniformly among States. Currently, States are using a variety of methods for determining income for Medicaid eligibility purposes. In response to our request for public comments on the January 1993 rule, we received many objections to the budgeting method set forth in the regulations. Specifically, we set forth in the January 1993 rule a prorating method of determining eligibility for AFDC-related non-cash assistance individuals. Under this method, individual members of the Medicaid budgetary unit would have their income and resource eligibility determined using separate standards that are calculated based on proration of existing standards. Parents' countable income and resources would be prorated equally among their dependents living in the home, including non-Supplemental Security Income dependents who may not be members of the budgetary unit. The proration would also take into account the needs of the parents. We also addressed how certain types of income would be counted and how certain types of disregards would be calculated. We received comments from 13 States and 7 special interest groups. With one exception, all of the commenters objected to the budgeting method in these regulations. These commenters stated that the new procedure was error prone and unnecessarily complex. In addition, they believed that the required system and manual changes and personnel retraining would result in significant administrative costs. We considered these comments, especially in the light of health care reform legislation. We also worked with the Medicaid Eligibility Technical Advisory Group (ETAG) to develop an acceptable policy. The ETAG prefers a policy that minimizes the disruption of current approaches. We also met with recipient advocates who endorse allowing States a choice of several options, but strongly oppose allowing the budgeting method in the referenced regulation to be one of these options. Consequently, we are withdrawing the regulations containing the mandatory budgetary method for determining financial eligibility for AFDC-related non-cash assistance individuals. By doing this, we are allowing States flexibility, within any constraints imposed by court orders or agreements with recipient advocate groups, to interpret the current provisions in the law. That is, at this time, in the absence of specific regulatory guidance on the methodologies for establishing income and resource eligibility for AFDC-related non-cash assistance individuals, States will be required to use methodologies that comply with the statute and any applicable court orders. II. Provisions of the Final Regulation As a result of our decision to withdraw the regulations that require States to use a mandatory budgetary method for determining financial eligibility for AFDC-related non-cash assistance individuals, we are making the following changes to the January 1993 rule: •We have withdrawn §§435.604, 435.606, 436.604, and 436.606. These sections contained the procedures for determining income and resource eligibility for AFDC-related non-cash assistance groups. •We have removed and reserved §435.113(b) and §436.111(b)(2). These paragraphs required States to provide Medicaid to individuals denied AFDC because of the involuntary inclusion of all eligible siblings living in the home as members of AFDC filing units. •We have removed and reserved §435.600(b) and §436.600(b). These sections referred respectively to §435.604 and §436.604, which have been removed. •We have revised §435.601 and §436.601 by removing paragraph (e) in each section. These paragraphs contain criteria for exceptions to financial application eligibility methodologies and State plan requirements that are no longer applicable. We also have corrected related cross-references in paragraph (b) and (f)(l) of each section. •We have revised §435.602 by removing and reserving paragraph (d) and §436.602 by removing and reserving paragraph (c). These paragraphs contain requirements for determining financial responsibility of relatives and other individuals for AFDC-related non-cash assistance groups. We also have corrected related cross-references in §§435.602(a), 436.602(a), and 436.602(a)(2).
