FR940516-1-00090 FR940516-1-00006 In determining the appropriate level of emission standards to propose, EPA initially considered, as required in the CAA, comparable motor vehicle standards. Due to technological constraints present in small engines, EPA believes that promulgating emission standards comparable with motor vehicle standards in a Phase 1 rule is not technologically achievable. See chapter 1 of the draft RSD for further discussion of small SI engine technological constraints. In proposing these emission standards, EPA has also considered potential safety and noise issues. Of concern is 36 CFR 261.52 which directs the Forest Service to prohibit the operation or use of any handheld internal or external combustion engine without a spark-arresting device properly installed, maintained, and in effective working order. The Forest Service also requires that multipositional small engines used on federal park lands have exposed exhaust system surface temperatures not exceeding 550 ○C. Exhaust gas temperatures may not exceed 475 ○C. The type of engine changes EPA expects as a result of the proposed emission standards will not present a safety concern. Only catalytic converters designed to produce high conversion efficiencies can generate sufficient exotherms to raise exhaust system skin temperatures to a level that might present a safety problem. Manufacturers have indicated that they will not use catalytic converters to meet the proposed emission standards for most product lines. EPA estimates that up to 30 percent of engines in Class I may need low efficiency catalysts to meet the standards. However, one manufacturer stated that the exotherm generated by these low efficiency catalysts will not affect exhaust system skin temperatures sufficiently to warrant more advanced heat dissipation and heat shield technologies. Noise levels of small SI engines will not be allowed to increase as a result of the proposed emission standards. The type of engine changes EPA expects to see among current engine designs to meet the proposed emission standards are not expected to impact noise levels. The primary source of noise from nonroad small engines originates from combustion and the moving parts in the engine, such as the piston, valve train, and so forth. Noise from combustion is controlled primarily through the engine muffler. EPA believes the principal method to be used by all engine manufacturers to meet the proposed emission regulation will be leaner air/fuel ratios. Noise levels in future engines which meet the proposed regulations must, therefore, not exceed that of current production engines. EPA requests comment on the possible impact of this proposed regulation on both engine noise and safety. In EPA's judgment, section 213(a)(3)'s requirement that EPA regulate emissions from those classes or categories of new nonroad engines which cause, or contribute to concentrations of ozone in nonattainment areas allows EPA to set emission standards for HC, rather than VOCs in general, as EPA believes that HC emissions from small gasoline engines are those that cause or contribute to ozone nonattainment concentrations. In addition, regulating HC rather that VOCs would be consistent with on- highway practice. EPA requests comment on this proposed approach. In the Nonroad Study, EPA described VOCs as any compounds containing carbon and hydrogen or containing carbon and hydrogen in combination with any other element which has a vapor pressure of 1.5 pounds per square inch absolute or greater under actual storage conditions. HCs contain both hydrogen atoms and carbon atoms but no other atoms and are a subset of VOCs. For small SI engines, based on engines tested by Southwest Research Institute under contract with EPA, HCs make up more than 99 percent of the VOCs emitted from these engines. Less than one percent of the measured VOC emissions are from constituents other than HC emissions (aldehydes and ketones were the measured non- hydrocarbon constituents in this case). In general, the types of emission controls employed to reduce HC emissions also reduce emissions of non-hydrocarbon VOCs. Therefore, in the case of small SI engines, setting emission limits for HC emission accomplishes essentially the same overall reduction in VOC emission as would setting emission limits for VOCs. Of course reductions in the individual non- hydrocarbon VOC species varies, as does the individual hydrocarbon species. 5. Engine Classes The category of small SI engines is very complex and comprises a wide range of engines used in a broad spectrum of equipment. EPA proposes to adopt a ``class'' structure for this Phase 1 regulation. In determining which class of emission standards a particular engine must meet, an engine's end use or application must be determined. This rule proposes two broad use categories_nonhandheld and handheld. Nonhandheld engines would be required to meet either Class I or Class II standards while handheld engines would have to meet either Class III, IV, or V emission standards. Once the applicable use category is determined, the engine class would be selected on the basis of engine displacement as measured in cubic centimeters (cc). Each engine class would have unique emission standards. EPA is proposing five engine classes: Class I_small nonhandheld engines less than 225 cc in displacement; Class II_small nonhandheld engines greater than or equal to 225 cc in displacement; Class III_small handheld engines less than 20 cc in displacement; Class IV_small handheld engines equal to or greater than 20 cc to less than 50 cc in displacement; Class V_ small handheld engines equal to or greater than 50 cc in displacement.
