FR940620-1-00076 FR940620-1-00009 (ii) Any restrictions on the Government's rights to use, modify, reproduce, release, perform, display, or disclose the data have expired or no longer apply. (6) Release from liability. The contractor agrees to release the Government from liability for any release or disclosure of technical data made in accordance with paragraphs (a)(13) or (b)(2)(iii) of this clause, in accordance with the terms of a license negotiated under (b)(4) of this clause, or by others to whom the recipient has released or disclosed the data and to seek relief solely from the party who has improperly used, modified, reproduced, released, performed, displayed, or disclosed contractor data marked with restrictive legends. (c) Contractor rights in technical data. All rights not granted to the government are retained by the contractor. (d) Third party copyrighted data. The contractor shall not, without the written approval of the contracting officer, incorporate any copyrighted data in the technical data to be delivered under this contract unless the contractor is the copyright owner or has obtained for the Government the license rights necessary to perfect a license or licenses in the deliverable data of the appropriate scope set forth in paragraph (b) of this clause, and has affixed a statement of the license or licenses obtained on behalf of the Government and other persons to the data transmittal document. (e) Identification and delivery of data to be furnished with restrictions on use, release, or disclosure. (1) This paragraph does not apply to restrictions based solely on copyright. (2) Except as provided in subparagraph (e)(3) of this clause, technical data that the contractor asserts should be furnished to the Government with restrictions on use, release, or disclosure are identified in an Attachment to this contract (``the Attachment''). The contractor shall not deliver any data with restrictive markings unless the data are listed on the Attachment. (3) In addition to the assertions made in the Attachment, other assertions may be identified after award when based on new information or inadvertent omissions unless the inadvertent omissions would have materially affected the source selection decision. Such identification and assertion shall be submitted to the contracting officer as soon as practicable prior to the scheduled date for delivery of the data, in the following format, and signed by an official authorized to contractually obligate the contractor: ``Identification and Assertion of Restrictions on the Government's Use, Release, or Disclosure of Technical Data. The contractor asserts for itself, or the persons identified below, that the Government's rights to use, release, or disclose the following technical data should be restricted_ ␣ 1Technical Data to be furnished With Restrictions* 1Basis for Assertion** 1Asserted Rights Category*** 1Name of Person Asserting Restrictions**** i0(LIST) i0(LIST) i0(LIST) i0(LIST) *If the assertion is applicable to items, components, or processes developed at private expense, identify both the data and each such item, component, or process. **Generally, the development of an item, component, or process at private expense, either exclusively or partially, is the only basis for asserting restrictions on the Government's rights to use, release, or disclose technical data pertaining to such items, components, or processes. Indicate whether development was exclusively or partially at private expense. If development was not at private expense, enter the specific reason for asserting that the Government's rights should be restricted. ***Enter asserted rights category (e.g., government purpose license rights from a prior contract, rights in SBIR data generated under another contract, limited or government purpose rights under this or a prior contract, or specifically negotiated licenses).
