FR940426-1-00102 FR940426-1-00009 B. The establishment of adequate mechanisms for assisting small business stationary sources with pollution prevention and accidental release detection and prevention, including providing information concerning alternative technologies, process changes, products and methods of operation that help reduce air pollution; C. The development of a compliance and technical assistance program for small business stationary sources which assists small businesses in determining applicable permit requirements under the CAA in a timely and efficient manner; D. The development of adequate mechanisms to assure that small business stationary sources receive notice of their rights under the CAA in such manner and form as to assure reasonably adequate time for such sources to evaluate compliance methods and any relevant or applicable proposed or final regulation or standards issued under the CAA; E. The development of adequate mechanisms for informing small business stationary sources of their obligations under the CAA, including mechanisms for referring such sources to qualified auditors, or at the option of the state, for providing audits of the operations of such sources to determine compliance with the CAA; and F. The development of procedures for consideration of requests from a small business stationary source for modification of (A) any work practice or technological method of compliance, or (B) the schedule of milestones for implementing such work practice or method of compliance preceding any applicable compliance date, based on the technological and financial capability of any such small business stationary source. 2. Ombudsman FDEP has appointed a Small Business Ombudsman and established a Small Business Ombudsman's office which will act as the small business community's representative as required by section 507(a)(3) of Title V of the CAA. 3. Compliance Advisory Panel FDEP established a Small Business Air Pollution Compliance Advisory Council (SBAP CAP) effective on July 7, 1993, to meet the required November 1994 deadline of section 507(e) of Title V of the CAA. The SBAP CAP is composed of seven members as follows: *␣*␣* two members selected by the Governor who are not owners or representatives of owners of small businesses; four members selected by the state legislature who are owners, or represent owners, of small businesses; and one member selected by the head of the agency in charge of the Air Pollution Permit Program. The SBAP CAP has the following four responsibilities: (1) To render advisory opinions concerning the effectiveness of the SBAP, difficulties encountered and the degree and severity of enforcement actions; (2) To periodically report to EPA concerning the SBAP's adherence to the principles of the Paperwork Reduction Act, the Equal Access to Justice Act, and the Regulatory Flexibility Act 1 ; 1 Section 507(e)(1)(B) requires the CAP to report on the compliance of the SBAP with these three Federal statutes. However, since state agencies are not required to comply with them, EPA believes that the state PROGRAM must merely require the CAP to report on whether the SBAP is adhering to the general principles of these federal statutes. (3) To review and assure that information for small business stationary sources is easily understandable; and (4) To develop and disseminate the reports and advisory opinions made through the SBAP. 4. Eligibility FDEP has incorporated section 507(c)(1) and defined a Small Business Stationary Source as a source that: (A) Operates in Florida (B) Is owned or operated by a person who employs 100 or fewer individuals, (C) Is a small business concern as defined in the Small Business Act;
