FR940602-2-00187 FR940602-2-00095 ADDRESSES: The information upon which this determination is based is available to the public and may be inspected during normal business hours at the EPA Library, 10th floor, Park Place Building, 1200 Sixth Avenue, Seattle, Washington 98101. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Scott E. Downey, Environmental Protection Specialist, Ground Water Section, WD&hyph;133, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Region 10, 1200 Sixth Avenue, Seattle, Washington 98101, 206&hyph;553&hyph;0682. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: This action is being taken under the authority of section 1424(e) of the Safe Drinking Water Act (42 United States Code, 300f, 300h-3(e), Pub. L. 93&hyph;523). The information upon which EPA is issuing this final determination has been summarized in the ``Support Document for Sole Source Aquifer Designation of the Marrowstone Island Aquifer System'', EPA 910/R&hyph;94&hyph;002. I. Background Section 1424(e) of the Safe Drinking Water Act states: If the Administrator determines, on his own initiative or upon petition, that an area has an aquifer which is the sole or principal drinking water source for the area and which, if contaminated, would create a significant hazard to public health, he shall publish notice of that determination in the Federal Register . After the publication of any such notice, no commitment for federal financial assistance (through a grant, contract, loan guarantee, or otherwise) may be entered into for any project which the Administrator determines may contaminate such aquifer through a recharge zone so as to create a significant hazard to public health, but a commitment for federal assistance may, if authorized under another provision of law, be entered into to plan or design the project to assure that it will not so contaminate the aquifer. EPA further defines a ``Sole Source Aquifer'' (SSA) as one which supplies at least 50 percent of the drinking water to persons living in the area overlying the aquifer and in areas supplied by the aquifer, and if contaminated, would create a significant hazard to public health. Designations can be made for entire aquifers, hydrogeologically connected aquifers (aquifer systems), or part of an aquifer if that portion is hydrogeologically separated from the rest of the aquifer. EPA guidelines further stipulate that these areas can have no feasible alternative source(s) of drinking water of sufficient volume which could replace the aquifer, should it become contaminated. Although EPA has the authority to initiate SSA designations, the Agency has a policy of acting only in response to petitions. Petitions may be submitted to EPA by any individual or organization and must address procedures and criteria outlined in the ``Sole Source Aquifer Designation Petitioner Guidance'', EPA 440/6&hyph;87&hyph;003. EPA Region 10 received a petition from the Marrowstone Island Community Association on August 27, 1991, and after an initial review, the petition was declared complete on September 19, 1991. A more detailed technical review was completed in February of 1994. EPA's findings and basis for the proposed designation were documented and made available for public review in EPA publication 910/R&hyph;94&hyph;002. II. Basis for Determination The Region 10 Administrator has determined that the Marrowstone Island Aquifer System meets all applicable SSA designation criteria established through Federal statute and EPA guidance documents, as follows: 1. The Marrowstone Island Aquifer System supplies approximately 98 percent of the drinking water to persons living on the island; 2. As the principal drinking water source for the area, contamination of the Marrowstone Island Aquifer System would create a significant hazard to public health; 3. The boundary was determined in accordance with EPA guidance and is representative of an aquifer system that encompasses the entire Marrowstone Island area and includes all potable water-bearing geologic units underlying the Island; 4. There are no feasible alternative source(s) of drinking water which could replace the Marrowstone Island Aquifer System, should it become contaminated. III. Description of the Marrowstone Island Aquifer System Note: Some information in this section represents an unfootnoted summary from the ``Support Document for Sole Source Aquifer Designation of the Marrowstone Island Aquifer System'', EPA 910/R&hyph;94&hyph;002. Marrowstone Island is an elongate island located in the northern Puget Sound area of Jefferson County, Washington, near the City of Port Townsend. The island is approximately eight miles long and one mile wide and reaches a maximum elevation of approximately 180 feet above mean sea level. Marrowstone Island Aquifer System boundaries are representative of an aquifer system that encompasses the entire Marrowstone Island area. The aquifer system is bounded by the shorelines of Admiralty Inlet, Kilisut Harbor, and Oak Bay. A straight line boundary divides Indian Island from Marrowstone Island in the southwest corner of the Island. The vertical extent of the aquifer system at depth includes all potable water-bearing geologic units underlying the Island. Water level data indicates that all deposits underlying the Island are hydrogeologically connected. Water quality studies have discovered elevated chloride concentrations that indicate seawater intrusion is occurring in the fresh water aquifer system underlying the Island. This intrusion of seawater is the result of increased pumping of the aquifers, which in turn, is attributable to the increase in Island population. Other potential sources of contamination include many normal rural activities, such as improper pesticide storage and use, improper disposal of used motor oil and other household hazardous wastes, and poorly-sited or maintained storm water drainage wells, animal waste storage facilities, on-site septic systems, and underground storage tanks. Population of the Island varies by season, with the highest population occurring in the summer, and lowest in the winter. There are approximately 900 permanent residents of the Island. During a peak summer weekend, the population increases by about one-third for a total maximum population of 1300 people. There may be as few as 600 resident water users on a typical winter weekday. Approximately 98 percent of the water consumed on the Island is ground water pumped from the aquifer system by about 400 private wells. Roughly one percent of water used on the Island is collected in rainwater collection systems and used primarily for livestock consumption and outside watering of lawns and gardens. Another one percent is obtained from Fort Flagler State Park which receives water via pipeline from a U.S. Naval Undersea Warfare Detachment facility on Indian Island. There are no physical, legal, or economically feasible alternative source(s) of drinking water that could replace the aquifer system.
