FR941004-1-00011 FR941004-1-00001 (c) Calculation of RT PTS . RT PTS must be evaluated using the same procedures used to calculate RT NDT , as indicated in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, and as provided in paragraphs (c)(2) and (c)(3). RT PTS must be calculated for each vessel beltline material using a fluence value, f, which is the EOL fluence for the material. (1) Equation 1 must be used to calculate values of RT NDT for each weld and plate, or forging, in the reactor vessel beltline. E:GRAPHICSEP04OC94.000 (i) RT NDT(U) is the reference temperature, RT NDT , of the material in the pre-service or unirradiated condition, evaluated according to the procedures in the ASME Code, Paragraph NB&hyph;2331. (A) If a measured value of RT NDT(U) is not available, a generic mean value for the class 2 of material may be used if there are sufficient test results to establish a mean and a standard deviation for the class. 2 The class of material for estimating RT NDT(U) is generally determined for welds by the type of welding flux (Linde 80, or other), and for base metal by the material specification. (B) For weld metals, the following generic mean values must be used, unless justification for different values is provided: 0 ○F for welds made with Linde 80 flux, and ^56 ○F for welds made with Linde 0091, 1092 and 124 and ARCOS B&hyph;5 weld fluxes. (ii) M means the margin to be added to account for uncertainties in the values of RT NDT(U) , copper and nickel contents, fluence and the calculational procedures. M is evaluated from Equation 2. E:GRAPHICSEP04OC94.001 (A) In Equation 2, s U is the standard deviation for RT NDT(U) . If a measured value of RT NDT(U) is used, then s U is determined from the precision of the test method. If a measured value of RT NDT(U) is not available and a generic mean value for that class of materials is used, then s U is the standard deviation obtained from the set of data used to establish the mean. If a generic mean value given in paragraph (c)(1)(i)(B) for welds is used, then s U is 17 ○F. (B) In Equation 2, s * is the standard deviation for * RT NDT . The value of s * to be used is 28 ○F for welds and 17 ○F for base metal; the value of s * shall not exceed one-half of * RT NDT . (iii) * RT NDT is the mean value of the transition temperature shift, or change in RT NDT , due to irradiation, and must be calculated using Equation 3. E:GRAPHICSEP04OC94.002 (A) CF ( ○F) is the chemistry factor, which is a function of copper and nickel content. CF is given in Table 1 for welds and in Table 2 for base metal (plates and forgings). Linear interpolation is permitted. In Tables 1 and 2, ``Wt-% copper'' and ``Wt-% nickel'' are the best-estimate values for the material, which will normally be the mean of the measured values for a plate or forging. For a weld, the best estimate values will normally be the mean of the measured values for a weld deposit made using the same weld wire heat number as the critical vessel weld. If these values are not available, the upper limiting values given in the material specifications to which the vessel material was fabricated may be used. If not available, conservative estimates (mean plus one standard deviation) based on generic data 3 may be used if justification is provided. If none of these alternatives are available, 0.35% copper and 1.0% nickel must be assumed. 3 Data from reactor vessels fabricated to the same material specification in the same shop as the vessel in question and in the same time period is an example of ``generic data.'' (B) f is the best estimate neutron fluence, in units of 1019 n/cm2 (E greater than 1 MeV), at the clad-base-metal interface on the inside surface of the vessel at the location where the material in question receives the highest fluence for the period of service in question. As specified in paragraph (c), the EOL fluence for the vessel beltline material is used in calculating RT PTS . (2) To verify that RT NDT for each vessel beltline material is a bounding value for the specific reactor vessel, licensees shall consider plant-specific information that could affect the level of embrittlement. This information includes but is not limited to the reactor vessel operating temperature and surveillance program results. (i) Results from the plant-specific surveillance program must be integrated into the RT NDT estimate if the plant-specific surveillance data has been deemed credible as judged by the following criteria: (A) The materials in the surveillance capsules must be those which are the controlling materials with regard to radiation embrittlement. (B) Scatter in the plots of Charpy energy versus temperature for the irradiated and unirradiated conditions must be small enough to permit the determination of the 30-foot-pound temperature unambiguously. (C) Where there are two or more sets of surveillance data from one reactor, the scatter of * RT NDT values must be less than 28 ○F for welds and 17 ○F for base metal. Even if the range in the capsule fluences is large (two or more orders of magnitude), the scatter may not exceed twice those values. (D) The irradiation temperature of the Charpy specimens in the capsule must equal the vessel wall temperature at the cladding/base metal interface within # 25 ○F. (E) The surveillance data for the correlation monitor material in the capsule must fall within the scatter band of the data base for the material. (ii) Surveillance data deemed credible according to the criteria of paragraph (c)(2)(i) must be used to determine a material-specific value of CF for use in Equation 3. A material-specific value of CF is determined from Equation 4. E:GRAPHICSEP04OC94.003 In Equation 4, ``n'' is the number of surveillance data points, ``A i '' is the measured value of * RT NDT and ``f i '' is the fluence for each surveillance data point. (iii) For cases in which the results from a credible plant-specific surveillance program are used, the value of s * to be used is 14 ○F for welds and 8.5 ○F for base metal; the value of s * may not exceed one-half of * RT NDT . (iv) The use of results from the plant-specific surveillance program may result in an RT NDT that is higher or lower than those determined in paragraph (c)(1). (3) Any information that is believed to improve the accuracy of the RT PTS value significantly must be reported to the Director, Office of Nuclear Reactor Regulation. Any value of RT PTS that has been modified using the procedures of paragraph (c)(2) is subject to the approval of the Director, Office of Nuclear Reactor Regulation when used as provided in this section.
