FR940318-2-00185 FR940318-2-00108 Supplemental information related to the non-radiological environmental assessment was also presented in the licensee's letter of February 7, 1994. The licensee summarized their reassessment of potential radiological and non-radiological impacts of station operation at a slightly higher power level as follows: Non-Radiological Environmental Assessment Since power uprate will not significantly change the methods of generating electricity, nor of handling any influents from the environment or effluents to it, no new or different environmental impacts are expected. The conservative models and methods used in the environmental assessments of the original design, confirmed by studies conducted during actual operation, show that more than adequate margin exists for the proposed power uprate without exceeding the nonradiological environmental effects estimated in the original estimates and analyses and cited in the original permit applications and impact statements. The maximum withdrawal rate from the river will increase from the current value of 38,800 gpm to 40,700 gpm after power uprate, an increase of 5%. The maximum blowdown rate will increase from the current value of 10,300 gpm to 10,800 gpm, an increase of 5%. After reviewing the additional water withdrawal requirements and increased blowdown rate from the natural draft cooling towers at the Susquehanna SES (SSES) associated with power uprate, PP&L determined that there will be no adverse effects to the river flow or river biota. This conclusion is based on two factors. First, the projected number of fish estimated to be impinged per day would increase from 20 to 21 and the number of larvae estimated to be entrained would increase by only 13,000 to 363,000 per day. Biologically, these estimated increases represent a negligible impact to the river ecosystem. Second, the maximum cooling tower blowdown flow after power uprate is estimated to increase by only 5% which amounts to 500 gpm. This amounts to less than .5% of the average river flow. The cooling blowdown from the cooling tower basin is through a diffuser into the river. The characteristics of the cooling tower are such that there is greater air flow through the tower caused by the higher circulating water return temperature at power uprate conditions. This increased air flow removes the additional heat load resulting in negligible cooling tower basin temperature changes. Estimates, assuming that both SSES cooling towers are operating at the original 100% power level for a year, would result in 58,000 pounds of solids per year as salt drift, spread over a large area. Modelling indicated the heaviest localized deposition of solids would be 3 pounds/acre/year (SSES Environmental Report section 5.3.4). The power uprate should have no impact on these estimates, especially with the conversatism built into the model by assuming 100% capacity factor. Note also that the design cooling tower drift is a function of circulating water flow which is not changing for power uprate. Studies on the possible effects of salt drift have been conducted at the SSES since 1977. These studies have included monthly examination of natural vegetation during the growing season (1977 to date), annual quantitative vegetation studies (1977 to date), a two-year study on the effect of simulated salt drift on corn and soybeans (1985&hyph;86), and annual forest inspections since 1982. The monthly examinations have utilized several transects (salt drift transects) in the vicinity of the power station for possible salt damage to natural vegetation and incidence of parasitic plant diseases. The annual vegetation studies consider possible long-term changes in forest utilized salt spray approximating the composition of the cooling tower drift from the SSES at ``worst case'' concentration on agricultural crops in two fields. None of the studies have found evidence for damage to agricultural crops or natural vegetation from salt drift. It should be noted that the water used at the SSES (from the Susquehanna River) does not contain the same salts as brackish water used at estuarine coo[l]ing tower[s]; its effects are more like plant micronutrients. The natural vegetation studies over 15 years have found no salt drift damage and plant diseases in accordance with host presence and location. The simulated salt drift studies utilized concentrations estimated at 5 and 10 times maximum salt drift concentration in the SSES plume. It is therefore unlikely that salt drift damage would occur from an approximate 5% consumptive rise in water usage. There will be no changes to the cooling tower water chemistry as a result of power uprate. The pre-uprate levels of cycles of concentration will be maintained. Since there will be a 5% increase in blowdown flow, there will be a 5% increase in chemical discharge to the river. The velocity of the intake water will increase by 5% to .37 ft/sec with power uprate which is below the recommended intake design velocity of 0.5 ft/sec. Sound level monitoring was conducted at both near site (less than 1 mile) and far site locations (greater than 1 mile) from the Susquehanna SES site from 1972 and 1985. This survey was conducted prior to and during construction and during one and two unit operation. The tow Cooling Towers were identified to be one of the major site nose sources. The cumulative effects of all noise sources associated with station operation were determined to be less than the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency recommended day-night equivalent sound level limit of 55 dBA at all monitoring locations. It is not expected that this level will be exceeded at any of the locations with the possible exception of an area approximately 2,200 feet southeast of the Cooling Towers where the measured sound level including a nighttime weighting factor of +10 dBA was 54 DBA. Sound levels will be monitored at power uprate conditions. As indicated previously, water discharge flow from power uprate may increase 5% above the design discharge rate to 10,800 gpm. This is well below the maximum flow of 16,000 gpm reviewed in the SSES Environmental Report (Table 3.3&hyph;1) and, therefore, the additional flow from power uprate is not considered to be an adverse impact to the river. At the Susquehanna SES cooling tower blowdown discharges into the river through a diffuser pipe located on the river bottom. Velocity of this discharge was calculated in Appendix G, Thermal Discharge, Response 1, pages THE&hyph;1.1 and 1.2 of the Environmental Report. Water discharges through 72&hyph;4 ’ ’ ports into the river. The velocity associated with a 10,000 gpm discharge was calculated to be 5.83 fps and rounded to 6 fps. This rounded off value was used when preparing [the] SSES Environmental Report. The velocity associated with a 10,800 gpm discharge is also approximately 6 fps.
