FR940503-0-00033 FR940503-0-00009 DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE Office of the Secretary 15 CFR Part 7 National Institute of Standards and Technology 15 CFR Part 285 [Docket No. 930103&hyph;4017] RIN 0693&hyph;AB15 National Voluntary Laboratory Accreditation Program AGENCY: National Institute of Standards and Technology, Commerce. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: The Director of the National Institute of Standards and Technology, United States Department of Commerce, is today issuing a final rule making changes to regulations previously found at 15 CFR part 7 pertaining to the operation of the National Voluntary Laboratory Accreditation Program (NVLAP). The NVLAP procedures are redesignated as part 285 of title 15 of the Code of Federal Regulations, and are revised to expand the procedures to include accreditation of calibration laboratories; update the procedures for compatibility with conformity assurance and assessment concepts; assure consistency with relevant International Organization for Standardization (ISO) documents (e.g., ISO Guides 25, 38, 43, 58, and 9000); and facilitate and promote acceptance of calibration and test results between countries to avoid barriers to trade. Provisions in this regard will facilitate cooperation between laboratories and other bodies to assist in the exchange of information and experience, harmonize standards and procedures, and establish the basis for bi-lateral and multi-lateral agreements. EFFECTIVE DATE: This rule is effective June 2, 1994. ADDRESSES: Albert D. Tholen, Chief, National Voluntary Laboratory Accreditation Program, National Institute of Standards and Technology, Building 411, room A162, Gaithersburg, MD 20899, telephone number (301) 975&hyph;4016. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Albert D. Tholen, Chief, National Voluntary Laboratory Accreditation Program, (301) 975&hyph;4016. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Director of the National Institute of Standards and Technology, (NIST) is today issuing a final rule making changes to regulations previously found at 15 CFR Part 7 pertaining to the operation of the National Voluntary Laboratory Accreditation Program (NVLAP). NVLAP provides an unbiased third party evaluation and recognition of laboratory performance, as well as expert technical assistance to upgrade that performance, by accrediting calibration laboratories and testing laboratories found competent to perform specific tests or calibrations. Competence is defined as the ability of a laboratory to meet the NVLAP conditions set out in the NVLAP regulations and to conform to the criteria in NVLAP publications for particular calibration and test methods. Specifically, NVLAP accreditation indicates that a laboratory's quality system, staff, facilities and equipment, calibration protocols, methods and procedures, records and reports have been evaluated and found to meet NVLAP criteria. Accreditation is granted following successful completion of a process which includes submission of an application and payment of fees by the laboratory, an on-site assessment, resolution of any deficiencies identified during the on-site assessment, participation in proficiency testing, technical evaluation, and administrative review. The accreditation is formalized through issuance of a Certificate of Accreditation and Scope of Accreditation and is publicized by announcement in various government and private media. NVLAP accreditation does not imply any guarantee or certification of laboratory performance or test/calibration data; it is solely a finding of laboratory competence. NVLAP accreditation is available to commercial laboratories, manufacturers' in-house laboratories, university laboratories, and federal, state and local government laboratories. Foreign-based laboratories may also be accredited if they meet the same requirements as domestic laboratories and pay any additional fees required for travel expenses. NVLAP is comprised of a series of laboratory accreditation programs (LAPs) which are established on the basis of requests and demonstrated need. Each LAP includes specific calibration and/or test standards and related methods and protocols assembled to satisfy the unique needs for accreditation in a field of testing, field of calibration, product or service. Description of the Changes The NVLAP procedures are redesignated as part 285 of title 15 of the Code of Federal Regulations; expanded to include accreditation of calibration laboratories; updated for compatibility with conformity assurance and assessment concepts; made consistent with relevant International Organization for Standardization (ISO) documents (e.g., ISO Guides 25, 38, 43, 58, and 9000); revised to facilitate and promote acceptance of calibration and test results between countries to avoid barriers to trade; and to eliminate references to the NVLAP advisory committee. Section D has been replaced with language essentially identical to ISO Guide 25. Provisions in this regard will facilitate cooperation between laboratories and other bodies to assist in the exchange of information and experience, harmonize standards and procedures, and establish the basis for bi-lateral and multi-lateral agreements.
