FR940127-2-00144 FR940127-2-00081 8. Dividends paid by a Portfolio with respect to a class of shares will be calculated in the same manner, at the same time, on the same day, and will be in the same per share amount as dividends paid by that Portfolio with respect to each other class of shares of the Portfolio, except that Plan Payments made by a class under its Plan and any Class Expenses will be borne exclusively by the affected class. 9. The methodology and procedures for calculating the net asset value and dividends/distributions of the various classes and the proper allocation of expenses among the classes has been reviewed by an expert (the ``Expert'') who has rendered a report to the applicants, which report has been provided to the staff of the SEC, that such methodology and procedures are adequate to ensure that such calculations and allocations will be made in an appropriate manner. On an ongoing basis, the Expert, or an appropriate substitute Expert, will monitor the manner in which the calculations and allocations are being made and, based upon such review, will render at least annually a report to the Funds that the calculations and allocations are being made properly. The reports of the Expert will be filed as part of the periodic reports filed with the SEC pursuant to sections 30(a) and 30(b)(1) of the Act. The work papers of the Expert with respect to such reports, following request by the Funds (which the Funds agrees to provide), will be available for inspection by the SEC staff upon written request by a senior member of the Division of Investment Management or a regional office of the SEC. Authorized staff members will be limited to the director, an associate director, the chief accountant, the chief financial analyst, an assistant director, and any regional administrators or associate and assistant administrators. The initial report of the Expert is a ``Special Purpose'' report on the ``Design of a System'' as defined and described in Statement of Auditing Standards (``SAS'') No. 44 of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (``AICPA'') and the ongoing reports will be ``reports on policies and procedures placed in operation and tests of effectiveness'' as defined and described in SAS No. 70 of the AICPA, as it may be amended from time to time, or in similar auditing standards as may be adopted by the AICPA from time to time. 10. Applicants have adequate facilities in place to ensure implementation of the methodology and procedures for calculating the net asset value and dividends/distributions of the various classes of shares and the proper allocation of expenses among the classes of shares and this representation has been concurred with by the Expert in the initial report referred to in Condition 9 above and will be concurred with by the Expert, or an appropriate substitute Expert, on an ongoing basis at least annually in the ongoing report referred to in that condition. Applicants will take immediate corrective action if the Expert, or appropriate substitute Expert, does not so concur in the ongoing reports. 11. The prospectuses of each class of a Portfolio will include a statement to the effect that a salesperson and any other person entitled to receive compensation for selling or servicing shares may receive different compensation with respect to one particular class of shares over another in the Portfolio. 12. The conditions pursuant to which the exemptive order is granted, and the duties and responsibilities of the directors with respect to the Multi-Class System will be set forth in guidelines to be furnished to the directors. 13. A Portfolio will disclose the respective expenses, performance data, distribution arrangements, services, fees, and exchange privileges (if any) applicable to each class of shares in every prospectus, regardless of whether all classes of shares are offered through each prospectus. Any shareholder report to a class of shares which contains expense and performance data will disclose the respective expenses and performance data applicable to all classes of shares of that Portfolio. The shareholder reports will contain, in the statement of assets and liabilities and statement of operations, information related to the Portfolio as a whole generally and not on a per class basis. Each Portfolio's per share data, however, will be prepared on a per class basis with respect to all classes of shares of such Portfolio. To the extent that any advertisement or sales literature describes the expenses or performance data applicable to any class of shares of a Portfolio, it also will disclose the respective expenses and/or performance data applicable to all classes of shares of a Portfolio. The information provided by applicants for publication in any newspaper or similar listing of a Portfolio's net asset value or public offering price will present each class of shares separately. 14. Applicants acknowledge that the grant of the requested exemptive order does not imply SEC approval, authorization of, or acquiescence in any particular level of payments that a Portfolio may make to Organizations pursuant to any Plan in reliance on the exemptive order. 15. Applicants will comply with proposed rule 6c&hyph;10 under the Act, (Investment Company Act Release No. 16619 (November 2, 1988)), as such rule is currently proposed and as it may be reproposed, adopted, or amended. For the SEC, by the Division of Investment Management, under delegated authority. Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;1710 Filed 1&hyph;26&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
