FR940228-1-00072 FR940228-1-00010 (4) The institution would divide the number of students determined in item (3) of this section by the total obtained under item (2). The institution must maintain documentation that each student described in item (3) above, obtained gainful employment in an occupation for which he or she was trained or in a related occupation. Examples of satisfactory documentation of a student's gainful employment include, but are not limited to_ •A written statement from the student's employer; •Signed copies of State or Federal income tax forms; and •Written evidence of payments of Social Security taxes. The Secretary believes that requiring institutions to collect this data will help curb abuse by institutions that may overstate their placement rates in order to achieve and maintain eligibility for short-term programs. Furthermore, to further avoid potential abuse, the Secretary proposes that in certifying the accuracy of an institution's placement rate, as required under §668.8(e)(2), the institution's auditor should review the above types of documentation collected by the institution to verify each student's inclusion in the placement rate calculation. The statute provides that the Secretary may prescribe other regulations to determine the quality of these programs. Under proposed §668.8(e)(1)(iii), to be eligible, programs less than 600 clock hours in length may not exceed by more than 50 percent the minimum number of clock hours required for training in the recognized occupation for which the program prepares students, as established by the State in which the program is offered, if the State has established such a requirement. For example, if a State requires security guard students to complete only 300 clock hours of training, a security guard program in that state will not be eligible if it exceeds 450 clock hours. The Secretary believes this regulation will help curb abuse of the programs by preventing institutions from providing unnecessary training to students in order to receive additional Title IV, HEA program funds. Proposed §668.8(e)(1)(iv) requires that to be eligible, programs less than 600 clock hours must have been in existence for at least one full year. The Secretary believes that this time frame is necessary so programs may demonstrate the appropriate completion and placement rates. Institutions will be required under 34 CFR 600 to apply for eligibility of these programs after the one-year requirement is satisfied. English as a Second Language In addition to the elements already in place in the current regulations regarding English as a Second Language (ESL) programs, §668.8(j)(2) proposes that in order for an ESL program to be eligible, the institution must test each student at the end of the program to substantiate that the student has attained adequate proficiency in written and spoken English to use already existing knowledge, training or skills. The institution will also be required to identify the test it gives to the students and the basis for the judgment that the student has attained the adequate proficiency. This proposal, based on California law, was suggested during the negotiation process as a method to stem abuse by institutions which offer ESL programs. As established by the current regulations, ESL programs which qualify as eligible programs are eligible for purposes of the Federal Pell Grant program only. This provision remains unchanged. Subpart B_Standards for Participation in the Title IV, HEA Programs Section 668.12␣Application Procedures The Secretary proposes to add a new §668.12 to codify the Secretary's current practices with regard to applications to participate or to continue to participate in a Title IV, HEA program. This section also would include proposed procedures whereby the Secretary codifies new statutory provisions governing applications to participate or to continue to participate in a Title IV, HEA program. Section 498(b) of the HEA requires the Secretary to develop a single application form to be used by an institution that wishes to apply to participate or to continue to participate in a Title IV, HEA program. The statute requires that this form provide for the collection of various information and documentation. First, the form must require an institution to provide sufficient information and documentation to determine that the requirements of institutional eligibility, accreditation, and the capability of the institution are met. Second, the form must require an institution to describe the relationship between a main campus of an institution and all of its branches. In particular, the form must require an institution to include a description of the student aid processing that is performed by the main campus and that which is performed at its branches. Third, the form must require an institution to describe all third-party servicers of the institution and supply a copy of any contract with a third-party servicer. Finally, the form must require an institution to provide any other information that the Secretary determines will ensure compliance with Title IV, HEA program requirements with respect to eligibility, accreditation, administrative capability and financial responsibility.
