FR940930-2-00045 FR940930-2-00030 (2) The Form 175 must contain the following information: (i) Identification of each license on which the applicant wishes to bid; (ii) The applicant's name, if the applicant is an individual. If the applicant is a corporation, then the short-form application will require the name and address of the corporate office and the name and title of an officer or director. If the applicant is a partnership, then the application will require the name, citizenship and address of all partners, and, if a partner is not a natural person, then the name and title of a responsible person should be included as well. If the applicant is a trust, then the name and address of the trustee will be required. If the applicant is none of the above, then it must identify and describe itself and its principals or other responsible persons; (iii) The identity of the person(s) authorized to make or withdraw a bid; (iv) If the applicant applies as a designated entity pursuant to ยง1.2110 of these rules, a statement to that effect and a declaration, under penalty of perjury, that the applicant is qualified as a designated entity under ยง1.2110 of the Commission's Rules; (v) Certification that the applicant is legally, technically, financially and otherwise qualified pursuant to Section 308(b) of the Communications Act of 1934, as amended. The Commission will accept applications certifying that a request for waiver or other relief from the requirements of Section 310 is pending; (vi) Certification that the applicant is in compliance with the foreign ownership provisions of Section 310 of the Communications Act of 1934, as amended; (vii) Certification that the applicant is and will, during the pendency of its application(s), remain in compliance with any service-specific qualifications applicable to the licenses on which the applicant intends to bid including, but not limited to, financial qualifications. The Commission may require certification in certain services that the applicant will, following grant of a license, come into compliance with certain service-specific rules, including, but not limited to, ownership eligibility limitations; (viii) An exhibit, certified as truthful under penalty of perjury, identifying all parties with whom the applicant has entered into partnerships, joint ventures, consortia or other agreements, arrangements or understandings of any kind relating to the licenses being auctioned, including any such agreements relating to the post-auction market structure. (ix) Certification under penalty of perjury that it has not entered and will not enter into any explicit or implicit agreements, arrangements or understandings of any kind with any parties other than those identified pursuant to subsection (viii) regarding the amount of their bids, bidding strategies or the particular licenses on which they will or will not bid; Note: The Commission may also request applicants to submit additional information for informational purposes to aid in its preparation of required reports to Congress. (b) Modification and Dismissal of Form 175. (1) Any Form 175 that is not signed or otherwise does not contain all of the certifications required pursuant to this section is unacceptable for filing and cannot be corrected subsequent to any applicable filing deadline. The application will be dismissed with prejudice and the upfront payment, if paid, will be returned. (2) The Commission will provide bidders a limited opportunity to cure defects specified herein (except for failure to sign the application and to make certifications) and to resubmit a corrected application. Form 175 may be amended or modified to make minor changes or correct minor errors in the application (such as typographical errors). The Commission will classify all amendments as major or minor, pursuant to rules applicable to specific services. An application will be considered to be a newly filed application if it is amended by a major amendment and may not be resubmitted after applicable filing deadlines. (3) Applicants who fail to correct defects in their applications in a timely manner as specified by Public Notice will have their applications dismissed with no opportunity for resubmission. (c) Prohibition of Collusion. (1) Except as provided in paragraphs (c)(2) and (c)(3) of this subsection, after the filing of short-form applications, all bidders are prohibited from cooperating, collaborating; discussing or disclosing in any manner the substance of their bids or bidding strategies, or discussing or negotiating settlement agreements, with other bidders until after the high bidder makes the required down payment, unless such bidders are members of a bidding consortium or other joint bidding arrangement identified on the bidder's short-form application pursuant to Section 1.2105(a)(2)(viii). (2) Applicants may modify their short-form applications to reflect formation of consortia or changes in ownership at any time before or during an auction, provided such changes do not result in a change in control of the applicant, and provided that the parties forming consortia or entering into ownership agreements have not applied for the same license. Such changes will not be considered major modifications of the application.
