FR941004-2-00116 FR941004-2-00068 Tentatively oppose the resolution establishing a stipulated registration system within the CITES Secretariat for plant nurseries artificially propagating specimens of species included in Appendix I. The United States supports a system that would improve the credibility of the existing system for determining which plant specimens are artificially propagated. The registration system proposed in this draft resolution is complex and would be costly to implement by many Parties. Furthermore, it may place too much of a burden with nurseries themselves in determining what constitutes artificially propagated specimens, and thereby be counterproductive. The current draft of this resolution is an improvement over previous versions, and the United States encourages the Secretariat to continue to make progress in this important area. (b) Revision of the consolidated Resolution. No document has been received from the CITES Secretariat yet; no position is possible at this time. (c) Standard reference for Orchidaceae. No document has been received from the CITES Secretariat yet. The United States supports continued work toward a standard reference for traded orchid species. (d) Implementation of the Convention for timber species. No document has been received from the CITES Secretariat yet; no position is possible at this time. However, the United States notes that the provisions of CITES apply to all species of wild fauna and flora, including tree species used as timber; some timber species are already listed in the CITES Appendices. CITES' purview is in addition to the fact that the trade in timber species may come under the competence of another international treaty, convention, or agreement. (e) Ramin (Gonystylus bancanus). No document has been received from the CITES Secretariat yet; no position is possible at this time. 18. Significant Trade in Appendix II Species No document has been received from the CITES Secretariat yet. However, the United States continues its long-standing support for the continued focus of the Parties on Appendix II species identified as subject to significant trade and the proper implementation of Article IV, as critical to the implementation of the treaty and species conservation. Support the provision of funding for the coordination and implementation of significant trade study projects, with oversight by the Animals, Plants, and Standing Committees. This topic refers to the trade in those Appendix II species identified as subject to significant trade, for which a review is necessary to determine if there exists sufficient biological information to warrant trade at current levels. Many of these species may have been traded at levels detrimental to their survival. The CITES Parties have provided funds to the World Conservation Union (IUCN) and the Conservation Monitoring Centre to assess priorities in studying these species. The United States has provided funds for field projects involving several of these species. This process has worked effectively since COP8, with the implementation of Conf. 8.9. The Animals and Standing Committees have taken a very active role in this process, with net benefit for the conservation of some species and for improvements in the implementation of the Convention. The United States supports continuation of this process, for both animals and plants, with a high priority being placed on implementation of studies by Parties, scientific assessments, implementation of scientifically-based quotas when appropriate, and effective implementation of Article IV. 19. Standardization of CITES Permits and Certificates No document has been received from the CITES Secretariat yet; no position is possible at this time.
