FR941026-2-00043 FR941026-2-00027 FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION [CC Docket No. 92&hyph;296; FCC 94&hyph;256] Simplification of the Depreciation Prescription Process AGENCY: Federal Communications Commission. ACTION: Notice; further order inviting comments. SUMMARY: The Federal Communications Commission has adopted a Further Order Inviting Comments on selected accounts and proposed projection life and future net salvage ranges for use by local exchange carriers (LECs) regulated under its price cap regulatory scheme. The Further Order Inviting Comments identifies eight accounts for which the Commission proposes to establish ranges for use beginning in 1995. The Commission has also proposed different simplification methods for four other accounts. The rule change is intended to lessen the depreciation prescription burden on price cap LECs in light of regulatory and market changes without sacrificing protection for consumers. DATES: Comments are due on November 14, 1994. Reply comments are due on December 14, 1994. ADDRESSES: All comments should be filed with the Office of the Secretary, Federal Communications Commission, Washington, DC 20554. A copy should be sent to Fatina K. Franklin, Accounting and Audits Division, 2000 L Street NW., Washington, DC 20036. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Fatina K. Franklin, Common Carrier Bureau, Accounting and Audits Division, (202) 418&hyph;0840. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: This is a summary of the Commission's Further Order Inviting Comments on Simplification of the Depreciation Prescription Process, CC Docket No. 92&hyph;296, FCC 94&hyph;256, adopted October 7, 1994 and released October 11, 1994. The full text of this Commission decision is available for inspection and copying during normal business hours in the FCC Dockets Branch (Room 230), 1919 M Street NW., Washington, DC. The full text will be published in the FCC Record and may also be purchased from the Commission's copy contractor, International Transcription Services, Room 246, 1919 M Street NW., Washington, DC 20554. Summary 1. On September 23, 1993, we adopted streamlined depreciation prescription procedures for the local exchange carriers (``LECs'') regulated under our price cap incentive regulatory plan. 1 These procedures require us to establish ranges for the future net salvage and projection life estimates that are used to compute depreciation rates for plant categories. The new procedures generally permit price cap LECs to make streamlined filings for changes in depreciation rates for these categories, as long as these estimates fall within the prescribed ranges. In our Second Report and Order, 59 FR 35632 (July 13, 1994), we adopted underlying factor ranges for 22 depreciation rate categories. By this Further Order Inviting Comments, we invite comments on our proposals for setting ranges for the remaining 12 plant categories. 1 Simplification of the Depreciation Prescription Process, Report and Order, 8 FCC Rcd 8025 (1993) ( Depreciation Simplification Order ), 58 FR 58788 (November 4, 1993). 2. Prior to adoption of the Depreciation Simplification Order, the depreciation prescription process required carriers to submit extensive data to support the underlying depreciation basic factors that are the future net salvage, projection life, and survivor curve estimates used to compute proposed depreciation rates. These data requirements often resulted in voluminous submissions, consisting of up to 25 pages of analysis for each of 34 plant categories. In recognition of the regulatory, technological, and market changes that price cap LECs face, we decided to simplify the process by establishing ranges that specify maximum and minimum amounts for two of the basic depreciation factors, the future net salvage and projection life estimates. Under our new process, if a price cap LEC meeting the requisite criteria selects future net salvage and projection life estimates that are within the established ranges, it need not submit the detailed supporting data otherwise required. In addition, under the new procedures, price cap LECs can change these basic factors annually, as opposed to the current triennial represcription cycle. These streamlined procedures are intended to simplify the depreciation process, achieve administrative savings, and allow the price cap LECs greater flexibility in the depreciation process, while continuing an appropriate oversight of their depreciation rates. 3. We determined that the new, streamlined procedures should be implemented in two phases, beginning with the accounts most readily adaptable to the range approach. We have completed phase one of the streamlining process and adopted ranges for 22 plant categories. We now begin phase two by proposing ranges for eight of the remaining categories. If we implement these proposals, we will have established ranges of projection life and future net salvage factors for 30 of the 34 plant categories. These plant categories represent 85% of the total plant investment. In addition, we propose in this notice alternate simplified procedures for the other four accounts. We solicit public comment on the following proposals for phase two. 4. We propose to establish ranges for eight of the remaining twelve plant categories. (See Appendix). In the Depreciation Simplification Order, we set forth a number of specific data that should be considered in establishing the projection life and future net salvage ranges, and we used these data to formulate the ranges listed in the attached Appendix. For each plant category, we first developed a range of one standard deviation from the mean of each of the projection life and the future net salvage basic factors underlying the currently prescribed LEC depreciation rates. We then determined whether there are technological trends or recent changes in carrier investment plans that might not be fully reflected in the LECs' prescribed factors. Finally, we considered the number of LECs with basic factors that fall within the initial ranges and altered the ranges where appropriate. We recognized, however, that these specifically enumerated data must be considered in light of our obligation to prescribe reasonable depreciation rates: We wish to make the ranges wide enough to accommodate a significant number, if not all, of the LECs. On the other hand, we must not make the ranges so wide that they would no longer enable us to exercise effective oversight of depreciation rates. Thus, in developing the proposed ranges, we considered both the specific data enumerated in the Depreciation Simplification Order and our overriding responsibility to prescribe reasonable depreciation rates. We set forth in the Appendix our proposed projection life and future net salvage ranges for these light plant categories.
