FR941206-1-00093 FR941206-1-00008 I. Description of the Source Category Section 112 of the Act requires the EPA to evaluate and control emissions of HAP. The control of HAP is to be achieved through promulgation of emission standards under sections 112(d) and (f) for major source categories and such minor sources as deemed appropriate that emit HAP. Pursuant to section 112(c) of the Act, the EPA published in the Federal Register the initial list of source categories that emit HAP on July 16, 1992 (57 FR 31576). This list includes both ``major'' and ``area'' sources (as defined by the Act) that the EPA intends to regulate before November of the year 2000. The initial list of source categories includes ``Shipbuilding and Ship Repair (Surface Coating),'' the major sources only, as a source category. For the purpose of the proposed rule, shipbuilding and ship repair refers to all facilities that build, repair, paint, repaint, convert, or alter ships. (Hereafter, this industry will be referred to as ``shipbuilding.'') A ship is defined as any marine or fresh-water vessel used for military or commercial operations, including self-propelled vessels, those towed by other craft (barges), and navigational aids (buoys). This definition includes, but is not limited to, all military vessels, commercial cargo and passenger (cruise) ships, ferries, barges, tankers, container ships, patrol and pilot boats, and dredges. It does not include offshore oil and gas drilling platforms, although it is believed that identical coating systems would be appropriate for them also. II. Background The proposed rule represents the EPA's first extensive regulation of air pollutants from the shipbuilding and ship repair industry. Essentially all volatile organic hazardous air pollutants (VOHAP) are a subset of a category of pollutants referred to as volatile organic compounds (VOC). The VOC is a class of pollutants that are photochemically reactive precursors of ozone. Emissions of VOC (and consequently VOHAP as well) from ``marine coating operations'' have been regulated by some State and local district rules. California and Louisiana have defined VOC limits for a wide range of marine coating categories. The California limits being generally more stringent than those of Louisiana. Other States have limited VOC emissions from the industry's spray booths as one of many ``miscellaneous metal coating operations,'' using guidance presented in the EPA's control techniques guidelines (CTG) document ``Control of Volatile Organic Emissions from Existing Stationary Sources, Volume VI: Surface Coating of Miscellaneous Metal Parts and Products'' (June 1978) EPA 450/2&hyph;78&hyph;015. Outdoor painting of ships' hulls was specifically exempt from this guidance, but some States have rules that limit shipyard painting done inside buildings and on the interior of ships based on the guidance.
