FR940810-0-00075 FR940810-0-00021 Some commenters claimed that OSHA should not require any specific method of reducing airborne asbestos exposure to brake and clutch repair workers, but merely require that the PEL be achieved (Ex. 7&hyph;31, 7&hyph;43, 7&hyph;79, 7&hyph;104, 7&hyph;146). Other commenters pointed out that most brake service operations are performed by small businesses that lack resources to evaluate control devices (Ex. 1&hyph;112). Evidence submitted concerning the airborne asbestos fiber levels produced by the use of most of the suggested methods showed exposures consistently below the proposed PEL of 0.1 f/cc. Various comments concerned the ``wet brush-recycle method.'' A developer of an enclosure method for brake/clutch repair asbestos control, recommended that the term be broadened to allow ``more latitude in design preference for the manufacturer'' (Ex. 162&hyph;41). He suggested that the name be changed to ``low pressure/wet cleaning'' method. He also asked that OSHA use a more general term to describe the preferred enclosure method, objecting to specification of its shape as cylindrical. OSHA agrees that the shape of the enclosure need not be specified and that the term suggested, ``negative pressure enclosure/HEPA vacuum system,'' was appropriate. Similarly, R. Wagner of BP of America felt that it was not necessary that the wet brush/recycle method actually include a brush and presented monitoring results indicating effective fiber control when spraying on the solution without brushing (Ex. 7&hyph;24). OSHA agrees that, although a brush is useful in cleaning the components, the preferred method will be designated low pressure/wet cleaning and will not specify the use of a brush. A manufacturer of a low pressure/wet cleaning apparatus, objected to OSHA requiring use of an aqueous solution in the machine (Ex. 162&hyph;1). OSHA understands that the organic solution in the apparatus is a degreaser used as a parts cleaner. Mr. Swartz in testimony explained that solvents are used as degreasers, but that most brake work does not require degreasing_he estimated that only once per 200 to 300 brake jobs would such a solvent be needed (Tr. 1843). OSHA has determined that it will maintain the requirement that aqueous solutions be used in this procedure to control asbestos fiber levels. OSHA further warns of the potential danger of solvent use in these operations and that use of solvents, which are often flammable and may be carcinogenic, must be undertaken with great care. OSHA also stresses the need for low pressure application of the solution to the surfaces during this operation to avoid asbestos fiber release and the necessity that the asbestos-contaminated solution not be allowed to dry on surfaces. A manufacturer of a wet brush-recycle type brake cleaner, Hilgren of Kleer Flo, offered the following advice to users of this method regarding disposal of waste: ``Our recommended method of disposal is to simply add adsorbent material such as ``floor-dry'' to the waste bag. Then direct the flow through brush into the bag containing the absorbent material. Allow the machine to pump the solution from the reservoir'' (Ex. 7&hyph;117). Most relevant comments supported the effectiveness of two of the three proposed ``preferred'' methods: the enclosure/HEPA vacuum method and the wet wash/recycle system. However, substantial opposition was directed at OSHA's preference for the solvent spray system. For example, George Swartz, Director of Safety for Midas International Corporation testified that ``the utilization of an aerosol system is ludicrous'' (Tr. 1840). One, some of the solvents used in commercial preparations are suspect carcinogens. Two, use of a spray can does not reliably control exposures due to asbestos dust in the brake assembly, because of the difficulties of removing the drum, and that after removal asbestos containing dust in the assembly cannot easily be reached by a aerosolized spray. Three, certain solvent sprays, according to Mr. Swartz, can damage friction material and the rubber parts of the cups which force the brake shoe out to the drum (Tr.1840&hyph;46). Another witness, James E. Clayton, testified that ``you can't take a can of compressed solution like this (Gunk brake cleaner) and just spray it on dry dust without it getting into the air.'' (id at 1914&hyph;15).
