FR940429-0-00206 FR940429-0-00015 Of the commenters who opposed the proposed requirement, almost half argued that there is no connection between the proposed regulation and administrative capability and the Secretary therefore should not regulate in this area. A half dozen commenters believed that students were aware of their own special needs and it was their responsibility to ensure that these needs were met. Several other commenters believed the proposed requirement was unnecessary because either institutions that had students with special needs were already attending to those needs, or such students would already be getting help from appropriate social service agencies. One commenter who objected strongly to the proposal noted, among other concerns, that students need to learn to become self reliant and that employers with whom the commenter's institution deal say the institution is already coddling its students too much. Discussion: The Secretary is persuaded that regulation in this area is unnecessary at this time. Changes: The provision that provides that an institution that serves significant numbers of students with special needs must have and implement plans for providing students with information about how to meet their needs has been removed from these regulations. Comments: Two commenters supported the provision that would require institutions to have procedures for receiving, investigating, and resolving student complaints but requested that the Secretary clarify the proposed language. One of these commenters asked that the Secretary make it clear that institutions would be expected to handle only those complaints related to the educational programs and support services offered by the institution. The other commenter thought that institutions should be required to publicize their system for handling complaints and maintain a log of student complaints. Discussion: The Secretary appreciates the commenters' support; it is good administrative practice to have a mechanism to resolve student complaints. However, the Secretary has decided the proposed requirement is not an essential administrative standard as there will be other means of addressing student complaints about an institution. Each SPRE will be setting up a student complaint system to process student complaints about the postsecondary institutions in its State. Further, SPREs will be reviewing the handling of student complaints at institutions they review. Accrediting agencies will also be required to assess student complaints about institutions they consider. Changes: Proposed ยง668.16(j) has been removed from these final regulations. Comments: The Secretary received many comments on the proposals aimed at institutions with educational programs with the stated objective of preparing a student for gainful employment in a recognized occupation. Many of the commenters opposed the proposed requirements that the institution: (1) demonstrate a reasonable relationship between the length of the program and occupational entry level requirements and (2) establish the need for the training. The commenters believe the responsibility for evaluation of program length and the need for training rests with the other members of the Triad, principally the accrediting agencies. Some of these commenters argued that if the Secretary were to regulate in this area, the Secretary would exceed his statutory authority and be intervening inappropriately in academic affairs. Other commenters asserted that need for or length of training programs has nothing to do with ability of institutions to administer Title IV, HEA programs. These commenters recommended the elimination of this proposed standard. While some commenters were concerned that the standard, as proposed, is unreasonably vague, other commenters charged that the Secretary would be micromanaging if it were implemented. A number of these commenters noted that, for several reasons, it would be difficult to determine whether program length really is appropriate. Many commenters noted that their students are prepared and hired for positions that are above entry level. Many commenters saw the proposed standard as harmful or unworkable because of the use of minimum State standards as a measure of appropriate length. One commenter noted that there is no provision for evaluation of the method by which a State determines the minimum hours. Another commenter said State-mandated hours are too low. Other commenters questioned what would happen if the State sets an inappropriate length. One commenter represented an institution that trains students from many States, each with different minimum requirements, and argued that it would be entirely inappropriate to limit the length of that institution's programs based on the minimum standard of the State in which the institution is located. Many commenters believed that the proposed regulation is unnecessary. One commenter suggested that disclosures to prospective students are mandated under the Student Right-to-Know Act and that SPRE standards will be addressing the abuses of the type described in the preamble to the February 28, 1994 NPRM and this provision would thus be duplicative. Discussion: The Secretary proposed this provision to curb existing abuses in these areas. The Secretary questions the motives of any institution that claims it is necessary to greatly exceed the minimum number of clock hours required by the State in which the institution is located for adequate training for a particular occupation. The Secretary is also concerned with any institution that provides training for occupations for which no training is necessary, or for which on-the-job training is adequate. Although an institution's SPRE and accrediting agency may regulate in these general areas, the Secretary believes it is necessary to specifically target areas of past abuse. Further, the Secretary believes it is consistent to require an institution to demonstrate a reasonable relationship between the length of the program and occupational entry level requirements established by any Federal agency. See the discussion in the Analysis of Comments and Changes section that addresses the definition of an eligible program (ยง668.8).
