FR941003-0-00124 FR941003-0-00018 (2) HUD may, in instances where the Appraisal Subcommittee has determined that the requirements of FIRREA may be waived in accordance with 12 U.S.C. 3348(b), impose such supplementary requirements as may be appropriate. ยง267.12 Selection of appraisers; appraiser independence. (a) Basis for selection. The appraiser or consultant may be: (1) A member of HUD's staff; (2) Selected by the Delegated Processor in accordance with terms and conditions agreed to in writing by HUD and the Delegated Processor; (3) Selected to perform appraisals in accordance with the terms and conditions of a formal contract between HUD and an institution or individual performing the services, or in accordance with the terms and conditions of a Purchase Order; or (4) Selected by an HFA which has been approved to participate in the Department's Risk-Sharing Program. (b) Qualifications. HUD exercises contractual control over the qualifications of those individuals and organizations that perform appraisal and consultation services in FHA multifamily programs. (1) Appraisers and consultants performing services under HUD contracts for Delegated Processing and Technical Discipline assignments will be selected on the basis of criteria and procedures set forth in the solicitation, pursuant to the Federal Acquisition Regulations, 48 CFR Chapter I. (2) Under the Delegated Processing Program HUD contracts with a HUD-approved processing company to perform mortgage insurance underwriting processing and to make a recommendation to HUD. HUD makes the final underwriting determination. The Delegated Processor must identify the staff or contract review appraiser(s) and consultant(s) and must submit their qualifications, based upon requirements as set forth in the contract between HUD and the Delegated Processor, for review and approval. The Delegated Processor may subcontract appraiser and consulting functions, but must identify, prior to performing the appraisal or consultation, the appraiser or consultant selected under the subcontract and must provide a resume or qualifications for review and approval by the HUD field office concerned. (3) Under the Housing Finance Agency Risk-Sharing Program, HUD delegates to state and local housing finance agencies the authority to originate and service loans that are fully insured by FHA. Under this program, participating agencies share in the risk associated with monetary losses that may be incurred as a result of loan defaults. An HFA may use either in-house or contract appraisers who meet certification requirements. The Risk-Sharing Program requires compliance with USPAP and therefore requires that appraisals be performed by certified general appraisers accredited by the state in which the project is located. (c) Delegated Processor appraisers: conflicts of interests. A Delegated Processor or Consultant must avoid conflicts of interest and other relationships which affect, either in reality or in appearance, the credibility of the appraisal. The Delegated Processor or Consultant may not: (1) Contract with an appraiser or appraisal organization to perform appraisals, if the Delegated Processor or Consultant owns, is owned by, is affiliated with, or has a financial interest in the appraiser or appraisal organization; or (2) Contract with an appraiser or appraisal organization to perform an appraisal of a property if the builder or seller of the property owns or is owned by, is affiliated with, or has a financial interest in the appraiser or appraisal organization. (d) Appraiser independence. An appraiser may not have any interest, direct or indirect, in the property being appraised. (e) Non-transferability of appraisal. Appraisal materials and reports may not be transferred between mortgagees with respect to a property involved in a multifamily transaction. Dated: September 16, 1994. Jeanne K. Engel, General Deputy Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;24327 Filed 9&hyph;30&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4210&hyph;27&hyph;P
