FR940620-2-00047 FR940620-2-00027 DATES: Written comments on the permit application and EA should be received on or before July 20, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments regarding the application or adequacy of the EA should be addressed to Mr. Gail Kobetich, Field Supervisor, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, Carlsbad Field Office, 2740 Loker Avenue West, Carlsbad, California 92008. Please refer to permit No. PRT&hyph;784571 when submitting comments. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: 0 Dr. Linda R. Dawes, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, Carlsbad Field Office, 2740 Loker Avenue West, Carlsbad, California 92008 (619&hyph;431&hyph;9440). Individuals wishing copies of the application or EA for review should immediately contact the above individual. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background Under section 9 of the Act, and implementing regulations, ``taking'' of a threatened or endangered species is prohibited. However, the Service, under limited circumstances, may issue permits to take threatened or endangered wildlife species if such taking is incidental to, and not the purpose of, otherwise lawful activities. Regulations governing permits for threatened or endangered species are at Title 50 Code of Federal Regulations 17.32 and 17.22, respectively. On March 25, 1993, the Service listed the coastal California gnatcatcher as a threatened species. On May 2, 1994, the rule listing the gnatcatcher was vacated by the United States District Court for the District of Columbia on the basis that the Secretary of the Interior failed to obtain and make available for public comment, the data underlying a published scientific report on the subspecific taxonomy of the gnatcatcher. The Secretary has filed a motion for reconsideration of the court's decision and, alternatively, a motion to stay the portion of the decision that vacated the listing while the Service receives public comment on these data. These motions are currently pending before the court. The Service is also reviewing several other options to provide the protection of the Act to the gnatcatcher. These options include appealing the court's decision, listing the gnatcatcher on an emergency basis, and proposing a new rule to list the gnatcatcher. The Service announces the receipt and availability for public review and comment of this 10(a)(1)(B) permit application in order to facilitate review and potential issuance of the incidental take permit should the coastal California gnatcatcher return to the status of a federally listed species. The Service also seeks public review and comments on the proposed signing of the IA by the Service. The IA would obligate the Applicants to carry out the provisions of the HCP that provides for protection and conservation of the California gnatcatcher and cactus wren as if both species were listed as threatened or endangered species under the Act. By signing the IA, the Service would certify to the Applicants that, barring a determination of unforeseen circumstances, and subject to compliance with applicable public review and comment requirements, the Service would expeditiously issue a section 10(a)(1)(B) permit to the Applicants allowing incidental take of one or both species, as appropriate, if the California gnatcatcher or cactus wren are listed as threatened or endangered species in the future. The Applicants propose to implement the HCP for the California gnatcatcher and coastal cactus wren to allow phased oil field remediation and clearing, grading and construction of a residential development, golf course, elementary school, and commercial development on a depleted oil field, and ongoing maintenance and facility modifications on the Deimer Water Treatment Facility within the sphere of influence of the City of Yorba Linda, in unincorporated Orange County, California. These activities would take place over a period of approximately 20 years. The permit would authorize incidental take of gnatcathers associated with the destruction of up to 27 acres of occupied gnatcatcher habitat. That habitat is estimated to support approximately 9 gnatcatchers. The IA executed by the parties would also provide for future amendment of the permit to authorize incidental take of cactus wren should the cactus wrens associated with the destruction of up to 83 acres of occupied cactus wren habitat be listed in the future as a threatened or endangered species under the Act. It is estimated that up to 55 pairs of cactus wren occupy the development site. The permit would be in effect for 50 years on the Shell property.
