FR940825-1-00072 FR940825-1-00008 (2) Time limit on deferral period. If temporary deferral of termination of assistance is granted, the deferral period shall be for an initial period not to exceed six months. The initial period may be renewed for additional periods of six months, but the aggregate deferral period shall not exceed a period of three years. (3) Notification requirements for beginning of each deferral period. At the beginning of each deferral period, the responsible entity must inform the family of its ineligibility for financial assistance and offer the family information concerning, and referrals to assist in finding, other affordable housing. (4) Determination of availability of affordable housing at end of each deferral period. Before the end of each deferral period, the responsible entity must: (i) Make a determination of the availability of affordable housing of appropriate size based on evidence of conditions which when taken together will demonstrate an inadequate supply of affordable housing for the area in which the project is located, the CHAS (if applicable; the CHAS refers to the Comprehensive Housing Affordability Strategy, described in 24 CFR part 91), the responsible entity's own knowledge of the availability of affordable housing, and on evidence of the tenant family's efforts to locate such housing; and (ii) Notify the tenant family in writing, at least 60 days in advance of the expiration of the deferral period, that termination will be deferred again (provided that the granting of another deferral will not result in aggregate deferral periods that exceed three years), and a determination was made that other affordable housing is not available; or (iii) Notify the tenant family in writing, at least 60 days in advance of the expiration of the deferral period, that termination of financial assistance will not be deferred because either granting another deferral will result in aggregate deferral periods that exceed three years, or a determination has been made that other affordable housing is available. (e) Notification of decision on family preservation assistance. A responsible entity shall notify the family of its decision concerning the family's qualification for assistance under this section. If the family is ineligible for assistance under this section, the notification shall state the reasons, which must be based on relevant factors. For tenant families, the notice also shall inform the family of any applicable appeal rights. (For HAs administering Certificate or Housing Voucher Programs, see §§882.216 or 887.405 of this chapter.) §812.11 Proration of assistance. (a) Applicability. This section applies to a mixed family other than a family receiving continued assistance under §812.10(c), or other than a family for which termination of assistance is temporarily deferred under §812.10(d). (b) Method of prorating assistance _(1) Section 8 assistance other than Section 8 voucher assistance. For Section 8 assistance other than assistance provided under the Section 8 Voucher Program, the HA shall prorate the family's assistance as follows: (i) Step 1. Determine gross rent for the unit. (Gross rent is contract rent plus any allowance for tenant paid utilities). (ii) Step 2. Determine total tenant payment in accordance with 24 CFR 813.107(a). (Annual income includes income of all family members, including any family member who has not established eligible immigration status). (iii) Step 3. Subtract amount determined in Step 2 from amount determined in Step 1. (iv) Step 4. Multiply the amount determined in Step 3 by a fraction for which: (A) The numerator is the number of family members who have established eligible immigration status, and (B) The denominator is the total number of family members. (v) Prorated housing assistance. The amount determined in Step 4 is the prorated housing assistance payment for a mixed family. (vi) No effect on contract rent. Proration of the housing assistance payment does not affect contract rent to the owner. The family must pay as rent the portion of contract rent not covered by the prorated housing assistance payment. (2) Section 8 Voucher assistance. For assistance under the Section 8 Voucher Program, the HA shall prorate the family's assistance as follows: (i) Step 1. Determine the amount of the pre-proration voucher housing assistance payment in accordance with 24 CFR 887.353. (Annual income includes income of all family members, including any family member who has not established eligible immigration status.) (ii) Step 2. Multiply the amount determined in Step 1 by a fraction for which: (A) The numerator is the number of family members who have established eligible immigration status, and (B) The denominator is the total number of family members. (iii) Prorated housing assistance. The amount determined in Step 2 is the prorated housing assistance payment for a mixed family. (iv) No effect on rent to owner. Proration of the voucher housing assistance payment does not affect rent to the owner. The family must pay as rent the portion of rent not covered by the prorated housing assistance payment.
