FR940803-2-00029 FR940803-2-00020 5. Should the Commission consider options other than full rolled-in or incremental pricing of new facilities? The following are some options to be considered. a. Rates for expansion customers could be set based on the sum of incremental costs and a share of pre-expansion costs to reflect the benefits expansion customers receive from existing facilities. The rates for existing shippers also could be adjusted to reflect benefits received from the expansion. b. Rates could be set on an incremental basis, with the costs rolled-in after some specified period of time or rolled-in gradually over time at a pre-determined level each year. c. Incremental rates could be used for the expansion customers, but as lower priced contracts for existing shippers expire, their capacity would be rolled-in to the expansion capacity, thus reducing the incremental rate. d. Rolled-in rates could be used for expansions (or portions of expansions) built to serve existing markets and incremental rates for expansions (or portions of expansions) used to serve new markets. 6. If more general criteria are to be used in individual cases, what should the tests or criteria be? Among the issues to be considered are: a. Should the Commission adopt a rebuttable presumption in favor of a particular pricing method and what test should be used to overcome the presumption? b. Should the commensurate benefits test be used for approving rolled-in pricing or is it sufficient that existing shippers obtain positive benefits? c. What are the advantages and disadvantages of each test, or is another formulation more appropriate? d. Do benefits need to be measurable? What weight should be given to various criteria, and how should non-measurable criteria be valued? 7. How should the Commission handle multiple expansions, in particular when an initial, expensive addition makes subsequent additions less costly? For example, pure incremental pricing could cause customers to seek to delay making commitments until the later, less expensive expansion in order to obtain lower rates, while rolled-in pricing could discourage construction of the less expensive expansion because rates would be above the incremental cost of the project. a. Which of the options is preferable? b. Are there methods that could avoid both problems? c. Should the Commission adopt a policy under which the costs for expansions starting from a particular date are cumulated or ``rolled-up'' to yield an average expansion rate? C. Should The Commission Revise Its Policies To Provide More Guidance On Construction Approvals And Rates In ยง7 Certificate Proceedings? The Commission is interested in reviewing its current policies relating to granting at-risk certificates and determining the rate methodology for new projects to determine if changes in these policies are needed. For example, if the Commission adopts more general policies for recovering the costs of new facilities, rather than a bright-line test, pipeline customers may need notice of the rates they will be paying prior to the completion of the ยง4 proceeding in order to make better informed decisions about the amount of capacity for which to contract. The Commission is interested in receiving comments on the following questions. 1. What pricing methodology is most consistent with the Commission's at-risk certificate policy? a. Is there any reason to differentiate between at-risk construction and fully subscribed construction in terms of the pricing methodology used for facility cost recovery? b. If rolled-in pricing is used, how should the at-risk condition be maintained? c. In light of the Commission's at-risk policy, should the optional certificate regulations be continued?
