FR940505-1-00419 FR940505-1-00012 ( 1 ) Equipment supplier. ( 2 ) Design drawings of the selected capture and control system, including necessary hooding and ducting. ( 3 ) Operating principles of the selected equipment, including any anticipated complications. ( 4 ) Anticipated VOC capture and control efficiency of any installed system. ( 5 ) Disposal of any VOCs that are collected, but not destroyed within the control equipment. ( 6 ) A description of maintenance practices and schedules for the VOC capture and control system necessary to meet the requirements of paragraphs (q)(3)(ii)(B) and (q)(3)(iii)(B) of this section. (B) Compliance test dates and test methods to be used to satisfy the requirements of paragraph (q)(3)(ii)(A) of this section. (ii) An annual certification of compliance shall be submitted to the EPA on or before January 1 of each year. The certification of compliance shall include: (A) A declaration that the facility is in compliance with all of the requirements of paragraph (q) of this section. (B) The results of any compliance testing performed during the previous year. (C) A description of any process upsets that occurred during the previous year that resulted in noncompliance with the emission limit or proper combustion conditions as approved by EPA stated in paragraph (q)(3) of this section and corrective actions taken to correct the noncompliance. (iii) By January 1, 1996, the owner or operator of the facility shall submit for approval by EPA a determination of proper combustion conditions. (5) Recordkeeping. The owner or operator of SierraPine shall maintain records on site sufficient to show compliance with paragraph (q) of this section for a period of five years. Records shall be made available to the EPA upon request. At a minimum the following information shall be recorded: (i) Process data sufficient to show that efficient combustion practices are being utilized at the wood waste-fired boiler. These data will include, at a minimum, the following: (A) Fuel feed rate and composition. (B) Combustion temperature. (C) Fuel moisture content. (D) Percentage of overfire air. (E) Boiler load. (ii) VOC capture and control system operating parameters identified by the EPA following review and approval of the compliance plan submitted pursuant to paragraph (q)(4)(i) of this section. (6) Test Methods. (i) Measurements of destruction or removal efficiency shall be determined in accordance with 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, Method 25.
