FR940616-2-00014 FR940616-2-00009 China First has reported that it is a shareholding company and has provided a list of its shareholders. According to China First, the shareholders elect the board of directors which, in turn, appoints the general manager. Its questionnaire response states that there are three types of shares: A shares held by Chinese legal persons, B shares held by non-Chinese legal persons and Enterprise shares. We do not have on the record any information addressing the similarities or differences in rights accruing to the various types of shares. Based on our examination of the information provided regarding the shareholder identities and the ownership structure of China First, we have determined that we do not have enough information on the record to grant it a separate rate at this time. Due to the proprietary nature of the information, we are not able to discuss the ownership structure of China First in further detail in this notice; however, there is a proprietary decision memorandum regarding this issue on the record (see Decision Memorandum of June 8, 1994). We are assigning China First the PRC country-wide rate for purposes of this preliminary determination. To establish whether a firm is sufficiently independent to be entitled to a separate rate, the Department analyzes each exporting entity under a test arising out of the Final Determination of Sales at Less Than Fair Value: Sparklers from the People's Republic of China (56 FR 20588, May 6, 1991) ( ``Sparklers'' ) and amplified in Silicon Carbide. Under the separate rates criteria, the Department assigns separate rates only where respondents can demonstrate the absence of both de jure and de facto governmental control over export activities. 1. Absence of De Jure Control Three PRC laws that have been placed on the record in this proceeding indicate that the responsibility for managing enterprises ``owned by all of the people'' is with the enterprises themselves and not with the government. These are the ``Law of the People's Republic of China on Industrial Enterprises Owned by the Whole People,'' adopted on April 13, 1988 ( ``1988 Law'' ); ``Regulations for Transformation of Operational Mechanism of State-Owned Industrial Enterprises,'' approved on August 23, 1992 ( ``1992 Regulations'' ); and the ``Temporary Provisions for Administration of Export Commodities,'' approved on December 21, 1992 ( ``Export Provisions'' ). The 1988 Law and 1992 Regulations shifted control from the government to the enterprises themselves. The 1988 Law provides that enterprises owned ``by the whole people'' shall make their own management decisions, be responsible for their own profits and losses, choose their own suppliers and purchase their own goods and materials. The 1988 Law also has other provisions which indicate that enterprises have management independence from the government. The 1992 Regulations provide that these same enterprises can, for example, set their own prices (Article IX); make their own production decisions (Article XI); use their own retained foreign exchange (Article XII); allocate profits (Article II); sell their own products without government interference (Article X); make their own investment decisions (Article XIII); dispose of their own assets (Article XV); and hire and fire their employees without government approval (Article XVII). The Export Provisions list those products subject to direct government control. Pencils do not appear on the Export Provisions list and are not, therefore, subject to the export constraints. The existence of these laws indicates Guangdong, SFTC and Shanghai Lansheng are not de jure subject to central government control. However, there is some evidence that the provisions of the above-cited laws and regulations have not been implemented uniformly among different sectors and/or jurisdictions in the PRC (see ``PRC Government Findings on Enterprise Autonomy,'' in Foreign Broadcast Information Service_China&hyph;93&hyph;133 (July 14, 1993). Therefore, the Department has determined that an analysis of de facto control is critical to determining whether respondents are, in fact, subject to governmental control. 2. Absence of De Facto Control The Department typically considers four factors in evaluating whether each respondent is subject to de facto government control of its export functions: (1) Whether the export prices are set by or subject to the approval of a governmental authority; (2) whether the respondent has authority to negotiate and sign contracts and other agreements; (3) whether the respondent has autonomy from the government in making decisions regarding the selection of management; and (4) whether the respondent retains the proceeds of its export sales and makes independent decisions regarding disposition of profits or financing of losses ( see Silicon Carbide ). Guangdong, SFTC and Shanghai Lansheng have each asserted that (1) it establishes its own export prices; (2) it negotiates contracts without guidance from any governmental entities or organizations; (3) its management operates with a high degree of autonomy and there is no information on the record that suggests central government control over selection of management; and (4) it retains the proceeds of its export sales, and has the authority to sell its assets and to obtain loans. In addition, company-specific pricing during the POI does not suggest any coordination among exporters ( i.e., the prices for comparable products appear to differ among companies). This information supports a preliminary finding that there is a de facto absence of governmental control of export functions. Consequently, Guangdong, SFTC and Shanghai Lansheng have preliminarily met the criteria for the application of separate rates. We will examine this issue in detail at verification and determine whether the questionnaire responses are supported by verifiable documentation. There is an additional issue relating to governmental control that we will consider further for purposes of our final determination. Guangdong and SFTC have indicated that the appointments of their general managers are subject to approval by the local Commission on Foreign Trade and Economic Cooperation (COFTEC) office. While the significance of this is unclear, the evidence cited above indicates that the COFTEC offices do not control the key functions of the enterprises. However, we will examine at verification the precise nature of the authority that the COFTEC offices exercise over the enterprises. Nonmarket Economy The PRC has been treated as a nonmarket economy (NME) in past antidumping investigations. (See, e.g., Final Determination of Sales at Less than Fair Value: Sebacic Acid from the People's Republic of China (54 FR 28053 (May 31, 1994)). No information has been provided in this proceeding that would lead us to overturn our former determinations. Therefore, in accordance with 771(18)(c) of the Act, we have treated the PRC as an NME for purposes of this investigation. Where the Department is investigating imports from an NME, section 772(c)(1) of the Act directs us to base FMV on the NME producers' factors of production, valued in a comparable market economy that is a significant producer of the merchandise. Section 773(c)(2) of the Act alternatively provides that where available information is inadequate for using the factors of production methodology, FMV may be based on the export prices for comparable merchandise from market economy countries at a comparable level of economic development.
