FR941206-2-00015 FR941206-2-00007 9. Specifications. This FIPS adopts ANSI/TIA/EIA&hyph;607&hyph;1994, Commercial Building Grounding and Bonding Requirements for Telecommunications, The American National Standard specifies the requirements for a uniform telecommunications entrance facility, the telecommunications grounding and bonding infrastructure for a building where telecommunications equipment is to be installed. Areas of the infrastructure include: (a) A ground reference for telecommunications systems within the telecommunications entrance facility, the telecommunications closet, and equipment room. (b) Bonding and connecting pathways, cable shields, conductors and hardware at telecommunications closets, equipment rooms, and entrance facilities. (c) Interconnectivity to other building grounding systems. 10. Implementation. The use of this standard by Federal departments and agencies is compulsory and binding for the design, maintenance, renovation, or retrofit of telecommunications grounding systems within new or existing Federal buildings, effective XXXX (six (6) months after date of publication of final document in the Federal Register ). Use of the standard is recommended in the telecommunications grounding systems within existing buildings. This standard should be useful to anyone engaged in the design, maintenance, renovation, or retrofit of new or existing buildings. This standard will also be useful to manufacturers of telecommunications equipment and to those responsible for purchasing, installing, or operating such equipment and devices. 11. Waivers. Under certain exceptional circumstances, the heads of Federal departments and agencies may approve waivers to Federal Information Processing Standards (FIPS). The head of such agency may redelegate such authority only to a senior official designated pursuant to Section 3506(b) of Title 44, U.S. Code. Waivers shall be granted only when: a. Compliance with a standard would adversely affect the accomplishment of the mission of an operator of a Federal computer system or related telecommunications system, or b. Cause a major adverse financial impact on the operator which is not offset by Governmentwide savings. Agency heads may act upon a written waiver request containing the information detailed above. Agency heads may also act without a written waiver request when they determine that conditions for meeting the standard cannot be met. Agency heads may approve waivers only by a written decision which explains the basis on which the agency head made the required finding(s). A copy of each such decision, with procurement sensitive or classified portions clearly identified, shall be sent to: National Institute of Standards and Technology; Attn: FIPS waiver Decisions, Technology Building, Room B&hyph;154; Gaithersubrg, MD 20899. In addition, notice of each waiver granted and each delegation of authority to approve waivers shall be sent promptly to the Committee on Government Operations of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Governmental Affairs of the Senate and shall be published promptly in the Federal Register . When the determination on a waiver applies to the procurement of equipment and/or services, a notice of the waiver determination must be published in the Commerce Business Daily as a part of the notice of solicitation for offers of an acquisition or, if the waiver determination is made after the notice is published, by amendment to such notice. A copy of the waiver, any supporting documents, the document approving the waiver and any supporting and accompanying documents, with such deletions as the agency is authorized and decides to make under 5 U.S.C. Sec. 552(b), shall be part of the procurement documentation and retained by the agency. 12. Where to Obtain Copies. Copies of this publication are for sale by the National Technical Information Service, U.S. Department of Commerce, Springfield, VA 22161. (Sale of the included specifications document is by arrangement with the Electronic Industries Association.) When ordering, refer to Federal Information Processing Standards Publication XXX (FIPSPUB XXX ), and the title. Payment may be made by check, money order, purchase order, credit card, or deposit account. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;29891 Filed 12&hyph;5&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3510&hyph;CN&hyph;M
