FR940413-2-00113 FR940413-2-00059 A State may specify a political subdivision (county, city, town, township, parish village, etc.) or economic division such as a Service Delivery Area, an Enterprise Community or an Empowerment Zone as the focus of training activity in its proposal. B. Submission of Proposals An original and three (3) copies of the proposal shall be submitted. The proposal shall consist of two (2) separate and distinct parts. Part I shall contain the cost proposal, consisting of the following items: Standard Form (SF) 424, ``Application for Federal Assistance'' (Appendix No. 1) and SF 424A, ``Budget'' (Appendix No. 2). Also, the budget shall include on a separate page(s) a detailed enumeration of how the matching requirement will be fulfilled. The individual signing the SF 424 on behalf of the State shall represent the responsible financial and administrative entity for the grant should that proposal result in an award. Part II shall contain a technical proposal that demonstrates the applicant's capabilities in accordance with the Statement of Work contained in this announcement. Applicants are strongly encouraged to submit a technical proposal of less than thirty (30) pages in length (exclusive of appendices) which sets forth the applicant's explanation of how it proposes to accomplish the elements described in the Statement of Work. No cost data or reference to price shall be included in the technical proposal. In order to assist applicants in preparing their proposals and to facilitate the expeditious evaluation by the review panel, proposals should be organized and presented in the same sequential order as the Evaluation Criteria in Part IV of this announcement. C. Hand-Delivered Proposals Proposals should be mailed at least five (5) days prior to the closing date. However, if proposals are hand-delivered, they shall be received at the designated place by 2 p.m., Eastern Time by June 13, 1994. All overnight mail will be considered to be hand-delivered and must be received at the designated place by the specified closing date. Telegraphed and/or faxed proposals will not be honored. Failure to adhere to the above instructions will be a basis for a determination of nonresponsiveness.
