FR941130-0-00067 FR941130-0-00008 (i) State the ground(s) on which the debtor disputes the debt; and (ii) Reference all pertinent information already in the possession of the PBGC and include any additional information believed to be relevant. (3) The PBGC will review a determination of indebtedness, when requested to do so in a timely manner. The PBGC will issue a written decision, based on the written record, and will notify the debtor of its decision. (i) The review will be conducted by an official of at least the same level of authority as the person who made the determination of indebtedness. (ii) The notice of the PBGC's decision on review will include a brief statement of the reason(s) why the determination of indebtedness has or has not been changed. (4) Upon receipt of a request for administrative review, the PBGC may, in its discretion, temporarily suspend transactions in any of the debtor's accounts maintained by the PBGC. If the PBGC resolves the dispute in the debtor's favor, it will lift the suspension immediately. (d) Repayment agreement in lieu of offset. (1) The PBGC will not consider entering a repayment agreement in lieu of offset unless a debtor submits a copy of the debtor's most recent audited (or if not available, unaudited) financial statement (with balance sheets, income statements, and statements of changes in financial position), to the extent such documents have been prepared, and other information regarding the debtor's financial condition ( e.g., the types of information on assets, liabilities, earnings, and other factors specified in ยง2622.6 (b)(3) through (b)(7) of this chapter). (2) The PBGC may require appropriate security as a condition of accepting a repayment agreement in lieu of offset. (e) Exception. (1) The PBGC may effect administrative offset against a payment to be made to the debtor prior to completing the procedures specified in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section if: (i) Failure to take the offset would substantially prejudice the government's ability to collect the debt; and (ii) The time before the payment is to be made does not reasonably permit the completion of those procedures. (2) The PBGC has determined that a case in which it applies the special rule in ยง2622.9(c) of this chapter meets the criteria in paragraph (e)(1) of this section. (3) If the PBGC effects administrative offset against a payment to be made to a debtor prior to completing the procedures specified in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, the PBGC_ (i) Will promptly complete those procedures; and (ii) Will promptly refund any amounts recovered by offset but later found not to be owed to the Government. ยง2609.24 PBGC requests for offset by other agencies. (a) General. The PBGC may request that funds payable to its debtor by another agency be administratively offset to collect a debt owed to the PBGC by the debtor. A PBGC request for administrative offset against amounts due and payable from the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund will be made in accordance with 5 CFR part 831, subpart R (Agency Requests to OPM for Recovery of a Debt from the Civil Service Retirement and Disability Fund). (b) Certification. In requesting administrative offset, the Director of the Financial Operations Department (or a department official designated by the Director) will certify in writing to the agency holding funds of the debtor_
