FR940622-0-00021 FR940622-0-00011 If you wish to submit comments on the information collection requirements contained in this interim final rule with comment period, you may submit comments to: Allison Herron Eydt, HCFA Desk Officer, Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, Room 3002, New Executive Office Building, Washington, DC 20503. Copies: To order copies of the Federal Register containing this document, send your request to: New Orders, Superintendent of Documents, P.O. Box 371954, Pittsburgh, PA 15250&hyph;7954. Specify the date of the issue requested and enclose a check or money order payable to the Superintendent of Documents, or enclose your Visa or Master Card number and expiration date. Credit card orders can also be placed by calling the order desk at (202) 783&hyph;3238 or by faxing to (202) 275&hyph;6802. The cost for each copy is $6.00. As an alternative, you may view and photocopy the Federal Register document at most libraries designated as U.S. Government Depository Libraries and at many other public and academic libraries throughout the country that receive the Federal Register . FOR FURTHER INFORMATION, CONTACT: Arlene Ford, 410&hyph;966&hyph;4617_For provisions relating to the beneficiary statement of discharge rights. Tom Hoyer, 410&hyph;966&hyph;4607_For provisions relating to individuals with emergency medical conditions. Lindsey Bramwell, 410&hyph;966&hyph;6747_For PRO provisions relating to responsibilities to determine whether the individual involved had an emergency medical condition that had not been stabilized. Joel Schaer, 202&hyph;619&hyph;0089_For OIG civil monetary penalty and physician exclusion provisions relating to individuals with emergency medical conditions. Beverly Christian, 410&hyph;966&hyph;4616_For provisions relating to participation in the CHAMPUS/CHAMPVA and VA health care programs. Rose Sabo, 303&hyph;361&hyph;1178_For questions regarding CHAMPUS and CHAMPVA programs. Wanda Elam, 202&hyph;535&hyph;7434_For questions regarding the Department of Veterans Affairs health care program. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: I. Background On June 16, 1988, we published a proposed rule concerning participation in the CHAMPUS and CHAMPVA programs, hospital admissions for veterans, a requirement for a discharge rights notice, and hospital responsibility for emergency care (53 FR 22513). Below is a discussion of the issues for which we proposed regulations. A. Participation in the CHAMPUS and CHAMPVA Programs CHAMPUS (Civilian Health and Medical Program of the Uniformed Services) and CHAMPVA (Civilian Health and Medical Program of the Veterans Administration) programs pay for health care services furnished to dependents and survivors of military personnel, to retirees and their dependents, and to veterans. Generally, the programs have paid hospitals based on the hospital's charges. Section 931 of the Department of Defense Authorization Act, 1984 (Pub. L. 98&hyph;94), authorized these programs to pay (to the extent practicable) for inpatient hospital services using Medicare payment procedures. Because the Medicare prospective payment system (the system whereby we pay a hospital a predetermined amount based on the patient's diagnosis and any surgical procedures performed, rather than by the number of days hospitalized) results in Medicare cost savings, the Department of Defense (DoD) expected to realize similar savings if it were to use a model similar to Medicare's prospective payment system. Paying on the basis of a fixed rate appropriate to the particular diagnosis involved has been shown to be an equitable method of paying for hospital care. Therefore, the Office of Civilian Health and Medical Program of the Uniformed Services (OCHAMPUS) published a final rule on September 1, 1987, that included provisions for the implementation of a DRG-based payment system modeled after Medicare's prospective payment system for CHAMPUS inpatient hospital admissions occurring on or after October 1, 1987 (52 FR 32992). Hospitals that furnish services to CHAMPUS and CHAMPVA beneficiaries are authorized to provide services to these beneficiaries following an approval process similar to that used for Medicare participation. Generally, that means the hospital is licensed and accredited by the Joint Commission on Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations (JCAHO), and otherwise meets CHAMPUS requirements. A hospital certified and participating under Medicare may be deemed to meet CHAMPUS requirements. ``Participation'' has a different meaning for CHAMPUS and CHAMPVA than for Medicare. Providers have been able to decide on a claim-by-claim basis whether to ``participate'' in the program and thus accept the CHAMPUS/CHAMPVA-determined allowable amount, plus the patient cost-share, as payment in full. Beneficiaries are required to pay a cost-share for each hospital admission. The CHAMPUS/CHAMPVA payment, plus the beneficiary's cost-share, constitute payment in full for the covered services when the provider signs and submits an appropriately completed program claim form that indicates participation. Under Medicare, hospitals must agree to bill the program for all beneficiaries and accept the CHAMPUS/CHAMPVA payment as payment in full (less applicable deductibles, coinsurance amounts, and noncovered items). As indicated above, Medicare hospitals also may be authorized providers in CHAMPUS and CHAMPVA on the basis of their JCAHO-approved status or may be deemed authorized providers based on their Medicare-approved status. The benefits to the DoD of requiring the providers to be paid either under a DRG-based payment system or based on reasonable cost are lost, however, if the hospitals can selectively participate in the CHAMPUS and CHAMPVA programs.
