FR940526-2-00011 FR940526-2-00006 On January 17, 1991, the Department issued Program Opportunity Notice Number DE&hyph;PS01&hyph;91FE62271 for Clean Coal Technology IV, soliciting proposals to conduct cost-shared projects to demonstrate innovative, energy-efficient, and economically competitive clean coal technologies. The Piñon Pine Power Project was one of the nine projects selected from among the 33 proposals received. Environmental Impact Statement Preparation The Draft Statement has been prepared in accordance with section 102(2)(C) of the National Environmental Policy Act, as implemented in regulations promulgated by the Council on Environmental Quality (40 CFR parts 1500&hyph;1508) and by the Department's Implementing Procedures (10 CFR part 1021). In accordance with the National Environmental Policy Act, the Department determined that providing cost-shared funding for the Piñon Pine Power Project constitutes a major Federal action that may significantly affect the quality of the human environment. Therefore, the Department has prepared a Draft Statement to assess the potential impacts of both the proposed action and reasonable alternatives to the proposed action on the human and natural environment. A notice of intent (notice) to prepare the Environmental Impact Statement and hold public scoping meetings in Nixon, Fernley, and Reno, Nevada, was published by the Department in the Federal Register on June 30, 1992 (57 FR 29067). The Notice invited oral and written comments and suggestions on the proposed scope of the Environmental Impact Statement, including environmental issues and alternatives, and invited public participation in the National Environmental Policy Act process. Overall, 60 scoping comments were received that assisted in identifying major issues for subsequent in-depth analysis in the Draft Statement. As a result of the scoping process, an Environmental Impact Statement Implementation Plan was developed to define the scope and provide further guidance for preparing the Environmental Impact Statement. The Draft Statement considers the proposed action and the no-action alternative, which includes a scenario that reasonably could be expected to result as a consequence of the no-action alternative. Impacts to atmospheric resources, surface water, groundwater, biological resources (including threatened and endangered species), and socioeconomic resources (including environmental justice) from construction and operation of the proposed Piñon Pine Power Project have been analyzed. The Draft Statement provides an analysis of information prepared to evaluate the potential environmental impacts of the proposed construction and operation of the Piñon Pine Power Project at the proposed site. Floodplains Notification Pursuant to Executive Order 11988, Floodplain Management, and the Department's Procedures for Compliance with Floodplains/Wetlands Environmental Review Requirements (10 CFR part 1022), the Department hereby provides notice that a new primary electric switchyard proposed as one component of the Piñon Pine Power Project would be constructed and operated in the 100-year floodplain as depicted on the Federal Emergency Management Agency's Flood Insurance Rate Map (Panel Number 320033 0020B). Because of its proposed location in the 100-year floodplain, this switchyard could potentially impede the flow of floodwaters. However, there is neither vegetation present in the affected area nor wetlands or ecologically sensitive areas that would be involved. The electric switchyard, required to provide an electrical connection between the Piñon Pine Power Plant and Sierra Pacific Power Company's existing electrical system, would be approximately 75 square feet in size. The switchyard would be sited adjacent to and would expand the existing switchyard for the Tracy Station Plant. The switchyard would directly impact the floodplain because of site grading and filling and the permanent placement of switchyard equipment within the 100-year floodplain. However, impacts to the 100-year floodplain such as flood storage, flood-flow conveyance, and wildlife habitat are expected to be minimal due to the limited size and open structure of the switchyard. The potential environmental impacts of site selection on the floodplain area are discussed in chapters 4 and 9 of the Draft Statement. Comments regarding the effects of the proposed action on floodplains may be submitted to the Department in accordance with the procedures described below. Comment Procedures Availability of Draft Statement Copies of the Draft Statement are being distributed to organizations, environmental groups, and individuals known to be interested in or affected by the proposed project. Additional copies of either the main document or appendices to the main volume may be obtained by contacting the Department as provided in the section of this notice entitled ADDRESSES . Copies of the Draft Statement, including the appendix volume and major documents referenced in the Draft Statement, are available for inspection at the locations identified below: (1) U.S. Department of Energy, Freedom of Information Reading Room, room 1E&hyph;190, Forrestal Building, 1000 Independence Avenue SW., Washington, DC 20585. (2) U.S. Department of Energy, Morgantown Energy Technology Center, 3610 Collins Ferry Road, P.O. Box 880, Morgantown, WV 26507&hyph;0880. (3) Lyon County Fernley Branch Library, P.O. Box 647, 575 Silverlace Blvd., Fernley, NV 89408. (4) Washoe County Public Library, Government Documents Section, 301 South Center Street, Reno, NV 89502. (5) Storey County Library, 95 South R Street, Virginia City, NV 89440. (6) Sierra Pacific Power Company, 6100 Neil Road, Reno, NV 89511. Written Comments Interested parties are invited to provide comments on the content of the Draft Statement to the Department as indicated in the section of this notice entitled ADDRESSES . Envelopes should be labeled ``Piñon Pine Power Project Draft EIS.'' Comments should be received no later than July 23, 1994, the close of the public comment period, to ensure consideration in preparing the Final Statement. Comments received after July 23, 1994, will be considered to the extent practicable. Public Hearings Procedures The public is invited to provide comments in person on the Draft Statement to the Department at the scheduled public hearings. Advance registration for presentation of oral comments at the hearings will be accepted up to one week prior to the hearing date by telephone or by mail at the office listed in the ADDRESSES section above. Envelopes should be labeled ``Piñon Pine Power Project Draft EIS.'' Requests to speak at a specific time will be honored if possible. Registrants are allowed only to register themselves to speak and must confirm the time they are scheduled to speak at the registration desk the day of the hearing. Persons who have not registered in advance may register to speak when they arrive at the hearings to the extent that time is available. To ensure that as many persons as possible have the opportunity to present comments, 5 minutes will be allotted to each speaker. Persons presenting comments at the hearings are requested to provide the Department with written copies of their comments at the hearing, if possible.
