FR940118-0-00069 FR940118-0-00015 The plan must demonstrate how State and local governments will reinvent themselves to help implement the plan, by: (1) Identifying the changes that will be made in State and local organizations, processes and procedures, including laws and ordinances, to facilitate implementation of the plan; and (2) Explaining how different agencies in State and local governments will work together in new responsive ways to implement the strategic plan. The plan must provide details about the manner in which it will be implemented, and must indicate what benchmarks will be used to measure progress, by: (1) Identifying the specific tasks necessary to implement the plan; (2) Describing the partnerships that will be established to carry out the plan; (3) Explaining how the strategic plan will be regularly revised to reflect new information and opportunities; and (4) Identifying the benchmarks and goals that should be used in evaluating performance in implementing the plan. III. Justification for Interim Rule In general, the Department publishes a rule for public comment before issuing a rule for effect, in accordance with its own regulations on rulemaking at 24 CFR part 10. However, part 10 provides for exceptions from that general rule where the Department finds good cause to omit advance notice and public participation. The good cause requirement is satisfied when prior public comment is ``impracticable, unnecessary, or contrary to the public interest'' (24 CFR 10.1). The Department finds that good cause exists to publish this rule for effect without first soliciting public comment, in that prior public comment would be contrary to the public interest. Section 1391(c) of the legislation requires that designations be made only after 1993 and before 1996. Given the statutory mandate to make all designations within a two-year period, the extra time required to publish a proposed rule for a 60-day comment period before development of a final rule for effect would be contrary to congressional intent and the purpose of the legislation. The longer time period would unduly postpone an economic recovery for those communities and their residents for which this program is intended. Further, the Department finds that good cause exists in that prior public comment is unnecessary because the legislation being implemented by this rule is very prescriptive, with little room for discretion on the part of the Secretary. The Department is interested, however, in the public reaction to the rule, and invites the public to comment. Since section 7(o) of the Department of Housing and Urban Development Act provides that no rule promulgated by the Department may become effective until 30 days after publication, and since section 1391(c) of the authorizing legislation requires that designations be made within a two-year period, the Department is limiting the comment period to 30 days to permit adequate time for review of public comments and development of a final rule. The Department has adopted a policy of setting a date for expiration of an interim rule unless a final rule is published before that date. This ``sunset'' provision appears in ยง597.1(c) of the rule, and provides that the rule will expire on a date 12 months from publication unless a final rule is published before that date. IV. Notice HUD is simultaneously publishing in today's Federal Register a Notice Inviting Applications that contains complete information on obtaining and submitting applications for nominating areas as Empowerment Zones and Enterprise Communities. V. Other Matters Paperwork Reduction Act The information collection requirements contained in this rule were submitted to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) for review under the provisions of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980 (44 U.S.C. 3501&hyph;3520), were approved, and assigned OMB Control Number 2506&hyph;0148. The following provisions of the rule have been determined by the Department to contain collection of information requirements:
