FR940606-0-00057 FR940606-0-00019 (A) The tenant's monthly rent before execution of the agreement and estimated average monthly utility costs; or (B) 30 percent of gross household income; or (iv) A tenant-occupant of a dwelling who is required to relocate temporarily, but does not return to the building/complex, if either: (A) The tenant is not offered payment for all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred in connection with the temporary relocation, including the cost of moving to and from the temporarily occupied unit, any increased housing costs and incidental expenses; or (B) Other conditions of the temporary relocation are not reasonable; or (v) A tenant-occupant of a dwelling who moves from the building/complex permanently after he or she has been required to move to another dwelling unit in the same building/complex in order to carry out the project, if either: (A) The tenant is not offered reimbursement for all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred in connection with the move; or (B) Other conditions of the move are not reasonable; or (2) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (g)(1) of this section, a person does not qualify as a `` displaced person '' (and is not eligible for relocation assistance under the URA or this section), if: (i) The person has been evicted for serious or repeated violation of the terms and conditions of the lease or occupancy agreement, violation of applicable Federal, State or local law, or other good cause, and the PHA determines that the eviction was not undertaken for the purpose of evading the obligation to provide relocation assistance; (ii) The person moved into the property after the submission of the preliminary proposal (or application, if there is no preliminary proposal) and, before signing a lease and commencing occupancy, was provided written notice of the project, its possible impact on the person (e.g., the person may be displaced, temporarily relocated, or suffer a rent increase) and the fact that the person would not qualify as a `` displaced person '' (or for any assistance provided under this section) as a result of the project; (iii) The person is ineligible under 49 CFR 24.2(g)(2); or (iv) HUD determines that the person was not displaced as a direct result of acquisition, rehabilitation, or demolition for the project. (3) The PHA may request, at any time, HUD's determination of whether a displacement is or would be covered by this section. (h) Definition of initiation of negotiations. For purposes of determining the formula for computing a replacement housing payment to be provided to a residential tenant displaced as a direct result of privately undertaken rehabilitation or demolition of the real property, the term initiation of negotiations means the execution of the Agreement between the Owner and the PHA. (Approved by Office of Management and Budget under OMB Control Number 2506&hyph;0121) 20. Section 882.712 is revised to read as follows: ยง882.712 Displacement, relocation, and acquisition. (a) Minimizing displacement. (1) Consistent with the other goals and objectives of this subpart, an owner must assure that it has taken all reasonable steps to minimize the displacement of persons (households, businesses, nonprofit organizations, and farms) as a result of a rehabilitation project assisted under this subpart. (2) Whenever a building/complex is rehabilitated and some, but not all, of the rehabilitated units will be assisted upon completion of the rehabilitation, the relocation requirements described in this section cover the occupants of each rehabilitated unit, whether or not section 8 assistance will be provided for the unit. (b) Temporary relocation. The following policies cover residential tenants who will not be required to move permanently but who must relocate temporarily for the project. Such tenants must be provided: (1) Reimbursement for all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred in connection with the temporary relocation, including the cost of moving to and from the temporary housing and any increase in monthly rent/utility costs; (2) Appropriate advisory services, including reasonable advance written notice of: (i) The date and approximate duration of the temporary relocation; (ii) The location of the suitable, decent, safe and sanitary dwelling to be made available for the temporary period; (iii) The terms under which the tenant may lease and occupy a suitable, decent, safe, and sanitary dwelling in the project upon completion of the project; and (iv) The assistance required under paragraph (b)(1) of this section. (c) Relocation assistance for displaced persons. A `` displaced person '' (defined in paragraph (g) of this section) must be provided relocation assistance at the levels described in, and in accordance with the requirements of, the Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act of 1970, as amended (URA) (42 U.S.C. 4201&hyph;4655) and implementing regulations at 49 CFR part 24. A `` displaced person '' shall be advised of his/her rights under the Fair Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 3600&hyph;3620), and, if the representative comparable replacement dwelling used to establish the amount of the replacement housing payment to be provided to a minority is located in an area of minority concentration, such person must also be given, if possible, referrals to comparable and suitable, decent, safe, and sanitary replacement dwellings not located in such areas. (d) Real property acquisition requirements. The acquisition of real property for a project is subject to the URA and the requirements of 49 CFR part 24, subpart B.
