FR940323-0-00041 FR940323-0-00020 This regulation has not been changed; as written, it closely tracks the statute. Programs will provide child care assistance to participants who need it in order to participate; they will determine on a case-by-case basis whether individuals are eligible. A prospective participant with extremely undependable child care could certainly argue that he or she would not be able to participate without child care benefits. (8) Health Care. (2522.250(b)) One commenter stated that the regulations should clarify that AmeriCorps participants should not be asked to pay premiums or deductibles, that the health care plan should include preventive and pregnancy care, as well as eye and dental care and workers compensation, and that there should be a 1&hyph;2 month delay in eligibility, since attrition is highest during this period. The Corporation will issue written guidelines setting forth the required specifications of the AmeriCorps health care package. These comments will be taken into consideration in the development of policies at that time. In addition, the health care section of the regulations has been rewritten to provide greater clarity. Change: §2522.250 has been revised. (9) State Priorities. (2522.410(b)(1)(i)) One commenter argued that States should be encouraged to adopt priorities that fit within the national priorities. The commenter felt that this would facilitate a comprehensive, focused national service effort. The Corporation agrees that requiring States to adopt national priorities might create a more focused national effort, but this change was not made because the Corporation strongly believes that it was Congress' intent to maintain a large degree of State autonomy with formula funds. States are in the best position to judge which needs are most pressing within a State and thus what the State priorities should be. (10) Program types. One commenter recommended for inclusion in the regulations additional provisions relating to the needs of inner cities. Specifically, the commenter recommended adding an example to §2522.110(b)(1) of a community service program in a high unemployment, high need urban area. The commenter also suggested that the provision describing a program for economically disadvantaged individuals (§2522.110(b)(3)) be expanded to add a requirement that it meet the employment needs of low income people and the business development needs of inner city neighborhoods. These changes have not been made. The program types included in the regulations are all taken directly from the statute. More importantly, as discussed in the January 7 preamble, a program does not necessarily have to be listed as a program type in §2522.110 in order to receive a grant. The Corporation has designated any program that meets the minimum program requirements listed in §2522.100 as eligible to apply for a grant. (11) Higher education cap. Several commenters argued that the regulations should restrict to 10% the percentage of a State's educational award formula allotment that institutions of higher education may receive. The Corporation declines to regulate on this issue. Which programs are proposed for funding in the State formula allotment, and how any available educational awards are distributed among them, is up to the States. (12) Ineligible service activities. (§2520.30) A number of commenters suggested that the Corporation revise the treatment of provisions prohibiting lobbying by participants in the course of their service. A number of commenters argued that the list of prohibited activities was too large and went beyond the statute. Some commenters stated that the proposed regulations would have an overly restrictive impact on programs and participants. The Corporation believes the service activity restrictions will not have a negative impact on programs or participants and that the list will keep programs focused on service that has direct and demonstrable results. However, the Corporation does not intend to limit the right of individuals to engage in any of the prohibited activities voluntarily and on their own time. Accordingly, the regulations have been amended. Change: §2520.30 has been revised. (13) Selection criteria. One commenter suggested rewriting the AmeriCorps selection criteria so that replicability and sustainability are more closely linked with innovation, rather than listing innovation, replicability and sustainability as separate criteria. Another commenter suggested adding a selection criterion which would consider the extent to which programs promote diversity, community-building and citizenship. The regulatory selection criteria have been drafted broadly to allow for flexibility from year to year and therefore are not being changed. The fiscal year 1994 selection criteria contained in the applications will stress the extent to which programs are likely to achieve the three desired impacts: ``getting things done,'' improving the lives of participants, and strengthening the ties that bind communities together. (14) Federal agency eligibility. One commenter requested clarification in §2523.20 on whether ``cabinet-level department'' would include an executive agency. Executive agencies are eligible. The regulations have been revised, replacing ``cabinet-level department'' with ``Executive Branch Agency or Department.'' Change: §2523.20 has been amended. (15) Approved partnerships. One commenter asked for clarification of the term ``approved partnership or consortium'' as used in §2523.60. Specifically, the commenter asked for an explanation of how a partnership or consortium is approved. Partnerships will be approved by the Corporation as part of the application process. Change: §2523.60 has been amended. (16) Program requirements addition. (§2522.100) One commenter suggested that the Corporation add a requirement that AmeriCorps programs provide career counseling to participants. The Corporation did not add this as a program requirement because programs are already required under §2522.100(k)(1) to provide support services to participants who are making the transition to careers. (17) National nonprofit eligibility. One commenter requested clarification of the eligibility of national nonprofit organizations to apply for funding through subgrants, as well as directly from the Corporation.
