FR940217-1-00110 FR940217-1-00014 (5) If an institution's participation in the Federal Stafford Loan, Federal PLUS, or Federal SLS Program has been terminated, prohibits further guarantee commitments by the Secretary for loans under that program to students to attend that institution, and, if the institution is a lender under that program, prohibits further disbursements by the institution (whether or not guarantee commitments have been issued by the Secretary or a guaranty agency for those disbursements). (b) After its participation in a Title IV, HEA program has been terminated, an institution may disburse or deliver funds under that Title IV, HEA program to students enrolled at the institution only in accordance with ยง668.26 and with any additional requirements imposed under this part. (c) If a third-party servicer's eligibility is terminated, the servicer must return to each institution that contracts with the servicer any funds received by the servicer under the applicable Title IV, HEA program on behalf of the institution or the institution's students or otherwise dispose of those funds under instructions from the Secretary. The servicer also must return to each institution that contracts with the servicer all records pertaining to the servicer's administration of that program on behalf of that institution. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1094) 24. Section 668.95 is revised to read as follows: ยง668.95 Reimbursements, refunds, and offsets. (a) The designated department official, hearing official, or Secretary may require an institution or third-party servicer to take reasonable and appropriate corrective action to remedy the institution's or servicer's violation, as applicable, of any statutory provision of or applicable to Title IV of the HEA, any regulatory provision prescribed under that statutory authority, or any applicable special arrangement, agreement, or limitation. (b) The corrective action may include payment of any funds to the Secretary, or to designated recipients, that the institution or servicer, as applicable, improperly received, withheld, disbursed, or caused to be disbursed. Corrective action may, for example, relate to_ (1) With respect to the Federal Stafford Loan, Federal PLUS, and Federal SLS programs_ (i) Ineligible interest benefits, special allowances, or other claims paid by the Secretary; and (ii) Discounts, premiums, or excess interest paid in violation of 34 CFR part 682; and (2) With respect to all Title IV, HEA programs_ (i) Refunds required under program regulations; and (ii) Any grants, work-study assistance, or loans made in violation of program regulations. (c) If any final decision requires an institution or third-party servicer to reimburse or make any other payment to the Secretary, the Secretary may offset these claims against any benefits or claims due to the institution or servicer. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1094) 25. Section 668.96 is revised to read as follows: ยง668.96 Reinstatement after termination. (a)(1) An institution whose participation in a Title IV, HEA program has been terminated may file a request for reinstatement of that participation. (2) A third-party servicer whose eligibility to contract with any institution to administer any aspect of the institution's participation in a Title IV, HEA program has been terminated may file a request for reinstatement of that eligibility. (b) An institution whose participation has been terminated or a third-party servicer whose eligibility has been terminated may request reinstatement only after the later of the expiration of_ (1) Eighteen months from the effective date of the termination; or (2) A debarment or suspension under Executive Order 12549 or the Federal Acquisition Regulations, 48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4. (c) To be reinstated, an institution or third-party servicer must submit its request for reinstatement in writing to the Secretary and must_ (1) Demonstrate to the Secretary's satisfaction that it has corrected the violation or violations on which its termination was based, including payment in full to the Secretary or to other recipients of funds that the institution or servicer, as applicable, has improperly received, withheld, disbursed, or caused to be disbursed; (2) Meet all applicable requirements of this part; and (3) In the case of an institution, enter into a new program participation agreement with the Secretary. (d) The Secretary, within 60 days of receiving the reinstatement request_ (1) Grants the request; (2) Denies the request; or (3) Grants the request subject to a limitation or limitations. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1094; E.O. 12549 (3 CFR, 1987 Comp., p. 189), 12689 (3 CFR, 1989 Comp., p. 235)) 26. Section 668.97 is revised to read as follows: ยง668.97 Removal of limitation. (a) An institution whose participation in a Title IV, HEA program has been limited may not apply for removal of the limitation before the expiration of 12 months from the effective date of the limitation. (b) A third-party servicer whose eligibility to contract with any institution to administer any aspect of the institution's participation in a Title IV, HEA program has been limited may request removal of the limitation. (c) The institution or servicer may not apply for removal of the limitation before the later of the expiration of_
