FR941206-1-00099 FR941206-1-00008 B. Air Emission Reductions The nationwide baseline VOHAP emissions for the approximately 25 major shipbuilding facilities from surface coating operations are estimated to be 1,155 Mg/yr (1,272 tons/yr). Implementation of the proposed standards would reduce these emissions by approximately 24 percent to 883 Mg/yr (972 tons/yr). C. Secondary Environmental Impacts No environmental impacts to water, solid waste, noise, or secondary air impacts are associated with implementation of the proposed standards, as explained below. 1. Water There are no negative water pollution impacts resulting from transition to compliant coatings. 2. Solid Waste There are no negative solid waste impacts associated with the proposed standards. No additional or new types of solid or hazardous waste will be generated. Because the compliant (higher solid) coatings are more concentrated, fewer containers will require disposal when the same volume of solids is applied. 3. Noise There is no additional noise associated with the proposed standards. Pumps and compressors, the source of the majority of the noise in paint operations, is not expected to change. 4. Secondary Air Impacts There are no significant secondary air pollution impacts. Use of compliant coatings avoids use of any type of control device or equipment that would consume large amounts of energy. Furthermore, any reduction in VOC emissions that result from compliance with the HAP rule will reduce both ozone formation and CO 2 , a greenhouse gas (VOC that remain airborne react to form ozone and are ultimately oxidized to CO 2 ). D. Energy Impacts Paint heaters are now used in some shipyards. Some sources may use paint heaters in lieu of solvent to reduce paint viscosity. Although some secondary air impacts would result from the power requirements of the electrical heaters, the amount of electricity that they draw is insignificant. E. Cost Impacts The incremental nationwide annual costs associated with the proposed standards (MACT cost minus baseline cost) is approximately $1.7 million per year. The use of compliant coatings will not require different equipment. Because lower-VOC (and presumably lower-VOHAP) coatings are more concentrated, less coating volume is required to cover the same surface area to the same dry film thickness. Some of these compliant coatings, however, may be more expensive both on a dollar-per-gallon basis, but also in cost-per- volume solids (nonvolatiles). Therefore, the annual costs associated with the proposed standards reflect the difference between the costs of higher-priced coatings and the savings associated with the decreased volume of coatings (because of the higher solids content) and labor to apply them. Minor costs would be incurred by any source that purchases paint heaters or other minor equipment necessary to comply with the handling, transfer, and storage standard. These costs are expected to be insignificant. F. Economic Impacts Economic impacts were calculated on a facility-specific basis as well as on a market segment basis (i.e., military construction, commercial repair, etc.). Economic impact indicators examined included price, output, and employment impacts. The economic impact analysis calculated economic impacts for six market segments within the shipbuilding and repair industry. Two methods were used to calculate the potential price impacts; therefore, these impacts will be provided in terms of ranges. Twenty major-source yards were identified as first-tier shipyards (facilities that have the capability to construct, drydock, and/or topside repair vessels with a minimum overall length of 400 feet). Two market segments in the first tier, facilities engaging in construction of military ships and privately owned facilities engaging in repair of military ships, are each estimated to increase their prices 0.1 percent or less to recover increased costs of the rule. The cost for the third market segment, government-owned shipyards engaging in repairing military ships, will be negligible. The remaining five major-source shipyards are categorized into the ``second tier'' (facilities building and repairing ships less than 400 feet in length). Within this tier, the market segment consisting of facilities constructing ships for the military is estimated to require a price increase between 0.1 and 0.2 percent. The market segment consisting of facilities engaging in construction of ships for the commercial sector is estimated to require a price increase of 0.3 percent or less. Lastly, the market segment consisting of facilities performing repair on ships in the commercial sector is expected to require little or no price increase. The facility-specific impact calculations estimate the maximum price increase necessary for a regulated facility to fully recoup its annualized control costs. For the purposes of the analysis, a facility's price increase was considered significant if greater than 1 percent and deviated considerably from its corresponding market segment price increase. The facility-specific price increase calculations indicated that 23 of the 25 major-source shipyards are expected to experience price increases of 0.1 percent or less. Of the two remaining, one is expected to experience a 0.2 percent price increase and the other, 0.3 percent.
