FR940817-2-00079 FR940817-2-00043 3. The PTEAM Study The only published study that has used a probability-based representative sampling design for evaluating exposure levels of Mn in a general population is the Particle Total Exposure Assessment Methodology (PTEAM) study, which was conducted in Riverside, CA, over a 7-week period in the fall of 1990 (Pellizzari et al., 1992). This study used personal and stationary monitors to measure Mn concentrations indoors and outdoors. The personal samplers collected PM 10 , and the stationary samplers collected PM 2.5 as well as PM 10 (see glossary of terms in Attachment B&hyph;6 to Appendix B). Of the 139,000 nonsmoking residents age 10 years and older in Riverside, 178 individuals were selected through a stratified sampling plan to represent the general population and were monitored over two 12-hour periods (daytime and nighttime). More than 2,750 particle samples were collected. Quality assurance and other procedures are summarized in Appendix B and are described extensively elsewhere (e.g., Pellizzari et al., 1992; Clayton et al., 1993; Thomas et al., 1993). The PTEAM study has been presented in various peer-reviewed publications and discussed in several scientific forums (see Attachment B&hyph;5 to Appendix B). It represents the best available information on an actual distribution of general population exposures to Mn. It also provides valuable information on potential Mn exposure associated with MMT use, because MMT was used in leaded gasoline in California prior to and during the period of the PTEAM study. 4. Estimated Mn Exposure Levels Associated with MMT Usage As noted above, the substantial limitations of the available Canadian exposure studies make them unsuitable for estimating population exposure levels of Mn in relation to MMT usage. In addition, ambient monitoring data typically underestimate and may be uncorrelated with personal exposure levels of automotive-source pollutants. Therefore, of the currently existing published evidence pertaining to Mn exposure levels in relation to MMT usage, only the PTEAM Riverside study (Pellizzari et al., 1992) provides a reasonable basis for estimating potential future exposure levels in relation to a scenario where 100% of unleaded gasoline contains 1/32 g Mn/gal as proposed by Ethyl Corporation. In the PTEAM study, measurements of personal exposure levels of PM 10 Mn indicated that approximately half of the population in Riverside in the 1990 study period had 24-hour personal exposures to PM 10 Mn above 0.035 m g/m3, with the highest 1% of the population having exposures above 0.223 m g/m3 PM 10 Mn. However, given the use of PM 5 Mn exposure measurements in the study of Roels et al. (1992), it would be preferable to consider a population distribution of personal exposure levels of PM 5 Mn. Due to limitations in the available data, the exposure assessment in Appendix B focuses on estimated personal exposure levels for PM 4 Mn, not PM 5 . Although the difference is probably small, PM 4 levels are an underestimate of PM 5 levels. The derivation of the projected exposure estimates involved several steps, which may be summarized as follows. The automotive and nonautomotive contributions to particulate Mn exposures in the PTEAM study were estimated using data from Lyons et al. (1993), who reported particle size distributions up to PM 4 of selected trace metals, including Mn, at two locations near Riverside in the winter and summer of 1989. They attributed most of the PM 4 Mn to automotive sources. Based on their findings and data from other sources, it is possible to estimate that 69% of the PM 2.5 fraction of PM 4 Mn they measured was derived from automotive sources (namely the combustion of MMT in motor vehicle fuel, as then allowed in leaded gasoline in California) and that 31% was derived from paved road dust (mostly earth crustal material). Next, the PTEAM Mn measurements from stationary indoor monitors (SIMs) were used to estimate personal exposure levels by adjusting the SIM PM 2.5 Mn data to reflect the typically higher levels of all elements measured by personal exposure monitors (PEMs). This adjustment was made in two ways, either by the PEM:SIM ratio obtained for Mn or by the ratio obtained for lead (Pb), another element related to automotive fuel usage. These two methods of adjusting the SIM data to PEM values resulted in two projected distributions, as will be described below. The next step in the derivation procedure involved adjusting the PM 2.5 personal exposure estimates to reflect PM in the size range from 2.5 to 4 m m (based again on data from Lyons et al., 1993). With these estimates of PM 4 Mn personal exposure levels due to automotive sources, it was then possible to project from the situation in Riverside around the time of the PTEAM study (when leaded-MMT gasoline constituted about 14% of the gasoline sold and contained an average of 0.048 g Mn/gal) to a future scenario that assumes 100% of the unleaded gasoline contains MMT at 1/32 (0.031) g Mn/gal. This aspect of the derivation is described in detail in Attachment B&hyph;4 to Appendix B. In essence, a factor was calculated to reflect the estimated increase in MMT usage between 1990 and 1995 (i.e., the first full year in the near future). This projection factor assumed an increase of 1% per year in gasoline usage and no difference in the Mn emission rate (grams Mn emitted per gram Mn in fuel combusted) for noncatalyst vehicles using leaded-MMT gasoline in 1990 versus catalyst vehicles using unleaded-MMT gasoline in 1995.
