FR941102-1-00078 FR941102-1-00018 The proposal by NCI to place the residual value on a ``fluid carrier'' component has some merit in that it does not try to apply the residual value to a component such as other solids, on which the market may not place a value. The major drawback to the NCI proposal is that it ignores one of the components of milk, other nonfat solids, which is composed of lactose and ash. Although the other nonfat solids do not have as much market value as either butterfat or protein, they are an important component of milk. If a multiple component pricing system is to be effective it should price as many of the components in milk as possible, preferably based on the value of those components in the marketplace. There is, however, no readily available measure of the market value of the other nonfat solids. Since there was no testimony or any justification in the record for departing from the Minnesota-Wisconsin price as a basic price for milk, at least one of the components in the payment plan must represent the difference between a competitively-set pay price (the M-W) and the product-derived component prices. This residual value therefore represents not only the value of the lactose and ash, but also equates the component values, some of which are determined by their market value, with a competitively set producer pay price. The prospect of lactose being added to milk by producers for the purpose of benefitting from the other solids price was discussed by several hearing participants. The incentive to adulterate milk with added lactose should be no more of a problem than the current incentive to adulterate milk with water. Testing to determine whether lactose has been added should, in fact, be easier than testing for water since it would be part of the testing necessary to determine producers' payments. In addition, added lactose can be detected during normal testing procedures currently conducted on milk. NCI's concern that testing for total solids would increase handlers' costs and difficulty of testing was not established in the hearing record. In fact, testimony indicated that many handlers are already testing for total solids. Hearing testimony also showed that the testing for total solids is as accurate or more accurate than testing for butterfat or protein. In addition, the infrared machines that are used by most laboratories will test for total solids at the same time the butterfat and protein tests are done. Therefore, there should be no significant increase in testing cost or testing difficulty with the implementation of the component pricing plan incorporated in this decision. C. Butterfat The value of butterfat in the amended orders will be the same as under the current orders. There was no proposal or testimony to change the way butterfat currently is valued. One expert witness testified that the current system of basing the value of butterfat on the value of butter is proper. This decision continues the historical relationship of the values of butterfat and butter. The difference between the pricing of butterfat in the amended order and the current order is due to the way that value is expressed. Currently the value of butterfat is expressed as a differential; that is, the difference in value between 0.1 pound of butterfat and 0.1 pound of skim milk. The amended order will express the value of butterfat on the basis of a price per pound. Whichever method is used, the total value of butterfat in milk is the same. However, by expressing the value on a per pound basis instead of a differential, the objective of demonstrating clearly to producers where the value is in milk is easily achieved. As proposed, the butterfat price per pound in the amended order will be determined by multiplying the butterfat differential by 965 and adding the Class III price. The resulting price per hundredweight would then be divided by 100 to give a price per pound of butterfat.
