FR940128-1-00105 FR940128-1-00006 (iii) The name and certification number of the shipper. Appendix A to Part 123_Cooked, Ready-to-Eat Fishery Products 1. General guidelines for cooked, ready-to- eat fishery products. 2. Definitions in Appendix A. 3. Critical control points. 4. Thermal processing critical control points. 5. Container integrity critical control points. 6. Time and temperature critical control points. 7. Temperature monitoring equipment. 8. Corrective actions. 9. Sanitary zones. 1. General Guidelines for Cooked, Ready-to-Eat Fishery Products This Appendix provides guidance on how to meet the requirements of 21 CFR part 123, subpart A for the processing of cooked, ready-to-eat fishery products. Cooked, ready-to-eat fishery products are those that are subjected by a commercial processor to either a cooking process before being placed in a final container, or to pasteurization in the final container, or to both. This guidance involves processing procedures that are common to most of these products for the control of the microbiological hazards to which they are particularly susceptible. The guidance does not apply to environmental or other hazards that might occur before the processor takes possession of the product or raw materials. (Guidance on these hazards may be found in a separate guidance document for all fish and fishery products to be issued by FDA.) This guidance also does not apply to cooked, ready-to-eat fishery products covered by 21 CFR part 123, subpart B. 2. Definitions in Appendix A a. Cooking process means the application of sufficient heat for a sufficient period of time to a fish or fishery product to coagulate the protein throughout the product. b. Hermetically sealed package means a container that is designed and intended to be secure against the entry of microorganisms. c. Microorganisms of public health significance means bacteria, fungi, and viruses capable of producing illness if they or their toxins are ingested by humans. d. Pasteurization means a process applied to a fish or fishery product after that fish or fishery product has been placed in a final, hermetically sealed package, which involves the application of sufficient heat or other processes for a sufficient period of time to result in the reduction of microorganisms of public health concern to levels that, under normal conditions of storage, are unlikely to cause disease. e. Process authority means a person having expert knowledge of commercial processing of fish and fishery products based on a combination of education, training and experience. f. Raw materials means fish and fishery products that are received for processing and include fishery products that have been processed elsewhere and that are received for further processing. g. Temperature-indicating device means a mercury-in-glass thermometer or equivalent device, such as a resistance temperature device or thermocouple. h. Temperature-recording device means a device that is capable of providing a continuous record of the temperature conditions being monitored. 3. Critical Control Points Hazard Analysis Critical Control Point (HACCP) plans prepared in accordance with 21 CFR part 123, subpart A will typically identify and address the following critical control points: a. Cooking; b. Pasteurization; c. Finished product container sealing for pasteurized products; d. Post-pasteurization cooling; e. Cooling after cooking; f. Processing after cooking; g. Final product cooling; h. Refrigerated storage; and i. Distribution. In accordance with 21 CFR part 123, subpart A, processors shall identify in their HACCP plans how they will control hazards at critical control points. The measures in sections 4. through 6. of this Appendix are suitable for HACCP plans.
