FR940419-1-00065 FR940419-1-00009 (7) Training in the development of strategies to successfully implement a youth program. For example, assessing the needs and problems of the youth, improving youth initiatives that are currently active, and training youth, housing authority staff, resident management corporations and resident organizations on youth initiatives and program activities. (8) Workshops for youth services, child abuse and neglect prevention, tutorial services, in partnership with community-based organizations such as local Boys and Girls Clubs, YMCA/YWCA, Boy/Girl Scouts, Campfire and Big Brother/Big Sisters, etc. Other HUD programs such as the Youth Sports Program and the Public Housing Drug Elimination Programs also provide funding in these areas; and (e) General. (1) Required training on HUD regulations and policies governing the operation of low-income public and Indian housing, financial management, capacity building to develop the necessary skills to assume management responsibilities at the development and property management; (2) Purchasing hardware, i.e., computers and software, office furnishings and supplies, in connection with business development. Every effort must be made to acquire donated or discounted hardware; (3) Training in accessing other funding sources; and (4) Hiring trainers or other experts (RO/RMCs) must ensure that this training is provided by a qualified housing management specialist, a community organizer, the HA, or other sources knowledgeable about the program. ยง905.968 Technical assistance. To the extent that grant authority is available, HUD shall provide financial assistance to ROs or RMCs that obtain, by contract or otherwise, technical assistance for the development of resident management entities, including the formation of these entities; the development of the management capabilities of newly formed or existing entities; the identification of the social support needs of residents of projects, and the securing of this support; and a wide range of activities to further the purposes of this subpart. ยง905.969 Resident management requirements. The following requirements apply when a HA and its residents are interested in providing for resident performance of management functions in one or more projects under this subpart. (a) Resident management corporation. Residents interested in contracting with a HA must establish a RMC that meets the requirements for such a corporation, as specified in this subpart. (b) Management Contract. (1) A management contract between the HA and a RMC is required for resident management. The HA and the corporation may agree to the performance by the corporation of any or all management functions for which the HA is responsible to HUD under the ACC, and any other functions not inconsistent with the ACC and applicable laws and regulations. The management contract must be in conformance with the minimum requirements established by HUD. (2) The management contract may include specific provisions governing management personnel; compensation for maintenance laborers and mechanics and administrative employees employed in the operation of the project, except that the amount of this compensation must meet applicable labor standard requirements of Federal law; rent collection procedures; resident income verification; resident eligibility determinations; resident eviction; the acquisition of supplies and materials; and such other matters as the HA and the corporation determine to be appropriate, and as HUD may specify in administrative instructions. (3) The management contract shall be treated as a contracting out of services, and must be subject to any provision of a collective bargaining agreement regarding the contracting out of services to which the HA is subject. (4) Provisions on competitive bidding and requirements of prior written HUD approval of contracts contained in the ACC do not apply to the decision of a HA to contract with a RMC. (c) Prohibited activities. A HA may not contract for assumption by the RMC of the HA's underlying responsibilities to HUD under the ACC.
