FR940324-2-00073 FR940324-2-00043 Evaluation •An evaluation of the efficiency and effectiveness of the proposed project, including data on the relative effectiveness of different training techniques in developing clinical skills, attitudes, and knowledge needed to prevent HIV infection and to work with people with HIV/AIDS. Eligibility: Applications may be submitted by any public or private nonprofit organization. Entities staffed largely by women and minorities are encouraged to apply. Availability of Funds: It is estimated that approximately $0.4 million will be available to support approximately 2&hyph;3 awards under this RFA in FY 94. Actual funding levels will depend upon the availability of appropriated funds. Period of Support: Support may be requested for a period of up to 3 years. Annual awards will be made, subject to availability of funds and progress achieved. Application Receipt and Review Schedule: The schedule for receipt and review of applications under this announcement is as follows: ␣ 1Receipt date 1IRG review 1Council review 1Earliest start date May 26, 1994 July 1994 Sept. 1994 Sept. 1994. Applications must be received by the published application receipt date to be accepted for review. However, an application received after the deadline may be acceptable if it carries a legible proof-of-mailing date, (private metered postmarks are not acceptable as proof of timely mailing), assigned by the carrier and the proof-of-mailing date is not later than one week prior to the deadline date. If the receipt date falls on a weekend, it will be extended to the following Monday; if the date falls on a national holiday, it will be extended to the following work day. Consequences of Late Submission: Applications received after the above receipt date will not be accepted and will be returned to the applicant without review. Subject to the availability of funds in future fiscal years, CMHS may reissue this announcement and publish future receipt dates and a notice of availability of funds in the Federal Register . Applicants are strongly encouraged to verify future receipt dates and the availability and terms of funding before preparing and submitting applications.
