FR941110-0-00075 FR941110-0-00016 Continued implementation of time limited agreement requirements for skilled nursing facilities and nursing facilities frustrated many aspects of nursing home reform and, in a practical way, rendered them inoperable. For these reasons, a HCFA Ruling was signed on August 26, 1992 eliminating time limited agreements for skilled nursing facilities and nursing facilities participating in the Medicare and Medicaid programs and these regulations further adopt this position. Section 488.308 implements sections 1819(g)(2)(A)(iii) and 1919(g)(2)(A)(iii) of the Act, which require that each skilled nursing facility and nursing facility be subject to a standard survey not later than 15 months after the last day of the previous standard survey and that the statewide average interval between standard surveys not exceed 12 months. The regulation specifies when and how the average interval is computed, specific conditions that may prompt a standard or an abbreviated standard survey and HCFA's corrective action to ensure that State survey agencies meet the 12 month average interval requirement. These final rules also codify the substance of the HCFA ruling described above by eliminating from the regulations the requirements for time limited agreements for SNFs and NFs. Comment: One commenter requested clarification of the 15 month interval by asking if determination would be ``to the day'' or ``during the 15th month.'' Response: We intend to calculate the 15-month interval by counting days. The survey agency calculates the number of days between the last day of the current standard survey and the last day of the facility's previous standard survey. Comment: Several commenters recommended that survey frequency be related to the compliance/noncompliance history of the facility. A few commenters suggested that States be required to conduct more frequent inspections of nursing homes with poor care histories. One commenter recommended that States take facility compliance history into account when establishing survey cycles and conduct more frequent surveys of nursing homes with a history of substandard quality of care. Response: We are retaining this provision of the regulation as written because we believe that the Act, as previously cited, provides a framework within which the State survey agency can establish a flexible survey cycle that effectively ensures that quality health care is furnished in a safe environment. Without restricting this flexibility, we expect that State survey agencies will consider a facility's compliance history when scheduling standard surveys and revisits. The survey agency may conduct surveys as frequently as necessary to determine compliance with participation requirements, to confirm that previously cited deficiencies have been corrected, to investigate complaints and to ensure that certain changes do not cause a decline in the quality of care furnished to the resident. Comment: Several commenters recommended that an additional provision be incorporated which would allow State survey agencies to conduct tailored or abbreviated surveys in those facilities which were deficiency-free in the previous standard survey. Some additional commenters recommended that facilities with a record of deficiency-free surveys be inspected less frequently than every 12 months. One commenter specifically suggested that surveys not be conducted yearly if there is in place good surveillance and monitoring from the State, and that, perhaps, over time a survey would be conducted every third year as hospitals are surveyed by the Joint Commission on the Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations. One commenter recommended a demonstration project that would test the possibility of an extended survey cycle for excellent facilities.
