FR940128-0-00060 FR940128-0-00024 Discussion: The Secretary agrees with the concerns raised by commenters who believed that the proposed requirement in §692.41(b) would create difficulties for some States in administering the SSIG Program. The Secretary, therefore, is revising §692.41(b) to provide that, upon the review and approval of the Secretary, a State may use its own definition for ``independent student'' that varies from the Federal definition of the term as defined in section 480(d) of the HEA. The Secretary will approve a variant definition on a case-by-case basis. States that wish to use a variant definition of ``independent student,'' other than the Federal definition, must provide information concerning their ``independent student'' definition at the time of application for program funds that includes a justification, with accompanying supporting documentation, demonstrating ``good cause'' as to why the Secretary should approve the variant definition. The Secretary believes that States that have a valid reason to use a different independent student definition should be accommodated, as long as the use of a different definition is reasonably justified and does not place significant additional reporting burdens on applicants. The Secretary believes that a valid reason for requesting a variance might include that excessive costs to the State are incurred in implementing the Federal definition. The Secretary will also take into consideration in approving a definition the extent to which the new definition imposes additional data requirements beyond those provided for by the Federal definition and the Federal Need Analysis Methodology authorized under part F of title IV of the HEA. For example, a State, rather than adopt a new definition, may decide, with the Secretary's approval, to use the Federal definition except for the professional judgment provision in section 480(d)(7) of the HEA. The Secretary also agrees with the concerns raised by a commenter regarding whether a State, in selecting students for the SSIG Program matching purposes, would accurately reflect the proportion of independent students to all students in the State program. The Secretary believes that the State SSIG Program student funding should be comparable to the overall State program, if the entire State program is not contained in the State SSIG Program. However, the Secretary does not wish to place any unnecessary burdens on States. Therefore, the Secretary is providing a new paragraph (j) in §692.21. Under §692.21(j) the proportion of SSIG Program funds awarded to independent students, including both the Federal allotment and the State funds matching the allotment, must be, to the extent practicable, the same proportion of funds awarded independent students as is in the State program or programs of which the State's SSIG Program is a part. Changes: Two changes have been made. The Secretary amends §692.41(b) to provide that he may approve, on a case-by-case basis, the use of a definition of ``independent student'' that varies from the term defined in section 480(d) of the HEA if a State demonstrates ``good cause'' as to why a variance should be approved. The Secretary also amends §692.21 by adding a new paragraph (j) to provide that, to the extent practicable, the proportion of the funds awarded to independent students in the SSIG Program shall be the same proportion of funds awarded to independent students as is in the State program or programs of which the State's SSIG Program is a part. Assessment of Educational Impact In the notice of proposed rulemaking, the Secretary requested comments on whether the proposed regulations in this document would require transmission of information that is being gathered by or is available from any other agency or authority of the United States. Based on the response to the proposed regulations and on its own review, the Department has determined that the regulations in this document do not require transmission of information that is being gathered by or is available from any other agency or authority of the United States. List of Subjects in 34 CFR Part 692 Grant programs_education, Postsecondary education, State administered_education, Student Aid_education, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. (Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance Number 84.096, State Student Incentive Grant Program) Dated: January 14, 1994. Richard W. Riley, Secretary of Education.
