FR941007-1-00040 FR941007-1-00008 NHTSA is proposing to require the use of a key to activate the cutoff device. This would make the device simple and easy to use, but still require conscious thought and deliberate action on the part of the user. The agency is proposing use of the ignition key to ensure that the driver of the vehicle is the person most likely to activate the cutoff device, and thereby minimize the likelihood of accidental activation. This approach is similar to that used in Standard No. 118, Power Operated Window, Partition and Roof Panel Systems , to ensure the safe operation of electrically operated devices. NHTSA requests comments on mandating the use of the ignition key. NHTSA requests comments on other means that would guard against the inadvertent deactivation of the air bag, while avoiding the possible complexity or inconvenience of the ignition key based approach. Examples of other means include a separate key from the ignition key, ``keyless'' entry technology responding to personal identification numbers, the use of ``protected'' switches that require removing or re-positioning a special safety cap in two or more steps, or other such devices. NHTSA will consider all comments regarding the means to deactivate the passenger air bag, and will adopt the most practicable approach possible which is consistent with the philosophy that the device be as simple and easy to use as possible, consistent with the goal of preventing inadvertent deactivation. C. Air Bag Reactivation NHTSA is proposing to require that manual cutoff devices be designed so that, once the cutoff device has been used to deactivate the air bag, the air bag will remain deactivated until it is manually reactivated. Mandating manual reactivation would ensure that once an air bag has been deactivated for the safety of an infant being transported in a rear-facing child restraint in the front seat, it would remain deactivated for subsequent trips with the child. NHTSA is concerned, for example, that if it instead allowed a manually deactivated air bag to be automatically reactivated, motorists making stop-and-go shopping trips with infants might forget, after making one of their stops, that the air bag has been automatically reactivated and needs to be manually deactivated again. The infants would then be at risk if the vehicles were involved in crashes that deployed the air bags. At the same time, the agency is concerned that the air bag be operational whenever it is needed by a non-infant occupant. In an attempt to ensure that air bag protection would be ready when needed, NHTSA also proposes to require a yellow warning light which would be clearly visible to the driver and any adult passenger (see Section D, Warning Light, below). It would illuminate the words, ``AIR BAG OFF,'' whenever the air bag has been manually deactivated. This warning light would serve as a reminder that the cutoff device should be reset whenever the vehicle is no longer carrying an infant.
