FR940705-0-00011 FR940705-0-00001 §1421.207 Storage rates. * * * * * (b) (1) Storage payments shall be paid quarterly, starting from the effective date of the FOR loan. Such payments shall be paid within 30 days after the end of each quarter in which such payments are earned. Storage payments shall not be earned when the grain which was pledged as collateral for the FOR loan is not in storage, as determined by CCC. Storage payments shall not be earned when the 5-day adjusted market price determined in accordance with §1421.209(e) equals or exceeds 95 percent of the current year's established price for the commodity. In such instance, no storage payments shall be earned from the day the 5-day adjusted market price was equal to or exceeded 95 percent of such established price through the ninetieth day following the last day on which the 5-day adjusted market price equalled or exceeded 95 percent of such established price. (2) *␣*␣* (i) A FOR agreement shall not be approved until the producer provides written evidence to CCC that at least the next year's storage, including any storage deduction applicable to the regular loan, has been paid to the warehouse or arrangements for the payment of such storage have been made with the warehouse on the FOR loan quantity. * * * * * (iii) The eighth quarterly storage payment shall not be made until the producer provides written evidence to CCC that storage has been paid to the warehouse or arrangements for the payment of such storage have been made with the warehouse on the FOR quantity through the FOR loan maturity date. * * * * * 22. Section 1421.208 is revised to read as follows: §1421.208 Charging interest. FOR loans shall not accrue interest unless CCC determines that the 5-day adjusted market price determined in accordance with §1421.209(e) for the commodity is equal to or exceeds 105 percent of the current year's established price for such commodity. In such instance, interest shall accrue from the day the 5-day adjusted market price was equal to or exceeded 105 percent of such established price and continue to accrue for the balance of the month following the last day on which the 5-day adjusted market price equaled or exceeded 105 percent of such established price through the two succeeding months. The rate of interest which shall be applicable to a FOR loan during an interest-accruing period shall be the rate applicable to the regular price support loan as determined in accordance with part 1405 of this chapter. 23. Section 1421.210 is amended by revising paragraphs (a), (b)(2), (b)(4) introductory text, (b)(4)(ii), (b)(5)(i), (b)(5)(ii), (b)(5)(iv), (c)(1) introductory text, (c)(2), (c)(3), (c)(4), and (c)(5) to read as follows: §1421.210 Commingling and replacement of wheat and feed grains. (a) In the case of farm-stored FOR loans, if an eligible quantity of a commodity has been commingled with an ineligible quantity of the commodity, the commingled commodity is not eligible to be pledged as collateral for a FOR loan unless the provisions in §1421.17 (b)(1) or (b)(2) are met. (b) *␣*␣* (2) Grain which is used to replace existing FOR loan collateral must have been produced by the producer and be eligible to be pledged as collateral for a regular price support loan, except that compliance with the terms and conditions of any commodity program conducted in accordance with part 1413 of this chapter on the farm on which such replacement grain was produced is not required. Replacement loan collateral may be grain from the crop which is harvested after the date established by the State committee in accordance with paragraph (b)(1) of this section or be grain from a producer's existing stocks in CCC-approved farm storage. This grain must not have been purchased and must be free of any liens or encumbrances unless waivers that fully protect the interest of CCC are obtained. With respect to wheat, such replacement grain must be of the same class as the regular price support loan collateral. * * * * * (4) To protect the interest of CCC in the quantity of collateral to be released for replacement in accordance with paragraph (c)(1)(i) or (c)(1)(iii) of this section, the county committee may require producers to remit payments to the CCC before a request to replace FOR loan collateral is approved. In such cases, the amount to be remitted shall be the smaller of:
