FR941202-0-00094 FR941202-0-00010 §63.468 Reporting requirements. (a) Each owner or operator of an existing solvent cleaning machine subject to the provisions of this subpart shall submit an initial notification report to the Administrator no later than August 29, 1995. This report shall include the information specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(6) of this section. (1) The name and address of the owner or operator. (2) The address (i.e., physical location) of the solvent cleaning machine(s). (3) A brief description of each solvent cleaning machine including machine type (batch vapor, batch cold, vapor in-line or cold in-line), solvent/air interface area, and existing controls. (4) The date of installation for each solvent cleaning machine or a letter certifying that the solvent cleaning machine and its control devices were installed prior to, or after, November 29, 1993. (5) The anticipated compliance approach for each solvent cleaning machine. (6) An estimate of annual halogenated HAP solvent consumption for each solvent cleaning machine. (b) Each owner or operator of a new solvent cleaning machine subject to the provisions of this subpart shall submit an initial notification report to the Administrator. New sources for which construction or reconstruction had commenced and initial startup had not occurred before December 2, 1994, shall submit this report as soon as practicable before startup but no later than January 31, 1995. New sources for which the construction or reconstruction commenced after December 2, 1994, shall submit this report as soon as practicable before the construction or reconstruction is planned to commence. This report shall include all of the information required in §63.5(d)(1) of subpart A (General Provisions), with the revisions and additions in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(3) of this section. (1) The report shall include a brief description of each solvent cleaning machine including machine type (batch vapor, batch cold, vapor in-line, or cold-line), solvent/air interface area, and existing controls. (2) The report shall include the anticipated compliance approach for each solvent cleaning machine. (3) In lieu of §63.5(d)(1)(ii)(H) of subpart A of this part, the owner or operator must report an estimate of annual halogenated HAP solvent consumption for each solvent cleaning machine. (c) Each owner or operator of a batch cold solvent cleaning machine subject to the provisions of this subpart shall submit a compliance report to the Administrator. For existing sources, this report shall be submitted to the Administrator no later than 150 days after the compliance date specified in §63.460(d). For new sources, this report shall be submitted to the Administrator no later than 150 days after startup or May 1, 1995, whichever is later. This report shall include the requirements specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (c)(4) of this section. (1) The name and address of the owner or operator. (2) The address (i.e., physical location) of the solvent cleaning machine(s). (3) A statement, signed by the owner or operator of the solvent cleaning machine, stating that the solvent cleaning machine for which the report is being submitted is in compliance with the provisions of this subpart. (4) The compliance approach for each solvent cleaning machine. (d) Each owner or operator of a batch vapor or in-line solvent cleaning machine complying with the provisions of §63.463 shall submit to the Administrator an initial statement of compliance for each solvent cleaning machine. For existing sources, this report shall be submitted to the Administrator no later than 150 days after the compliance date specified in §63.460(d). For new sources, this report shall be submitted to the Administrator no later than 150 days after startup or May 1, 1995, whichever is later. This statement shall include the requirements specified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (d)(6) of this section. (1) The name and address of the owner or operator. (2) The address (i.e., physical location) of the solvent cleaning machine(s). (3) A list of the control equipment used to achieve compliance for each solvent cleaning machine. (4) For each piece of control equipment required to be monitored, a list of the parameters that are monitored and the values of these parameters measured on or during the first month after the compliance date. (5) Conditions to maintain the wind speed requirements of §63.463(e)(2)(ii), if applicable. (6) Each owner or operator of a solvent cleaning machine complying with the idling emission limit standards of §63.463(b)(1)(ii), (b)(2)(ii), (c)(1)(ii), and (c)(2)(ii) shall submit a test report for tests of idling emissions meeting the specifications in Method 307 of appendix A to this subpart. This report shall comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (d)(6)(i) through (d)(6)(iv) of this section.
