FR941205-0-00093 FR941205-0-00024 40. The 1992 Cable Act provides that the channel position of a station which has elected must-carry rights is a decision to be made by the broadcaster from among the listed statutory alternatives. The Act does not distinguish between VHF and UHF stations. We emphasize that our statements in the Report and Order regarding channel positioning apply to UHF, in addition to VHF, stations. As noted there, cable operators must comply with the channel positioning requirements absent a compelling technical reason. 18 Further, in response to a broadcaster's complaint regarding denial of a channel positioning request, a cable system will be required to provide evidence to the Commission clearly demonstrating that the operator cannot meet the request for technical reasons. As part of such a showing, a cable operator may present evidence as to the costs involved in remedying the technical problem. 18 As noted above, inconvenience, marketing problems, the need to reconfigure the basic tier or to employ additional traps or make technical changes are not sufficient reasons for denying the channel positioning request of a must-carry signal. Only where placement of a signal on a chosen channel results in interference or degraded signal quality to the must-carry station or an adjacent channel, or causes a substantial technical or signal security problem will we permit cable operators to carry a broadcast station on a channel not chosen by the station. 3. Signal Quality 41. In the Report and Order and the Clarification Order we addressed issues relating to the signal quality of a broadcast station asserting must-carry rights. We noted that Section 614(h) established specific minimum signal levels for a good quality signal of a commercial television station (i.e., ^45 dBm for UHF signals and ^49 dBm for VHF signals). Neither the 1992 Cable Act nor the Commission's Orders specifically stated what would be considered a ``good quality signal'' for must-carry purposes with respect to noncommercial stations, educational translator stations, and low power television stations, but Section 615(g)(4) states that the Commission may define a ``signal of good quality'' for noncommercial stations. We do so now, on our own motion. 42. We note that in a Memorandum Opinion and Order (Independence Public Media of Philadelphia, Inc. against Suburban Cable TV Co., Inc.) CSR&hyph;3806&hyph;M), 8 FCC Rcd 6319 (1993), the Mass Media Bureau decided to utilize the standards for commercial television stations as prima facie tests to initially determine, absent other evidence, whether noncommercial stations place adquate signal levels over a cable system's principal headend. The Mass Media Bureau has relied on this test in processing must-carry complaint cases and we believe that is appropriate. With respect to low power and NCE translator stations, we are adopting the same signal quality standard of ^49 dBm for VHF and ^45 dBm for UHF signals. 43. With respect to the manner of testing for a good quality signal, we find that the Mass Media Bureau has adopted an appropriate method for measuring signal strength in the Memorandum Opinion and Order. Generally, if a test measuring signal strength results in an initial reading of less than ^51 dBm for a UHF station, at least four readings must be taken over a two-hour period. If the initial readings are between ^51 dBm and ^45 dBm, inclusive, readings must be taken over a 24-hour period with measurements not more than four hours apart to establish reliable test results. For a VHF station, if the initial readings are less than ^55 dBm, we believe that at least four readings must be taken over a two-hour period. Where the initial readings are between ^55 dBm and ^49 dBm, inclusive, readings should be taken over a 24-hour period, with measurements no more than four hours apart to establish reliable test results. 44. Cable operators are further expected to employ sound engineering measurement practices. Therefore, signal strength surveys should, at a minimum, include the following: (1) Specific make and model numbers of the equipment used, as well as its age and most recent date(s) of calibration; (2) description(s) of the characteristics of the equipment used, such as antenna ranges and radiation patterns; (3) height of the antenna above ground level and whether the antenna was properly oriented; and (4) weather conditions and time of day when the tests were done. We believe that adherence to these procedures and requirements will result in fewer disputes over the signal quality of broadcasting stations. D. Procedural Requirements 1. Compensation for Carriage.
