FR940224-2-00086 FR940224-2-00046 The Act further finds that: •The family and community can play a central role in enhancing their lives when properly supported; and •It is in the nation's interest for people with developmental disabilities to be employed, and to live conventional and independent lives as a part of families and communities. Towards these ends, ADD seeks to enhance the capabilities of families in assisting people with developmental disabilities to achieve their maximum potential to support the increasing ability of people with developmental disabilities to exercise greater choice and self-determination; to engage in leadership activities in their communities; as well as to ensure the protection of their legal and human rights. Programs funded under the Act are: •Basic State formula grants; •State system for the protection and advocacy of individual rights; •Grants to University Affiliated Programs for interdisciplinary training, exemplary services, technical assistance, and information dissemination; and •Grants for Projects of National Significance. C. Description of Projects of National Significance Under Part E of the Act, grants and contracts are awarded for Projects of National Significance to increase and support the independence, productivity and integration into the community of people with developmental disabilities, and to support the development of national and state policy which enhances the independence, productivity and integration of these individuals. These projects may include, but are not limited to: •Projects to conduct data collection and analysis; •Projects to provide technical assistance to program components; •Projects to provide technical assistance for the development of information and referral systems; •Projects which improve supportive living and quality of life opportunities which enhance recreation, leisure and fitness; •Projects to educate policymakers; •Projects to pursue Federal interagency initiatives; •Projects that support the enhancement of minority participation in public and private sector initiatives in developmental disabilities; and •Other projects of sufficient size and scope, and which hold promise of expanding or otherwise improving opportunities for people with developmental disabilities (especially those who have multiple disabilities or are disadvantaged, including cultural and ethnic minority groups, (African Americans, Asian Americans, Hispanic Americans, Latino Americans, American Indian and Native Americans, Native Alaskan and Hawaiian) and other underserved groups. In addition, funds may be awarded for technical assistance and demonstration projects (including research, training, and evaluation in connection with such projects) which expand or improve the advocacy functions performed by University Affiliated Programs, State Developmental Disabilities Planning Councils, and the Protection and Advocacy System. Section 162(c) of the Act requires that ADD publish in the Federal Register its proposed priorities for grants and contracts to carry out Projects of National Significance for the fiscal year. The Act also requires a period of 60 days for public comments and suggestions concerning such proposed priorities. After analyzing and considering such comments, ADD must publish in the Federal Register final priorities for such grants and contracts, and solicit applications for funding based on the final priorities selected. The following section presents the proposed priority areas for Fiscal Year 1994 Projects of National Significance. We welcome specific comments and suggestions as well as suggestions for additional priority areas. We would also like to receive suggestions on topics which are timely and relate to specific needs in the developmental disabilities field. Topics of particular interest to ADD for Fiscal Year 1994 include self-advocacy and empowerment of consumers and/or their families, specifically members of diverse cultural/ethnic minority constituencies. ADD is seeking disability and other grassroots organizations, minority coalitions, civil rights and other private non-profit organizations experienced in working with culturally diverse communities to develop successful collaborative models for supporting the ability of minorities with developmental disabilities to exercise greater choice and self-determination by engaging in leadership activities in their communities. Such leadership activities at a minimum should provide them the needed knowledge, skills and confidence to access services and other supports available to them.
