FR940902-0-00163 FR940902-0-00010 (1) Any single SDA that has a population of 200,000 or more; (2) Any two or more contiguous SDA's that: (i) In the aggregate have a population of 200,000 or more; and (ii) Request such designation; and (3) Any concentrated employment program grantee for a rural area as described in section 101(a)(4)(A)(iii) of the Act. (d) In addition to the entities identified in paragraph (c) of this section, the Governor may, without regard to the 200,000 population requirement, designate SDAs with smaller populations as substate areas. (e) The Governor may deny a request for substate area designation from a consortium of two or more SDAs that meets the requirements of paragraph (c)(2) of this section only upon a determination that the request is not consistent with the effective delivery of services to eligible dislocated workers in the relevant labor market area, or would otherwise not be appropriate to carry out the purposes of title III. The Governor will give good faith consideration to all such requests by a consortium of SDAs to be a substate area. In denying a consortium's request for substate area designation, the Governor shall set forth the basis and rationale for the denial (section 312(a)(5)). (f) In the case where the service delivery area is the State, the entire State shall be designated as a single substate area. (g)(1) Entities described in paragraphs (c)(1) and (3) of this section may appeal the Governor's denial of substate area designation to the Secretary of Labor. The procedures that apply to such appeals shall be those set forth at ยง628.405(g) for appeals of the Governor's denial of SDA designation. (2) An entity described in paragraph (c)(2) of this section that has been denied substate area designation may utilize the State-level grievance procedures required by section 144(a) of the Act and subpart E of part 627 of this chapter for the resolution of disputes arising from such a denial. (h) Designation of substate areas shall not be revised more frequently than once every two years. All such designations must be completed no later than four months prior to the beginning of any program year (section 312(a)(6)). ยง631.35 Designation of substate grantees. The Governor may establish procedures for the designation of substate grantees. (a) Designation of the substate grantee for each substate area shall be made on a biennial basis. (b) Entities eligible for designation as substate grantees include: (1) Private industry councils in the substate area; (2) Service delivery area grant recipients or administrative entities designated under Title II of the Act; (3) Private non-profit organizations; (4) Units of general local government in the substate area, or agencies thereof; (5) Local offices of State agencies; and (6) Other public agencies, such as community colleges and area vocational schools. (c) Substate grantees shall be designated in accordance with an agreement among the Governor, the local elected official or officials of such area, and the private industry council or councils of such area. Whenever a substate area is represented by more than one such official or council, the respective officials and councils shall each designate representatives, in accordance with procedures established by the Governor (after consultation with the SJTCC or HRIC), to negotiate such agreement. (d) The agreement specified in paragraph (c) of this section shall set forth the conditions, considerations, and other factors related to the selection of substate grantees in accordance with section 312(b) of the Act.
