FR940713-1-00042 FR940713-1-00008 FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION 47 CFR Chapter I [CC Docket No. 94&hyph;54; FCC 94&hyph;145] Equal Access Obligations of Commercial Mobile Radio Service Providers; Interconnection Obligations of Local Exchange Carriers to Commercial Mobile Radio Service Providers; Interconnection Obligations of Commercial Mobile Radio Service Providers AGENCY: Federal Communications Commission. ACTION: Notice of Proposed Rule Making; Notice of Inquiry. SUMMARY: This Notice of Proposed Rule Making (NPRM) initiates a rule making proceeding to examine whether equal access obligations should be imposed on commercial mobile radio service (CMRS) providers, and whether the interconnection arrangements between local exchange carriers (LECs) and CMRS providers should be tariffed. The Notice of Inquiry (NOI) initiates a broad inquiry into whether the Commission should impose interconnection obligations on CMRS providers. The NOI also explores resale obligations and asks parties to address the extent to which those obligations should be imposed on CMRS providers. DATES: Comments must be filed on or before August 30, 1994, and reply comments on or before September 29, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Barbara Esbin, Common Carrier Bureau, Tariff Division, (202) 418&hyph;1520. ADDRESSES: Federal Communications Commission, 1919 M Street, NW., Washington, DC 20554. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: This is a synopsis of the Commission's Notice of Proposed Rule Making and Notice of Inquiry ( Notice ) in CC Docket No. 94&hyph;54, FCC 94&hyph;145, adopted June 9, 1994, and released July 1, 1994. The complete text of this Notice is available for inspection and copying during normal business hours in the FCC Dockets Branch (Room 230), 1919 M Street, NW., Washington, DC, and also may be purchased from the Commission's copy contractor, International Transcription Service, Inc. (ITS, Inc.), at (202) 857&hyph;3800, 1919 M Street, NW., Room 246, Washington, DC 20554. Synopsis of Notice 1. The Notice tentatively concludes that the Commission has authority under Section 201 of the Communications Act to order equal access when it is in the public interest. The Notice also tentatively concludes that the public interest evaluation depends upon an analysis of market power, as well as other important factors such as customer choice, increased end user access to networks, access to a wider array of IXC service offerings, and elimination of the different regulatory treatment of the Bell Operating Company affiliated cellular carriers. The Notice seeks comment on these tentative conclusions regarding the relevant legal standard and public interest criteria, and invites parties to suggest other relevant factors or policy goals that should be included in the public interest analysis under Section 201. 2. This Notice proposes to require that cellular licensees provide equal access to interexchange carriers (IXCs) and seeks comment on whether equal access obligations should be imposed on other CMRS providers, including resellers of CMRS. Currently, the Commission does not require CMRS providers to provide equal access. 3. The Notice notes that the Commission has a more fully developed record on the issue of equal access for cellular service than for any other CMRS provider and observes that cellular service is an established, rapidly growing service that provides many customers with alternate access to networks and services. Because of the limited record as to the service characteristics of other CMRS providers, such as those that will provide PCS, specialized mobile radio service or improved mobile telephone services, the Notice reaches no tentative conclusions for other CMRS providers. Rather, it seeks comment on whether the public interest would be served if equal access obligations were extended to CMRS providers other than cellular providers. 4. The Notice tentatively concludes that the Commission should adopt a service area boundary definition for purposes of the equal access obligation, and seeks comment on the circumstances under, or point at which, a cellular carrier must hand off a call to an interexchange carrier. 5. The Notice also tentatively concludes that any equal access obligation should be implemented on a gradual, phased-in basis and seeks comment on the method that should be employed. In addition, it seeks comment on service characteristics and other technical issues related to the implementation of equal access and related cost issues. 6. The Notice seeks comment on whether the Commission should require LECs to offer interconnection under tariff, or whether the Commission should retain its current requirement that LECs establish, through good faith negotiations with CMRS providers, the rates, terms and conditions of interconnection. 7. The Notice also seeks comment on whether in lieu of imposing a tariff filing obligation, the Commission should revise the good faith negotiation requirement by adding two new safeguards against unreasonably discriminatory rates or conditions. 8. The NOI portion of the Notice asks for comment on the issue of whether the Commission should require CMRS providers to furnish interconnection to other mobile service providers. The NOI states that if the Commission determines that imposing interconnection obligations would be in the public interest, Section 201(a) of the Communications Act gives the Commission the authority to order CMRS providers to establish physical connections with other carriers. The NOI seeks comment on whether there are public interest concerns that would justify imposing interstate interconnection obligations regardless of whether CMRS providers control bottleneck facilities. Further, the NOI seeks comment on whether, if the Commission concludes that imposition of CMRS interconnection obligations is not necessary at this time, it should examine the future need for such obligations as part of an effort to monitor the CMRS marketplace. The NOI requests parties to comment on the nature and scope of interconnection obligations the Commission should establish if the Commission decides to impose such obligations. The NOI also seeks comment on whether some or all CMRS providers other than cellular licensees should be required to resell service to facilities-based or non-facilities based CMRS competitors. Ex Parte Rules 9. This is a non-restricted notice and comment rule making proceeding. Ex parte presentations are permitted, except during the Sunshine Agenda period, provided they are disclosed as provided in the Commission's Rules. 1 1 See generally, Section 1.1206(a) of the Commission's Rules, 47 C.F.R. 1.1206(a). Regulatory Flexibility Act 10. As required by Section 603 of the Regulatory Flexibility Act, 5 U.S.C. §601 et. seq. (1981), the Commission has prepared an Initial Regulatory Flexibility Analysis (IRFA) of the expected impact of the policies and rules proposed in this Notice on small entities. The IRFA is contained in Appendix B to the Notice. The Secretary shall cause a copy of this Notice , including the IRFA, to be sent to the Chief Counsel for Advocacy of the Small Business Administration in accordance with Section 603(a) of the Regulatory Flexibility Act. Authority 11. This action is taken pursuant to Sections 1, 4(i), 4(j), 201, 202, 208, 332, and 403 Communications Act as amended; 47 U.S.C. 154(i), 201, 202, 208, 332, and 403. 12. Accordingly, it is ordered that notice is hereby given of the proposed regulatory changes described above, and that comment is sought on these proposals. 13. It is further ordered that pursuant to applicable procedures set forth in §§1.415 and 1.419 of the Commission's Rules, 47 CFR 1.415 and 1.419, comments shall be filed with William F. Caton, Acting Secretary, Federal Communications Commission, Washington, DC 20554 on or before August 30, 1994, and reply comments shall be filed with the Secretary on or before September 29, 1994. To file formally in this proceeding, parties must file an original and five copies of all comments, reply comments, and supporting comments. Parties wishing each Commissioner to receive a personal copy of their comments must file an original plus nine copies. Federal Communications Commission. LaVera F. Marshall, Acting Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;16881 Filed 7&hyph;12&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6712&hyph;01&hyph;M
