FR940318-0-00175 FR940318-0-00023 Prospective users should also note that companies now investigating PFC use contend that within 2&hyph;3 years, it will be possible to replace the PFCs in cleaning equipment with HFCs or other options that have zero ozone depletion potential and significantly lower global warming potential. As a result, they view use of the PFCs as an important but transitional solution to their cleaning needs. If PFCs are chosen, it is important for users to begin working with chemical manufacturers to start testing and qualifying these new materials to help speed conversion when alternative chemicals become commercially available. Users of PFCs should note that if other alternatives such as HFCs or other cleaning substitutes are later found to meet performance or safety standards, the Agency could be subject to a petition requesting it to list PFCs as unacceptable substitutes due to availability of other alternatives. If such claims are determined to be accurate and EPA limits the acceptability listing even further, EPA may grandfather existing uses but only to the extent warranted by cost and timing considerations associated with testing and retrofitting. (3) Precision cleaning. (a) Perfluorocarbons. Perfluorocarbons (PFCs) are acceptable substitutes for CFC&hyph;113 and MCF in the precision cleaning sector only for high-performance, precision-engineering cleaning applications where reasonable efforts have been made to ascertain that other alternatives are not technically feasible due to performance or safety requirements. PFCs covered by this determination are C5F12, C6F12, C6F14, C7F16, C8F18, C5F11NO, C6F13NO, C7F15NO, and C8F16O. The electronics cleaning section discusses the justification for this narrowed use acceptability listing. Despite concerns about the global warming potential of PFCs, the Agency has listed this narrowed application as an acceptable use of perfluorocarbons in precision cleaning because, for certain high-performance, precision-engineered components and equipment, a PFC-based system may be the only viable alternative available to replace use of class I or II compounds. Types of precision components that may require PFC-based cleaning include: •High-performance guidance, navigation and tracking systems such as gyroscopes and accelerometers. •High-performance aerospace and avionics components and equipment such as liquid oxygen systems or rotational hand controllers. •Critical analytical devices and their components used for gas chromatography where low residue levels are essential. •Optical components made from plastics damaged irreparably by water or other solvents or coated or mounted with specialized materials. Interested users should review the section on PFCs under electronics cleaning for a full discussion of the considerations, limitations, and requirements associated with selecting this alternative. d. Unacceptable substitutes. (1) Metals cleaning. (a) HCFC&hyph;141b and its blends. HCFC&hyph;141b and its blends are unacceptable as substitutes for CFC&hyph;113 and MCF in metals cleaning, with acceptability subject to narrowed use limitations to be granted by EPA, if necessary, as CFC&hyph;113 replacements after the effective date of this listing. The effective date for this listing is 30 days after the date of the final rule for uses of HCFC&hyph;141b and its blends in new equipment (including retrofits made after the effective date) and as of January 1, 1996, for uses of HCFC&hyph;141b and its blends in existing equipment. For purposes of this SNAP determination, ``existing equipment'' is defined to include equipment that companies have shown a clear intention to use and have purchased before the effective date of the SNAP determination, even if that equipment has not yet been installed. As discussed earlier in this action in Section VI.B., the Agency is authorized to grandfather existing uses from a prohibition where appropriate under the four-part test established in Sierra Club v. EPA, supra. The Agency has conducted the four analyses required under this test, and has concluded that the balance of equities favors a grandfathering period of two years for uses of HCFC&hyph;141b in existing equipment in this application. The prohibition set forth in this action clearly represents a departure from previously established practice, as use of the substitute was allowed previously. Existing users of HCFC&hyph;141b who switched from class I substances into this solvent invested in this substitute on the assumption that it would be a sufficient improvement over the class I use. Prohibiting their use of the substitute immediately would impose a severe economic burden on these users. These factors taken together outweigh any statutory interest in applying the new rule immediately to existing users. This is especially true since the restriction applies immediately to new equipment using HCFC&hyph;141b, which creates no incentive for continued investment in equipment using HCFC&hyph;141b in this application.
