FR940228-1-00096 FR940228-1-00010 In addition to modifying and expanding some of the existing administrative capability standards, and making others explicit, the Secretary proposes to expand the administrative capability standards to include the general areas that SPREs will review when they become operational. The Secretary realizes that the SPRE review standards must be developed in consultation with institutions located in the State and will apply only to those institutions that trigger reviews; therefore, those standards may differ greatly from those proposed here for purposes of evaluating an institution's administrative capability. However, the Secretary believes that these areas of review have a significant bearing on an institution's administrative capability and therefore should be incorporated in the Federal administrative capability standards. The Secretary's overriding concern is that the Secretary have sufficient information on which to make a determination that a new or currently participating institution is administering or is capable of administering the Title IV, HEA programs efficiently, effectively, and correctly. With this in mind, the Secretary solicits comments on specific ways to quantify these provisions (for example, what a ``significant number of students with special needs'' is) and whether each of these added requirements should be made applicable to all institutions or whether these provisions should be made applicable only to institutions that meet specific criteria or thresholds, e.g., institutions with short-term programs, a history of high withdrawal rates, high default rates, student complaints, etc. Specifically, the Secretary is proposing to require institutions that enroll significant numbers of students with special needs to have and implement a plan that provides access to adequate support services for those students. The Secretary believes that an institution that cannot provide adequate peripheral support should not enroll those special-needs students in significant numbers. In evaluating administrative capability, the Secretary has looked historically at withdrawal rates. High withdrawal rates often result in refund and default problems in the FFEL programs. Some institutions have high withdrawal rates because they have recruited students who were not able to complete the program. Student withdrawal for academic reasons has been addressed by changes to the ability-to-benefit provisions: students who do not have a high school diploma or the recognized equivalent now need to pass an independently administered, approved examination. However, other students who have been admitted have had the academic capability to succeed, but have been unable to complete the program because of other factors, such as lack of child care, or changes in child care arrangements, or lack of adequate transportation. Some of the negotiators provided the Secretary with examples of students who could not complete a course of study because of a lack of information about how to access adequate support services, who otherwise may not have enrolled in those programs if accurate information about the restricted availability of those services had been disclosed. For example, if a school enrolls a significant number of students who have small children and, therefore, need someone to look after their children while they are in classes and studying, or students who have no transportation of their own, it is incumbent upon the institution to work with these students to ensure they have access to the ancillary services required in order for them to complete their education or training. The institution may, but need not, actually provide the specific services, such as child care, but must, at a minimum, provide adequate guidance and access to enable their students to overcome barriers to attendance. The Secretary is proposing that affected institutions have a plan, which they may be asked to submit, to demonstrate that they meet this provision. However, the Secretary is interested in receiving suggestions about other ways to address the problem of institutions that recruit and enroll significant numbers of students who need support services without informing those students about access to the support services. The Secretary solicits comments regarding how to determine what constitutes a ``significant number'' of students with special needs and what special needs should be included. Further, the Secretary would like to receive proposals for alternate means of addressing this issue.
