FR940930-0-00176 FR940930-0-00028 The Regulatory Flexibility Act (RFA) of 1980 requires federal agencies to examine the effects of federal regulations and to identify significant adverse impacts on a substantial number of small entities. Because the RFA does not provide concrete definitions of ``small entity'', ``significant impact'', or ``substantial number'', EPA has established guidelines setting the standards to be used in evaluating impacts on small businesses. 46 Section 604 of the Regulatory Flexibility Act requires EPA to prepare a Regulatory Flexibility Analysis when the Agency determines that there is a significant adverse impact on a substantial number of small entities. 46 U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Memorandum to Assistant Administrators, ``Compliance With the Regulatory Flexibility Act'', EPA Office of Policy, Planning, and Evaluation, 1984. In addition, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Memorandum to Assistant Administrators, ``Agency's Revised Guidelines for Implementing the Regulatory Flexibility Act'', EPA Office of Policy, Planning, and Evaluation, 1992. Concerns regarding the potential impact of this regulation on small businesses are related to vehicle conversions. There could be a significant impact on small converters if they were distant from inspection and maintenance testing facilities. Difficulty in using such test facilities to comply with the post-installation emission test requirement could represent a significant economic burden to small manufacturers if they were compelled to rely solely on the alternative two-step idle post-installation test. (See section II.B.2.c. for a discussion of the post-installation testing requirements). However, EPA has no information to indicate that converters which may face such a situation currently exist or will exist in the future. Generally, EPA expects that such a situation would not occur or would occur very infrequently since there are significant economic and logistical advantages associated with locating a vehicle conversion facility within or close to an urban area. In any event, the rule provides for converters of 300 or fewer vehicles per year to request an exemption from the post-installation test if a severe economic hardship can be demonstrated. EPA has evaluated the effects of this regulation and the Administrator of EPA certifies that there will not be an adverse impact on a substantial number of small entities. Therefore, a Regulatory Flexibility Analysis was not conducted. VII. Paperwork Reduction Act The information collection requirements in this rule pertaining to the California Pilot Program and the post-installation test for converted vehicles have been submitted to OMB for approval under the Paperwork Reduction Act, 44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq. An Information Request document has been prepared by EPA (ICR No. 1694) and a copy may be obtained from Sandy Farmer, Information Policy Branch, EPA/OPPE/ORME, 401 M Street SW, Washington, DC 20460 (Mail Code 2136) or by calling (202) 260&hyph;2740. These requirements are not effective until OMB approves them and a technical amendment to that effect is published in the Federal Register . This collection of information has an estimated reporting burden averaging 1.4 hours per response and an estimated annual recordkeeping burden averaging 67 hours per respondent. However, the hours spent annually on information collection activities by a given manufacturer depends upon manufacturer-specific variables, such as the number of engine families, production changes, emissions defects, and so on. This estimate includes time for reviewing instructions, searching existing data sources, gathering and maintaining the data needed, and completing and reviewing the collection of information. Send comments regarding the burden estimate or any other aspect of this collection of information, including suggestions for reducing this burden to Chief, Information Policy Branch; EPA/OPPE/ORME; 401 M Street SW, (Mail Code 2136); Washington, DC 20460; and to the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, Office of Management and Budget, Washington, DC 20503, marked ``Attention: EPA Desk Officer''. All other information collection requirements in this rule have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget under the Paperwork Reduction Act, 44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq. and have been assigned control number 2060&hyph;0104. VIII. Consultation With DOE and DOT As per section 250(d) of the Clean Air Act, this rulemaking has coordinated with the Department of Energy and the Department of Transportation. Also, pursuant to section 247(e) of the Act that states ``*␣*␣* The Secretary of Transportation shall, if necessary, promulgate rules under applicable motor vehicle laws regarding the safety of vehicles converted from existing and new vehicles to clean-fuel vehicles,'' this rulemaking has been coordinated with the Department of Transportation regarding the safety of vehicles converted to CFVs. Interagency review documents are contained in section II&hyph;F and IV&hyph;H of this rulemaking's docket. IX. Judicial Review Under section 307(b)(1) of the Clean Air Act, EPA hereby finds that these regulations are of national applicability. Accordingly, judicial review of this action is available only by filing a petition for review of the United States Court of Appeals for the District Of Columbia Circuit within 60 days of publication. Under section 307(b)(2) of the Act, the requirements which are the subject of today's notice may not be challenged later in the judicial proceedings brought by EPA to enforce these requirements.
