FR940926-0-00051 FR940926-0-00011 DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR Fish and Wildlife Service 50 CFR Part 17 RIN 1018&hyph;AB92 Endangered and Threatened Wildlife and Plants; Endangered Status for Four Ferns From the Hawaiian Islands AGENCY: Fish and Wildlife Service, Interior. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (Service) determines endangered status pursuant to the Endangered Species Act of 1973, as amended (Act), for four plants: Asplenium fragile var. insulare (no common name (NCN)), Ctenitis squamigera (pauoa), Diplazium molokaiense (NCN), and Pteris lidgatei (NCN). Asplenium fragile var. insulare is currently known only from the island of Hawaii. The three other species are reported from more than one island: Ctenitis squamigera is known from the islands of Oahu, Lanai, and Maui, and Diplazium molokaiense and Pteris lidgatei are known from Oahu and Maui. The four plant taxa and their habitats have been variously affected or are threatened by one or more of the following: Habitat degradation and/or predation by feral goats, sheep, cattle, axis deer, and pigs; and competition for space, light, water, and nutrients from alien plants. Because of the small number of extant individuals and their severely restricted distributions, populations of these taxa are subject to an increased likelihood of extinction from stochastic events. This final rule implements the Federal protection provided by the Act. EFFECTIVE DATE: October 26, 1994. ADDRESSES: The complete file for this rule is available for public inspection, by appointment, during normal business hours at the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, Pacific Islands Office, 300 Ala Moana Boulevard, Room 6307, P.O. Box 50167, Honolulu, Hawaii 96850. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Robert P. Smith, Field Supervisor, at the above address (808/541&hyph;2749). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background Asplenium fragile var. insulare, Ctenitis squamigera, Diplazium molokaiense, and Pteris lidgatei are endemic to the Hawaiian Islands. Asplenium fragile var. insulare is currently known only from the island of Hawaii. Ctenitis squamigera is known from the islands of Oahu, Lanai, and Maui. Diplazium molokaiense and Pteris lidgatei are known from Oahu and Maui. The vegetation of the Hawaiian Islands varies greatly according to elevation, moisture regime, and substrate. Major vegetation formations include forests, woodlands, shrublands, grasslands, herblands, and pioneer associations on lava and cinder substrates. There are lowland, montane, and subalpine forest types. Coastal and lowland forests are generally dry or mesic, and may be open- or closed-canopied, with the canopy generally under 10 meters (m) (30 feet (ft)) in height. Of the four endangered fern taxa, three have been reported from lowland forest habitat. Ctenitis squamigera is typically found in lowland mesic forests, while Pteris lidgatei appears to be restricted to lowland wet forest. Diplazium molokaiense has been reported from lowland to montane forests in mesic to wet settings. Montane forests, occupying elevations between 1,000 and 2,000 m (3,000 and 6,500 ft) are dry to mesic on the leeward (southwest) slopes of Maui and Hawaii. On those islands, as well as Oahu and Lanai, mesic to wet montane forests occur on the windward (northeast) slopes and summits. The dry and mesic forests may be open- to closed-canopied, and may exceed 20 m (65 ft) in stature. Asplenium fragile var. insulare has been reported from montane mesic and dry forest habitats. Diplazium molokaiense is also found in montane mesic forests as well as montane wet forests. At high montane and subalpine elevations, above 2,000 m (6,500 ft) elevation, the forests are usually open-canopied, and form a mosaic with surrounding grasslands and shrublands. Subalpine forests and associated ecosystems are known only from East Maui and the island of Hawaii. Asplenium fragile var. insulare has been reported from subalpine dry forest and shrubland habitat (Gagne and Cuddihy 1990). The land that supports these four plant taxa is owned by the State of Hawaii, the Federal government, and private entities. The State lands are under the jurisdiction of the Department of Land and Natural Resources (including the natural area reserves system, forest reserves, and State parks) and the Department of Hawaiian Home Lands. Federally owned land consists of Hawaii Volcanoes National Park, Pohakuloa Training Area on the island of Hawaii, and Schofield Barracks Military Reservation on Oahu. The latter two are under the jurisdiction of the U.S. Army. Discussion of the Four Taxa The Hawaiian plants now referred to as Asplenium fragile var. insulare were considered by William Hillebrand (1888) to be conspecific with Asplenium fragile from Central and South America. The Hawaiian plants were subsequently treated as a distinct endemic species, Asplenium rhomboideum Brack. (Robinson 1913). However, that species is now considered native to the New World and not present in Hawaii. The name Asplenium fragile var. insulare was published in 1947, as the Hawaiian plants were considered distinct at the varietal level from the extra-Hawaiian plants (Morton 1947).
