FR940628-0-00043 FR940628-0-00017 (5) For Federal Consolidation loans, the period that begins on the date the loan is disbursed and ends no later than 10, 12, 15, 20, 25, or 30 years from that date depending upon the sum of the amount of the Consolidation loan, and the unpaid balance on other student loans, exclusive of any period of deferment or forbearance. Satisfactory repayment arrangement. (1) For purposes of regaining eligibility under section 428F(b) of the HEA, the making of six (6) consecutive voluntary full monthly payments on a defaulted loan. (2) For purposes of consolidating a defaulted loan under 34 CFR 682.201(c)(iii)(C), the making of three (3) consecutive voluntary full monthly payments on a defaulted loan. (3) The required full monthly payment amount may not be more than is reasonable and affordable based on the borrower's total financial circumstances. Voluntary payments are those payments made directly by the borrower, and do not include payments obtained by income tax off-set, garnishment, or income or asset execution. On-time means a payment received by the Secretary or a guaranty agency or its agent within 15 days of the scheduled due date. * * * * * Stafford Loan Program. The loan program authorized by Title IV&hyph;B of the Act which encourages the making of subsidized and unsubsidized loans to undergraduate, graduate, and professional students and is one of the Federal Family Education Loan programs. * * * * * Subsidized Stafford loan. A loan authorized under section 428(b) of the Act for borrowers who qualify for interest benefits under §682.301(b). * * * * * Unsubsidized Stafford loan. A loan made after October 1, 1992, authorized under section 428H of the Act for borrowers who do not qualify for interest benefits under §682.301(b). Write-off. Cessation of collection activity on a defaulted FFEL loan due to a determination in accordance with applicable standards that no further collection activity is warranted. 6. Section 682.201 is amended by revising paragraph (a)(2); revising paragraphs (b) introductory text and (b)(1); removing ``and'' at the end of paragraph (b)(5); removing the period at the end of paragraph (b)(6), and adding in its place, ``; and''; adding a new paragraph (b)(7); and revising paragraph (c) to read as follows: §682.201 Eligible borrowers. (a) * * * (2) In the case of any student who, for a period of enrollment that begins prior to July 1, 1994, seeks an SLS loan for the cost of attendance at a school that participates in the Stafford Loan Program, the student must have_ (i) Received a determination of need for a subsidized Stafford loan, and if determined to have need in excess of $200, have filed an application with a lender for a subsidized Stafford loan; (ii) Filed an application with a lender for an unsubsidized Stafford loan up to the Stafford loan annual maximum unless the school declines to certify such an application under section 428(a)(2)(F) of the HEA; and (iii) Received a certification of graduation from a school providing secondary education or the recognized equivalent; * * * * * (b) Parent borrower. A parent borrower, is eligible to receive a PLUS Program loan, other than a loan made under §682.209(e), if the parent_ (1) Is borrowing to pay for the educational costs of a dependent undergraduate student who meets the requirements for an eligible student set forth in 34 CFR Part 668; * * * * * (7) (i) In the case of a Federal PLUS loan made on or after July 1, 1993, does not have an adverse credit history. (ii) For purposes of this section, the lender must obtain a credit report on each applicant from at least one national credit bureau. The credit report must be secured within a timeframe that would ensure the most accurate, current representation of the borrower's credit history before the first day of the period of enrollment for which the loan is intended. (iii) Unless the lender determines that extenuating circumstances existed, the lender must consider each applicant to have an adverse credit history based on the credit report if_ (A) The applicant is considered 90 or more days delinquent on the repayment of a debt; (B) The applicant has been the subject of a default determination, bankruptcy discharge, foreclosure, repossession, tax lien, wage garnishment, or write-off of a Title IV debt, during the five years preceding the date of the credit report. (iv) Nothing in this paragraph precludes the lender from establishing more restrictive credit standards to determine whether the applicant has an adverse credit history. (v) The absence of any credit history is not an indication that the applicant has an adverse credit history and is not to be used as a reason to deny a PLUS loan to that applicant. (vi) The lender must retain documentation demonstrating its basis for determining that extenuating circumstances existed. This documentation may include, but is not limited to, an updated credit report, a statement from the creditor that the borrower has made satisfactory arrangements to repay the debt, or a satisfactory statement from the borrower explaining any delinquencies with outstanding balances of less than $500. (c) Consolidation Program Borrower. (1) An individual is eligible to receive a Consolidation loan if, at the time of application for a Consolidation loan, the individual_ (i) For a Consolidation loan made on or after January 1, 1993 but prior to July 1, 1994, has an outstanding indebtedness of not less than $7,500 that are eligible for consolidation under §682.100; (ii) Has ceased, or, in the case of a PLUS borrower, the dependent student on whose behalf the parent is borrowing has ceased, at least half-time enrollment at a school; (iii) Is, on the loans being consolidated_ (A) In a grace period preceding repayment on the loans being consolidated; (B) Is in repayment status; or (C) In a default status and has made satisfactory repayment arrangements with the holder on a defaulted loan being consolidated; (iv) Certifies that no other application for a Consolidation loan is pending; (v) Agrees to notify the holder of any changes in address; and (vi) Certifies that the lender holds an outstanding loan of the borrower that is being consolidated or that the borrower has unsuccessfully sought a loan from the holders of the outstanding loans and was unable to secure a Consolidation loan from the holder. (2) A married couple is eligible to receive a Consolidation loan in accordance with this section if each_ (i) Agrees to be held jointly and severally liable for the repayment of the total amount of the Consolidation loan; (ii) Agrees to repay the debt regardless of any change in marital status; and
