FR940223-2-00007 FR940223-2-00005 Finally, CBCC alleges that we failed to make proper adjustments to a U.S. price (USP) converted to cruzeiros because USP is compared to costs which are expressed in cruzeiros at a later date. CBCC claims the CV should be adjusted for the lag between the cost calculation and the conversion of the sales price into cruzeiros. We note that we did not convert USP into cruzeiros. Moreover, we followed our normal methodology for hyperinflationary economies of using the CV in the month of shipment of the U.S. sale. Accordingly, we find that this is not a ministerial error. Therefore, pursuant to section 735(e) of the Act, we are correcting the above ministerial errors made in our final determination of sales at less than fair value. See memorandum to Barbara R. Stafford from David L. Binder, February 8, 1994, for a detailed explanation of the decisions noted above. Inclusion of Minasligas In the final determination, the Department found that Minasligas had a zero dumping margin. In consequence, the Department excluded Minasligas from the results of the investigation, and instructed the Customs Service to terminate suspension of liquidation for all entries of FeSi from Minasligas and to release any bond or other security and to refund any cash deposits with respect to these entries in accordance with section 735(c)(2) of the statute. However, as noted above, the Department has determined that ministerial errors exist with respect to the calculation of Minasligas' dumping margin. The recalculation of Minasligas' margin results in the finding of sales at less than fair value. Accordingly, we are directing the Customs Service to reinstitute suspension of liquidation of all remaining entries of FeSi from Minasligas, entered or withdrawn from warehouse, for consumption on or after August 16, 1993, which is the date of the publication of our affirmative preliminary determination in the Federal Register (58 FR 43323) and before January 6, 1994, which is the date of publication of our final determination in the Federal Register . For all unliquidated entries made during the period from August 16, 1993, to January 6, 1994, the Customs Service shall retain the cash deposits collected, or bonds posted, as a result of the preliminary determination. In addition, as a result of the amended final determination, we are directing the Customs Service to suspend liquidation of all entries of FeSi from Minasligas, entered or withdrawn from warehouse, for consumption on or after the date of the publication of this notice in the Federal Register . The Customs Service shall require a cash deposit or posting of a bond equal to the estimated margin amount by which the FMV of the subject merchandise exceeds the USP as shown in the ``Suspension of Liquidation'' section below. Suspension of Liquidation In accordance with section 735(c)(4)(A) of the Act, we are directing the U.S. Customs Service to continue to retroactively suspend liquidation of all entries of FeSi from Italmagnesio S.A. Industria e Comercio. Retroactive suspension applies to entries of FeSi, that are entered, or withdrawn from warehouse, for consumption on or after May 18, 1993, which is the date 90 days prior to the date of the publication of our preliminary determination in the Federal Register . For CBCC and ``All Other Exporters,'' we are directing the Customs Service to continue to suspend liquidation of all entries of FeSi from Brazil, that are entered, or withdrawn from warehouse, for consumption on or after August 16, 1993. The Customs Service shall require a cash deposit or posting of a bond equal to the estimated margin amount by which the FMV of the subject merchandise exceeds the USP as shown below. ␣ 1Manufacturer/producer/exporter 1Margin percent 1Critical circumstances Italmagnesio S.A. Industria e Comercio 88.86 Yes. Companhia Brasileira Carbureto de Calcio 15.53 No. Companhia Ferroligas Minas Gerais 3.46 No. All Others 35.95 No. ITC Notification In accordance with section 735(d) of the Act, we have notified the ITC of our determination. This amended final determination is published pursuant to section 735(d) of the Act (19 U.S.C. 1673d(d)) and 19 CFR 353.28(c). Dated: February 15, 1994. Joseph A. Spetrini, Acting Assistant Secretary for Import Administration. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;4059 Filed 2&hyph;22&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3510&hyph;DS&hyph;P
