FR941107-2-00181 FR941107-2-00097 Therefore, we must ensure that airlines give consumers clear information about the characteristics of their service product, and that consumers can distinguish between code sharing and other forms of service. In addition to the two types of global networks (sole-carrier systems and joint carrier systems), there will continue to be a role for air services outside of global networks. The U.S. experience with deregulation indicates that_absent legal barriers to entry_specialized competitors will enter the market and discipline the pricing and service behavior of the larger network operators. The introduction of technologically advanced aircraft such as the B&hyph;767, the MD&hyph;11 and the B&hyph;777 make direct service on longer or thinner routes economically viable. Moreover, airlines can viably serve heavily traveled routes with point-to-point service. In short, as indicated by our domestic experience, a variety of service forms_global networks with carriers participating either as the sole provider or as participant in a joint network, and regional niche carriers_can exist in the international aviation market and the competition among these services will enhance consumer benefits through efficient operations and low fares. Thus, our international aviation strategy should provide opportunities for all of these forms of service so that we realize the benefits from maximum competition among them. Our airlines are well positioned to be primary participants in all aspects of the future global marketplace. In recent years, our largest domestic carriers have become our primary international carriers, replacing specialized international operators. After operating in a deregulated domestic market for more than 15 years, our carriers have developed operating efficiencies that give them a cost advantage over their major foreign competitors. Moreover, the financial positions of our carriers are improving due to their cost-cutting measures and improving economic conditions. Coupled with their cost efficiencies, their improving financial status will further enhance their competitive capabilities. Over time, however, trends toward privatization and increased productivity of major foreign competitors may affect the current cost advantage U.S. airlines enjoy. We must try to provide our carriers with the flexible rights and economic environment that will enable them to respond to the dynamics of the marketplace. Intergovernment Aviation Relations International air services between two nations have traditionally been conducted pursuant to bilateral agreements. The U.S. National Commission To Ensure a Strong Competitive Airline Industry and the European Union's Comité des Sages for Air Transport have both recognized that the bilateral system is limited in its ability to encompass the broad, multinational market access required by the new global operating systems. Consequently, progress in developing global networks has been and will be extremely fragmented and may preclude or limit the development of efficient operations. We must consider alternative forums for international aviation negotiations and agreements in which we can obtain the necessary broad access rights. We should examine the feasibility of achieving multilateral air service agreements among trading partners. Although such negotiations may be more complex and difficult because of the number of parties involved, they should be undertaken when they present a reasonable prospect for further liberalization.
