FR940930-0-00146 FR940930-0-00028 A ZEV (e.g., an electric vehicle) is defined as a vehicle that complies with the applicable ZEV standards (40 CFR 88.101). Like CARB, EPA will determine compliance with the ZEV standard through engineering analysis rather than by testing. As per section 244 of the CAA, the federal ZEV standards will be administered and enforced in accordance with applicable CARB procedures for LDVs and LDTs. Consistent with the CARB, EPA is establishing ZEV standards which require zero emissions of the following pollutants: NMOG, NO x , CO, particulates, and HCHO. (Emissions from non-fuel sources, like tires, seats, paint, etc., will likely exist as they do for conventional vehicles and other CFVs.) Compliance with this requirement may be assessed through engineering analysis. This analysis will include a description and analysis of all primary or auxiliary equipment and engines which concludes that no emissions of the stated pollutants is possible. The engineering analysis will determine that the vehicle fuel system(s) does not contain either carbon or nitrogen compounds (including air) which, when burned, form the above regulated exhaust emissions. Such criteria will also assure that evaporative emissions will not occur. Emission testing will not be necessary. When applicable, compliance testing on ZEVs may be performed according to the testing requirements of CFR Part 86 and 88 (Federal Test Procedure) at EPA's discretion. As with other CFVs, ZEVs will be subject to the standards of part 88 which will be administered per CARB's procedures for LDVs and LDTs and which are incorporated by reference. Like CARB, EPA will consider a vehicle with an auxiliary heater to be a ZEV if the heater will not operate at ambient temperatures above 40 degrees Fahrenheit and the heater's power and/or fuel source does not have any evaporative emissions in use. Commenters responding to this issue supported this definition, on which EPA requrested comment in the NPRM. This auxiliary heater will not be subject to the cold CO standard (contained in 40 CFR Part 86.201&hyph;94) because the cold CO regulations do not require the testing of heaters. In addition, CARB has provided a specific exemption for ZEVs from the CARB cold CO requirements (whether or not the vehicle is equipped with an auxiliary heater); thus EPA's action on this issue is consistent with CARB's approach. EPA may reconsider subjecting ZEV auxiliary heaters to the federal cold CO requirement through regulation if circumstances warrant in the future. Any vehicle with additional power system(s) or auxiliary engine(s) that might produce regulated pollutants (e.g., a hybrid vehicle or electric vehicle with an auxiliary power source to run other vehicle systems) will be subject to the standards of 40 CFR Part 88 (administered per CARB procedures, which are incorporated by reference) or future applicable regulations and might not qualify as a ZEV. One respondent requested that EPA establish ZEV exhaust emission standards above zero such that hybrid electric vehicles may qualify as ZEVs. EPA has not promulgated a test procedure for such vehicles and therefore standards have not been established. e. Administration and Enforcement Per California Practice. As proposed in the NPRM, EPA will administer and enforce the numerical CFV exhaust emission standards in the same manner as does the state of California. Section 244 of the Act directs EPA to administer and enforce the numerical CFV emission standards in the same manner as CARB does for vehicles less than 8,500 lbs. GVWR. Specifically, section 244 states that when the applicable CAA and CARB numerical standards are the same, Such standards shall be administered and enforced by the Administrator (1) in the same manner and with the same flexibility as the State of California administers and enforces corresponding standards *␣*␣*; and (2) subject to the same requirements, and utilizing the same interpretations and policy judgments, as are applicable in the case of such CARB standards, including, but not limited to, requirements regarding certification, production-line testing, and in-use compliance. The application of California administration and enforcement procedures does not depend on whether EPA has replaced federal CFV standards with California standards under section 243(e). Section 246(f)(4) provides that the credit generating standards are to be administered and enforced in the same manner as the other CFV standards. Therefore, EPA will administer and enforce the ULEV and ZEV standards in the same manner as does CARB.
