FR941007-1-00148 FR941007-1-00009 Appendix B to Part 345_CRA Notice Community Reinvestment Act Notice Under the Federal Community Reinvestment Act (CRA), the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) evaluates and enforces our compliance with our obligation to help meet the credit needs of this community consistent with safe and sound operations. The FDIC also takes our CRA performance into account when the FDIC decides on certain applications submitted by us. Your involvement is encouraged. You should know that: You may look at and obtain in this office information on our performance in this community. This information includes a file that includes: copies of all signed, written comments received by us, and any responses we have made to those comments; a map showing our service area; a list of our branches and remote service facilities, such as ATMS, in our service area; a list of services we provide at those locations; evaluations by the FDIC of our CRA performance; and data on the loans we have made in this community during the last two years. [Current CRA information on our performance in other communities served by us is available at our main office, located at XXXXXXXX .] You may send signed, written comments about our CRA performance in helping to meet community credit needs to (title and address of bank official) and to the FDIC Regional Manager, Division of Compliance and Consumer Affairs (address). Your letter, together with any response by us, will be considered by the FDIC in evaluating our CRA performance and may be made public. You may ask the FDIC to look at any comments received by the Regional Manager. You may also request from the FDIC, 550 17th Street, N.W., Washington, DC 20429, an announcement of our applications covered by the CRA filed with the FDIC. We are an affiliate of (name of holding company), a bank holding company. You may request from the Federal Reserve Bank of (city, address), an announcement of applications covered by the CRA filed by bank holding companies.
