FR940303-2-00087 FR940303-2-00055 For use in the Section 202, Supportive Housing for the Elderly Program and Section 811, Supportive Housing for Persons with Disabilities Program February 18, 1994. Department of Housing and Urban Development, Federal Housing Administration Instructions to Guide for Opinion of Owner's Counsel Explanatory Comments The guide for this opinion has been prepared in view of the ABA Accord and various state law bar reports on opinion letters. The Department regards the counsel to the Owner as the crucial, central figure in the process of preparing and executing the legal and administrative documents necessary to achieve a closing in connection with a first Mortgage (Deed of Trust) and Mortgage Note (``Capital Advance'') from HUD to the Owner. Pursuant to 24 CFR part 24, 24.105(p), attorneys or others in a business relationship with the Owner are defined as ``principals.'' Even though the Guide is quite different than its predecessor (HUD 90166&hyph;CA), such revision does not in any fashion relieve the counsel to the Owner of its obligations to its client and the Department. In part, these responsibilities entail the exercise of due diligence to assure the accurate and timely preparation, completion and submission of the forms required by the Department in connection with the transaction. Further, the counsel to the Owner and any other attorneys involved in the transaction, should be thoroughly familiar with the regulations, procedures and directives of the Department pertaining to each transaction in which counsel participates. The Department takes seriously the preparation and completion of the various documents involved in the Capital Advance Program (most of which are HUD Form documents) and cannot overemphasize the importance of the following: ``Warning: HUD will prosecute false claims and statements. Conviction may result in criminal and/or civil penalties. (18 U.S.C. 1001, 1010, 1012; 31 U.S.C. 3729, 3802)'' With limited state law related exceptions, we expect that Owner's counsel will be able to follow the guide opinion and HUD field counsel should not accept opinions that otherwise substantially or materially deviate from the guide. Although we understand that attorneys and law firms may have evolved particular styles and forms of opinion, HUD field counsel do not have time to negotiate each and every opinion and it is essential that the guide be followed in both style and substance in order to ensure a timely closing. The counsel to the Owner is expected to complete a draft opinion for submission to HUD field counsel ten days prior to the closing along with the other closing documents. Any deviations should be specifically identified (blacklined or highlighted) and discussed with field counsel at that time. Any material deviation not required by State or local law must be brought to the attention of HUD's Office of General Counsel by field counsel along with an explanation as to the necessity for the deviation. Brackets are used in the opinion letter to indicate alternate language, insertions, documents, or instructions depending on the applicable facts and underlining is used to indicate blanks that must be completed. The guide opinion contains some instructions and definitions and is largely self-explanatory; however, the following instructions and clarifications may be helpful. The numbers and letters used below relate to the paragraph numbers and letters in the guide opinion unless page numbers are specifically designated. Page 1 and Introductory Paragraph •Letterhead and date: The opinion must be typed on the firm or single practitioner's letterhead and dated the date of the Capital Advance by HUD. •Reference: Data regarding the project (name, HUD project number, and location must be accurate and inserted in the appropriate blanks. •Addressees: The opinion must be delivered to HUD to establish the explicit right to rely on the opinion. •Description of the Capital Advance: The Capital Advance amounts is the original principal amount of the Capital Advance unless a modification is necessitated in connection with the closing. List of Documents •In General: Each document executed in connection with the Capital Advance must be listed by its correct title. It is imperative that care must be taken to compile a list that accurately and completely reflects the transaction prior to submission to HUD of the initial draft. After HUD review of the initial draft, the opinion may have to be modified, as necessary, to satisfy HUD.
