FR941222-2-00114 FR941222-2-00095 Research and Special Programs Administration Office of Hazardous Materials Safety; Notice of Applications for Modification of Exemptions or Applications To Become a Party to an Exemption AGENCY: Research and Special Programs Administration, DOT. ACTION: List of Applications for Modification of Exemptions or Applications to Become a Party to an Exemption. SUMMARY: In accordance with the procedures governing the application for, and the processing of, exemptions from the Department of Transportation's Hazardous Materials Regulations (49 CFR Part 107, Subpart B), notice is hereby given that the Office of Hazardous Materials Safety has received the applications described herein. This notice is abbreviated to expedite docketing and public notice. Because the sections affected, modes of transportation, and the nature of application have been shown in earlier Federal Register publications, they are not repeated here. Requests for modifications of exemptions (e.g. to provide for additional hazardous materials, packaging design changes, additional mode of transportation, etc.) are described in footnotes to the application number. Application numbers with the suffix ``X'' denote a modification request. Application numbers with the suffix ``P'' denote a party to request. These applications have been separated from the new applications for exemptions to facilitate processing. DATES: Comments must be received on or before January 6, 1995. ADDRESS COMMENTS TO: Dockets Unit, Research and Special Programs Administration, U.S. Department of Transportation, Washington, DC 20590. Comments should refer to the application number and be submitted in triplicate. If confirmation of receipt of comments is desired, include a self-addressed stamped postcard showing the exemption number. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION: Copies of the applications are available for inspection in the Dockets Unit, Room 8426, Nassif Building, 400 7th Street SW, Washington, DC. ␣ 1Application No. and applicant 1Modification of exemption 11156&hyph;X␣El Dorado Chemical Company, St. Louis, MO (See Footnote 8) 11156
