FR941107-2-00005 FR941107-2-00003 In general, the procedure to redefine the economic areas is similar to that used to define the current economic areas. First, nodes are identified. Then, non-nodal counties are assigned to nodes, mainly based on commuting patterns and on newspaper circulation. A procedural difference is that now node identification and the assignment to nodes of non-nodal counties are done in a more systematic way and at a more geographically detailed level. The procedure results in the definition of 348 CEA's; these are then aggregated to form 174 BEA economic areas. Part II: Detailed Procedures I. Identification of Nodes With the exception of New England MSA's, each metropoltan area in the nation is identified as a node of a CEA. Metropolitan areas consist of 240 MSA's, 59 PMSA's, and 11 NECMA's. Thus, metropolitan areas serve as nodes for 310 of the 348 CEA's. Each of 38 nonmetropolitan counties is identified as a node of a CEA in parts of the nation remote from metropolitan areas. Identification of most of the nonmetropolitan nodes follows a four-part process. First, analysis of commuting patterns for the nation's 2,305 nonmetropolitan counties shows that 1,112 of these are not closely related to metropolitan areas. Second, analysis of newspaper publication data for the 1,112 counties shows that 130 of these are locations of newspapers whose circulations are recorded by the Audit Bureau of Circulations, an organization whose membership includes approximately 98% of U.S. newspaper circulation. Third, further analysis of newspaper circulation and of population for the 130 counties shows that 68 of these have populations of more than 50,000, or are locations of newspapers widely read in at least five counties, or both. Fourth, a preliminary test attempting to use all 68 of these counties as CEA nodes shows that only 35 of these qualify as nodes of CEA's that contain at least five counties. These 35 counties are identified as nonmetropolitan nodes. The CEA associated with each of the 35 nonmetropolitan nodal counties selected by the four-step process is named for the city in which the county's major newspaper is published. The cities are: Flagstaff, AZ; Jonesboro, AR; Idaho Falls, ID; Twin Falls, ID; Quincy, IL; Manhattan, KS; Paducah, KY; Bowling Green, KY; Salisbury, MD; Traverse City, MI; Marquette, MI; Mankato, MN; Worthington, MN; Hattiesburg, MS (identified by the Office of Management and Budget as a new MSA as of July 1, 1994); Meridian, MS; Tupelo, MS; Greenville, MS; Missoula, MT; Butte, MT; Grand Island, NE; North Platte, NE; Norfolk, NE; Scottsbluff, NE; Lebanon, NH; Hobbs, NM; Farmington, NM; Minot, ND; Pendleton, OR; Aberdeen SD; Watertown, SD; Cookeville, TN; Lufkin, TX; Staunton, VA; Clarksburg, WV; and Bluefield, WV. Three CEA's, each of which consists of a group of closely related nonmetropolitan counties in very remote parts of the country, do not have newspaper-based nodes. These CEA's are named by their locations and include a 7-county group defined by the Alaskan panhandle, a 13-county group in northern Michigan, and an 11-county group in western Oklahoma. The county containing the largest city in each of these areas is the node for the CEA.
