FR940617-2-00017 FR940617-2-00009 Postponement of Final Determination In accordance with 19 CFR 353.20(b), Nikopol and Zaporozhye, which together account for all exports of the merchandise covered in this proceeding, have requested that, in the event of an affirmative determination, the Department postpone the final determination until 135 days after the date of publication of the preliminary determination. Because we find no compelling reason to deny the request, we are postponing the date of the final determination until not later than 135 days after the date of publication of this notice. Scope of Investigation The merchandise covered by this investigation is silicomanganese. Silicomanganese, which is sometimes called ferrosilicon manganese, is a ferroalloy composed principally of manganese, silicon, and iron, and normally containing much smaller proportions of minor elements, such as carbon, phosphorous and sulfur. Silicomanganese generally contains by weight not less than 4% iron, more than 30% manganese, more than 8% silicon and not more than 3% phosphorous. All compositions, forms and sizes of silicomanganese are included within the scope of these investigations, including silicomanganese slag, fines and briquettes. Silicomanganese is used primarily in steel production as a source of both silicon and manganese. These investigations cover all silicomanganese, regardless of its tariff classification. Most silicomanganese is currently classifiable under subheading 7202.30.0000 of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (HTSUS). Some silicomanganese may also be classifiable under HTSUS subheading 7202.99.5040. Although the HTSUS subheading is provided for convenience and customs purposes, our written description of the scope is dispositive. Period of Investigation The period of investigation (POI) is June 1, 1993, through November 30, 1993. Surrogate Country In past antidumping investigations, the Department has considered Ukraine to be a NME country. Ukraine has not contested this designation, and we are continuing to consider it a NME country. Therefore, in accordance with section 773(c) of the Act, the Department has based foreign market value on factors of production, and has valued the factors of production using surrogate values from market economy countries that are at a level of economic development comparable to that of Ukraine, and that are significant producers of comparable merchandise. Due to dramatic and ongoing changes in Ukraine's economy, we were not able to identify a single preferred surrogate country for Ukraine. Therefore, we have ranked groups of surrogates into three tiers: Egypt, Colombia, Morocco, and Peru, which we determined were most similar to Ukraine in per capita GNP and population size, were assigned to tier one; Ecuador, Guatemala, Bolivia, the Dominican Republic, and Indonesia were placed in tier two; and finally, the Philippines and El Salvador were included in tier three. ( See Memorandum from Dave Mueller, Director, Office of Policy, to Gary Taverman, dated May 2, 1994 on file in Room B&hyph;099 of the Main Commerce Department building.) It should be noted that although the tiers are ranked hierarchically, the surrogate countries are not hierarchically ranked within each tier. We considered surrogate values for the factors of production from first-tier countries as most desirable and surrogate values from second-tier countries the next most desirable. Values from third-tier countries were used only as a last resort when factor-price data were not available from countries in the first two tiers. In some instances, we were able to obtain surrogate values for a particular factor of production from only one country. Where surrogate values were available from more than one country within a tier, we averaged the pricing data for all of the countries. We then used the average price for that tier to value the factor of production. For purposes of this preliminary determination, we determined that this was the most objective method given that there was no basis for distinguishing countries included within the same tier. When we were not able to value factors of production using published, publicly-available information from any surrogate country, we relied on information provided by U.S. embassies and consulates in the surrogate countries. Fair Value Comparisons To determine whether sales of silicomanganese from Ukraine to the United States were made at less than fair value, we compared the United States price (USP) to the foreign market value (FMV), as specified in the ``United States Price'' and ``Foreign Market Value'' sections of this notice. United States Price In accordance with section 772(b) of the Act, we based USP for Zaporozhye on purchase price because all sales were made to unrelated parties prior to importation into the United States. For Nikopol, we have based USP on exporter's sales price (ESP), under section 772(c) of the Act. We calculated purchase price for Zaporozhye based on prices to an unrelated purchaser in the United States. We made deductions, where appropriate, for foreign inland freight and loading expense (which were both valued in a surrogate country), to adjust the prices to an ex-factory basis. We calculated ESP for Nikopol based on prices at which the merchandise was sold on various terms to unrelated purchasers in the United States. We made deductions, where appropriate, for foreign inland freight and loading expense (which were both valued in a surrogate country), marine insurance, ocean freight, U.S. customs duty, U.S. customs brokerage and U.S. inland freight, to adjust the prices to an ex-factory basis. In calculating U.S. price for Nikopol, we excluded one sale of silicomanganese fines because this sale was atypical of Nikopol's U.S. sales and represented an insignificant amount of Nikopol's total U.S. sales during the POI. Foreign Market Value We calculated FMV based on factors of production reported by Zaporozhye and Nikopol. The factors used to produce silicomanganese include materials, labor, and energy. To calculate FMV, the reported factors of production were valued using prices obtained in surrogate countries. In the case of material inputs, we also used surrogate transportation rates to value the transportation of inputs from their sources to the silicomanganese factories. To value manganese ore, we used an average of CIF import values from two first-tier surrogate countries: Colombia and Egypt. The source of both values was United Nations Trade Statistics for 1992. We were unable to find published, publicly-available information for manganese sinter, and we received no relevant information from the U.S. diplomatic posts. Therefore, for the preliminary determination, we have valued this product using manganese ore prices. To value quartzite, we relied on a publicly-available Moroccan import value contained in United Nations statistics. To value coke, the most current publicly-available source was a Colombian value for 1992 exports reported on an FOB basis in statistics published by the United Nations.
