FR941020-2-00134 FR941020-2-00080 The Phlx also proposes to adopt a new paragraph to Phlx Rule 748, Supervision, to expressly incorporate a supervisory examination into Exchange rules. Specifically, persons delegated supervisory responsibility pursuant to Rule 748 (b) and (c) would be required by proposed paragraph (d) to meet the Exchanges' qualification requirements, including successful completion of a supervisory examination deemed acceptable by the Exchange. This requirement is substantially similar to existing provision of other exchanges. 3 Currently, Rule 748 requires member or participant organizations to supervise all registered representatives and each office, department or business activity. In addition, a general partner or principal executive officer must be designated to assume overall responsibility for internal supervision of the organization and compliance with securities laws and regulations, including establishing written supervisory procedures delegating supervisory responsibilities and instituting a supervisory review procedure. 3 See e.g., NYSE Rule 342(d) and Supplementary Material .13. With respect to qualifications for supervisory personnel, Rule 748 merely requires employees with delegated supervisory responsibility to be ``qualified,'' and persons responsible for any group of employees to ``reasonably discharge'' those duties. The proposed new language is intended to bridge this gap by expressly requiring supervisory personnel to qualify with the Exchange by successfully completing the appropriate examination, which will be indicated in the Exchange's memorandum to its membership. The Exchange notes that although options activity and personnel, including foreign currency options, are also subject to Rule 748, additional supervisory requirements for option accounts apply. 4 4 See Phlx Rules 1024 and 1025. The other SRO participants will also file the revised examination and specifications for approval by the SEC. The Exchange intends to implement the new Series 8 content outline and examination jointly with the other SROs after the Commission has approved the proposed rule changes of all the other SROs. The statutory basis for the Series 8 Examination lies in Section 6(c)(3)(B) of the Act. Under that Section, it is the Exchange's responsibility to prescribe standards of training, experience and competence for persons associated with Exchange members and member organizations. Pursuant to this statutory obligation, the Exchange has developed examinations that are administered to establish that persons associated with Exchange members and member organizations have attained specific levels of competence and knowledge. The addition of new language to Phlx Rule 748 is also consistent with Section 6(b)(5) in that it is designed to promote just and equitable principles of trade, prevent fraudulent and manipulative acts and practices, and protect investors and the public interest by bolstering the Exchange's supervision rule through a qualification and examination requirement for supervisory personnel.
