FR940202-2-00177 FR940202-2-00074 2. Evidence of each Sponsor's legal status as a nonprofit organization, including the following: (a) Articles of Incorporation, constitution, or other organizational documents; (b) By-laws; (c) IRS section 501(c)(3) tax exemption ruling (this must be submitted by all Sponsors, including churches). A nonprofit organization organized in the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and exempt from income taxation under Puerto Rico law, has never been liable for payment of Federal income taxes, and does not pay patronage dividends may be exempt from the requirement set out in the previous sentence if they are not eligible for tax exemption; and (d) Resolution of the board, duly certified by an officer, that no officer or director of the Sponsor or Owner has or will have any financial interest in any contract with the Owner or in any firm or corporation which has or will have a contract with the Owner and which includes a current listing of all duly qualified and sitting officers and directors by title and the ending date of each person's term. [ Note: Sponsors who have received a section 811 fund reservation within the last three funding cycles are not required to submit the documents described in (a), (b), and (c), above. Instead, sponsors must submit the project number of the most recently selected application and the field office to which it was submitted. If there have been any modifications or additions to the subject documents, indicate such, and submit the new material.] 3. CHAS certification. The Sponsor must submit a certification by the jurisdiction in which the proposed project will be located that the Sponsor's application is consistent with the jurisdiction's HUD-approved CHAS for FY 1994. The certification must be made by the unit of general local government if it is required to have, or has, a complete CHAS. Otherwise the certification may be made by the State, or if the project will be located in a unit of general local government authorized to use an abbreviated strategy, by the unit of general local government if it is willing to prepare such a CHAS. All CHAS certifications must be made by the public official responsible for submitting the CHAS to HUD. All CHAS certifications must be submitted as part of the application by the application submission deadline set forth in this NOFA, except as provided in the next paragraph. The required CHAS must therefore have been submitted more than 60 days before the application submission deadline, since HUD has 60 days to review and approve the CHAS. Where the certification of consistency is permitted to be submitted after the application submission deadline, as described in the next paragraph, the CHAS must be submitted for approval in time for the certification to be made by the later date. In no event will an application be considered if the CHAS has not been submitted for approval by the application submission deadline. If the required certification will be made by a unit of general local government with respect to an abbreviated strategy, and such CHAS has been submitted by the application submission deadline but has not yet been approved by HUD, the deadline will not be applied to the certification for consistency. Instead, the application must include a written statement from the public official responsible for submitting the CHAS that the jurisdiction has submitted an abbreviated strategy for FY 1994 for HUD approval and that the application is consistent with the CHAS. If HUD approved the CHAS, the required certification that the application is consistent with a HUD-approved CHAS for FY 1994 must be submitted before June 2, 1994. An application will not be selected for funding unless the CHAS is approved and the required certification is made by June 2, 1994. The CHAS regulations are published in 24 CFR part 91. 4. E.O. 12372. A certification that the Sponsor has submitted a copy of its application, if required, to the State agency (single point of contact) for State review in accordance with Executive Order 12372. 5. Supportive Services Certification. A certification from the appropriate State or local agency that the provision of supportive services is well designed to serve the special needs of persons with disabilities (the name, address, and telephone number of the appropriate agency can be obtained from the Field Office).
