FR940208-0-00093 FR940208-0-00031 Economic Baseline In assessing the economic impacts of the critical habitat designation, the Service has used the expected economic situation consistent with restrictions that were in place at the time of proposing critical habitat. The principal land use restrictions that were already in place were the BLM's Management Framework Plans, Resource Management Plans, and habitat management plans; the BLM's Rangewide Plan; National Park Service land management policies; military land-use policies; and the listing of the desert tortoise as a threatened species (section 7 jeopardy standard and section 9 prohibitions). Industry (e.g., grazing and mining) and recreation-related effects of designating critical habitat concern primarily those activities not already affected by earlier decisions. For all activities, however, it is the incremental effects of avoiding adverse modification of critical habitat and the marginal changes in ensuing benefits and costs that are the appropriate measures of the effects of critical habitat designation. Desert tortoise management and curtailment of the activities that threatened the species began when the BLM established the Desert Tortoise Preserve in 1973 in the Western Mojave Desert (Brussard et al. 1993). The preserve was expanded and formally designated a Research Natural Area and an Area of Critical Environmental Concern (ACEC) by 1980 (U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service 1993). In 1988, the BLM published its Rangewide Plan (Spang et al. 1988), which is based on the categorization of desert tortoise habitat on BLM land into three categories based on: (1) Importance of the habitat to maintaining viable populations, (2) Resolvability of conflicts, (3) Desert tortoise density, and (4) Desert tortoise population status (stable, increasing, or decreasing). Category 1 lands are the most important to desert tortoises for survival and recovery, and category 3 lands are the least important. The Rangewide Plan provides management goals and objectives for each form of authorized multiple use within each of the categories on Federal land managed by the BLM, including livestock grazing, mining, and OHV activities. All CHUs in this final rule minimally include category 1 and/or 2 habitats. Additionally, CHUs contain some category 3 habitats, uncategorized habitats, and lands managed by other Federal entities. The Service has assumed a distinction exists between the effects of listing the species and the incremental effects of designating critical habitat. The differences between listing and designation of critical habitat vary within each CHU based on existing management.
