FR940324-2-00020 FR940324-2-00010 Office of the Secretary of Defense Privacy Act of 1974; Notice to Amend Record Systems AGENCY: Office of the Secretary of Defense, DOD. ACTION: Notice to amend record systems. SUMMARY: The Office of the Secretary of Defense proposes to amend six systems of records notices to its inventory of record systems subject to the Privacy Act of 1974 (5 U.S.C. 552a), as amended. DATES: The amendments will be effective on April 25, 1994, unless comments are received that would result in a contrary determination. ADDRESSES: Send comments to Chief, Records Management and Privacy Act Branch, Washington Headquarter Services, Correspondence and Directives, Records Management Division, 1155 Defense Pentagon, Washington, DC 20301&hyph;1155. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mr. Dan Cragg at (703) 695&hyph;0970 or DSN 225&hyph;0970. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Office of the Secretary of Defense notices for systems of records subject to the Privacy Act of 1974 (5 U.S.C. 552a), as amended, have been published in the Federal Register and are available from the address above. The proposed amendments are not within the purview of subsection (r) of the Privacy Act, as amended, (5 U.S.C. 552a) which would require the submission of a new or altered system report for each system. The specific changes to the record systems being amended are set forth below followed by the notices, as amended, published in their entirety. Dated: March 18, 1994. Patricia L. Toppings, Alternate OSD Federal Register Liaison Officer, Department of Defense. DOCHA 01 System name: Health Benefits Authorization Files (February 22, 1993, 58 FR 10251). Changes: * * * * * System location: Replace `Uniformed Services Benefit Plans, Inc' with `Administar Defense Services, Inc.' Add two addresses to end of entry `Aetna, 16855 West Bernard Drive, Suite 306, San Diego, CA 92127; and Palmetto Government Benefits Administrators, 8733 Highway 17 Bypass, Surfside Beach, SC 29575.' * * * * * Retention and disposal: Replace `permanent' with `maintained for six years.' * * * * * DOCHA 01 System name: Health Benefits Authorization Files. System location: Primary system is located at Office of Civilian Health and Medical Program of the Uniformed Services, Department of Defense, Aurora, CO 80045&hyph;6900. Decentralized segments are located at the Office of Civilian Health and Medical Program of the Uniformed Services-Europe, APO New York 09102&hyph;5000; and Fiscal Intermediaries (FIs)/Contractors under contract to OCHAMPUS. Each company listed below maintains claim files on beneficiaries in their respective geographical areas. Health Management Strategies International, Inc., 1725 Duke Street, Suite 300C, Alexandria, VA 22314&hyph;3408; Health Management Strategies International, Inc., 1725 Duke Street, Suite 300C, Alexandria, VA 22314&hyph;3408; Administar Defense Services, Inc., 720 North Marr Road, Columbus, IN 47201&hyph;6660; Blue Cross-Blue Shield of South Carolina, 200 North Dozier Boulevard, Florence, SC 29501&hyph;4026; Wisconsin Physicians Service, 1617 Sherman Avenue, Madison, WI 53707&hyph;7927; FHC Options, Inc., 240 Corporate Boulevard, Norfolk, VA 23502&hyph;4900; Foundation Health Federal Services, Inc., 2 Lakeway Center, Suite 1960, 3850 Causeway Boulevard, Metarie, LA 70002; Aetna, 16855 West Bernard Drive, Suite 306, San Diego, CA 92127; and Palmetto Government Benefits Administrators, 8733 Highway 17 Bypass, Surfside Beach, SC 29575. Categories of individuals covered by the system: All individuals who seek authorization or pre-authorization for care under CHAMPUS/CHAMPVA. Categories of records in the system: Original correspondence with individuals, medical statements, Congressional inquiries, medical treatment records, authorization for care, case status sheets, memos for records, follow-up reports justifying extended care, correspondence with fiscal intermediaries and work-up sheets maintained by case workers. Authority for maintenance of the system: 44 U.S.C. 3101, 41 CFR part 101&hyph;11.000; chapter 55, 10 U.S.C. 613, chapter 17, 38 U.S.C.; 32 CFR part 199; and E.O. 9397. Purpose(s): To maintain and control records pertaining to requests for authorization or pre-authorization of health and dental care under CHAMPUS. Routine uses of records maintained in the system, including categories of users and purposes of such uses: In addition to those disclosures generally permitted under 5 U.S.C. 552a(b) of the Privacy Act, these records or information contained therein may specifically be disclosed outside the DoD as a routine use pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(b)(3) as follows: Determine eligibility of an individual, authorize payment, respond to inquiries from congressional offices made at the request of the individual covered by the system, control and review health care management plans, health care demonstration programs, control accomplishment of reviews, and coordinate subject matter clearance for congressional committees and auditors. Referral to the Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services and/or the Secretary of the Department of Veterans Affairs consistent with their statutory administrative responsibilities under CHAMPUS/CHAMPVA pursuant to chapter 55, 10 U.S.C. and section 613, chapter 17, 38 U.S.C. Referral to federal, state, local, or foreign governmental agencies, and to private business entities, including individual providers of care, on matters relating to fraud, program abuse, utilization review, quality assurance, peer review, program integrity, third-party liability, coordination of benefits, and civil or criminal litigation related to the operation of CHAMPUS. Disclosure to third-party contacts in situations where the party to be contacted has, or is expected to have, information necessary to establish the validity of evidence or to verify the accuracy of information presented by the individual concerning his or her entitlement, the amount of benefit payments, any review of suspected abuse or fraud, or any concern for program integrity or quality appraisal. The `Blanket Routine Uses' set forth at the beginning of OSD's compilation of systems of records notices apply to this system. Policies and practices for storing, retrieving, accessing, retaining, and disposing of records in the system: Storage: Automated records are maintained on magnetic tape and disc. Paper records maintained in file folders. Retrievability: Information is retrieved by sponsor's Social Security Number and sponsor's or beneficiary's name. Safeguards: Records are maintained in areas accessible only to authorized personnel who are properly screened, cleared, and trained. Decentralized automated segments within FIs operations are accessible on-line only to authorized persons possessing user identification codes. OCHAMPUS buildings are protected by Department of Defense security force and/or military police security force. Retention and disposal: Automated indexes are maintained for six years. Hard copy records are closed out at the end of the calendar year in which finalized, held one additional year, and transferred to the Federal Records Center. The Federal Records Center will destroy the records after an additional five-year retention. System manager(s) and address: Chief, Program Operations Division, Office of Civilian Health and Medical Program of the Uniformed Services, Department of Defense, Aurora, CO 80045&hyph;6900. Notification procedure: Individuals seeking to determine whether information about themselves is contained in this system should address written inquiries to the Office of Civilian Health and Medical Program of the Uniformed Services, Department of Defense, ATTN: Privacy Act Officer, Aurora, CO 80045&hyph;6900. Record access procedures: Individuals seeking access to information about themselves contained in this system should address written inquiries to the Office of Civilian Health and Medical Program of the Uniformed Services, Department of Defense, ATTN: Privacy Act Officer, Aurora, CO 80045&hyph;6900. Written request for information should include the full name of the beneficiary, the full name of the sponsor and sponsor's Social Security Number, current address and telephone number. Should it be determined that the release of medical information to the requester could have an adverse effect upon the individual's physical or mental health, the requester will be required to provide the name and address of a physician who would be willing to receive the medical record, and at the physician's discretion, inform the individual covered by the system of the contents of that record. For personal visits to examine records, the individual should provide some acceptable identification such as a driver's license or other form of picture identification. Contesting record procedures: The OSD's rules for accessing records, for contesting contents and appealing initial agency determinations are published in OSD Administrative Instruction 81; 32 CFR part 311; or may be obtained from the system manager. Record source categories: Contractors, Health Benefits Advisors, all branches of the Uniformed Service, congressional offices, providers of care, consultants and individuals. Exemptions claimed for this system: None. DOCHA 02 System name: Medical Care Inquiry Files (August 27, 1993, 58 FR 45323). Changes: * * * * * System location: Replace `Uniformed Services Benefit Plans, Inc.' with `Administar Defense Services, Inc.' Add two addresses to end of entry `Aetna, 16855 West Bernard Drive, Suite 306, San Diego, CA 92127; and Palmetto Government Benefits Administrators, 8733 Highway 17 Bypass, Surfside Beach, SC 29575.' * * * * * Retention and disposal: Replace `permanent' with `maintained three years.' * * * * * DOCHA 02 System name: Medical Care Inquiry Files. System location: Primary system is located at Office of Civilian Health and Medical Program of the Uniformed Services, Department of Defense, Aurora, CO 80045&hyph;6900. Decentralized segments are located at the Office of Civilian Health and Medical Program of the Uniformed Services-Europe, APO New York 09102&hyph;5000; and Fiscal Intermediaries (FIs)/Contractors under contract to OCHAMPUS. Each company listed below maintains medical care inquiry files on beneficiaries in their respective geographical areas. Health Management Strategies International, Inc., 1725 Duke Street, Suite 300C, Alexandria, VA 22314&hyph;3408; Administar Defense Services, Inc., 720 North Marr Road, Columbus, IN 47201&hyph;6660; Blue Cross-Blue Shield of South Carolina, 200 North Dozier Boulevard, Florence, SC 29501&hyph;4026; Wisconsin Physicians Service, 1617 Sherman Avenue, Madison, WI 53707&hyph;7927; FHC Options, Inc., 240 Corporate Boulevard, Norfolk, VA 23502&hyph;4900; Foundation Health Federal Services, Inc., 2 Lakeway Center, Suite 1960, 3850 Causeway Boulevard, Metarie, LA 70002; Aetna, 16855 West Bernard Drive, Suite 306, San Diego, CA 92127; and Palmetto Government Benefits Administrators, 8733 Highway 17 Bypass, Surfside Beach, SC 29575. Categories of individual covered by the system: All individuals who seek information concerning health care under CHAMPUS/CHAMPVA. Categories of records in the system: Documents reflecting inquiries received from private individuals for information on CHAMPUS/CHAMPVA and replies thereto; congressional inquiries on behalf of constituents and replies thereto; and files notifying personnel of eligibility or termination of benefits. Authority for maintenance of the system: 44 U.S.C. 3101; 41 CFR 101&hyph;11.000; chapter 55, 10 U.S.C.; section 613, chapter 17, 38 U.S.C.; and E.O. 9397. Purpose(s): To maintain and control records pertaining to requests for information concerning the processing of individual CHAMPUS/CHAMPVA claims and the benefit structure and procedures of CHAMPUS/CHAMPVA. Routine uses of records maintained in the system, including categories of users and the purposes of such uses: In addition to those disclosures generally permitted under 5 U.S.C. 552a(b) of the Privacy Act, these records or information contained therein may specifically be disclosed outside the DoD as a routine use pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(b)(3) as follows: Establish eligibility, respond to inquiries from individuals, and respond to inquiries from congressional offices made at the request of the individual covered. Referral of the Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services and/or Secretary of the Department of Veterans Affairs consistent with their statutory administrative responsibilities under CHAMPUS/CHAMPVA pursuant to chapter 55, 10 U.S.C. and section 613, chapter 17, 38 U.S.C. Referral to federal, state, local, or foreign governmental agencies, and to private business entities, including individual providers of care, on matters relating to fraud, program abuse, utilization review, quality assurance, peer review, program integrity, third-party liability, coordination of benefits, and civil or criminal litigation related to the operation of CHAMPUS. Disclosure to other third-party contacts in situations where the party to be contacted has, or is expected to have, information necessary to establish the validity of evidence or to verify the accuracy of information presented by the individual concerning his or her entitlement, the amount of benefit payments, any review of suspected abuse or fraud, or any concern for program integrity or quality appraisal. The `Blanket Routine Uses' set forth at the beginning of OSD's compilation of systems of records notices apply to this system. Policies and practices for storing, retrieving, accessing, retaining, and disposing of records in the system: Storage: Automated records maintained on magnetic tape and disc. Paper records maintained in file folders. Retrievability: Information is retrieved by case number, sponsor name and/or Social Security Number, and inquirer name. Safeguards: Records are maintained in areas accessible only to authorized personnel who are properly screened, cleared, and trained. Automated segments are accessible only by authorized persons possessing user identification codes. OCHAMPUS buildings are protected by Department of Defense security force and/or military police security force. Retention and disposal: Automated indexes are permanent. Paper records are retained in active file until end of calendar year in which closed, held two additional years, and then destroyed. System manager(s) and address: Chief, Public and Beneficiary Relations Division, Office of Civilian Health and Medical Program of the Uniformed Services, Department of Defense, Aurora, CO 80045&hyph;6900. Notification procedure: Individuals seeking to determine whether information about themselves is contained in this system should address written inquiries to the Office of Civilian Health and Medical Program of the Uniformed Services, Department of Defense, ATTN: Privacy Act Officer, Aurora, CO 80045&hyph;6900. Record access procedures: Individuals seeking access to information about themselves contained in this system should address written inquiries to the Office of Civilian Health and Medical Program of the Uniformed Services, Department of Defense, ATTN: Privacy Act Officer, Aurora, CO 80045&hyph;6900. Written requests for information should include the full name of the individual, military sponsor's name and Social Security Number, current address and telephone number. Should it be determined that the release of medical information to the requester could have an adverse effect upon the individual's physical or mental health, the requester will be required to provide the name and address of a physician who would be willing to receive the medical record and, at the physician's discretion, inform the individual covered by the system of the contents of that medical record. For personal visits to examine records, the individual should be able to provide some acceptable identification such as a driver's license or other form of picture identification. Contesting record procedures: The OSD's rules for accessing records, for contesting contents and appealing initial agency determinations are published in OSD Administrative Instruction 81; 32 CFR part 311; or may be obtained from the system manager. Record source categories: Contractors, congressional offices, Health Benefits Advisors, all branches of the Uniformed Services, consultants, and individuals. Exemptions claimed for this system: None. DOCHA 07 System name: Medical Claim History Files (February 22, 1993, 58 FR 10253). Changes: * * * * * System location: Replace `Uniformed Services Benefit Plans, Inc' with`Administar Defense Services, Inc.' Add two addresses to end of entry `Aetna, 16855 West Bernard Drive, Suite 306, San Diego, CA 92127; and Palmetto Government Benefits Administrators, 8733 Highway 17 Bypass, Surfside Beach, SC 29575.' * * * * * Retention and disposal: Replace `permanent' with `maintained for six years.' In the second sentence, replace `four-year' with `five-year.' * * * * * DOCHA 07 System name: Medical Claim History Files. System location: Primary system is located at Office of Civilian Health and Medical Program of the Uniformed Services, Department of Defense, Aurora, CO 80045&hyph;6900. Decentralized segments are located at the Office of Civilian Health and Medical Program of the Uniformed Services-Europe, APO New York 09102&hyph;5000; and Fiscal Intermediaries (FIs)/Contractors under contract to OCHAMPUS. Each company listed below maintains claim files on beneficiaries in their respective geographical areas. Health Management Strategies International, Inc., 1725 Duke Street, Suite 300C, Alexandria, VA 22314&hyph;3408; Administar Defense Services, Inc., 720 North Marr Road, Columbus, IN 47201&hyph;6660; Blue Cross-Blue Shield of South Carolina, 200 North Dozier Boulevard, Florence, SC 29501&hyph;4026; Wisconsin Physicians Service, 1617 Sherman Avenue, Madison, WI 53707&hyph;7927; FHC Options, Inc., 240 Corporate Boulevard, Norfolk, VA 23502&hyph;4900; Foundation Health Federal Services, Inc., 2 Lakeway Center, Suite 1960, 3850 Causeway Boulevard, Metarie, LA 70002; Aetna, 16855 West Bernard Drive, Suite 306, San Diego, CA 92127; and Palmetto Government Benefits Administrators, 8733 Highway 17 Bypass, Surfside Beach, SC 29575. Categories of individuals covered by the system: Eligible beneficiaries and all individuals who seek health care under CHAMPUS/CHAMPVA. Categories of records in the system: File contains claims, billings for services, applications or approval forms, medical records, family history files, records on appeals and hearings, or any other correspondence, memorandum, or reports which are acquired or utilized in the development and processing of CHAMPUS/CHAMPVA claims. Records are also maintained on health care demonstration projects, including enrollment and authorization agreements, correspondence, memoranda, forms and reports which are acquired or utilized during the projects. Authority for maintenance of the system: 44 U.S.C. 3101; 41 CFR 101&hyph;11.000; chapter 55, 10 U.S.C. 613, chapter 17, 38 U.S.C.; 32 CFR part 199; and E.O. 9397. Purpose(s): OCHAMPUS and its contractors use the information to control and process health care benefits available under CHAMPUS including the processing of medical claims, the control and approval of medical treatments, and necessary interface with providers of health care. Routine uses of records maintained in the system, including categories of users and purposes of such uses: In addition to those disclosures generally permitted under 5 U.S.C. 552a(b) of the Privacy Act, these records or information contained therein may specifically be disclosed outside the DoD as a routine use pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(b)(3) as follows: Referral to federal, state, local, or foreign governmental agencies, and to private business entities, including individual providers of care, on matters relating to fraud, program abuse, utilization review, quality assurance, peer review, program integrity, third-party liability, coordination of benefits and civil or criminal litigation related to the operation of CHAMPUS. Information from CHAMPVA claims will be given to the Department of Veterans Affairs. Disclosure to third-party contacts in situations where the party to be contacted has, or is expected to have, information necessary to establish the validity of evidence or to verify the accuracy of information presented by the individual concerning his or her entitlement, the amount of benefit payments, any review of suspected abuse or fraud, or any concern for program integrity or quality appraisal. Issuance of deductible certificates; responding to inquires from congressional offices, made at the request of the person to whom a record pertains; and conducting audits of FIs processed claims to determine payment and occurrence accuracy of the FIs' adjudication process. Process and control of recoupment claims in favor of the United States arising under the Federal Claims Collection Act. In connection with these recoupment claims, information may be disclosed to: a. The U.S. Department of Justice, including U.S. Attorneys, for legal action and final disposition of the recoupment claims. b. The Internal Revenue Service to obtain current address information on delinquent accounts receivable (automated controls exist to preclude redisclosure of solicited IRS address information) and to report amounts written-off as uncollectible as taxable income. c. Private collection agencies for collection action when deemed to be in the best interest of the U.S. Disclosure to consumer reporting agencies: Disclosures pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(b)(12) may be made from this system to consumer reporting agencies as defined in the Fair Credit Reporting act of 1966 (15 U.S.C. 1681a(f)) or the Federal Claims Collections Act of 1966 (31 U.S.C. 3701(a)(3)). The disclosure is limited to information necessary to establish the identity of the individual, including name, address, and taxpayer identification number (Social Security Number); the amount, status, and history of the claim; and the agency or program under which the claim arose for the sole purpose of allowing the consumer reporting agency to prepare a commercial credit report. Policies and practices for storing, retrieving, accessing, retaining, and disposing of records in the system: Storage: Automated records maintained on magnetic tape and disc. Paper records maintained in file folders. Retrievability: Information is retrieved by sponsor's Social Security Number; beneficiary's name; classification of medical diagnosis, procedure code, or geographical location of care provided; and selected utilization limits. Safeguards: Records are maintained in areas accessible only to authorized personnel who are properly screened, cleared and trained. Decentralized automated segments within FIs operations are accessible on-line only to authorized persons possessing user identification codes. The automated portion of the Primary System is accessible only through the medium of OCHAMPUS prepared computer programs resulting in a printout of the data. OCHAMPUS buildings are protected by Department of Defense security force and/or military police security force. Retention and disposal: Records maintained on magnetic tape are individual annual files and are maintained for six years. Paper records are closed out at the calendar year end in which processed, held one additional year, and transferred to the Federal Records Center. Federal Records Centers will destroy after an additional five-year retention. System manager(s) and address: Chief, Contract Management Division, Office of Civilian Health and Medical Program of the Uniformed Services, Department of Defense, Aurora, CO 80045&hyph;6900. Notification procedure: Individuals seeking to determine whether information about themselves is contained in this system should address written inquiries to the Office of Civilian Health and Medical Program of the Uniformed Services, Department of Defense, ATTN: Privacy Act Officer, Aurora, CO 80045&hyph;6900. Record access procedures: Individuals seeking access to information about themselves contained in this system should address written inquiries to the Office of Civilian Health and Medical Program of the Uniformed Services, Department of Defense, ATTN: Privacy Act Officer, Aurora, CO 80045&hyph;6900. Written requests for information should include the full name of the beneficiary, the full name and Social Security Number of the sponsor, current address, and telephone number. Should it be determined that the release of medical information to the requester could have an adverse effect upon the individual's physical or mental health, the requester will be required to provide the name and address of a physician who would be willing to receive the medical record and, at the physician's discretion, inform the individual covered by the system of the contents of that record. For personal visits to examine records, the individual should provide some acceptable identification such as driver's license or other form of picture identification. Contesting record procedures: The OSD's rules for accessing records, for contesting contents and appealing initial agency determinations are published in OSD Administrative Instruction 81; 32 CFR part 311; or may be obtained from the system manager. Record source categories: Physicians, hospitals, and other sources of care; individuals; insurance companies; and consultants. Exemptions claimed for this system: None. DWHS P42 System name: DPS Incident Reporting and Investigations Case Files (February 22, 1993, 58 FR 10277). Changes: * * * * * Routine uses of records maintained in the system, including categories of users and the purposes of such uses: Add a new paragraph to entry `To an insurance company of one or more parties when an insured is involved in an injury or accident in the DPS jurisdiction and an Accident Report is required to resolve claims or to settle matters of record.' * * * * * DWHS P42 System name: DPS Incident Reporting and Investigations Case Files. System location: Defense Protective Services, Washington Headquarters Services, 1155 Defense Pentagon, Washington, DC 20301&hyph;1155. Categories of individuals covered by the system: Persons who are the source of an initial complaint or allegation that a crime took place. Witnesses having information or evidence about any aspect of an investigation. Suspects in the criminal situation who are subjects of an investigation. Persons who may pose a threat to the Secretary of Defense, the Deputy Secretary of Defense and other Senior Defense Officials. Persons who may pose a threat to the personal safety of themselves or others while in the DPS-controlled jurisdiction. Subjects of investigations on noncriminal matters. Current and former applicants for the position of Defense Protective Service Officer. Sources of information and evidence. The identity of these individuals may be confidential as appropriate to the subject matter they contribute. These files contain information vital to the outcome of administrative procedures and civil and criminal cases. Individuals associated with terrorism or terrorist groups and activities and names of regional, nationwide, and worldwide terrorist organizations. Categories of records in the system: Preliminary and other reports of criminal investigations from the opening of a case until it is closed. These records are instituted and maintained at varying points in the process. The processes of criminal justice and civil and administrative remedies may require their partial or total disclosure. Security files contain information such as name, date and place of birth, address, Social Security Number, education, occupation, experience, and investigatory material. Contingency Planning/Analysis files contain information such as names and other identifying information and investigatory material on an individual associated with terrorists or terrorist groups and activities. File contains information about regional, nationwide, and worldwide terrorist organizations and their effects on security of DOD facilities under the jurisdiction of DPS. Intelligence briefs; tactical, operational, and strategic informational reports; regional and nationwide contingency analysis; contingency action plans; and patterns and trends of potential or actual terrorists or terrorist groups, or other activities that could disrupt the orderly operation of Defense-owned or controlled facilities over which the DPS has jurisdiction. Documents created in enforcing regulations regarding motor vehicle movement and parking on Federal premises including reports of traffic accidents, traffic violation notices and similar records maintained by DPS. Authority for maintenance of the system: Section 21, Internal Security Act of 1950 (Pub.L. 831, 81st Cong.); 40 U.S.C 318, as delegated by Administrator, General Services Administration, to the Deputy Secretary of Defense, September 1987, and E.O. 9397. Purpose(s): Information in this system supports the public safety, law enforcement, facility security, and contingency planning functions of the Defense Protective Service. Additional functions supported include information on current and former applicants for the position of Defense Protective Service Officer and Internal Affairs investigative records. Routine uses of records maintained in the system, including categories of users and the purposes of such uses: In addition to those disclosures generally permitted under 5 U.S.C. 552a(b) of the Privacy Act, these records or information contained therein may specifically be disclosed outside the DoD as a routine use pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(b)(3) as follows: To a Federal, state, local, or foreign agency responsible for investigating, prosecuting, enforcing, or carrying out a statute, rule, regulation, or order, where the agency is aware of a violation or potential violation of civil or criminal law or regulation. To an appeal, grievance, or formal complaints examiner; equal employment opportunity investigator; arbitrator; exclusive representative; or other officials engaged in investigating, or settling a grievance, complaint or appeal filed by an employee. To various bureaus and divisions of the Department of Justice that have primary jurisdiction over subject matter and location which DPS shares. To law enforcement agencies which have lawfully participated in and conducted investigation jointly with DPS. Pursuant to the order of a court of competent jurisdiction, when the United States is party to or has interest in litigation, and using the records is relevant, necessary, and compatible with the purposes of collecting the information. To an insurance company of one or more parties when an insured is involved in an injury or accident in the DPS jurisdiction and an Accident Report is required to resolve claims or to settle matters of record. The `Blanket Routine Uses' set forth at the beginning of OSD's compilation of systems of records notices apply to this system. Policies and practices for storing, retrieving, accessing, retaining, and disposing of records in the system: Storage: Paper records in file folders in file cabinets. Magnetic media in controlled access areas for both on-line and storage disks. Retrievability: Paper records by case control number and type of incident. Magnetic files by case control number, name, address, and physical description of subject individual. Safeguards: Paper records are stored in secure filing cabinets in room with built-in-position dial-type combination safe lock. Computer records are maintained in limited access sites on a system protected by a software-controlled password system. Retention and disposal: Non-criminal records are destroyed one year after case is closed. Criminal records are cutoff when case is closed and placed in an inactive file for three years. After three years in the inactive file, the records are retired to the Washington National Records Center for an additional 15 years, after which time they will be destroyed. Information on current and former applicants for position of DPS Officer are maintained two years and then destroyed. Contingency planning and analysis files pertaining to regional, nationwide, and worldwide terrorist organizations and their potential effects of the security of DoD facilities are destroyed when superseded, obsolete, or no longer needed. System manager(s) and address: Defense Protective Services, Washington Headquarters Services, 1155 Defense Pentagon, Washington, DC 20301&hyph;1155. Notification procedure: Individuals seeking to determine whether this system of records contains information about themselves should address inquiries to the Defense Protective Services, Washington Headquarters Services, 1155 Defense Pentagon, Washington, DC 20301&hyph;1155. Record access procedures: Individuals seeking access to records about themselves contained in this system of records should address inquiries to the Defense Protective Services, Washington Headquarters Services, 1155 Defense Pentagon, Washington, DC 20301&hyph;1155. Contesting record procedures: The OSD's rules for accessing records, for contesting contents and appealing initial agency determinations are published in OSD Administrative Instruction 81; 32 CFR part 311; or may be obtained from the system manager. Record source categories: Investigators, informants, witnesses, official records, investigative leads, statements, depositions, business records, or any other information source available to DPS. Systems exempted from certain provisions of the act: Parts of this system may be exempt under 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2) as applicable. The criminal investigation case file and contingency planning and analysis file may be partially or totally subject to the general exemption. An exemption rule for this record system has been promulgated in accordance with the requirements of 5 U.S.C. 553(b) (1), (2), and (3), (c) and (e) and published in 32 CFR part 311. For additional information contact the system manager. DWHS P37 System name: Grievance and Unfair Labor Practices Records (August 9, 1993, 58 FR 42303). Changes: * * * * * Categories of records in the system: After `Office of the Secretary of Defense (OSD)', replace `employees' with `, Joint Staff, and other employees receiving administrative support from Washington Headquarters Services (WHS).' * * * * * Purpose(s): Replacae `the Office of the Secretary of Defense (OSD)' with `Washington Headquarters Services and Joint Staff personnel offices.' Routine uses of records maintained in the system, including categories of users and the purposes of such uses: After `To disclose information to officials of the Merit System Protection Board' insert a semicolon after `Board'. Delete the next word, `including' and retain remainder of sentence. In sentence beginning `To provide information to officials of labor organizations', replace sentence with `To provide information to officials of labor organizations reorganized under the Civil Service Reform Act when relevant and necessary to the performance of their exclusive representation duties concerning personnel policies, practices, and matters affecting working conditions.' * * * * * Retention and disposal: Delete entry and replace with `Grievance files are destroyed four years after closing of case or four years after settlement of arbitration resulting from a negotiated grievance. Rosters of union officials are revised and outdated versions destroyed when information is superseded.' * * * * * Record source categories: After `Agency officials,' substitute a semicolon for the comma, and replace the remaining text with the following: `by arbitrators; by grievance investigators; by the Federal Labor Relations Authority; by union officials; and from related correspondence from organizations or persons.' DWHS P37 System name: Grievance and Unfair Labor Practices Records. System location: Directorate for Personnel and Security, Washington Headquarters Services, Department of Defense, 1155 Defense Pentagon, Washington, DC 20301&hyph;1155. Categories of individuals covered by the system: Current or former Federal employees who have submitted grievances in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 2302, and 5 U.S.C. 7121, or a negotiated procedure, to include E.O. 11491, as amended. Categories of records in the system: The system contains records relating to grievances filed by Office of the Secretary of Defense (OSD), Joint Staff, and other employees receiving administrative support from Washington Headquarters Services under 5 U.S.C. 2302, and 5 U.S.C. 7121. These case files contain all documents related to the grievances, including statements of witnesses, reports of interviews and hearings, examiner's findings and recommendations, a copy of the original and final decision, and related correspondence and exhibits. This system includes files and records of internal grievance and arbitration systems that OSD may establish through negotiations with recognized labor organizations. Folder contains all information pertaining to a specific arbitration case or specific unfair labor practice complaint, including a manual roster of local union officials and union stewards. Authority for maintenance of the system: 5 U.S.C. 2302, 5 U.S.C. 7121, and E.O. 11491. Purpose(s): This information is used by the Washington Headquarters Services and Joint Staff personnel offices in the creation and maintenance of records of summary descriptive statistics and analytical studies in support of the function for which the records are collected and maintained, or for related work force studies. While published statistics and studies do not contain individual identifiers, in some instances the selection of elements of data included in the study may be structured in such a way as to make the data individually identifiable by reference. Routine uses of records maintained in the system, including categories of users and the purposes of such uses: In addition to those disclosures generally permitted under 5 U.S.C. 552a(b) of the Privacy Act, these records or information contained therein may specifically be disclosed outside the DoD as a routine use pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(b)(3) as follows: To disclose pertinent information to the appropriate Federal, state, or local agency responsible for investigating, prosecuting, enforcing, or implementing a statute, rule, regulation, or order, where the disclosing agency becomes aware of an indication of a violation or potential violation of civil or criminal law or regulation. To disclose information to any source from which additional information is requested in the course of processing a grievance, to the extent necessary to identify the individual, inform the source of the purpose(s) of the request, and identify the type of information requested. To disclose information to a Federal agency, in response to its request, in connection with the hiring or retention of an employee; the issuance of a security clearance; the conducting of a security or suitability investigation of an individual; the classifying of jobs; the letting of a contract, or the issuance of a license, grant, or other benefit by the requesting agency, to the extent that the information is relevant and necessary to requesting the Agency's decision on the matter. To provide information to a Congressional office from the record of an individual, in response to an inquiry from that Congressional office, made at the request of that individual. To disclose information to another Federal agency or to a court when the Government is party to a judicial proceeding before the court. By the National Archives and Records Administration in records management inspections conducted under authority of 44 U.S.C. 2906. To disclose information to officials of the Merit Systems Protection Board; the Office of the Special Counsel; the Federal Labor Relations Authority and its General Counsel; or the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, when requested in performance of their authorized duties. To disclose in response to a request for discovery or for appearance of a witness, information that is relevant to the subject matter involved in a pending judicial or administrative proceeding. To provide information to officials of labor organizations reorganized under the Civil Service Reform Act when relevant and necessary to the performance of their exclusive representation duties concerning personnel policies, practices, and matters affecting working conditions. To provide information to the Comptroller General or any of his authorized representatives, in the course of the performance of duties of the General Accounting Office relating to the Labor Management Relations Program. Policies and practices for storing, retrieving, accessing, retaining, and disposing of records in the system: Storage: Paper records maintained in file folders. Retrievability: These records are retrieved by case subject, case number, and/or individual employee names. Safeguards: These records are maintained in metal files to which only OSD authorized personnel have access. Retention and disposal: Grievance files are destroyed four years after closing of case or four years after settlement of arbitration resulting from a negotiated grievance. Rosters of union officials are revised and outdated versions destroyed when information is superseded. System manager(s) and address: Director for Personnel and Security, Washington Headquarters Services, Department of Defense, 1155 Defense Pentagon, Washington, DC 20301&hyph;1155. Notification procedure: Individuals seeking to determine whether information about themselves is contained in this system should address written inquiries to the Directorate for Personnel and Security, Washington Headquarters Services, Department of Defense, 1155 Defense Pentagon, Washington, DC 20301&hyph;1155. Record access procedures: Individuals seeking access to information about themselves contained in this system should address written inquiries to the Directorate for Personnel and Security, Washington Headquarters Services, Department of Defense, 1155 Defense Pentagon, Washington, DC 20301&hyph;1155. Contesting record procedures: The OSD's rules for accessing records, for contesting contents and appealing initial agency determinations are published in OSD Administrative Instruction 81; 32 CFR part 311; or may be obtained from the system manager. Record source categories: Information in this system of records is provided by the individual on whom the record is maintained; by testimony of witnesses; by Agency officials; by arbitrators; by grievance investigators; by the Federal Labor Relations Authority; by union officials; and from related correspondence from organizations or persons. Exemptions claimed for the system: None. DGC 04 System name: Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Case Files (August 27, 1993, 58 FR 45318). Changes: * * * * * System location: After `Arlington, VA 22203&hyph;9995' delete period and insert `and Directorate for Industrial Security Clearance Review, Building 306, 3990 East Broad Street, Columbus, OH 43216&hyph;5007.' Second paragraph: In the second sentence, following `Automated' insert `Joint Adjudicative Clearance System.' At the end of this paragraph, delete the period and add ', with access by computer terminals at DISCR locations.' Categories of individuals covered by the system: In the first sentence following `clearance' insert `or trustworthiness.' Also in the first sentence, delete `the Directorate for Industrial Security Clearance Review (DISCR) by the Defense Industrial Security Clearance Office (DISCO) or by the Director, Defense Investigative Service (DIS)' and replace with `DISCR.' Additionally in the first sentence, delete `E.O. 10865, as implemented by.' At ending of sentence, delete period and add `, Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review Program or DoD Regulation 5200.2&hyph;R, DoD Personnel Security Program.' Categories of records in the system: In the second paragraph first sentence, after `agencies' delete the semicolon and add `, which may include information obtained from interviews, court documents, law enforcement records, business records, and other sources;'. Continuing in the second paragraph first sentence, insert after `evaluations;' `adjudicator's case summaries;'. On the last line of the second paragraph, following `actions;', delete `;' and insert `, including Administrative Judge and Appeal Board decisions;'. In the third paragraph, replace `administrative and adjudicative' with `Administrative Judge and Appeal Board'. Also in the second sentence of the third paragraph, insert `other' after `and'; in this same sentence, delete `of applicants, witnesses, sources of information, and other sensitive information.' Authority for maintenance of the system: Replace the `;' after `E.O. 10909' with `,'. Following `Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Program' insert `(32 CFR part 155).' Purpose(s): Following `security clearance' insert `or holding a sensitive position requiring a trustworthiness decision'; and following the insertion, delete `industrial'. Following `to record' delete `clearance.' Routine uses of records maintained in the system, including categories of users and the purposes of such uses: Delete `Information may be disclosed to the Department of Justice in determining claims for reimbursement in preparation of hearings, appeals and Federal Court review.' Storage: Delete `vertical.' Insert after `DISCR' `some records created by DISCR are stored on hard drives or disks for retrieval on word processing equipment.' Replace `discs' with `disks.' * * * * * Notification procedure: Replace `4015 Wilson Boulevard, Suite 300' with `PO Box 3656.' * * * * * DGC 04 System name: Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Case Files. System location: Directorate for Industrial Security Clearance Review, Defense Legal Services Agency, Department of Defense, 4015 Wilson Boulevard, Suite 300, Arlington, VA 22203&hyph;1995, and Directorate for Industrial Security Clearance Review, Building 306, 3990 East Broad Street, Columbus, OH 43216&hyph;5007. Decentralized inactive segments are held at the Washington National Records Center, and at the U.S. Army Investigative Records Depository, Fort Meade, MD 20755. Automated Joint Adjudicative Clearance System records are maintained on a system V5&hyph;02, Defense Central Index of Investigations, at Defense Investigative Service, Personnel Investigations Center, Baltimore, MD, with access by computer terminals at Directorate for Industrial Security Clearance Review (DISCR) locations. Categories of individuals covered by the system: Current and former government contractor employees whose industrial security clearance or trustworthiness cases were referred to DISCR for adjudication under DOD Directive 5220.6, Defense Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Review Program or DoD Regulation 5200.2&hyph;R, DoD Personnel Security Program. Categories of records in the system: System includes automated case status records for current cases and inactive cases, an alphabetical card index file for records of cases prior to 1984 used for recording actions taken and for identification and location of case files within the system, and individual case files. Case files include requests for investigation and clearance; general correspondence relating to cases; personnel security questionnaires; investigative reports prepared by various investigative agencies, which may include information obtained from interviews, court documents, law enforcement records, business records, and other sources; medical and psychiatric records and evaluations; adjudicator's case summaries; DISCO referral recommendations; correspondence between applicants for clearance and DISCR elements, DISCO, medical facilities, DoD Psychiatric Consultants, investigative agencies, Military Departments, other DoD Components and Federal agencies, Personnel Security Specialists, Department Counsel, Administrative Judges, Appeal Board, and elements of the Office of the Secretary of Defense and Defense Investigative Service; written interrogatories and Statements of Reasons (SOR) to applicants, with replies, recommendations, summaries, and records of adjudicative actions, including Administrative Judge and Appeal Board decisions; transcripts of hearings; and exhibits. Supplementing the system's case files are redacted copies, with indexes thereto, of DISCR Administrative Judge and Appeal Board decisions from July 1961 to present. Names and other identifying information are redacted from these decisions to protect the privacy of persons involved. Authority for maintenance of the system: E.O. 10865, Safeguarding Classified Information Within Industry, as amended by E.O. 10909, E.O. 11382, and E.O. 12829; DOD Directive 5220.6, Industrial Personnel Security Clearance Program (32 CFR part 155); DOD Regulation 5200.2&hyph;R, DOD Personnel Security Program (32 CFR part 154). Purpose(s): These records are collected and maintained to determine whether the granting or retention of security clearance or holding a sensitive position requiring a trustworthiness decision to contractor personnel is clearly consistent with the national interest, to record adjudicative actions and determinations; to record processing steps taken and processing time; to prepare statistical listings and summaries; to document due process actions taken; to assist authorized DOD Consulting Psychiatrists to compile evaluations and reports; to respond to inquiries from offices within the executive and legislative branches when the inquiry is made at the request of the individual or for official purposes; to monitor and control adjudicative actions and processes. Automated case status system and card files are used to record statistics, provide location and status and internal identification of cases, to prepare listings and statistical reports and summaries, and to monitor work flow and actions. Routine uses of records maintained in the system, including categories of users and the purposes of such uses: In addition to those disclosures generally permitted under 5 U.S.C. 552a(b) of the Privacy Act, these records or information contained therein may specifically be disclosed outside the DoD as a routine use pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(b)(3) as follows: The `Blanket Routine Uses' set forth at the beginning of OSD's compilation of systems of records notices apply to this system. Policies and practices for storing, retrieving, accessing, retaining, and disposing of records in the system: Storage: Paper records are maintained in file folders, and on file cards at DISCR some records created by DISCR are stored on hard drives or disks for retrieval on word processing equipment; and automated records in electronic storage are maintained on magnetic tapes and disks at Defense Investigative Service, Personnel Investigations Center, Baltimore, MD. Retrievability: Filed alphabetically by name or by case number. Access to computer data may be made by name and Social Security Number and a combination of name and other personal identifying data. Safeguards: Records are stored in a secured area accessible only to authorized personnel. All records are stored, processed, transmitted and protected as the equivalent of For Official Use Only information. Records are accessed by the custodian of the record system and by persons responsible for using or servicing the system, who are properly screened and have a need-to-know. Computer hardware is located in controlled areas with access limited to authorized personnel. Computer access is via dedicated data circuits which prevent access from standard dial-up telephones or is individually password controlled. Individual passwords are changed periodically including upon departure of personnel. The automated systems are operated by DISCR and by the Defense Investigative Service, Personnel Investigations Center, Information Systems Division. Only DISCR personnel with need-to-know are given individual passwords and user identification, information needed to access the computer system and amend, add, alter, change or delete DISCR records. Other authorized contributors and users of the Defense Central Index of Investigations have read-only access to DISCR case status records in the system. Retention and disposal: Completed case files are retained in office files for two years after annual cut-offs, then are retired to the Washington National Records Center, for an additional 20 years. Inactive case files completed prior to 1982 are maintained at the U.S. Army Investigative Records Repository, Ft. Meade, MD 20755. Automated electronic case status records and alphabetical card index files are retained as locator for both active and inactive records. Computer data and alphabetical card files are purged when the inactive case file is no longer retained. System manager(s) and address: Director, Directorate for Industrial Security Clearance Review, 4015 Wilson Boulevard, Suite 300, Arlington, VA 22203&hyph;1995. Notification procedure: Individuals seeking to determine whether information about themselves is contained in this system should address written inquiries to the Director, Directorate for Industrial Security Clearance Review, P.O. Box 3656, Arlington, VA 22203&hyph;1995. Record access procedures: Requests for copies of redacted, final determinations of Administrative Judges and Appeal Board should be sent to the system manager, and should include OSD Case Number. Individuals seeking information about themselves contained in this system should address written inquiries to the Director, Directorate for Industrial Security Clearance Review, 4015 Wilson Boulevard, Suite 300, Arlington, VA 22203&hyph;1995. Some records may be made available for review at DISCR Headquarters, 4015 Wilson Boulevard, Suite 300, Arlington, VA. Written requests by an individual for copies of records containing information pertaining to the individual should be sent to Directorate for Freedom of Information and Security Review, Office of the Assistant Secretary of Defense (Public Affairs), 1400 Defense Pentagon, Washington, DC 20301&hyph;1400 and should include the individual's full name, any former names used, date and place of birth, and Social Security Number. Requests must be signed and notarized or, if the individual does not have access to notary services, preceded by a signed and dated declaration verifying the identity of the requester, in substantially the following form: `I certify that the information provided by me is true, complete, and accurate to the best of my knowledge and belief and this request is made in good faith. I understand that a knowing and willful false, fictitious or fraudulent statement or representation can be punished by fine or imprisonment or both.' (Signature). Contesting record procedures: The OSD's rules for accessing records, for contesting contents and appealing initial agency determinations are published in OSD Administrative Instruction 81; 32 CFR part 311; or may be obtained from the system manager. Record source categories: Information is received from investigative reports from federal investigative agencies; personnel security records and correspondence; medical and personnel records, reports and evaluations; correspondence from contractors, employers, organizations of assignment and Federal agencies; DOD organizations, agencies and offices; from individuals, their attorneys or authorized representatives. Exemptions claimed for the system: Parts of this record system may be exempt under 5 U.S.C. 552a(k)(5), as applicable. An exemption rule for this record system has been promulgated according to the requirements of 5 U.S.C. 553(b)(1), (2), and (3), (c) and (e) and published in 32 CFR part 311. For additional information contact the system manager. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;6869; 03&hyph;23&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 5000&hyph;04&hyph;F
