FR940613-1-00002 FR940613-1-00001 NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION 10 CFR Part 9 [Docket No. PRM&hyph;9&hyph;2] Ohio Citizens for Responsible Energy, Inc.; Receipt of Petition for Rulemaking AGENCY: Nuclear Regulatory Commission. ACTION: Petition for rulemaking; notice of receipt. SUMMARY: The Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) is publishing for public comment a notice of receipt of a petition for rulemaking dated February 10, 1994, which was filed with the Commission by Ohio Citizens for Responsible Energy, Inc. (OCRE). The petition was docketed by the NRC on February 15, 1994, and has been assigned Docket No. PRM&hyph;9&hyph;2. OCRE filed an amendment to the petition which was docketed by the NRC on April 11, 1994. The petitioner requests that the NRC amend its regulations to establish public right-to-know provisions that would ensure public access to licensee-held information. DATES: Submit comments by August 29, 1994. Comments received after this date will be considered if it is practical to do so but the Commission is able to ensure consideration only for comments received on or before this date. ADDRESSES: Submit written comments to the Secretary of the Commission, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555, Attention: Docketing and Service Branch. Deliver comments to 11555 Rockville Pike, Rockville, Maryland, between 7:45 am and 4:15 pm on Federal workdays. For a copy of the petition, write the Rules Review and Directives Branch, Division of Freedom of Information and Publications Services, Office of Administration, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555. The petition and copies of comments received may be inspected and copied for a fee at the NRC Public Document Room, 2120 L Street, NW. (Lower Level), Washington, DC. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Michael T. Lesar, Chief, Rules Review Section, Rules Review and Directives Branch, Division of Freedom of Information and Publications Services, Office of Administration, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555, Telephone: 301&hyph;415&hyph;7163 or Toll Free: 800&hyph;368&hyph;5642. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background The regulations specified in 10 CFR Part 9 address the public's right of access to information held by NRC. Subpart A prescribes procedures for making NRC agency records available to the public for inspection and copying under the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) and provides notice of procedures for obtaining NRC records otherwise publicly available. Subpart B implements the provisions of the Privacy Act of 1974 with respect to the procedures by which individuals may determine the existence of, seek access to, and request correction of NRC records concerning themselves. Subpart B also covers the requirements applicable to NRC personnel with respect to the use and dissemination of such records. The Petitioner On February 10, 1994, OCRE filed a petition for rulemaking under 10 CFR 2.802 with the NRC. OCRE filed an amendment to the petition on April 11, 1994. The petitioner is a private, not-for-profit organization incorporated under the laws of the State of Ohio. OCRE specializes in research and advocacy on nuclear safety issues and supports the highest standards of safety and environmental protection. OCRE also supports the right of meaningful public participation in the regulation of nuclear facilities. The petitioner was an intervenor in the operating license proceeding for the Perry Nuclear Power Plant and has intervened in three operating license amendment cases regarding Perry. Reasons for the Petition According to the petitioner, the purpose of the petition is to request a change to the rules regarding public access to information as stated in 10 CFR part 9, particularly information that is held by licensees but is not submitted to the NRC. OCRE contends that it has observed a trend in the NRC's regulatory practice in the past several years that decreases the amount of information to which the public has access. The petitioner believes that this trend is apparent in NRC bulletins and generic letters issued over the past six years. OCRE states that these documents instruct licensees to send conclusory statements that they have completed the requested actions to the NRC instead of instructing licensees to send the NRC detailed documentation and analyses of their actions. The detailed records are kept at the plant site where they are accessible only to NRC inspectors. The petitioner is particularly concerned because if these materials are never sent to the NRC, they will not get into the Public Document Room and the public will never have access to them. OCRE further states that the materials will not even be obtainable under the FOIA unless an NRC inspector happens to make a copy of the requested documents and the documents are still in the agency's possession at the time the FOIA request is filed. OCRE refers to the Station Blackout rule in ยง50.63(a)(2), which states that ``the capability for coping with a station blackout of specified duration shall be determined by an appropriate coping analysis. Utilities are expected to have the baseline assumptions, analyses, and related information used in their coping evaluations available for NRC review.'' It is not apparent to the petitioner that this material is actually sent to the NRC and made publicly available.
