FR940822-2-00010 FR940822-2-00008 5. Revise the ``Export Trade Activities and Methods of Operation'' in NFE's Export Trade Certificate of Review. The revised ``Export Trade Activities and Methods of Operation'' reads as follows: 1. With respect to fresh sweet cherries and fresh apples: a. NFE may on behalf and with the advice of its Members advise and cooperate with the United States Government in (i) establishing procedures regulating the export of the Products, and (ii) fulfilling the phytosanitary and/or funding requirements imposed by foreign governments for export of the Products. b. NFE may on behalf and with the advice of its Members participate in negotiations and enter into agreements with foreign buyers (including governments and private persons) regarding: (i) fumigating, packing and other quality control and/or phytosanitary procedures to be followed in the export of the Products. Such procedures may include activities related to insect and disease detection, certification, inspection, storage and treatment protocols required to qualify goods for export shipment and to meet the import requirements of the foreign government; (ii) the quantities, time periods, prices and terms and conditions, in connection with actual or potential bona fide export opportunities, upon which NFE's Members will export the Products. c. NFE may on behalf and with the advice of its Members establish and operate fumigation facilities for use in the export of the Products. d. NFE may on behalf and with the advice of its Members establish and administer phytosanitary protocols for the purpose of qualifying the Products for Export Markets. e. NFE may on behalf and with the advice of its Members provide market entry and development assistance, including related administrative and promotional services, to its Members. f. NFE may on behalf and with the advice of its Members negotiate and enter into agreements with providers of transportation services for export of the Products. g. NFE may recover administrative expenses and costs related to qualifying and preparing Members' Products for export through fees and assessments allocated to each Member on a pro-rata share basis or any other non discriminatory method. If a Member objects to the method of allocating expenses and costs, the Member shall be entitled to be charged on the basis of actual expenses incurred. h. NFE may on behalf and with the advice of its Members develop internal operational procedures and disseminate information to Members to assist the membership in meeting the criteria established by foreign governments for exportation of the Products. i. NFE may on behalf and with the advice of its Members engage in such activities as are necessary to ensure that the activities of growers and packers during the various stages of growing, harvesting, grading, packing, packaging, labeling, storage, and treatment meet the requirements established by a relevant foreign government so that the Members' goods will qualify for importation into the country subject to such requirements. j. NFE may on behalf and with the advice of its Members allocate the capacity of facilities, time of domestic and foreign inspection personnel, and other resources of NFE amongst the Members engaged in the shipment of Products for export, provided that such allocations are based on shipment quantities or other non-discriminatory criteria.
