FR941222-2-00129 FR941222-2-00100 5. Activities to carry out the ``Responsibilities'' listed under Section I.E.1. G. Ineligible Activities Ineligible activities are: 1. Research activities which have no clear and immediate practical application for solving urban problems or do not address specific problems in designated communities and neighborhoods. 2. Any type of construction, rehabilitation, or other physical development costs. 3. Costs used for day-to-day administration of regular programs of institutions of higher education, local governments or neighborhood groups. II. Selection Criteria/Rating Factors A. Rating Factors As a result of a year of experience under the program, the Department has decided to streamline and revise the selection criteria. Changes are noted in the discussion of specific factors. HUD will use the following criteria to rate and rank applications received in response to this NOFA. The factors and maximum points for each factor are provided below. The maximum number of points is 100. Rating of the ``applicant'' or the ``applicant's organization and staff'', unless otherwise specified, will include any sub-contractors, consultants and sub-recipients which are firmly committed to the project. (1) (10 points) The demonstrated research and outreach resources available to the applicant for carrying out the purposes of the COPC Act. In rating this factor, HUD will consider the extent to which the applicant's organization and staff have recent, relevant and successful experience in: (a) Undertaking research activities in specific communities which have clear near-term potential for practical application to significant urban problems associated with housing, economic development, neighborhood revitalization, infrastructure, health care, job training, education, crime prevention, planning and community organizing, and (b) Undertaking outreach activities in specific communities to solve or ameliorate the impact of significant urban problems. Under this factor, HUD will also evaluate the capability of the applicant to provide leadership in solving community problems and in making national contributions to solving long-term and immediate urban problems. In the FY 1994 competition, research and outreach resources and local and national prominence were three separate selection factors. (2) (10 points) The demonstrated commitment of the applicant to supporting research and outreach programs by providing matching contributions for the Federal assistance received. In rating this factor, HUD will provide an increasing number of points for increasing amounts of contributions beyond the statutory 50 percent for research and 25 percent for outreach. Maximum points will be awarded for applications that secure 50 percent more than the amount of match required. Points will also be awarded based on the tangibility of the match, with cash and services being rated higher than indirect contributions. (3) (10 points) The extent of need in the communities to be served by the applicant. HUD will consider the extent to which the proposal clearly delineates a need or needs in the specific communities or neighborhoods (including colonias, where appropriate), that can be resolved through the activities of a COPC. The applicant must demonstrate how these needs were determined and how the COPC will help resolve these needs. (4) (10 points) The demonstrated ability of the applicant to disseminate results of research and successful strategies developed through outreach activities to other COPC and communities served through this demonstration program. In rating this factor, HUD will evaluate the past experience of the applicant's staff and the scope and the quality of the applicant's proposal to disseminate information on its own and other COPC research results and strategies to: (a) local communities in its area and (b) other communities and COPC through the National Clearinghouse. (5) (35 points) The projects and activities that the applicant proposes to carry out under the grant. This factor has two sub-factors: (a) effectiveness of the research strategy (10 points), and (b) effectiveness of the outreach strategy (25 points). (a) In rating the effectiveness of the research strategy, HUD will consider the extent to which the applicant's proposal outlines a clear research agenda related to local needs that can be successfully carried out within the period of this grant; and (b) Demonstrates how the research to be undertaken will fit into the outreach strategy and activities. In rating the effectiveness of the outreach factor, HUD will consider the extent to which: (i) The application identifies a clear outreach agenda related to locally-identified needs that can be successfully carried out within the period of this grant; (ii) The outreach agenda includes design of a community strategy to resolve community and neighborhood problems; and (iii) The outreach program provides for on-site or a frequent presence in the communities and neighborhoods to be assisted through outreach activities. (6) (10 points) The extent of neighborhood and neighborhood based organization participation in the planning and implementation of the COPC. In rating this factor, HUD will consider whether:
