FR940620-1-00077 FR940620-1-00009 *␣*␣*␣* Corporation, individual, or other person, as appropriate. Date Printed Name and Title Signature XXXXXXXX '' (End of Identification and Assertion) (4) When requested by the contracting officer, the contractor shall provide sufficient information to enable the contracting officer to evaluate the contractor's assertions. The contracting officer reserves the right to add the contractor's assertions to the Attachment and validate any listed assertion, at a later date, in accordance with the procedures of the ``Validation of Restrictive Markings on Technical Data'' clause of this contract. (f) Marking requirements. The contractor, and its subcontractors or suppliers, may only assert restrictions on the Government's rights to use, modify, reproduce, release, or disclose technical data to be delivered under this contract by marking the deliverable data subject to restriction. Except as provided in paragraph (f)(5) of this clause, only the following legends are authorized under this contract: The Government purpose rights legend at subparagraph (f)(2); the limited rights legend at subparagraph (f)(3) of this clause; or, the special license rights legend at subparagraph (f)(4); and/or a notice of copyright as prescribed under 17 U.S.C. 401 or 402. (1) General marking instructions. The contractor, or its subcontractors or suppliers, shall conspicuously and legibly mark the appropriate legend on all technical data that qualify for such markings. The authorized legends shall be placed on the transmittal document or storage container and, for printed material, each page of the printed material containing technical data for which restrictions are asserted. When only portions of a page of printed material are subject to the asserted restrictions, such portions shall be identified by circling, underscoring, with a note, or other appropriate identifier. Reproductions of technical data or any portions thereof subject to asserted restrictions shall also reproduce the asserted restrictions. (2) Goverrnment purpose rights markings. Data delivered or otherwise furnished to the Government with Government purposes rights shall be marked as follows: ``GOVERNMENT PURPOSE RIGHTS Contract No. Contractor Name Contractor Address Expiration Date The Government's rights to use, modify, reproduce, release, perform, display, or disclose these technical data are restricted by paragraph (b)(2) of the clause at 252.227&hyph;7013 contained in the above identified contract. No restrictions apply after the expiration date shown above. Any reproduction of technical data or portions thereof marked with this legend must also reproduce the markings.'' (End of Legend) (3) Limited rights markings. Data delivered or otherwise furnished to the Government with limited rights shall be marked with the following legend: ``LIMITED RIGHTS Contract No. Contractor Name Contractor Address The Government's rights to use, modify, reproduce, release, perform, display, or disclose these technical data are restricted by paragraph (b)(3) of the clause at 252.7013 contained in the above identified contract. Any reproduction of technical data or portions thereof marked with this legend must also reproduce the markings. Any person, other than the Government, who has been provided access to such data must promptly notify the above named contractor.'' (End of Legend) (4) Special license rights markings. (i) Data in which the Government's rights stem from a specifically negotiated license shall be marked with the following legend: ``Special License Rights The Government's rights to use, modify, reproduce, release, perform, display, or disclose these data are restricted by contract no. XXX (Insert contract number) XXX , license no. XXX (Insert license identifier) XXX . Any reproduction of technical data or portions thereof marked with this legend must also reproduce the markings.'' (End of Legend) (ii) For purposes of this clause, special licenses do not include Government purpose license rights acquired under a prior contract (see subparagraph (b)(5) of this clause). (5) Pre-existing data markings. If the terms of a prior contract or license permitted the contractor to restrict the Government's rights to use, modify, reproduce, release, perform, display, or disclose technical data deliverable under this contract, and those restrictions are still applicable, the contractor may mark such data with the appropriate restrictive legend for which the data qualified under the prior contract or license. The marking procedures in subparagraph (f)(1) of this clause shall be followed. (g) Contractor procedures and records. Throughout performance of this contract, the contractor and its subcontractors or suppliers that will deliver technical data with other than unlimited rights, shall_ (1) Have, maintain, and follow written procedures sufficient to assure that restrictive markings are used only when authorized by the terms of this clause; and, (2) Maintain records sufficient to justify the validity of any restrictive markings on technical data delivered under this contract. (h) Removal of unjustified and nonconforming markings. (1) Unjustified technical data markings. The rights and obligations of the parties regarding the validation of restrictive markings on technical data furnished or to be furnished under this contract are contained in the clause at 252.227&hyph;7037, ``Validation of Restrictive Markings on Technical Data''. Notwithstanding any provision of this contract concerning inspection and acceptance, the Government may ignore or, at the Contractor's expense, correction or cancel a marking if, in accordance with the procedures at 252.227&hyph;7037, a restrictive marking is determined to be unjustified.
