FR940805-0-00029 FR940805-0-00010 PART 103_FAIR HOUSING_COMPLAINT PROCESSING 1. The authority citation for part 103 continues to read as follows: Authority: 42 U.S.C. 3535(d) and 3601&hyph;3619. §103.335 [Amended] 2. Section 103.335 is amended by removing the words ``General Counsel'' and inserting ``Assistant Secretary'' in their place. 3. Section 103.400 is amended by revising paragraphs (a)(2), (a)(3), (b), and (c), to read as follows: §103.400 Reasonable cause determination. (a)␣*␣*␣* (2) If, based on the totality of the factual circumstances known at the time of the decision, the Assistant Secretary believes that reasonable cause may exist to believe that a discriminatory housing practice has occurred or is about to occur, the Assistant Secretary shall determine that reasonable cause exists to believe that a discriminatory housing practice has occurred or is about to occur, in all cases not involving the legality of local land use laws or ordinances (except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section). The Assistant Secretary's determination shall be based solely on the facts concerning the alleged discriminatory housing practices provided by complainants and respondents and otherwise identified during the investigation in making this determination. In making this determination, the Assistant Secretary shall consider whether the facts concerning the alleged discriminatory housing practice are sufficient to warrant the initiation of a civil action in federal court. (i) If the Assistant Secretary determines that reasonable cause exists, the Assistant Secretary will immediately issue a charge under §103.405 on behalf of the aggrieved person, and shall notify the complainant and the respondent of this determination by certified mail or personal service. (ii) If the Assistant Secretary determines that no reasonable cause exists, the Assistant Secretary shall: Issue a short and plain written statement of the facts upon which the Assistant Secretary has based the no reasonable cause determination; dismiss the complaint; notify the complainant and the respondent of the dismissal (including the written statement of facts) by mail; and make public disclosure of the dismissal. The complainant or respondent may request that no public disclosure be made. Notwithstanding such a request, the fact of dismissal, including the names of the parties, shall be public information available on request. (3) If the Assistant Secretary determines that the matter involves the legality of local zoning or land use laws or ordinances, the Assistant Secretary, in lieu of making a determination regarding reasonable cause, shall refer the investigative material to the Attorney General for appropriate action under section 814(b)(1) of the Fair Housing Act, and shall notify the complainant and the respondent of this action by mail or personal service. (b) The Assistant Secretary may not issue a charge under paragraph (a) of this section regarding an alleged discriminatory housing practice, if an aggrieved person has commenced a civil action under an Act of Congress or a state law seeking relief with respect to the alleged housing practice and the trial in the action has commenced. If a charge may not be issued because of the commencement of such a trial, the Assistant Secretary shall so notify the complainant and the respondent by certified mail or personal service. (c)(1) A determination of reasonable cause or no reasonable cause by the Assistant Secretary shall be made within 100 days after filing of the complaint (or where the Assistant Secretary has reactivated a complaint, within 100 days after service of the notice of reactivation under §103.115), unless it is impracticable to do so. (2) If the Assistant Secretary is unable to make the determination within the 100-day period specified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the Assistant Secretary will notify the complainant and the respondent by mail of the reasons for the delay. 4. In §103.405, paragraph (a)(1) is amended by removing the words ``General Counsel'' and inserting in their place the words ``Assistant Secretary''; and paragraph (b) is amended by adding a new sentence at the beginning of the introductory text, to read as follows: §103.405 Issuance of charge. * * * * * (b) Within one business day after the issuance of a charge, the Assistant Secretary shall notify the General Counsel of the issuance of the charge. *␣*␣* * * * * * Dated: July 29, 1994. Henry G. Cisneros, Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;19178 Filed 8&hyph;4&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4210&hyph;32&hyph;P
