FR940727-0-00099 FR940727-0-00025 DOD Criminal Investigation Organizations Refers to the USACIDC; the Naval Investigative Service; the U.S. Air Force Office of Special Investigations; and the Defense Criminal Investigative Service, Office of the Inspector General, DOD. Fraud Any intentional deception of DOD (including attempts and conspiracies to effect such deception) for the purpose of inducing DOD action or reliance on that deception. Such practices include, but are not limited to, the following: bid-rigging; making or submitting false statements; submission of false claims; use of false weights or measures; submission of false testing certificates; adulterating or substituting materials; or conspiring to use any of these devices. Improper or Illegal Conduct a. A violation of any law, rule, or regulation in connection with Government misconduct; or b. Mismanagement, a gross waste of funds, an abuse of authority, or a substantial and specific danger to public health or safety. Information Exempt From Release To The Public Those categories of information which may be withheld from the public under one or more provisions of law. Judge Advocate An officer so designated (AR 27&hyph;1). Legal Adviser A civilian attorney who is the principal legal adviser to the commander or operating head of any Army command or agency. Litigation Legal action or process involving civil proceedings, i.e., noncriminal. Litigation in Which The United States Has an Interest a. A suit in which the United States or one of its agencies or instrumentalities has been, or probably will be, named as a party. b. A suit against DA personnel and arises out of the individual's performance of official duties. c. A suit concerning an Army contract, subcontract, or purchase order under the terms of which the United States may be required to reimburse the contractor for recoveries, fees, or costs of the litigation. d. A suit involving administrative proceedings before Federal, state, municipal, or foreign tribunals or regulatory bodies that may have a financial impact upon the Army. e. A suit affecting Army operations or which might require, limit, or interfere with official action. f. A suit in which the United States has a financial interest in the plaintiff's recovery. g. Foreign litigation in which the United States is bound by treaty or agreement to ensure attendance by military personnel or civilian employees. Medical Care Includes hospitalization, outpatient treatment, dental care, nursing service, drugs, and other adjuncts such as prostheses and medical appliances furnished by or at the expense of the United States. Misdemeanor An offense for which the maximum penalty does not exceed imprisonment for 1 year. Misdemeanors include those offenses categorized as petty offenses (18 USC ยง3559). Official Information All information of any kind, however stored, that is in the custody and control of the Department of Defense, relates to information in the custody and control of the Department, or was acquired by DoD personnel as part of their official duties or because of their official status within the Department while such personnel were employed by or on behalf of the Department or on active duty with the United States Armed Forces.
