FR940405-0-00036 FR940405-0-00004 22. Several comments addressed provisions in certain of the proposed rules which require plans or programs to implement those rules. These comments stated that more time should be given to prepare the plans and programs and that they not provide the basis for the imposition of civil penalties. Response: In general, plans that provide the schedules and actions necessary to implement the requirements of specific sections must be submitted to DOE within 180 days of the effective date of the rule. DOE has decided this schedule is not unreasonably short, especially since these plans are intended to identify the specific actions and programs necessary to fully comply with a section which has a corresponding Order that is already effective. DOE believes the expressed concerns relate more to the question of when a contractor must comply fully with a rule. DOE expects a contractor to comply with a rule when it becomes effective. DOE understands that, in many circumstances, a contractor may not be able to take all actions for full compliance immediately. The proposal was premised on the use, where appropriate, of plans and programs to obtain full compliance with nuclear safety requirements. These plans and programs were envisioned as setting forth the specific actions for implementing a requirement and the schedule for taking those actions. DOE has decided to state this premise explicitly in the final rule by adding a definition of ``implementation plan'' and by specifically requiring implementation plans in appropriate sections. Implementation plans will set forth when and how a contractor will take those actions necessary to attain full compliance with the provisions of a section or the provisions of a plan or program required by the section. Implementation plans also will identify where a contractor cannot attain full compliance with a nuclear safety requirement and what relief a contractor intends to seek. DOE also has modified Section 830.4 to make clear that, where required, implementation plans, along with plans and programs, will be the basis for determining compliance with relevant nuclear safety requirements. DOE believes the use of plans, programs, and implementation plans will encourage DOE and its contractors to work together to identify and take those actions appropriate for each facility. DOE expects its contractors will submit plans and programs that represent a good faith effort to achieve full compliance with nuclear safety requirements as soon as reasonably practicable. DOE intends to work with its contractors where there are differences about how and when to achieve compliance. However, DOE will act to ensure that plans and programs are submitted and approved pursuant to the schedules set forth in specific sections. To that end, if agreement cannot be negotiated with a contractor, DOE will exercise its authority to modify submitted plans that do not include those actions and schedules appropriate for achieving full compliance in a reasonable manner. The nature of plans is discussed more thoroughly in the preamble to the final rule on Part 820. 23. There were many comments related to the enforcement (Section 830.5) of part 830 using the provisions of 10 CFR part 820. Response: The responses to these comments were included in the publication package of 10 CFR part 820. The general provisions in this subpart are unaffected by those comments relating to the specifics of enforcement. 24. One commenter suggested that 10 CFR 830.7(a) be revised to read as follows: ``A graded approach shall be utilized to comply with the requirements.'' The individual felt that the intent of the rule is to apply a graded approach across the board to all nuclear safety requirements. Response: The Department has not adopted this comment with respect to reactors generally because there are some areas in reactor safety where a graded approach is not justified; therefore, grading applies only to those subparts where it is specifically referenced. The definition of nonreactor nuclear facility indicates that grading always applies to such a facility. 25. A number of comments were received which stated that the burden of justifying the use of the graded approach to meet each of the nuclear safety requirements will require considerable resources. Response: The intent of paragraph 830.7(b) is that contractors document the basis for the actions selected pursuant to the graded approach, where it is permitted. Paragraph 830.7(b) has been modified to state this intent. Implementation of requirements using a documented graded approach will require less resources than an approach which requires full compliance with all requirements. C. Quality Assurance Requirements Section 830.120 Quality Assurance Program (QAP) Submittals 1. There were several comments relating to the scope of QAP submittals and the need for multiple QAPs at one facility. Response: Regarding the scope of QAP submittals, DOE agrees that they should be limited to a ``description'' of the QAP. It is not the Department's intent that submittals of the QAP include contractor policy manuals, organization charts and charters, and implementing procedures. The definition of ``Quality Assurance Program'' in §830.3 makes this clear when it states that the ``QAP means the overall program for a DOE nuclear facility which assigns responsibilities and authorities, defines policies and requirements, and provides for the performance and assessment of work.'' Regarding multiple QAPs for one facility, the Department believes that there may be cases where some facilities will require separate QAPs to address their widely different work. However, the Department also believes that it is possible in many instances to develop and implement a site-wide QAP where multiple facilities exist. 2. There were several comments regarding the approval of QAPs. The first dealt with the concept of automatically approving QAPs after 90 days. Response: This concept is not new. The NRC has successfully implemented a similar program for the past 10 years. The intent of the 90-day limitation (unless approved or rejected by DOE prior to that time) is to avoid situations where contractors are left without a decision regarding their QAPs' acceptability because DOE exigencies preclude timely review. It is the Department's expectation that DOE will review QAPs within the allotted time. If for some reason the review cannot be accomplished in the allotted time, the program will be approved and in effect, subject to DOE's right to modify the program at a later time. Implementation plans will be approved in the same manner as QAPs. (See response to Question 22 in previous section.) 3. Another comment suggested that annual approval of changes to QAPs was too infrequent. Response: Experience at the NRC has shown that changes to QAPs do not manifest themselves at the working level so quickly as to require formal submittal and review more often than once per year. If an interim change to a QAP violates nuclear safety requirements, the contractor is subject to enforcement action if the violation has safety significance since a QAP must be consistent with the criteria set forth in §830.120. 4. Another comment dealt with the level of approval. The comment suggested that the rule specify the precise level of DOE approval for QAPs. Specifically, it was suggested that the Program Secretarial Officer be designated. Response: The Department does not agree that the titles of those persons or organizations responsible for approving QAPs should appear in the rule because of the potential administrative burden it would cause. Specific titles, such as ``Program Secretarial Officer,'' are subject to routine changes, and these changes would necessitate routine revisions to the rule if the titles were included in the text of the rule. The specific level of approval for QAPs should be specified in the operating procedures of the individual program offices tasked with that responsibility. 5. Lastly, one comment suggested that the rule be revised to state that the contractor's approved QAP be used as the basis against which assessments would be conducted and the contractor held accountable. Response: As discussed previously, §830.4(c) makes clear that the QAP and the implementation plan for §830.120 will be used to determine compliance with §830.120.
