FR941026-0-00028 FR941026-0-00008 The Rule amendment is not subject to the Paper Reduction Act because it imposes no obligatory information requirements beyond internal DoD use. List of Subjects in 32 CFR Parts 90 and 91 Community development, Government employees, Military personnel, Surplus Government property. PART 90_REVITALIZING BASE CLOSURE COMMUNITIES 1. The authority citation for 32 CFR part 90 continues to read as follows: Authority: 10 U.S.C. 2687 note. §90.4 [Removed and Reserved] 2. Section 90.4(a)(1)(iii) is removed and reserved. 3. Section 90.4(b) is revised to read as follows: §90.4 Policy. * * * * * (b) In implementing Title XXIX of Public Law 103&hyph;160, it is DoD policy to convey property to a Local Redevelopment Authority (LRA) to help foster economic development and job creation when other federal property disposal options cannot achieve such objectives. Conveyances to the LRA will be made under terms and conditions designed to facilitate local economic redevelopment and job creation, and may be made at less than fair market value, with proper justification. * * * * * PART 91_REVITALIZING BASE CLOSURE COMMUNITIES_BASE CLOSURE COMMUNITY ASSISTANCE 4. The authority citation for part 91 continues to read as follows: Authority: 10 U.S.C. 2687 note. 4A. Section 91.4 is revised to read as follows: §91.4 Policy. It is DoD policy to convey property to a Local Redevelopment Authority (LRA) to help foster economic development and job creation when other federal property disposal options cannot achieve such objectives. Conveyances to the LRA will be made under terms and conditions designed to facilitate local economic redevelopment and job creation, and may be made at less than fair market value, with property justification. This regulation does not create any rights and remedies and may not be relied upon by any person, organization, or other entity to allege a denial of any rights or remedies other than those provided by Pub. L. 103&hyph;160, Title XXIX. §91.7 [Removed and Reserved] 5. Section 91.7(d) is removed and reserved. 6. Sections 91.7 (e) and (f) are revised to read as follows: §91.7 Procedures. * * * * * (e) Economic Development Conveyances (1) Section 2903 of Public Law 103&hyph;160 gives the Secretary of Defense the authority to transfer property to local redevelopment authorities for consideration in cash or in kind, with or without initial payment or with only partial payment at time of transfer, at or below the estimated fair market value of the property. This authority creates an additional tool for local communities to help spur economic opportunity through a new real property conveyance method specifically designed for economic development, referred to as the ``Economic Development Conveyance'' (EDC). (2) The EDC should only be used when other Federal property disposal authorities for the intended land use cannot be used to accomplish the necessary economic redevelopment. (3) Before making an EDC, the Military Department must prepare an estimate of the present fair market value of the property, which may be expressed as a range of values. The Military Department shall consult with the Local Redevelopment Authority on valuation assumptions, guidelines and on instructions given to the person(s) making the estimation of value, but shall be fully responsible for completion of the valuation. (4) A Local Redevelopment Authority (LRA) is the only entity able to receive property under an Economic Development Conveyance. An LRA should have broad-based membership, including, but not limited to representatives from those jurisdictions with zoning authority over the property. The Secretary of Defense shall officially recognize an LRA for planning and/or implementation through the Office of Economic Adjustment. (5) A properly completed application will be the basis for a decision on whether an LRA will be eligible for an Economic Development Conveyance. An application should be submitted by the LRA after a Redevelopment Plan is adopted by the LRA. The Secretary of the Military Departments shall establish a reasonable time period for submission of the EDC application after consultation with the LRA. The Services will review the applications and make a decision whether to make an EDC based on the criteria specified in paragraph (e)(7) of this section. The terms and conditions of the EDC will be negotiated between the Military Departments and the LRA. Bases in rural areas shall be conveyed with no consideration if they meet the standards in paragraph (f)(3) of this section. (6) The application should explain why an EDC is necessary for economic redevelopment and job creation. In addition to the elements in paragraph (e)(6) of this section, after Military Department review of the application, additional information may be requested to allow for a better evaluation of the application. The application should contain the following elements: (i) A copy of the adopted redevelopment plan. (ii) A project narrative including the following: (A) A general description of property requested. (B) A description of the intended uses. (C) A description of the economic impact of closure on the local communities. (D) A description of the financial condition of the community and the prospects for redevelopment of the property. (E) A statement of how the EDC is consistent with the overall Redevelopment Plan.
