FR940228-1-00102 FR940228-1-00010 Section 668.22␣Institutional Refunds and Repayments General The Amendments of 1992 added section 484B to the HEA to require an institution to have in place, as of July 23, 1992, a fair and equitable institutional refund policy as promulgated in that section. The fair and equitable refund requirements prescribed by law are similar to the fair and equitable refund requirements prescribed by §682.606 of the FFEL program regulations for institutions that participate in the FFEL programs. The HEA extends this requirement to institutions participating in any Title IV, HEA program and makes various modifications. Under this fair and equitable refund policy, an institution must make a refund of unearned tuition, fees, room and board, and other charges to a student who received Title IV, HEA program assistance (including PLUS loans received on behalf of the student) if the student does not register for the period of enrollment for which the student was charged or if the student withdraws, drops out, or is expelled from the institution before completing the period of enrollment for which he or she was charged. The interpretation of the applicability of a fair and equitable refund policy was the subject of extensive discussions among the negotiators. The HEA specifically mandates a refund to any student who received Title IV HEA program assistance. However, at issue during the negotiations was the fairness and equity in having a refund policy for students who receive Title IV, HEA program assistance that is different from the refund policy for those students enrolled in the same educational program who do not receive Title IV, HEA program assistance. Several negotiators felt that requiring institutions to apply the refund requirements found in this proposed section to all students who attend an institution would be an unauthorized intrusion by the Secretary into the administrative decisions of an institution. Many negotiators felt that compliance with a refund requirement that is applicable to all students would be too costly for an institution. Therefore, the Secretary proposes to define a fair and equitable refund policy only with respect to students who receive Title IV, HEA program assistance. Although the Secretary proposes to limit the scope of this provision to those recipients, under this proposed provision an institution would not be prohibited from adopting these refund requirements for all students. The Secretary proposes to require that an institution provide a written statement containing its refund policy to prospective students and make its policy known to currently enrolled students. This proposal is based upon requirements currently prescribed by §682.606 of the FFEL program regulations. The Secretary proposes to expand this FFEL provision to require that the written statement must be clear and conspicuous and must include information on the allocation of refunds and repayments to sources of aid. In keeping with current FFEL program regulations, the Secretary proposes that the written statement include examples of the application of the refund policy. This requirement would be met if the institution informs students in the written statement that examples are available and the institution makes the examples readily available to the student upon request. As in the current FFEL program regulations, the Secretary proposes to require an institution to provide the written statement to prospective students. Section 668.41(b) of current regulations defines a ``prospective student'' as an individual who has contacted an institution participating in any Title IV, HEA program for the purpose of requesting information concerning admission to the institution. The Secretary believes that a student is a ``prospective student'' if he or she is not enrolled in an institution and has not entered into any contractual agreement or incurred a financial obligation to attend an institution. Therefore, the Secretary proposes to require an institution to provide this written statement to a student prior to the earlier of the student's enrollment or the execution of the student's enrollment agreement. If the institution's refund policy changes, the institution would have to ensure that all students are made aware of the new policy and advise the currently enrolled students of any changes that the institution intended to apply to those students for their current enrollment period.
