FR941103-0-00086 FR941103-0-00013 4. Implement the Program in a Manner That Will Not Jeopardize or Undermine the Broader Management Objective of Minimizing the Mortality of Undersized Swordfish The regulations implementing the program contain every practicable safeguard to ensure this. Description of the Program Non-profit Although participants will incur costs associated with donated fish (harvesters_handling and processing, dealers_storage, Second Harvest_distribution), they will receive no direct economic benefit from landing and donating the undersized swordfish. Any purchase, sale, trade, or barter of undersized swordfish in excess of a vessel's trip allowance for undersized swordfish landed under the pilot program is prohibited. Selection Process NMFS will select participants (dealers and vessels) from among volunteers. Factors that will be considered in the selection process include: (1) History of voluntary participation in NMFS cooperative scientific programs, e.g., tag and release, sea sampling, collection of biological samples; (2) whether both vessel and dealer volunteers can be matched in an area throughout the year (including truck routes) to ensure distribution of donated fish; (3) representative coverage of the fishery to the extent possible; and (4) possible exclusion from the program of vessels and dealers with Magnuson Act, Lacey Act, or ATCA violations. Item (4) was expanded from the proposed rule, because NMFS does not want participants in the program who have serious violations, but NMFS wants to retain discretionary authority to include participants that have only minor violations. Scope of the Program The pilot program is divided into seven geographic regions: Gulf of Mexico, Florida East Coast, South Atlantic Bight, Mid-Atlantic Bight, Northeast Coastal, Northeast Distant Waters, and Caribbean. Initial efforts will be directed at establishing the program in the Gulf of Mexico region and then along the Atlantic seaboard. NMFS will select only one or two vessels initially, with only six vessels selected in the first year. NMFS intends to have 100 percent observer coverage of these vessels. After the logistics are worked out and any unforeseen problems are resolved, additional vessels/regions will be gradually added during the second year until the pilot program is established in all seven regions. Ultimately, two to four vessels and cooperating dealers will be selected to participate in each region. Responsibilities of Participating Fishermen
