FR941202-1-00038 FR941202-1-00005 (a) Leon D. Adams, in The Wines of America, describes the Cucamonga Valley as follows: The Cucamonga Valley, forty-five miles east of Los Angeles, has grown the bulk of Southern California wine during the present century. The vineyard area extends from Ontario east to Fontana and from the base of the San Gabriel Mountains southward to the Jurupa Hills in Riverside County. The climate, though tempered by winds from the ocean, is as warm as the northern San Joaquin Valley and is classed as Region IV. (b) The petitioner provided a copy of an article published in The Sun, a San Bernardino, California, newspaper, on March 30, 1994. The article, titled ``Fontana winery soaks up more awards,'' described awards won by two wines from J. Filippi Vintage Co. at a recent competition and stated that the ``Ruby Port is produced from Cucamonga Valley grapes, renowned for sherry and port wines.'' (c) The petitioner also provided an excerpt of a letter dated August 20, 1991, from the San Bernardino County Archives to the Riverside County Historical Commission discussing designation of the Galleano Winery as a landmark. The excerpt makes several references to the Cucamonga Valley, mentioning locations within the proposed area such as Rancho Cucamonga, Fontana, Ontario and Mira Loma. Evidence of Boundaries As evidence that the proposed boundaries for the area are as specified in the petition, the previously cited excerpt from The Wines of America, by Leon D. Adams, states that the vineyard area of the Cucamonga Valley ``extends from Ontario east to Fontana and from the base of the San Gabriel Mountains southward to the Jurupa Hills in Riverside County.'' The San Gabriel Mountains form the northern boundary of the proposed area, and the Jurupa Hills form the eastern part of the southern boundary. The towns of Fontana and Ontario are both within the proposed area. The petitioner proposes using the 560 ’ elevation line as the western portion of the southern boundary. He states the area south of that elevation has poor drainage and is mainly used for dairy farming. In support of Euclid Avenue as the western boundary for the proposed viticultural area, the petitioner gave historical information. He stated that the area west of Euclid Avenue ``was subjected to flooding from the San Antonio Canyon. In the 1940's several flood control construction projects began to solve the problem. Historically, agriculture in this area (Upland, CA) was citrus (lemons and oranges).'' He stated that citrus trees were grown there because there was a good water source and better drainage than within the proposed viticultural area to the east of Euclid Avenue. The eastern boundary, made up of Lytle Creek Wash, Warm River, and the Santa Ana River, marks a shift in the type of soil and the ability of the soils to drain. These characteristics will be discussed in detail in the section of the background material on soils. Geographical Features The petitioner describes the proposed viticultural area as follows: Cucamonga Valley is an east-west oriented valley. The San Gabriel mountains form the valley's northern boundary. The San Antonio Creek, Cucamonga Creek, Deer Creek, Day Creek, San Sevaine Creeks, from west to east respectively, spread out to form alluvial fans as they descend the foothills and emerge in the Cucamonga Plain. These fans contain sand and silt deposits that create a rich mixture of fertile soil. The petitioner seeks viticultural area designation for the area described above and the valley drained by the Cucamonga Creek to the south of this alluvial fan. According to the petitioner, these areas share characteristics of topography, soil composition and climate which distinguish the proposed viticultural area from the surrounding areas. The petitioner provided the following evidence to support his claims:
