FR940825-2-00146 FR940825-2-00095 The Commission also believes that sufficient safeguards will be in place to ensure pricing integrity in both the ELDS and the underlying security. First, each of the numerical requirements currently in place for the listing of ELDS ( i.e. , market capitalization, trading volume, and maximum size of issuance), as enhanced herein, will apply where the linked security is a security (including sponsored ADRs) that is traded in the U.S. and is issued by a non-U.S. company subject to U.S. reporting requirements. In addition, the only such securities that can be linked to ELDS are those for which either an effective surveillance sharing agreement 24 is in place with the primary market for the security underlying the ELDS (in the case of an ADR, with the primary exchange in the country where the security underlying the ADR primarily trades) or where at least 50% of the world-wide trading volume in the security and other related securities for the six months prior to issuance occurs in the U.S. market. 25 These standards for the underlying security are more stringent than those the Commission recently found to be adequate with respect to the listing and trading of options on ADRs where no effective surveillance sharing agreement exists between the Exchange and the primary market in the country where the security underlying the ADR is primarily traded. 26 As the Commission stated in the ADR Approval Order, the existence of an effective surveillance sharing agreement serves as a deterrent to manipulation and thus protects the integrity of the marketplace. 27 Additionally, the Commission stated that where the U.S. ADR market is the primary market for the trading of an ADR, the U.S. market is the relevant pricing market for that ADR. 28 In those cases, the Commission stated that an effective surveillance sharing agreement exists because the self-regulatory organizations which make up the U.S. market are members of ISG, through which the Exchange can investigate any potential manipulations. 29 As a result, by applying these same standards to ELDS linked to securities (including sponsored ADRs) issued by non-U.S. companies, the Commission believes the Exchange will be able to detect and deter potential manipulations involving ELDS and such linked securities. 24 See supra note 14. 25 In no event may an ELDS be linked to a security issued by a non-U.S. reporting company where less than 30% of the worldwide trading volume in the underlying security and all related securities occurs in the U.S. market. See Amendment No. 1, supra note 4. 26 The standards being approved here are more stringent in two respects. First, whereas options may be listed on both sponsored and unsponsored ADRs satisfying the approved requirements, ELDS may only be linked to sponsored ADRS. Secondly, in determining whether the U.S. market accounts for at least 50% of the market for the linked security and all related securities the Exchange must use the trading volume for the prior six months with respect to ELDS, but for only the prior three months for options on ADRs. See, e.g. , ADR Approval Order, supra note 14. 27 Id. 28 Id. 29 Id. Moreover, the Commission believes that the proposed method described above for determining whether the six-month trading volume 30 of the security underlying the ELDS and all related securities in the U.S. market is at least 50% of the world-wide trading volume for such securities is adequate to ensure that the U.S. market is and continues to be the price discovery market for a security underlying an ELDS. The Commission notes that these procedures are substantively the same as those the Commission approved in the ADR Approval Order. 31 Furthermore, limiting the term of ELDS linked to securities issued by non-U.S. companies to no more than three years will increase the likelihood that the U.S. market will remain the primary price discovery market for the security during the term of the ELDS. 30 See Amendment No. 1, supra note 4. 31 See ADR Approval Order, supra note 14. The ELDS requirements, however, do not have a U.S. volume maintenance standard similar to that required for options on ADRs. Because a particular series of ELDS is issued at one time for a set term it would be difficult to apply such a standard. The Commission, however, believes that the other requirements discussed above will help ensure that the U.S. is the relevant market for the ELDS. Finally, the Exchange will require that there be at least 2,000 holders of the underlying security and will limit ELDS linked to these securities to (i) 2% of the total shares of the underlying security outstanding provided at least 30% of the worldwide trading value for the security for the six-months prior to listing occurred in the U.S. market, (ii) 3% of the total shares of the underlying security outstanding provided at least 50% of the worldwide trading volume for the security for the six-months prior to listing occurred in the U.S. market, or (iii) 5% of the total shares of the underlying security outstanding provided at least 70% of the worldwide trading volume for the security for the six-months prior to listing occurred in the U.S. market. The Commission believes that will minimize the possibility that trading in an ELDS issuance will adversely impact the market for the underlying security to which it is linked.
