FR940602-2-00117 FR940602-2-00078 [Release No. 34&hyph;34109; File No. SR&hyph;Phlx&hyph;93&hyph;29] Self-Regulatory Organizations; Order Approving and Notice of Filing and Order Granting Accelerated Approval of Amendment No. 1 to a Proposed Rule Change by the Philadelphia Stock Exchange, Inc., Relating to Enhanced Specialist Participation in Parity Options Trades. May 25, 1994. On August 9, 1993, the Philadelphia Stock Exchange, Inc. (``Phlx'' or ``Exchange'') filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``Commission''), pursuant to section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act''), 1 and Rule 19b&hyph;4 thereunder, 2 a proposed rule change relating to enhanced specialist participation in parity options trades. Notice of the proposal appeared in the Federal Register on September 20, 1993. 3 One comment letter was received opposing the proposed rule change, 4 to which the Phlx responded. 5 On April 19, 1994, the Exchange filed Amendment No. 1. 6 This order approves the Exchange's proposal, as amended. 1 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1) (1988). 2 17 CFR 240.19b&hyph;4 (1992). 3 See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 32891 (September 14, 1993), 58 FR 48921. 4 See Letter from Jay Mizrahi, General Partner, P.J. Shoreline Securities (``Shoreline''), to Jonathan Katz, Secretary, Commission, dated December 16, 1993 (``Shoreline Securities Letter''). 5 See Letter from William Uchimoto, Vice President and General Counsel, Phlx, to Sharon Lawson, Assistant Director, Office of Derivatives and Equity Oversight (``ODEO''), Division of Market Regulation (``Division''), Commission, dated February 23, 1994 (``Phlx Response Letter''). 6 On April 19, 1994, the Exchange filed Amendment No. 1 to the proposed rule change to specify that: (1) The Exchange's Allocation, Evaluation and Securities Committee (``Committee'') may only extend the proposed six month Enhanced Parity Split (as defined herein) for one additional six month period; and (2) the Enhanced Parity Split cannot cause a customer order to receive a smaller participation as a result of this rule than any other crowd participant, including the specialist. Further, Amendment No. 1 clarifies that (1) a ``New Unit'' would be any new equity options specialist unit approved by the Exchange on or after June 16, 1993; (2) a `New Options Class'' is any class of options listed for trading by the Exchange on or after June 16, 1993; and (3) the Enhanced Parity Split may be granted for a New Options Class after the initial six month period has expired as long as the New Options Class is assigned to the New Unit while it is still entitled to receive the Enhanced Parity Split pursuant to the proposed rule change on the first New Options Class it commenced trading. See Letter from Michele Weisbaum, Associate General Counsel, Phlx, to Michael Walinskas, Branch Chief, ODEO, Division, Commission, dated April 19, 1994 (``Amendment No. 1''). Description of Proposal In order to encourage the registration with the Exchange of New Units, 7 the Exchange proposes to add now Commentary .17 to Rule 1014. Specifically, the proposal would enable New Units trading New Options Classes, 8 to execute 50% of the contracts in transactions where the New Unit is on parity with one registered options trader (``ROT''), and 40% of the contracts in a transaction where the New Unit is on parity with two or more ROTs (``Enhanced Parity Split''); provided, however, that no customer order which is on parity may receive a smaller participation than any other crowd participant, including the specialist. 9 7 See Amendment No. 1, supra note 6. 8 id. 9 In such cases, the specialist may waive the Enhanced Parity Split. Telephone conversation between Michele Weisbaum, Associate General Counsel, Phlx, and Brad Ritter, Attorney, ODEO, Division, Commission, on May 20, 1994. A New Unit can be formed by current ROTs and/or specialists as long as a new broker-dealer firm is established. Because the proposal will be limited to New Options Classes, options classes that are leased or otherwise transferred from an existing specialist to a New Unit, or that were listed on the Exchange prior to June 16, 1993, and which are assigned to a New Unit, and not covered by the proposed rule. The Enhanced Parity Split would be effective for a period of six months from the commencement of trading by the New Unite of its first New Options Class. 10 Furthermore, the Committee may extend the Enhanced Parity Split for one additional six month period upon petition by the New Unit and a determination by the Committee that such extension is consistent with the promotion of just and equitable principles of trade and the public interest. 11 The Enhanced Parity Split will also be applicable to any additional New Options Classes that are assigned to a New Unit, provided that at the time such classes are assigned, the New Unit is still entitled to receive the Enhanced Parity Split on the first New Options Class it commenced trading pursuant to this rule. 12 The Committee may terminate any extension of the Enhanced Parity Split if the Committee determines that such action is consistent with the promotion of just and equitable principles of trade and the public interest. 13 10 On August 17, 1992, the Exchange filed a similar proposal pursuant to which all specialists would have received the enhanced parity split contained in this proposal. See File No. SR&hyph;Phlx&hyph;92&hyph;19. The Exchange has withdrawn that proposal. See Letter from Keith Kessel, Phlx, to Brad Ritter, Attorney, Office of Derivatives Regulation, Division of Market Regulation, Commission, dated December 2, 1993. On February 28, 1994, the Exchange filed another proposal which provides for a different form of enhanced parity participation for existing specialist units and for New Units that become ineligible for the Enhanced Parity Split pursuant to this proposal. See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 33935 (April 20, 1994), 59 FR 22038 (April 28, 1994) (notice of File No. SR&hyph;Phlx&hyph;94&hyph;12). If approved, the enhanced parity participation for specialists proposed in File No. SR&hyph;Phlx&hyph;94&hyph;12 would not be available to New Units that are eligible for the Enhanced Parity Split pursuant to this proposal. Telephone conversation between Michele Weisbaum, Associate General Counsel, Phlx, and Brad Ritter, Attorney, ODEO, Division, Commission, on April 20, 1994. 11 See Amendment No. 1, supra note 6. 12 Once granted, the Enhanced Parity Split on additional New Options Classes assigned to a New Unit may remain in effect for up to one year as provided herein even though the Enhanced Parity Split on the first New Options Class assigned to the New Unit terminates during that time period. Id. 13 The Exchange represents that a New Unit will need the initial six month period in order to establish a trading record in the New Options Class. If, however, the New Unit's performance during the initial six month period is substandard, the Committee may reallocate the particular options class to another specialist pursuant to Phlx Rule 511. See Letter from William Uchimoto, General Counsel, Phlx, to Richard Zack, Branch Chief, ODEO, Division, Commission, dated January 5, 1994. Comment Letter The Comment letter received opposing the proposed rule change made several arguments as to why the proposed rule change is inappropriate. 14 The commenter first argues that the Exchange has no evidence that granting an Enhanced Parity Split to New Units will in any way benefit Phlx public customers. In fact, the letter argues that the proposed rule is anti-competitive and will ultimately harm public customers by acting as a disincentive for ROTs to make competitive markets, thus removing liquidity from the market. Shoreline believes that price competition is restricted whenever the specialist is granted a benefit not available to the ROTs in the crowd. Shoreline also argues that there is no evidence that the Enhanced Parity Split will encourage New Units to make tight and liquid markets, as the Phlx claims. 14 See Shoreline Securities Letter, supra note 4. The commenter's next argument is that the proposed rule allows, but does not require, the New Unit to invoke the Enhanced Parity Split. Shoreline believes that this further harms ROTs because there may be instances where ROTs are forced to accept a greater percentage of an undesirable trade than they would if the New Unit is required to accept the Enhanced Parity Split. Shoreline also argues that by allowing existing specialists and ROTs to form New Units, the proposal does not serve its stated purpose, which is to encourage the formation and registration with the Exchange of new specialist units. Finally, the commenter argues that the Phlx has provided no specific criteria for maintaining or revoking the Enhanced Parity Split with respect to a particular New Options Class. Shoreline believes that if the Enhanced Parity Split is to be offered to New Units, the Committee should have objective standards to apply in making a determination of whether to extend the Enhanced Parity Split for the allowed additional six month period.
