FR940830-1-00007 FR940830-1-00001 22. Section 1210.363 is amended by revising paragraph (b) to read as follows: §1210.363 Suspension or termination. * * * * * (b) The Secretary may conduct a referendum at any time and shall hold a referendum on request of the Board or at least 10 percent of the combined total of the watermelon producers, handlers, and importers to determine if watermelon producers, handlers, and importers favor termination or suspension of this Plan. The Secretary shall suspend or terminate this Plan at the end of the marketing year whenever the Secretary determines that the suspension or termination is favored by a majority of the watermelon producers, handlers, and importers voting in such referendum who, during a representative period determined by the Secretary, have been engaged in the production, handling, or importing of watermelons and who produced, handled, or imported more than 50 percent of the combined total of the volume of watermelons produced, handled, or imported by those producers, handlers, and importers voting in the referendum. For purposes of this section, the vote of a person who both produces and handles watermelons will be counted as a handler vote if the producer purchased watermelons from other producers, in a combined total volume that is equal to 25 percent or more of the producer's own production; or the combined total volume of watermelon handled by the producer from the producer's own production and purchases from other producer's production is more than 50 percent of the producer's own production. Provided, That the vote of a person who both imports and handles watermelons will be counted as an importer vote if that person imports 50 percent or more of the combined total volume of watermelons handled and imported by that person. Any such referendum shall be conducted by mail ballot. §1210.364 [Amended] 23. Section 1210.364 is amended by removing in paragraph (d) the phrase ``and handlers'' and adding in its place ``, handlers and importers''. Subpart_Procedures for Nominating Members to the National Watermelon Promotion Board Producer and Handler Members 24. The subpart heading ``Subpart_Procedures for Nominating Producer and Handler Members to the National Watermelon Promotion Board'' is revised; and a new undesignated center heading is added to read as set forth above. 25. In §1210.401, paragraph (b) is revised to read as follows: §1210.401 District conventions. * * * * * (b) District conventions are to be held to nominate producers and handlers as candidates for membership on the National Watermelon Promotion Board. Each district, as defined in §1210.501, is entitled to two producer and two handler members on the Board. * * * * *
