FR940224-2-00068 FR940224-2-00040 c. Limited-purpose trust companies. 10A The Federal Reserve Act permits the Board to grant Federal Reserve membership to limited-purpose trust companies subject to conditions the Board may prescribe pursuant to the Act. As a general matter, member limited-purpose trust companies do not accept reservable deposits, do not have regular discount window access, and may not incur daylight overdrafts. 10A For the purposes of this policy statement, a limited-purpose trust company is a trust company that is a member of the Federal Reserve System but that does not meet the definition of ``depository institution'' in section 19(b)(1)(A) of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 461(b)(1)(A)). Limited-purpose trust companies are subject to the same daylight overdraft penalty fees as other institutions that do not maintain reserves and do not have regular discount window access. Limited-purpose trust companies should refrain from incurring overdrafts and should post collateral to cover any overdrafts they do incur. In addition to posting collateral, a limited-purpose trust company would be subject to a daylight overdraft penalty fee levied against the average daily daylight overdrafts incurred by the institution, as described above. d. Zero-cap depository institutions. Some depository institutions have caps of zero that are imposed by Reserve Banks because of the institutions' financially troubled status or failure to comply with the Board's payments system risk policy or because the institution itself requested a zero cap. Regardless of whether it has access to the discount window, if a depository institution on which a Reserve Bank has imposed, or that has adopted, a zero cap incurs a funds-transfer-related overdraft, the Reserve Bank would counsel the institution and may monitor the institution's activity in real-time and reject or pend any Fedwire funds transfer instruction that would cause an overdraft. Because the timing of book-entry securities transfers are not fully within the control of the receiving depository institution, the Board will allow depository institutions with caps of zero that have access to the discount window to continue to incur book-entry overdrafts, but will require that such overdrafts be collateralized even if they are infrequent and modest. By order of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, February 17, 1994. Jennifer J. Johnson, Associate Secretary of the Board. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;4131 Filed 2&hyph;23&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6210&hyph;01&hyph;P
