FR940916-2-00092 FR940916-2-00077 c. review and institute corrective actions for any violations noted. 4. The documents required in Paragraph IV.B of this Order must be retained until the next NRC inspection following the one-year restriction of Dr. Kusmik. C. For purposes of this Order, an authorized user is a person who is listed on the License as a user of, or is an individual who supervises other persons using, NRC-licensed material. The Director, Office of Enforcement, may, in writing, relax or rescind any of the above conditions upon demonstration by the Licensee of good cause. V In accordance with 10 CFR 2.202, the Licensee must, and Dr. Kusmik and any other person adversely affected by this Order may, submit an answer to this Order, and may request a hearing on this Order, within 20 days of the date of this Order. The answer may consent to this Order. Unless the answer consents to this Order, the answer shall, in writing and under oath or affirmation, specifically admit or deny each allegation or charge made in this Order and shall set forth the matters of fact and law on which the Licensee, Dr. Kusmik or other person adversely affected relies and the reasons as to why the Order should not have been issued. Any answer or request for a hearing shall be submitted to the Secretary, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Attn: Chief, Docketing and Service Section, Washington, DC 20555. Copies also shall be sent to the Director, Office of Enforcement, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555, to the Assistant General Counsel for Hearings and Enforcement at the same address, to the Regional Administrator, NRC Region I, 475 Allendale Road, King of Prussia, Pennsylvania 19406, and to the Licensee and Dr. Kusmik if the answer or hearing request is by a person other than the Licensee or Dr. Kusmik. If a person other than the Licensee or Dr. Kusmik requests a hearing, that person shall set forth with particularity the manner in which his interest is adversely affected by this Order and shall address the criteria set forth in 10 CFR 2.714(d). If a hearing is requested by the Licensee, Dr. Kusmik, or any other person whose interest is adversely affected, the Commission will issue an Order designating the time and place of any hearing. If a hearing is held, the issue to be considered at such hearing shall be whether this Order should be sustained. Pursuant to 10 CFR 2.202(c)(2)(i), the Licensee, Dr. Kusmik, or any other person adversely affected by this Order, may, in addition to demanding a hearing, at the same time the answer is filed or sooner, move the presiding officer to set aside the immediate effectiveness of the Order on the ground that the Order, including the need for immediate effectiveness, is not based on adequate evidence but on mere suspicion, unfounded allegations, or error. In the absence of any request for hearing, the provisions specified in Section IV above shall be final 20 days from the date of this Order without further order or proceedings. An answer or a request for hearing shall not stay the immediate effectiveness of this order. Dated at Rockville, Maryland, this 7th day of September 1994. For the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. Hugh L. Thompson, Jr., Deputy Executive Director for Nuclear Materials Safety, Safeguards, and Operations Support. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;22986 Filed 9&hyph;15&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 7590&hyph;01&hyph;M
