FR940412-1-00075 FR940412-1-00012 Respondents: 100. Frequency of Response: 15.2 per respondent per year. Burden Estimate: 575 hours per year. Average Burden Hours per Respondent: 5.75 hours per year. The Coast Guard has submitted the requirements to OMB for review under section 3504(h) of the Paperwork Reduction Act. Persons submitting comments on the requirements should submit their comments both to OMB and to the Coast Guard where indicated under ADDRESSES . Federalism The Coast Guard has analyzed this proposal under the principles and criteria contained in Executive Order 12612, and has determined that this proposal does not have sufficient federalism implications to warrant the preparation of a Federalism Assessment. This rulemaking proposes regulations under which certain solid materials requiring special handling may be transported in bulk by water. The regulations would apply to each domestic and foreign vessel, which is not exempted under 49 U.S.C. 1806(b), that transports solid materials requiring special handling when transported in bulk, when in the navigable waters of the United States. The authority to establish such regulations for vessels operating in the navigable waters of the United States has been committed to the Coast Guard by Federal statutes. Furthermore, since vessels tend to move from port to port in the national and international marketplace, the safety standards proposed in this rule should be of national scope to avoid burdensome variances. Therefore, the Coast Guard intends this rule, if adopted, to preempt state action addressing the same subject matter. Environment The Coast Guard considered the environmental impact of this proposal and concluded that preparation of an Environmental Impact Statement is not necessary. An Environmental Assessment and a draft Finding of No Significant Impact are available in the docket for inspection and copying where indicated under ADDRESSES . The only environmental impact of this rulemaking would be to decrease the likelihood of a spill or release of hazardous material into the environment. This decrease in the probability of a spill can be attributed to an increased awareness of the potential danger of hazardous bulk solid materials, and the decreased risk of a fire or explosion on a vessel carrying these materials. Since bulk carriers currently have a very low rate of spills and releases, this impact would be minimal. List of Subjects 46 CFR Part 97 Cargo vessels, Marine safety, Navigation (water), Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. 46 CFR Part 148 Cargo vessels, hazardous materials transportation, Marine safety. For the reasons set out in the preamble the Coast Guard proposes to amend 46 CFR parts 97 and 148 as follows:
