FR940323-0-00075 FR940323-0-00020 (iii) Information indicating the duration of the program; and (iv) An assurance that the applicant will comply with the nonduplication, nondisplacement and grievance procedure provisions of part 2540 of this chapter. (g) Limitation on Grant. In making a grant under paragraph (c) of this section with respect to a demonstration program to assist in converting an affected military installation, the Corporation will not make a grant for more than 25 percent of the total cost of the conversion. §2531.20 Special Demonstration Project for the Yukon-Kuskokwim Delta of Alaska. (a) Special Demonstration Project for the Yukon-Kuskokwim Delta of Alaska. The President may award grants to, and enter into contracts with, organizations to carry out programs that address significant human needs in the Yukon-Kuskokwim delta region of Alaska. (b) Application._(1) General requirements. To be eligible to receive a grant or enter into a contract under paragraph (a) of this section with respect to a program, an organization must submit an application to the President at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as required. (2) Contents. The application submitted by the organization must, at a minimum_ (i) Include information describing the manner in which the program will utilize VISTA volunteers, individuals who have served in the Peace Corps, and other qualified persons, in partnership with the local nonprofit organizations known as the Yukon-Kuskokwim Health Corporation and the Alaska Village Council Presidents; (ii) Take into consideration_ (A) The primarily noncash economy of the region; and (B) The needs and desires of residents of the local communities in the region; and (iii) Include specific strategies, developed in cooperation with the Yupi'k speaking population that resides in such communities, for comprehensive and intensive community development for communities in the Yukon-Kuskokwim delta region. §2531.30 Other innovative and model programs. (a) The Corporation may support other innovative and model programs such as the following: (1) Programs, including programs for rural youth, described in parts 2515 through 2524 of this chapter; (2) Employer-based retiree programs; (3) Intergenerational programs; (4) Programs involving individuals with disabilities providing service; (5) Programs sponsored by Governors; and (6) Summer programs carried out between May 1 and October 1 (which may also contain a year-round component). (b) The Corporation will support innovative service-learning programs. (c) Application procedures, selection criteria, timing, and other requirements will be announced in the Federal Register . PART 2532_TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE, TRAINING, AND OTHER SERVICE INFRASTRUCTURE-BUILDING ACTIVITIES Sec. 2532.10␣Eligible activities. Authority: 42 U.S.C. 12501 et seq. §2532.10 Eligible activities. The Corporation may support_either directly or through a grant, contract or agreement_any activity designed to meet the purposes described in part 2530 of this chapter. These activities include, but are not limited to, the following: (a) Community-based agencies. The Corporation may provide training and technical assistance and other assistance to project sponsors and other community-based agencies that provide volunteer placements in order to improve the ability of such agencies to use participants and other volunteers in a manner that results in high-quality service and a positive service experience for the participants and volunteers. (b) Improve ability to apply for assistance. The Corporation will provide training and technical assistance, where necessary, to individuals, programs, local labor organizations, State educational agencies, State Commissions, local educational agencies, local governments, community-based agencies, and other entities to enable them to apply for funding under one of the national service laws, to conduct high-quality programs, to evaluate such programs, and for other purposes. (c) Conferences and materials. The Corporation may organize and hold conferences, and prepare and publish materials, to disseminate information and promote the sharing of information among programs for the purpose of improving the quality of programs and projects. (d) Peace Corps and VISTA training. The Corporation may provide training assistance to selected individuals who volunteer to serve in the Peace Corps or a program authorized under title I of the Domestic Volunteer Service Act of 1973 (42 U.S.C. 4951 et seq. ). The training will be provided as part of the course of study of the individual at an institution of higher education, involve service-learning, and cover appropriate skills that the individual will use in the Peace Corps or VISTA. (e) Promotion and recruitment. The Corporation may conduct a campaign to solicit funds for the National Service Trust and other programs and activities authorized under the national service laws and to promote and recruit participants for programs that receive assistance under the national service laws. (f) Training. The Corporation may support national and regional participant and supervisor training, including leadership training and training in specific types of service and in building the ethic of civic responsibility. (g) Research. The Corporation may support research on national service, including service-learning.
