FR940620-0-00159 FR940620-0-00029 Response. The NPRM proposed a series of exceptions for constrained site conditions that applied to both new construction and alterations. The interim final rule clarifies that site infeasibility applies only to alterations and refers to existing improvements in public rights-of-way and development on adjacent sites that prohibit compliance with specific requirements for new construction. Where site infeasibility precludes full compliance with provisions for new construction, public entities must provide accessibility to the maximum extent feasible, regardless of the accessibility of adjacent areas or other features. For example, an existing narrow public sidewalk being altered may be relieved of the obligation for a 36 inch width, if site infeasibility precludes it, but must nevertheless comply with limitations on cross slope, surface, and separation, to the maximum extent feasible. The interim final rule contains technical provisions for specific features that affect the accessibility of public sidewalks, public sidewalk curb ramps, and on-street parking. 14.3.2␣Special Technical Provisions for Alterations to Existing Pedestrian Areas, Elements, and Facilities in the Public Right-of-Way This section contains special technical provisions for alterations to public sidewalks, public sidewalk curb ramps, and on-street parking where site infeasibility precludes full compliance with requirements for new construction. 14.3.2(1)␣Public Sidewalks Paragraph (1) permits public sidewalks to be warped or blended where necessary to provide a continuous passage, permits the minimum feasible cross slope in a continuous passage, and permits existing gratings to remain when surfaces are altered. Comment. EPVA and other commenters noted that it may be necessary to blend or warp the surfaces of public sidewalks to achieve access to existing entrances and facilities on sites adjacent to a sloping public sidewalk. Response. ADAAG 4.1.2(1) (Accessible Sites and Exterior Facilities: New Construction) requires that at least one accessible route be provided from public streets and public sidewalks to an accessible building entrance. ADAAG 4.3 (Accessible Route) limits cross slope on accessible routes to 1:50. However, the public sidewalk or continuous passage may have a running slope that exceeds 1:50. In practice, the connection between sidewalks on sites and the public sidewalk is commonly warped over a short distance to provide a smoothly blended transition. In some cases, the warping can be accommodated on the adjacent site. In others, however, it may be necessary to warp the public sidewalk or continuous passage in order to provide level landings at entrances and at other elements requiring access. A special technical provision has been added to permit warping and blending of existing public sidewalks where site infeasibility precludes a continuous cross slope of 1:50. For example, the continuous passage within an existing public sidewalk wider than 36 inches may be ramped perpendicular to its run to serve existing entrances and other accessible elements. 14.3.2(2)␣Public Sidewalk Curb Ramps Paragraph (2) modifies the requirements of ADAAG 14.2.2 (Public Sidewalk Curb Ramps) for type, width, landings, slope, and surfaces in alterations. It requires the maximum feasible accessibility of each public sidewalk curb ramp feature where site infeasibility precludes full compliance with new construction provisions. Paragraph (a) specifies the type of public sidewalk curb ramp permitted in alterations depending on the width of existing right-of-way and other existing conditions. Unlike new construction, this section permits diagonal public sidewalk curb ramps and built-up public sidewalk curb ramps. Paragraph (b) permits public sidewalk curb ramps in narrow public sidewalks to be less than 36 inches wide where site infeasibility precludes compliance with new construction requirements. Paragraph (c) permits perpendicular public sidewalk curb ramps to have a minimum 36 inch long landing at the top (where the landing of a perpendicular public sidewalk curb ramp is less than 48 inches in width, side flares may not exceed 1:12) and parallel public sidewalk curb ramps to have a minimum 48 inch long landing at the bottom. Cross slope may be measured perpendicular to the curb. Under conditions of site infeasibility, the minimum feasible cross slope may be provided. Paragraph (d) permits certain exceptions to slope limitations in public sidewalk curb ramps. Paragraph (e) permits existing gratings and appurtenances to be retained in public sidewalk curb ramps and landings if relocation is infeasible and permits crowning or projecting public sidewalk curb ramp surfaces at streets and gutters that exceed a 1:20 slope.
