FR940930-1-00038 FR940930-1-00014 For reasons set forth in the preamble, part 1621 is proposed to be revised to read as follows: PART 1621_CLIENT GRIEVANCE PROCEDURES Sec. 1621.1␣Purpose. 1621.2␣Grievance Committee. 1621.3␣Complaints about the quality or manner of providing services. 1621.4␣Complaints about denial of assistance. Authority: 42 U.S.C. 2996e(b)(3); 2996f(a)(1). §1621.1 Purpose. By providing an effective complaint mechanism for an applicant for service who believes that legal assistance has been denied improperly, or for a client who is dissatisfied with the quality or manner of services provided, this part seeks to insure that recipients treat every client and applicant for service fairly and with dignity and respect and provide each client with high quality legal services. §1621.2 Grievance Committee. The governing body of a recipient shall establish a grievance committee or committees, composed of lawyer and eligible client members of the governing body. One third or more of the members of each grievance committee shall be eligible client members of the governing body. §1621.3 Complaints about the quality or manner of providing services. (a) A recipient shall establish procedures for determining the validity of a complaint by a client about the manner or quality of services that have been provided to the client by members of the recipient's staff or by private attorneys under part 1614 of these regulations. (b) The procedures shall provide at least: (1) Information to a client at the time of the initial visit about how to make a complaint; (2) Prompt consideration of each complaint by the director of the recipient, or the director's designee; and (3) An opportunity for a complainant to submit a written complaint to a grievance committee established by the governing body pursuant to §1621.2, if the director of the recipient or the director's designee is unable to resolve the matter to the complainant's satisfaction. (i) Upon request, the recipient shall transcribe a brief written statement of the complaint, dictated by the complainant, for submission to the grievance committee. (ii) Each written complaint shall include a signed statement by the complainant giving limited written consent to disclose client confidences, secrets or other information relating to the representation of the complainant necessary to investigate the matters and issues raised by the complaint. (4) The procedures shall also provide an opportunity for the complainant to appear before the grievance committee, either in person or by teleconference, if the grievance committee is unable to resolve the matter to the complainant's satisfaction based on the written complaint. The complainant may be assisted by another person. (c) The grievance committee may recommend that the director of the recipient take appropriate action to correct any problems that it finds as a result of a review of a complaint made under this section. No actions shall be taken that are inconsistent with the applicable rules of professional responsibility. (d) The recipient shall maintain a file, separate from the case file, containing either a copy or, if appropriate, a complete and accurate summary of every written complaint made pursuant to §1621.3 and a statement of its disposition. The recipient shall not disclose the contents of this file to the Corporation or to any other third party in a manner that would violate the attorney-client privilege or applicable rules of professional responsibility, without the express written consent of the client. §1621.4 Complaints about denial of assistance. (a) A recipient shall establish simple procedures for timely review of a complaint by an applicant for service regarding (1) a decision by the recipient to deny service and (2) the reasons for the denial. (b) The procedures shall include instructions regarding how applicants for service can: (1) obtain information necessary to explain why service was denied, including information describing the recipient's priorities, eligibility guidelines, applicable restrictions on representation contained in the Act and regulations, and case acceptance criteria. Such case acceptance criteria may include, but shall not be limited to, the merits of a client's claim and any conflicts of interest that may exist; (2) make a complaint questioning the denial of assistance; and (3) confer with the director of the recipient or the director's designee, and, to the extent practicable, with a member of a grievance committee established pursuant to §1621.2 regarding the reasons for the decision denying service. (c) Recipients shall make reasonable and appropriate efforts to inform applicants who have been denied service about the complaint procedures set out in §1621.4(b). (d) A recipient shall not disclose to the Corporation or to any third party any documents maintained by the recipient regarding denials of assistance that would violate the attorney-client privilege or applicable rules of professional responsibility, without the express written consent of the applicants for service. Dated: September 27, 1994. Victor M. Fortuno, General Counsel. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;24276 Filed 9&hyph;29&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 7050&hyph;01&hyph;P
