FR940505-1-00023 FR940505-1-00011 ACRA acknowledges that its existing procedures achieve compliance with odometer disclosure requirements, but cites costs to the average nationwide car rental company of tens of thousands of dollars per year and the time-consuming nature of the process. Given the large number of vehicles at issue, this compliance cost does not appear unreasonable, and certainly does not compel a conclusion of hardship. Nor is such a conclusion compelled by concerns about the time expended in achieving compliance. In the world of motor vehicle transfers, NHTSA is aware of other situations in which companies incur similar costs and time burdens associated with the employment of personnel that provide titling and registration services and act as agents for the purpose of odometer disclosure. For example, companies that lease vehicles for long terms also rely on ``drop shipments'' or ``courtesy deliveries'' when obtaining new vehicles. In these situations, the leasing companies typically pay set fees to dealers to prepare the new vehicles for operation and process the paperwork associated with the transfer of both the new and the old vehicles. In many instances, the services performed include executing mileage disclosures. These firms also experience similar, normal delays incident to obtaining the proper disclosures. NHTSA cannot conclude that the costs or burdens to the car rental industry are excessive or beyond those reasonably contemplated by the Congress in enacting the disclosure requirements. It is impossible to downplay the large number of vehicles proposed for exemption or alternate treatment under this petition. The total rental fleet put into service in 1992 numbered 1,532,000 passenger cars and light trucks, 1 or almost 13 percent of the 12 million new passenger cars and light trucks sold in the country during that year. 2 Moreover, NHTSA cannot distinguish the merits of ACRA's arguments from those that might be advanced by the leasing industry, as discussed above. If a similar exemption were granted to the leasing industry, which placed a total of 1,543,000 passenger cars and light trucks into service in 1992, 3 it would encompass an additional 13 percent of the new vehicles sold that year. While the risk to the integrity of the system may not appear great in the rental industry situation, the same cannot be said with respect to the leasing industry. Prior to the passage of the Act, odometer tampering in leased vehicles was rampant, and served as a major impetus for Congressional action. 1 Automotive Fleet, 1993 Fact Book, Vol. 32 Supp. 1993, p. 20. 2 American Automobile Manufacturers Association, Motor Vehicle Facts and Figures '93, pp. 18, 20. 3 Automotive Fleet, p. 20. In conclusion, NHTSA does not believe that it possesses the authority to grant the relief requested by the petitioner, based on the intent of Congress and recent court decisions. Moreover, granting the relief requested would be against the expressed interest of the States, the very entities charged with enforcing the odometer disclosure procedures. For the foregoing reasons, the petition is denied. Issued on April 29, 1994. John Womack, Acting Chief Counsel, National Highway Traffic Safety Administration. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;10759 Filed 5&hyph;4&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;59&hyph;P
