FR940906-0-00002 FR940906-0-00001 DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE Federal Crop Insurance Corporation 7 CFR Part 457 Common Crop Insurance Regulations AGENCY: Federal Crop Insurance Corporation, USDA. ACTION: Interim final rule. SUMMARY: Most of the funding for delivery of the Federal crop insurance program for Fiscal Year 1995 is contained within the Federal Crop Insurance Reform Act of 1994. Although the Reform Act is moving through Congress, it has not yet been enacted and the fall planted crop cancellation date is approaching. Although Federal Programs are, by law, subject to the availability of appropriations, that is not explicitly stated in the regulations. This rule makes it clear that continuation of crop insurance policies reinsured by FCIC are subject to the availability of appropriations. DATES: Effective date: This rule is effective August 31, 1994. Comments should be submitted by November 7, 1994. ADDRESSES: Written comments on this interim final rule should be sent to Mari L. Dunleavy, Regulatory and Procedural Development Staff, Federal Crop Insurance Corporation USDA, Washington, D.C. 20250 or delivered to Suite 500, 2101 L Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: This action has been reviewed under USDA procedures established by Executive Order 12866 and Departmental Regulation 1512&hyph;1. This action does not constitute a review as to the need, currency, clarity, and effectiveness of these regulations under those procedures. The sunset review date established for these regulations remains January 1, 1996. This rule has been determined to be ``not-significant'' for purposes of Executive Order 12866 and therefore has not been reviewed by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB). It has been determined under section 6(a) of the Executive Order 12612, Federalism that this rule does not have sufficient federalism implications to warrant the preparation of a Federalism Assessment. The policies and procedures contained in this rule will not have substantial direct effects on states or their political subdivisions, or on the distribution of power and responsibilities among the various levels of government. This action will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. The rule would not increase the amount of work required by reinsured companies and their agents, and provides a mechanism for the uninterrupted coverage to the policyholders. Therefore, this action is determined to be exempt from the provisions of the Regulatory Flexibility Act and no Regulatory Flexibility Analysis was prepared. This program is listed in the Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance under No. 10.450. This program is not subject to the provisions of Executive Order 12372 which requires intergovernmental consultation with state and local officials. See the Notice related to 7 CFR part 3015, subpart V, published at 48 FR 29115, June 24, 1983. The Office of the General Counsel determined that these regulations meet the applicable standards provided in subsections 2(a) and 2(b)(2) of Executive Order 12778. The provisions of this rule will preempt state and local laws to the extent such state and local laws are inconsistent herewith. The administrative appeal provisions located at 7 CFR part 400, subpart J must be exhausted before judicial action may be brought. This action is not expected to have any significant impact on the quality of the human environment, health, and safety. Therefore, neither an Environmental Assessment nor an Environmental Impact Statement is needed. It has been determined that an emergency situation exists requiring immediate effectiveness of the rule without the opportunity for public notice and comment. If all fall planted crop insurance policies were canceled and then rewritten when sufficient funds were available, it would require a significant increase in time and inconvenience on the part of the policyholder and the company. Most of the funding for delivery of the Federal crop insurance program for Fiscal Year 1995 is contained within the Federal Crop Insurance Reform Act of 1994 and the 1995 Fiscal Year Agricultural Appropriation Act. Although both are moving through Congress, they have not yet been enacted and the fall planted crop cancellation date is approaching. Therefore, insurance companies have been put in a position where they may soon be required to cancel fall planted crop insurance policies. This rule provides that the policies effectiveness depends on appropriations. Every crop insurance policy reinsured by FCIC contains a provision that states that all provisions of the policy and the rights and responsibilities of the parties are specifically subject to the Federal Crop Insurance Act (the ``Act''). Since funds to deliver the Federal crop insurance program are authorized by the Act, if insufficient funds are appropriated under the Act, the policies would be rendered ineffective. Therefore, this rule does not materially change any term or provision of the policy, nor any provision of law. FCIC is soliciting written public comment on this interim final rule for 60 days following its publication. This rule will be scheduled for review so that any amendment to the rule required as a result of such public comment may be published as quickly as possible. Written comments received pursuant to this rule will be made available for public inspection and copying in suite 500, 2101 L Street N.W., Washington, D.C. during regular business hours, Monday through Friday. List of Subjects in 7 CFR Part 457 Crop insurance. Interim Final Rule Pursuant to the authority contained in the Federal Crop Insurance Act, as amended (7 U.S.C. 1501 et seq .), the Federal Crop Insurance Corporation hereby proposes to amend the Common Crop Insurance Regulations for the 1995 crop year only (7 CFR part 457) as follows: 1. The authority citation for 7 CFR part 457 continues to read as follows: Authority: 7 U.S.C. 1506, 1516. 2. 7 CFR part 457 is amended by adding a new ยง457.9 to read as follows: ยง457.9 Appropriation contingency. Notwithstanding the cancellation date stated in the policy, if there are insufficient funds appropriated by the Congress to deliver the crop insurance program, the policy will automatically terminate without liability. Done in Washington, D.C. on August 31, 1994. Robert Fenton, Acting Manager, Federal Crop Insurance Corporation. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;21908 Filed 8&hyph;31&hyph;94; 4:24 pm] BILLING CODE 3410&hyph;08&hyph;M
