FR940527-0-00087 FR940527-0-00027 DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION National Highway Traffic Safety Administration 49 CFR Part 571 [Docket No. 74&hyph;09; Notice 37] RIN 2127&hyph;AF04 Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards; Child Restraint Systems AGENCY: National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA), Department of Transportation. ACTION: Denial of petition for reconsideration. SUMMARY: This document denies a petition for reconsideration from Hassel Free, Inc., a manufacturer of built-in child restraints for vans. Petitioner sought reconsideration of a rule that specifies built-in restraints for vans are to be dynamically tested in the specific vehicle into which the restraint is installed or in the shell of that vehicle. Standard 213 specifies that the ``shell'' must have the features of the vehicle interior that surround a built-in restraint. Petitioner believed that requiring the shell to have these features unduly burdens van converters. NHTSA is denying the petition because the agency has determined that there is a safety need to test built-in restraints in vehicle shells. Further, NHTSA is denying the petition because the agency believes that van converters are not unduly burdened. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Dr. George Mouchahoir, Office of Vehicle Safety Standards, National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, 400 Seventh Street SW., Washington, DC, 20590 (telephone 202&hyph;366&hyph;4919). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: This document relates to an April 1993 rule that amended the requirements of Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard No. 213, Child Restraint Systems (49 CFR 571.213), for built-in child restraint systems. Background In 1988, NHTSA amended Standard 213 to apply the standard to built-in restraints, which the amendment defined as child restraint systems which are ``an integral part of a passenger car.'' (53 FR 1783, January 22, 1988.) The amendment specified that these restraints must limit the head and chest acceleration and knee excursion of a child test dummy restrained in the system in a 30 mile per hour (mph) dynamic test. The amendment specified that NHTSA will test a built-in restraint in the specific vehicle in which it has been installed or in the ``specific vehicle shell'' of such vehicle. The amendment defined ``specific vehicle shell'' as the portion of the actual vehicle model into which the built-in child restraint system is installed, including the complete surroundings of the built-in system. (S4 of Standard 213.) For example, S4 of Standard 213 specifies that__ If the built-in child restraint system is manufactured as part of the rear seat, these surroundings include the back of the front seat, the interior rear side door panels and trim, the rear seat, the floor pan, the B and C pillars, and the ceiling. *␣*␣* In 1993, NHTSA amended some of the provisions relating to built-in systems. 58 FR 19776; April 16, 1993. Among other things, it amended the definition of a built-in system to include restraints that are designed to be an integral part of vehicles other than passenger cars. As a result of this amendment, built-in systems for vans (which are considered ``multipurpose passenger vehicles'' under NHTSA's regulations, 49 CFR 571.3) became subject to the standard's dynamic performance requirements. Under the amendment, the built-in restraints for vans were required to restrain test dummies seated in the restraints such that the head and chest accelerations and the knee excursion of the dummies were within allowable limits specified in the standard. As noted above, Standard 213 already had test procedures for testing built-in systems for passenger cars, i.e., testing in the specific vehicle or the specific vehicle shell. The amendment applied these same procedures to built-in systems for vans. The amendment has the effect of specifying that NHTSA is to dynamically test all built-in systems in the specific vehicle in which the restraint is installed or the specific vehicle shell of such vehicle. Petition for reconsideration NHTSA received a petition for reconsideration of the 1993 rule from Hassel Free, Inc., a manufacturer of built-in child restraints for vans. Hassel Free earlier had commented favorably on NHTSA's notice of proposed rulemaking that preceded the April 1993 rule. Hassel Free expressed concern in its petition about the test burdens that the compliance test would impose on van converters, the parties to whom Hassel Free sells its built-in restraints. Petitioner said that van converters, which are typically small businesses, lack the resources to test the built-in restraints in the specific vehicle shell. 1 Hassel Free believed that van converters will choose not to purchase and install built-in restraints rather than incur the costs of testing the systems in the specific van shells. 1 Petitioner focused its objections on testing built-in child restraints in the specific vehicle shell instead of in the specific vehicle. Presumably, Hassel Free objected to the former and not to the latter because petitioner conducts, and anticipates van converters conducting, the shell test and not the vehicle test. Petitioner suggested that instead of testing built-in restraints in the specific vehicle shell, NHTSA should test built-in systems in a manner used to test add-on (i.e., portable) child restraints. Add-on restraints are dynamically tested on a ``standard seat assembly'' representative of a typical vehicle seat. The standard seat assembly lacks the features of the vehicle that are in a vehicle shell, e.g., the back of a front seat, the interior rear side door panels and trim or the vehicle floor pan. Petitioner said it would be less costly to test a built-in restraint on a standard seat assembly that lacked the features of the vehicle than on the specific vehicle shell with the vehicle features. Hassel Free argued that it is unfair not to test built-in systems in the same way as add-on systems since, petitioner believed, built-in systems are safer than add-ons:
