FR940112-0-00077 FR940112-0-00021 II. Provisions of the Proposed Rule Summary of Provisions On September 2, 1983, we published in the Federal Register (48 FR 39959) a proposed rule (NPRM) to solicit comments on five sets of proposed changes to spenddown procedures (Provisions A through E, as described below). Our proposals are summarized below. We proposed that all States with medically needy programs, including those using more restrictive eligibility criteria than SSI under section 1902(f) of the Act, be permitted to choose option A. In the NPRM we specified that a literal interpretation of section 1902(f) of the Act would prevent these States from implementing the remaining options (Provisions B through E). Provision A_Allow States to Consider Projected Institutional Expenses at the Medicaid Rate as Incurred Medical Expenses We proposed that all States, including those using more restrictive eligibility criteria than SSI, be permitted to count as incurred medical expenses in calculating whether spenddown requirements are met, projected institutional expenses (not subject to payment by a third party) at the Medicaid reimbursement rate instead of using only the private patient rate, as is currently required. Provision B_Allow States To Combine Retroactive and Prospective Medically Needy Budget Periods For those States that choose to have a medically needy program, we proposed the use of more flexible budget periods. These are periods over which an individual's income and medical expenses are compared to the State's medically needy income level to determine whether or not the individual is eligible. Specifically, States would be able to choose a medically needy budget period of up to 6 months that could include all or part of the 3-month period before an application for Medicaid (the retroactive period). Under current regulations, the 3-month retroactive period must be treated separately from whatever prospective budget period is chosen by the State. Provision C_Permit States To Exclude from Incurred Medical Expenses Those Bills for Services Furnished More Than 3 Months Before a Medicaid Application Except for current payments on older bills not previously applied in the spenddown process, we proposed that States be permitted to exclude from incurred medical expenses those bills for services furnished more than 3 months before the month of application or redetermination. Current regulations and policy require that States deduct all incurred expenses that an individual incurs before application, regardless of the date of the service, if they have not already been used in another budget period, if the individual is still liable for them, or if the individual has paid for them in the current budget period. Provision D_Permit States to Apply Incurred Medical Expenses to the Spenddown Process in Chronological Order. We proposed that States with a medically needy program may deduct incurred medical expenses from income in chronological order, rather than in the order specified in current regulations, which is by type of expenditure. The chronological order the State chooses can be either the order in which the services are furnished, or the order in which the bills are presented to the agency. Provision E_Allow States To Limit Deductible Medical Expenses to Services Covered Under the State Plan We proposed to allow States to exclude services that are not covered in their State plan from incurred medical expenses, except for Medicare and health insurance premiums, Medicaid deductibles, copayments or similar cost-sharing charges imposed by health insurance. Current regulations require that States deduct all incurred medical expenses recognized under State law that are not subject to payment by a third party. Revision of NPRM Scope We have decided to withdraw Provision E from all States. We explain our reasons under the analysis and response to public comments section of this preamble. III. Analysis and Response to Public Comments In response to our request for comments on the September 2, 1983, NPRM, we received 107 letters, 32 from client advocacy groups, 26 from individuals, 18 from providers or provider organizations, 15 from State governmental agencies, 13 from legal advocacy groups, and 3 from religious affiliated groups. The specific comments are grouped according to the five provisions identified in the NPRM.
