FR941019-2-00166 FR941019-2-00089 OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT AND BUDGET Office of Federal Procurement Policy Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) Rewrite AGENCY: Office of Federal Procurement Policy, Office of Management and Budget. ACTION: Request for comments. SUMMARY: On May 24, 1994, the Board of Directors for the FAR Rewrite Project published a set of core guiding principles in the Federal Register . Comments from that notice have been reviewed and changes made to the principles. In the course of making these changes the Board added another principle to make it clear that if a policy or procedure is not addressed in the FAR, members of the Government acquisition team should not assume it is prohibited. Although the entire statement is being republished for comment, the Board is particularly interested in comments from the public on the new principle. DATES: Written comments must be received in the Office of Federal Procurement Policy within 30 days after publication of this notice. ADDRESSES: Susan E. Alesi, Office of Federal Procurement Policy, 725 17th Street, NW, Washington, DC, 20503. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Susan E. Alesi, Office of Federal Procurement Policy, at 202&hyph;295&hyph;6803. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: On September 7, 1993, the Vice President released the report of the National Performance Review which, among other things, required the Administration to simplify the procurement process by rewriting the FAR, shifting from rigid rules to guiding principles. As a first step, the Board drafted a set of core guiding principles intended to define and guide the Government's general vision for the Federal acquisition process. The Board requested comments on the set of core guiding principles and the accompanying discussion through a notice issued in the Federal Register published on May 24, 1994. As a result of that notice the Board received approximately 50 comments from 19 different commentors. The comments ranged from general structural to specific substantive changes. Some editing was done and the Board added a new principle to the statement. Some of the more significant changes included: the document was retitled as ``Statement of Guiding Principles For The Federal Acquisition System''; the success paragraph was eliminated; the lead-in to the goals paragraph was changed; the term ``customer'' was clarified; the phrase ``each level of the process'' was changed to ``throughout the process''; the phrase ``using commercial products and services in preference to unique specification'' was replaced with ``maximizing the use of commercial products and services to meet Government requirements''; and the term ``vendor'' was replaced with ``contractor.'' In addition to these changes the Board is considering another concept under the role of the acquisition team. The intent of the Board is to make it clear that if a policy is not specifically addressed in the FAR, members of the Government acquisition team should not assume that it is prohibited. This concept was added to encourage members of the team to innovate in the course of their procurements. Statement of Guiding Principles for the Federal Acquisition System The VISION for the Federal Acquisition System is to deliver on a timely basis the best value product or service to the customer, while maintaining the public's trust and fulfilling public policy objectives. Participants in the acquisition process should work together as a team and should be empowered to make decisions within their area of responsibility. The Federal Acquisition System will: *Satisfy the customer in terms of cost, quality, and timeliness of the delivered product or service, by, for example, **Maximizing the use of commercial products and services, **Using contractors with a track record of successful past performance or who demonstrate a current superior ability to perform, and **Promoting competition; *Minimize administrative operating costs; *Conduct business with integrity, fairness, and openness; and *Fulfill public policy objectives. The acquisition team consists of all participants in Government acquisition including not only representatives of the technical, supply and procurement communities but also the customers they serve, and the contractors who provide the products and services. The role of each member of the Acquisition Team is to exercise personal initiative and sound business judgment in providing the best value product or service to meet the customer's needs. In exercising initiative, members of the Government acquisition team may assume that if a specific policy or procedure is not prohibited by the FAR, law (statute or case law), Executive Order or other regulation, that the policy or procedure is a permissible exercise of authority. Discussion on the Statement of Guiding Principles for the Federal Acquisition System Introduction The Statement of Acquisition Guiding Principles for the Federal Acquisition System (System) represents a concise statement designed to be user-friendly for all participants in Government acquisition. The following discussion of the principles is provided in order to illuminate the meaning of the terms and phrases used. The framework for the System includes the Guiding Principles for the System and the supporting policies and procedures provided in the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR). Discussion Vision All participants in the System are responsible for making acquisition decisions that deliver the best value product or service to the customer. Best value must be viewed from a broad perspective and is achieved by balancing the many competing interests in the System. The result is a system which works better and costs less.
