FR940127-1-00056 FR940127-1-00016 50 CFR Part 23 Species Being Considered for Changes to the Appendices to the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora AGENCY: Fish and Wildlife Service, Interior. ACTION: Request for information. SUMMARY: The Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES or Convention) regulates international trade in certain animal and plant species, which are listed in the appendices of this treaty. The United States, as a Party to CITES, may propose amendments to the appendices for consideration by the other Parties. This notice invites comments and information from the public on species that have been identified as candidates for U.S. proposals to amend Appendix I or II at the next biennial meeting of Party countries. DATES: The Service will consider all comments received by March 14, 1994, on proposals described in this notice. The ninth meeting of the Conference of the Parties to CITES (COP9) is scheduled for November 7&hyph;18, 1994, in Fort Lauderdale, Florida. ADDRESSES: Please send correspondence concerning this notice to Chief, Office of Scientific Authority; room 725, Arlington Square Building; U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service; Washington, DC 20240. Fax number (703) 358&hyph;2276. Express and messenger-delivered mail should be addressed to the Office of Scientific Authority; room 750, 4401 North Fairfax Drive; Arlington, Virginia 22203. Comments and other information received will be available for public inspection by appointment, from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. Monday through Friday, at the Arlington, Virginia address. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Dr. Charles W. Dane, Chief, Office of Scientific Authority, at the above address, telephone (703) 358&hyph;1708. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: In its previous notice on this subject (58 FR 38112; July 15, 1993), the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (Service) requested information on plant and animal species that might lead the Service to prepare proposals to amend the CITES appendices for consideration at the upcoming ninth meeting of the Conference of the Parties. That notice described the provisions of CITES for listing species in the appendices and set forth information requirements for proposals. The present notice announces the proposals received, explains why the Service does not intend to consider certain proposals, and describes those proposals that will receive further consideration prior to a decision as to whether to submit any of these proposals to the CITES Secretariat by the June 10, 1994, deadline. The Service received proposals from the Environmental Investigation Agency (EIA), the Fauna and Flora Preservation Society (FFPS), ICCAT Watch (a coalition consisting of the Center for Marine Conservation, the National Audubon Society, and World Wildlife Fund-US), the Natural Resources Defense Council, and the Oregon Natural Resources Council, by September 28, 1993. These organizations proposed adding or transferring nine different taxa, and in addition, EIA proposed transferring all bird species listed in Appendix III to Appendix II. In addition, the Service is considering the development of certain other proposals. The Service continues to consider submitting proposals to amend the appendices for the following species: Narwhal (for possible transfer from Appendix II to Appendix I); musk deer (for possible listing of species or populations in Appendix I); saiga antelope (for listing in Appendix I or II); box turtles (add to Appendix II); copperbelly water snake (add to Appendix II); bluefin tuna (add to Appendix II); whale shark (add to Appendix II); requiem and hammer-head sharks (add to Appendix II); tarantulas (add to Appendix II); Port-Orford-Cedar (add to Appendix II with its logs, sawn wood, and veneer only); bigleaf mahogany (add to Appendix II with exclusion of secondary and finished products); and two genera of African mahoganies with their logs, sawn wood, and veneer only (for possible listing in Appendix II). The Service will continue to consider a listing of freshwater pearly mussels that will provide protection to the most endangered while excluding those easily identifiable species that are used in the pearl bead industry and that are not believed to be threatened by trade. The Service is also considering a proposal to remove the non-African populations of aloes from the appendices. In addition, the Service at the suggestion of the CITES Nomenclature Committee will consider developing a proposal to clarify the present listing of the urial, Ovis vignei.
