FR940913-0-00063 FR940913-0-00027 Termination and Enforcement 84.60␣Purpose of termination and enforcement. 84.61␣Termination. 84.62␣Enforcement. Subpart D_After-the-Award Requirements 84.70␣Purpose. 84.71␣Closeout procedures. 84.72␣Subsequent adjustments and continuing responsibilities. 84.73␣Collection of amounts due. Subpart E_Use of Lump Sum Grants 84.80␣Conditions for use of Lump Sum (fixed price or fixed amount) grants. 84.81␣Definition. 84.82␣Provisions applicable to lump sum grants. 84.83␣Property standards. 84.84␣Procurement standards. 84.85␣Reports and records. 84.86␣Termination and enforcement. 84.87␣Closeout procedures, subsequent adjustments and continuing responsibilities. Appendix A to Part 84_Contract Provisions Authority: 42 U.S.C. 3535(d). Subpart A_General §84.1 Purpose. This part establishes uniform administrative requirements for Federal grants and agreements awarded to institutions of higher education, hospitals, and other non-profit organizations. Additional or inconsistent requirements shall not be imposed, except as provided in §§84.4, and 84.14 or unless specifically required by Federal statute or executive order. Non-profit organizations that implement Federal programs for the States are also subject to State requirements. §84.2 Definitions. Accrued expenditures means the charges incurred by the recipient during a given period requiring the provision of funds for: (1) Goods and other tangible property received; (2) Services performed by employees, contractors, subrecipients, and other payees; and (3) Other amounts becoming owed under programs for which no current services or performance is required. Accrued income means the sum of: (1) Earnings during a given period from: (i) Services performed by the recipient; and (ii) Goods and other tangible property delivered to purchasers; and (2) Amounts becoming owed to the recipient for which no current services or performance is required by the recipient. Acquisition cost of equipment means the net invoice price of the equipment, including the cost of modifications, attachments, accessories, or auxiliary apparatus necessary to make the property usable for the purpose for which it was acquired. Other charges, such as the cost of installation, transportation, taxes, duty or protective in-transit insurance, shall be included or excluded from the unit acquisition cost in accordance with the recipient's regular accounting practices. Advance means a payment made by Treasury check or other appropriate payment mechanism to a recipient upon its request either before outlays are made by the recipient or through the use of predetermined payment schedules. Award means financial assistance that provides support or stimulation to accomplish a public purpose. Awards include grants and other agreements in the form of money or property in lieu of money, by HUD to an eligible recipient. The term does not include: technical assistance, which provides services instead of money; other assistance in the form of loans, loan guarantees, capital advances under the Sections 202 and 811 programs, interest subsidies, or insurance; direct payments of any kind to individuals; and, contracts which are required to be entered into and administered under procurement laws and regulations. Cash contributions means the recipient's cash outlay, including the outlay of money contributed to the recipient by third parties. Closeout means the process by which HUD determines that all applicable administrative actions and all required work of the award have been completed by the recipient and HUD. Contract means a procurement contract under an award or subaward, and a procurement subcontract under a recipient's or subrecipient's contract. Cost sharing or matching means that portion of project or program costs not borne by HUD.
