FR940526-2-00068 FR940526-2-00046 DEPARTMENT OF LABOR Office of the Secretary Agency Recordkeeping/Reporting Requirements Under Review by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Background The Department of Labor, in carrying out its responsibilities under the Paperwork Reduction Act (44 U.S.C. chapter 35), considers comments on the reporting/recordkeeping requirements that will affect the public. List of Recordkeeping/Reporting Requirements Under Review As necessary, the Department of Labor will publish a list of the Agency recordkeeping/reporting requirements under review by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) since the last list was published. The list will have all entries grouped into new collections, revisions, extensions, or reinstatements. The Departmental Clearance Officer will, upon request, be able to advise members of the public of the nature of the particular submission they are interested in. Each entry may contain the following information: The Agency of the Department issuing this recordkeeping/reporting requirement. The title of the recordkeeping/reporting requirement. The OMB and/or Agency identification numbers, if applicable. How often the recordkeeping/reporting requirement is needed. Whether small businesses or organizations are affected. An estimate of the total number of hours needed to comply with the recordkeeping/reporting requirements and the average hours per respondent. The number of forms in the request for approval, if applicable. An abstract describing the need for and uses of the information collection. Comments and Questions Copies of the recordkeeping/reporting requirements may be obtained by calling the Departmental Clearance Office, Kenneth A. Mills (202&hyph;219&hyph;5095). Comments and questions about the items on this list should be directed to Mr. Mills, Office of Information Resources Management Policy, U.S. Department of Labor, 200 Constitution Avenue, NW., room N&hyph;1301, Washington, DC 20210. Comments should also be sent to the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, Attn: OMB Desk Officer for (BLS/DM/ESA/ETA/OAW/MSHA/OSHA/PWBA/VETS), Office of Management and Budget, Room 3001, Washington, DC 20503 (202&hyph; 395&hyph;6880). Any member of the public who wants to comment on recordkeeping/reporting requirements which have been submitted to OMB should advise Mr. Mills of this intent at the earliest possible date. Extension Bureau of Labor Statistics Supplemental Telephone Communications Survey Annually Businesses or other for-profit 14 respondents; 171 hours per response; 2,400 total hours; 1 form Detailed information pertaining to the inputs of local exchange carriers in the telephone communications industry is needed for productivity statistics. The information will be used in a multifactor productivity measure for the local telephone communications industry. The respondents are regional Bell operating companies and other local exchange carriers, who have all agreed to participate. Signed at Washington, DC this 17th day of May, 1994. Kenneth A. Mills, Departmental Clearance Officer. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;12810 Filed 5&hyph;25&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4510&hyph;24&hyph;M
