FR941003-2-00023 FR941003-2-00018 [Project No. 2687&hyph;014] Pacific Gas & Electric Company; Intent to Conduct Environmental Scoping Meetings and Site Visit September 27, 1994. The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) has received an application for relicensing for the proposed Pit 1 Hydroelectric Project No. 2687&hyph;014. The project is located on the Fall and Pit Rivers, near the towns of Fall River Mills, McArthur, and Burney, in Shasta County, California. The FERC staff intends to prepare an Environmental Assessment (EA) for this hydroelectric project in accordance with the National Environmental Policy Act. In the EA, we will consider both site-specific and cumulative environmental effects of the project and reasonable alternatives, and will include economic, financial, and engineering analyses. The draft EA will be issued and circulated for review by all interested parties. All comments filed on the draft EA will be analyzed by the staff and considered in a final EA. The staff's conclusions and recommendations will then be presented for the consideration by the Commission in reaching its final licensing decision. Scoping Meetings Staff will hold two scoping meetings. A scoping meeting oriented towards the agencies will be held on Thursday, October 27, 1994, at 9:00 AM, at the McArthur Fairgrounds, in McArthur, California. A scoping meeting oriented towards the public will be held the same day at 6:00 PM, at the same location. Interested individuals, organizations, and agencies are invited to attend either or both meetings and assist the staff in identifying the scope of environmental issues that should be analyzed in the EA. To help focus discussions at the meetings, a scoping document outlining subject areas to be addressed in the EA will be mailed to agencies and interested individuals on the FERC mailing list. Copies of the scoping document will also be available at the scoping meetings. Objectives At the scoping meetings, the FERC staff will: (1) Identify preliminary environmental issues related to the proposed project, (2) identify preliminary resource issues that are not important and do not require detailed analysis; (3) identify reasonable alternatives to the proposal; (4) solicit from meeting participants all available information, especially quantified data, on the resource issues; and (5) encourage statements from experts and the public on issues that should be analyzed in the EA, including points of view in opposition to, or in support of, the staff's preliminary views. Procedures The scoping meetings will be recorded by a court reporter and all statements, both oral and written, will become part of the record of the Commission proceedings on the Pit 1 Project. Individuals presenting statements at the meetings will be asked to clearly identify themselves for the record. Individuals, organizations, and agencies with environmental expertise and concerns are encouraged to attend the meetings and assist the staff in defining and clarifying the issues to be addressed in the EA. Persons choosing not to speak at the meetings, but who have views on the issues or information relevant to the issues, may submit written statements for inclusion in the public record at the meetings. In addition, written scoping comments (an original and eight copies) may be filed with Secretary, Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, 825 North Capitol Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20426, until [COMMENT DATE]. All written correspondence should clearly show the following caption on the first page: Pit 1 Hydroelectric Project, FERC Project No. 2687&hyph;014. Intervenors_those on the Commission's service list for this proceeding (parties)_are reminded of the Commission's Rules of Practice and Procedure, requiring parties filing documents with the Commission, to serve a copy of the document on each person whose name appears on the official service list. Further, if a party files comments or documents with the Commission relating to the merits of an issue that may affect the responsibilities of a particular resource agency, they must also serve a copy of the document on that resource agency. Site Visit A site visit to the Pit 1 Hydroelectric Project is planned for Wednesday, October 26, 1994. Those who wish to attend should plan to meet at 10:00 AM at the McArthur, Fairgrounds, in McArthur, California. The site is located near the fairgrounds. For more details, contact Mr. Steve Christ, Pacific Gas and Electric Company, at (415) 973&hyph;2629. Any questions regarding this notice may be directed to Mike Strzelecki, FERC Environmental Coordinator, at (202) 219&hyph;2827. Lois D. Cashell, Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;24358 Filed 9&hyph;30&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6717&hyph;01&hyph;M
