FR941212-0-00056 FR941212-0-00016 The Schedule of Limits chart as it appears in section 387.9 is being amended by removing the ``Note'' directly beneath the chart, and replacing it with specific gross vehicle weight rating (GVWR) references within the content of the chart itself. Since first promulgated, the ``Note'' reference has been confusing. By inserting specific weight limits into the text of the ``Type of Carriage'' column, the applicability of the financial responsibility requirements is more understandable. This final rule also removes a second Schedule of Limits chart, currently in section 387.15, because the information it contains is duplicative of that in the chart found in ยง387.9. Rulemaking Analyses and Notices The Administrative Procedure Act (APA), 5 U.S.C. 551 et seq., allows agencies engaged in rulemaking to dispense with prior notice and opportunity for comment when the agency for good cause finds that such procedures are impracticable, unnecessary, or are contrary to the public interest. 5 U.S.C. 553(b)(3)(B). As previously discussed, on December 21, 1990 (55 FR 52402), the RSPA comprehensively revised the regulatory requirements of the HMR with respect to hazard communication, classification, and packaging requirements. The revisions adopted the United Nations' Recommendations on the Transportation of Dangerous Goods, and were intended to further international regulatory uniformity. This FHWA final rule changes terminology and descriptions used in the FMCSR to reflect the changes made by the RSPA to the HMR. These amendments are technical in nature, and do not alter any current requirements regarding hazardous materials. Accordingly, the FHWA has determined that prior notice to the public on this action is unnecessary. Moreover, prior notice and opportunity for public comment on this document are not required under the Department of Transportation's Regulatory Policies and Procedures because it is not anticipated that such action will result in the receipt of useful information. This action promotes uniformity in the regulatory terminology and descriptions contained in the HMR and the FMCSR. Executive Order 12866 (Regulatory, Planning and Review) and DOT Regulatory Policies and Procedures The FHWA has determined that this document does not contain a significant regulatory action under Executive Order 12866, or a significant regulation as defined under DOT regulatory policies and procedures. These amendments are being made without substantive change to the existing regulatory language of these parts, and are strictly technical in nature. Provided in the amendments is a listing of the new hazardous materials classifications and descriptions by their respective classes and divisions as they pertain to minimum levels of financial responsibility, qualifications of drivers, driving of motor vehicles, and driving and parking requirements. It is anticipated that the economic impact of this regulatory action will be minimal. Therefore, a full regulatory evaluation is not required. Regulatory Flexibility Act In compliance with the Regulatory Flexibility Act, 5 U.S.C. 601&hyph;612, the FHWA has evaluated the effects of this rule on small entities. Based upon the evaluation, and the fact that the changes being made to current regulatory requirements are merely technical in nature, the FHWA hereby certifies that this action will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. Executive Order 12372 (Intergovernmental Review) Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance Program Number 20.217, Motor Carrier Safety. The regulations implementing Executive Order 12372 regarding intergovernmental consultation on Federal programs and activities apply to this program. Executive Order 12612 (Federalism Assessment) This action has been analyzed in accordance with the principles and criteria contained in Executive Order 12612, and it has been determined that this action does not have sufficient federalism implications to warrant the preparation of a federalism assessment. Paperwork Reduction Act This action does not contain a collection of information requirement for purposes of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980, 44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq. National Environmental Policy Act The agency has analyzed this action for purposes of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, 42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq., and has determined that this action would not have any effect on the quality of the environment. Regulation Identification Number A regulation identification number (RIN) is assigned to each regulatory action listed in the Unified Agenda of Federal Regulations. The Regulation Information Service Center publishes the Unified Agenda in April and October of each year. The RIN contained in the heading of this document can be used to cross reference this action with the Unified Agenda. List of Subjects in 49 CFR Parts 387, 391, 392, and 397 Hazardous materials transportation, Highways and roads, Financial responsibility, Insurance, Motor carriers. Issued on: November 30, 1994. Rodney E. Slater, Federal Highway Administrator.
