FR940412-1-00042 FR940412-1-00008 Subpart E_Inter-Association Settlements §403.500 General. Each Association that shares revenues and expenses with the Canadian Great Lakes Pilotage Authority (GLPA) shall submit settlement statements completed in the format shown in Appendix C to this part. The Memorandum of Arrangements (MOA) between the United States and Canada provides that settlement of accounts between United States pools and Canadian pools shall be effected on an interim basis as of the end of each month with an annual settlement as of December 31 of each year. Payments on account shall be made by the 15th of the following month on a net balance basis. Subpart F_Reporting requirements §403.600 Financial reporting requirements. (a) Each Association shall file semiannually with the Director the following financial statements: (1) Balance Sheet. (2) Profit and Loss Statement. (b) The financial statements shall list each active account, including subsidiary accounts, in the Uniform System of Accounts in Appendices A and B of this part. (c) The financial statements shall be prepared for the six months ending June 30, and December 31, unless otherwise authorized in writing by the Director. An officer of the Association shall certify the accuracy of the financial statements. (d) Each Association shall furnish the Director a copy of all settlement statements, including monthly settlement statements. (e) The financial statements, together with any other required statistical data, shall be submitted to the Director within 30 days of the end of the reporting period, unless otherwise authorized by the Director. (f) Each Association shall furnish the Director, by April 1 of each year, an unqualified long form audit report for the preceding year prepared by an Independent Certified Public Accountant. The audit shall conform to the Generally Accepted Auditing Standards promulgated by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants. (g) Each Association shall furnish the Director with monthly revenue and traffic reports listing data on a monthly and year-to-date basis. §403.605 Operating budgets. (a) Each Association shall prepare and submit to the Director, by the 31st day of January each year, an estimated operating budget for the forthcoming operating season. (b) Estimates of revenue shall be itemized to reflect the principal sources of income, with pilotage income segregated from other classes of income. (c) Estimates of expenses shall be on a calendar year basis, with adequate explanation of any unusual or nonrecurring items. (d) Those items of expenses includable in Inter-Association settlement statements shall be segregated and supported by required detail. Subpart G_Bonds §403.700 Fidelity bonds. (a) Each Association shall maintain a fidelity bond to indemnify against loss of money or other property through fraudulent or dishonest acts by employees. (b) The Officers of each Association shall annually fix the amount and character of fidelity bonds required of those persons handling or having custody of funds or other liquid assets. (c) The Director shall be advised of the amount and period of coverage. Subpart H_Source Forms §403.800 Uniform pilot's source form. (a) The ``Pilot's Source Form-Great Lakes Pilotage'' shall be used by all Great Lakes pilotage districts. This form shall be issued to pilots by authorized United States pilotage pools and changes shall not be made in the format thereof unless authorized by the Director. (b) Pilots shall complete forms in detail as soon as possible after completion of assignment and return the entire set to the dispatching office, together with adequate support for reimbursable travel expense. (c) Upon receipt by the Association, the forms shall be completed by insertion of rates and charges as specified in part 401 of this chapter. (d) Copies of the form shall be distributed as follows: (i) Original to accompany invoice; (ii) First copy to Director for statistical purposes;
