FR940912-0-00013 FR940912-0-00005 The additional requirements for completion of real estate appraisals, including the use of State-sanctioned appraisers, require a higher degree of independence and higher education and methodology standards. While higher standards are desirable, it has been argued by the System, as well as by the banking and thrift industries, that universal application of these higher standards and the additional cost involved do not add to the safety and soundness of these institutions. They argue that such higher standards add unnecessary costs and delays to the credit process without providing a corresponding reduction in loan defaults and losses in the institutions' smaller loans. The System and commercial banking institutions further argue that collateral valuations completed by qualified and experienced persons, other than State licensed or certified appraisers, are more appropriate and cost-effective for the majority of their loans and the associated risk. The FCA believes that it is the responsibility of the institution to establish adequate policies and procedures for collateral evaluations, taking into consideration the basic requirements of the FCA's regulations. The institutions are responsible for determining the level of documentation required, depending on the size, complexity, and specialization of the loan transaction. As an example, a $50,000 loan that qualifies for an institution's minimum information program could require considerably less support, information, and documentation than a $500,000 loan to finance a large, complex dairy operation not typical of the operations within an institution's territory. Under these revised regulations, both loan transactions could qualify as collateral valuations rather than as real estate appraisals; but the complexity, size, and specialization of the loan for the dairy operation would call for a higher degree of support information development and documentation. The FCA notes that such flexibility already exists in the current regulations. The lending institution, not the collateral evaluator, is ultimately responsible for its credit decisions. The collateral evaluation is only one of several factors that must be considered when making a credit decision. While the collateral evaluation report must be completed by a qualified individual, institutions should not assume that the acceptance of the collateral evaluation report substitutes for or completes the credit decision process. The FCA expects the institutions to consider all relevant credit factors (including the collateral evaluation) as part of the credit decision. If an institution is not comfortable with the reported value of the collateral, the institution can request another evaluation, decrease the loan amount accordingly, or, provided other statutory and regulatory requirements are satisfied, change the terms of the loan consideration in recognition of the perceived collateral risk. An institution need not lend 85 percent of the value shown by an evaluation. Rather it should limit the credit to the amount that can be supported by consideration of the risk associated with all credit factors, including the collateral evaluation. It is important to note that as the complexity or specialization of the subject property increases, the degree of support documentation should also increase and should take into account the unique characteristics of the property that make it complex or specialized. IV. Regulatory Revisions Taking into account the comments received in response to the FCA's ``regulatory burden'' notice, the FCA staff studied FCA's current collateral evaluation regulations, compared current regulations with those of the other Federal regulatory agencies, and completed a study of data submitted to the FCA by the System. Based on its study, the FCA has adopted the following positions. A. Increased Appraisal Thresholds The regulations amend ยง614.4260(b) to increase the existing de minimis levels on the appraisal requirements of the System institutions to $250,000. In addition, the threshold for the functional independence requirements would also be increased in connection with the appraisal de minimis level. In 1992, the FCA completed an analysis to determine the segregation by size of the collateral securing the System's loan portfolio. The database for the analysis included a summary of the number and volume of loans within the FCS banks and associations as of December 31, 1991, that were unsecured, secured by personal property, secured by real property, or secured by a combination of security types. The data were further segregated by loan-size categories. The FCA study has subsequently been updated to reflect the December 31, 1992, and December 31, 1993, loan-size and collateralization information.
