FR940617-1-00089 FR940617-1-00012 19. The agency has reviewed the submitted data on hexachlorophene and concludes that the data do not address the safety concerns expressed by the Antimicrobial I Panel on this ingredient. Therefore, the agency is proposing that hexachlorophene remain available by prescription only. (See section I.H., comment 13.) 20. The agency has evaluated a ``mixed iodophor'' consisting of iodine complexed by ammonium ether sulfate and polyoxyethylene sorbitan monolaurate and found it to be safe for use as a surgical hand scrub and health-care personnel handwash, but there are insufficient data available to determine its effectiveness for these uses. Therefore, it is being classified in Category III. (See section I.I., comment 15.) The other iodine-surfactant complexes classified by the Antimicrobial I Panel remain in Category III for health-care uses due to a lack of data. 21. The agency is including povidone-iodine 5 to 10 percent as a Category I health-care antiseptic ingredient for use as a surgical hand scrub, patient preoperative skin preparation, and antiseptic handwash or health-care personnel handwash. (See section I.I., comment 17.) As discussed in section I.I., comment 16, the agency is not including the warning about the interaction of iodophors and starch-containing compounds proposed in comment 66 of the previous tentative final monograph (43 FR 1221). The agency is also not including professional labeling to limit the molecular weight of povidone-iodine or special warnings related to the molecular weight of povidone-iodine. (See section I.I., comment 18.) 22. The agency has evaluated the data submitted on benzalkonium chloride and determined that the data are not sufficient to establish the efficacy of this ingredient as a patient preoperative skin preparation. (See section I.J., comment 20.) No data were received on other health-care uses of this ingredient or health-care uses of the two other quaternary ammonium compounds (benzethonium chloride and methylbenzethonium chloride) classified by the Antimicrobial I Panel. Accordingly, quaternary ammonium compounds remain in Category III as health-care antiseptics. 23. The agency has reviewed data submitted on sodium oxychlorosene, an ingredient not previously classified for OTC topical antiseptic use, and is placing this ingredient in Category III for both safety and effectiveness. (See section I.K., comment 22.) 24. The agency has reclassified triclosan up to 1 percent from Category II to Category III as a health-care antiseptic for use as a patient preoperative skin preparation, antiseptic handwash or health-care personnel handwash, and surgical hand scrub. While submitted data indicate that triclosan_when properly formulated_may be effective, data that meet the criteria described in section I.N., comment 28 are needed to establish effectiveness. In addition, based upon submitted safety data and other information, the agency has reclassified the ingredient from Category III to Category I for safety for short-term use as a patient preoperative skin preparation. Triclosan remains classified in Category III for long-term use (antiseptic handwash or health-care personnel handwash and surgical hand scrub). (See section I.L., comment 23.) 25. The agency is proposing a number of Category I health-care antiseptic ingredients in this document. All of the ingredients included in this proposal as Category I health-care antiseptic ingredients are standardized and characterized for quality and purity and are included as articles in the current United States Pharmacopeia or National Formulary (U.S.P./N.F.) (Ref. 1). However, a number of other ingredients being considered in this rulemaking, e.g., triclosan and triclocarban are not listed in the U.S.P./N.F. For an active ingredient to be included in an OTC drug final monograph, in addition to information demonstrating safety and effectiveness, it is necessary to have publicly available sufficient chemical information that can be used by all manufacturers to determine that the ingredient is appropriate for use in their products. The agency believes that it would be appropriate for parties interested in upgrading nonmonograph ingredients to monograph status to develop with the United States Pharmacopeial Convention appropriate standards for the quality and purity of health-care antiseptic ingredients that are not already included in official compendia. However, should interested parties fail to provide necessary information so that appropriate standards may be established, ingredients otherwise eligible for monograph status will not be included in the final monograph. Reference (1) ``United States Pharmacopeia XXII_National Formulary XVII,'' United States Pharmacopeial Convention, Inc., Rockville, MD, 1989, pp. 34, 703, 731, and 1119. 26. The agency is proposing testing requirements for patient preoperative skin preparation, antiseptic handwash or health-care personnel handwash, and surgical hand scrub drug products in ยง333.470 of this tentative final monograph. As part of the effectiveness criteria for a patient preoperative skin preparation, the agency is proposing new testing requirements for products labeled with the proposed indication ``for the preparation of the skin prior to an injection.'' (See section I.N., comment 28.)
