FR940125-2-00007 FR940125-2-00005 The Federal Trade Commission having initiated an investigation of certain acts and practices of Nu Skin International, Inc., CJM, Inc., CST Management, Inc., and CK&C, Inc., corporations; Clara McDermott, individually and as an officer and director of CJM, Inc.; Craig Tillotson, individually and as an officer and director of CST Management, Inc.; Craig Bryson, individually and as an officer and director of CK&C, Inc., (hereinafter sometimes collectively referred to as ``proposed respondents''), and it now appears that the proposed respondents are willing to enter into an agreement containing an order to cease and desist from the use of the acts and practices being investigated, It is hereby agreed by and between Nu Skin International, Inc., CJM, Inc., CST Management, Inc., and CK&C, Inc., by their duly authorized officers, and Clara McDermott, Craig Tillotson, and Craig Bryson, individually or by their respective counsel, and counsel for the Federal Trade Commission that: 1. Proposed respondent Nu Skin International, Inc. (``Nu Skin''), is a corporation organized, existing, and doing business under and by virtue of the laws of the state of Utah, with its principal office or place of business located at 75 West Center, Provo, Utah 84601. 2. Proposed respondent CJM, Inc., is a corporation organized, existing, and doing business under and by virtue of the laws of the state of Utah, with its principal office or place of business located at 1565 East 3300 South, Salt Lake City, Utah 84106. 3. Proposed respondent Clara McDermott is an officer and director of proposed corporate respondent CJM, Inc. Individually or in concert with others, she formulates, directs, and controls the acts and practices of CJM, Inc., including the acts and practices alleged in the draft of the complaint attached hereto. Her principal office or place of business is the same as that of CJM, Inc. 4. Proposed respondent CST Management, Inc., is a corporation organized, existing, and doing business under and by virtue of the laws of the state of Utah, with its principal office or place of business located at 11 Northridge Way, Sandy, Utah 84092. 5. Proposed respondent Craig Tillotson is an officer and director of proposed corporate respondent CST Management, Inc. Individually or in concert with others, he formulates, directs, and controls the acts and practices of CST Management, Inc., including the acts and practices alleged in the draft of the complaint attached hereto. His principal office or place of business is the same as that of CST Management, Inc. 6. Proposed respondent CK&C, Inc., is a corporation organized, existing, and doing business under and by virtue of the laws of the state of Utah, with its principal office or place of business located at 3800 Sherwood Drive, Provo, Utah 84604. 7. Proposed respondent Craig Bryson is an officer and director of proposed corporate respondent CK&C, Inc. Individually or in concert with others, he formulates, directs, and controls the acts and practices of CK&C, Inc., including the acts and practices alleged in the draft of the complaint attached hereto. His principal office or place of business is the same as that of CK&C, Inc. 8. Proposed respondents admit all the jurisdictional facts set forth in the draft of the complaint attached hereto. 9. Proposed respondents waive: (a) Any further procedural steps; (b) The requirement that the Commission's decision contain a statement of findings of fact and conclusions of law; (c) All rights to seek judicial review or otherwise to challenge or contest the validity of the order entered pursuant to this agreement; and (d) All claims under the Equal Access to Justice Act, 5 U.S.C. 504. 10. This agreement shall not become part of the public record of the proceeding unless and until it is accepted by the Commission. If this agreement is accepted by the Commission, this agreement, together with the draft of the complaint contemplated hereby, will be placed on the public record for a period of sixty (60) days and information in respect thereto publicly released. The Commission thereafter may either withdraw its acceptance of this agreement and so notify the proposed respondents, in which event it will take such action as it may consider appropriate, or issue and serve its complaint (in such form as the circumstances may require) and decision, in disposition of the proceeding. 11. This agreement is for settlement purposes only and does not constitute an admission by proposed respondents of facts, other than jurisdictional facts, or of violations of law as alleged in the draft of complaint here attached. 12. This agreement contemplates that, if it is accepted by the Commission, and if such acceptance is not subsequently withdrawn by the Commission pursuant to the provisions of ยง2.34 of the Commission's Rules, the Commission may, without further notice to proposed respondents, (1) issue its complaint corresponding in form and substance with the draft of the complaint here attached and its decision containing the following order to cease and desist in disposition of the proceeding and (2) make information public in respect thereto. When so entered, the order to cease and desist shall have the same force and effect and may be altered, modified or set aside in the same manner and within the same time provided by statute for other orders. The order shall become final upon service. Delivery by the U.S. Postal Service of the complaint and decision containing the agreed-to order to proposed respondents' addresses as stated in this agreement shall constitute service. Proposed respondents waive any right they may have to any other manner of service. The complaint may be used in construing the terms of the order, and no agreement, understanding, representation, or interpretation not contained in the order or the agreement may be used to vary or contradict the terms of the order. 13. Proposed respondents have read the complaint and the order contemplated hereby. They understand that once the order has been issued, they will be required to file one or more compliance reports showing that they have fully complied with the order. Proposed respondents further understand that they may be liable for civil penalties in the amount provided by law for each violation of the order after it becomes final.
