FR941103-0-00032 FR941103-0-00007 III. Transmission Pricing Principles Transmission pricing must adhere to the FPA requirement that transmission rates be just and reasonable and not unduly discriminatory or preferential. This requirement is found in sections 205, 206, and 212. In addition, section 212(a) requires that wholesale transmission rates for services ordered under section 211 must: •Permit the recovery of all costs incurred in connection with the transmission services and necessary associated services, including, but not limited to, an appropriate share, if any, of legitimate, verifiable and economic costs, including taking into account any benefits to the transmission system of providing the transmission service, and the costs of any enlargement of transmission facilities; •Promote the economically efficient transmission and generation of electricity; and •To the extent practicable, ensure that costs incurred in providing the wholesale transmission services, and properly allocable to the provision of such services, are recovered from the applicant for the 211 order and not from a transmitting utility's existing wholesale, retail, and transmission customers. Consistent with these statutory requirements, which give the Commission discretion in setting rates within the zone of reasonableness, and in light of the comments received in response to the Pricing Inquiry, we have formulated five principles that will guide our approval of pricing for both firm and non-firm transmission services in the future. The Commission believes these principles comport with the statutory requirements of sections 205, 206 and 212 of the FPA, and, in the interest of developing a uniform transmission pricing policy, we will apply these same principles to the pricing of transmission service whether that service is provided under section 205, 206, or 211 of the FPA. The first two principles reflect fundamental requirements previously established by the Commission. A conforming proposal is one that meets the first principle, i.e., it proposes pricing that meets the traditional revenue requirement. A conforming proposal must also meet the second principle, i.e., it must reflect comparability. As to the other three principles, however, these reflect goals that an applicant with a conforming proposal must try to meet, but that ultimately may need to be balanced against one another in the Commission's determination of whether the proposed rates are just and reasonable. A non-conforming proposal is one that does not meet the first principle, i.e., it does not propose pricing that meets the traditional revenue requirement. However, a non-conforming proposal must meet the second principle, i.e., it must reflect comparability. If a non-conforming proposal does not clearly demonstrate that the comparability requirement is met, it will be rejected. As to the remaining three principles, these reflect goals that an applicant with a non-conforming proposal must try to meet, but that may need to be balanced against one another. In addition, as part of its balancing, the Commission will consider the extent to which the first principle is not met. 18 18 A pricing proposal that deviates from cost only slightly may be easier to justify than one that results in prices several times cost. We discuss these principles in detail below. 1. Transmission Pricing Must Meet the Traditional Revenue Requirement For conforming proposals, transmission prices must be based on the costs of the transmission service provided. The process of determining transmission prices involves three distinct steps. First, a utility must determine its total company revenue requirement, the capital component of which traditionally has been measured by embedded (depreciated original) cost. Second, a utility must allocate among individual customers or classes of customers that portion of the total revenue requirement that is attributable to providing transmission services, in a manner which appropriately reflects the costs of providing transmission service to such customers or classes of customers. Finally, the utility must design rates to recover those allocated costs from each customer class. Different customers may pay different rates if they use the system in different ways. In the aggregate, however, rates are designed so that a transmission owner meets, but does not exceed, its revenue requirement. That is, it should be able to collect revenues from all its customers equal to the sum of its prudently incurred embedded costs, including return on capital.
