FR940505-1-00336 FR940505-1-00012 Pesticide means and includes any substance or mixture of substances labeled, designed, or intended for use in preventing, destroying, repelling or mitigating any pest, or any substance or mixture of substances labeled, designed, or intended for use as a defoliant, desiccant, or plant regulator, provided that the term pesticide will not include any substance, mixture of substances, or device which the Environmental Protection Agency does not consider to be a pesticide. Principal display panel or panels means that part, or those parts of a label that are so designed as to most likely be displayed, presented, shown or examined under normal and customary conditions of display or purchase. Whenever a principal display panel appears more than once, all requirements pertaining to the principal display panel shall pertain to all such principal display panels. Product brand name means the name of the product exactly as it appears on the principal display panel of the product. Product category means the applicable category which best describes the product as listed in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. Product Form for the purpose of complying with paragraph (a)(7) of this section only, means the applicable form which most accurately describes the product's dispensing form as follows: A=Aerosol Product; S=Solid; P=Pump Spray; L=Liquid; G=Gel; O=Other. Propellent means a liquefied or compressed gas that is used in whole or in part, such as a cosolvent, to expel a liquid or any other material from the same self-pressurized container or from a separate container. Pump spray means a packaging system in which the product ingredients within the container are not under pressure and in which the product is expelled only while a pumping action is applied to a button, trigger or other actuator. Responsible party means the company, firm or establishment which is listed on the product's label. If the label lists two companies, firms or establishments, the responsible party is the party which the product was manufactured for or distributed by, as noted on the label. Restricted materials means pesticides established as restricted materials under Title 3, California Code of Regulations, section 6400. Retail outlet means any establishment at which consumer products are sold, supplied, or offered for sale directly to consumers. Retailer means any person who sells, supplies, or offers consumer products for sale directly to consumers. Shaving cream means an aerosol product which dispenses a foam lather intended to be used with a blade or cartridge razor, or other wet-shaving system, in the removal of facial or other bodily hair. Single phase aerosol air freshener means an aerosol air freshener with the liquid contents in a single homogeneous phase and which does not require that the product container be shaken before use. Solid means a substance or mixture of substances which, either whole or subdivided (such as the particles comprising a powder), is not capable of visually detectable flow as determined under ASTM D&hyph;4359&hyph;90. Spray buff product means a product designed to restore a worn floor finish in conjunction with a floor buffing machine and special pad. Table B compound means any carbon-containing compound listed as an exception to the definition of VOC in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. Type A propellent means a compressed gas such as CO 2 , N 2 , N 2 O, or compressed air which is used as a propellent, and is either incorporated with the product or contained in a separate chamber within the product's packaging. Type B propellent means any halocarbon which is used as a propellent including chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs), hydrochlorofluorocarbons (HCFCs), and hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs). Type C propellent means any propellent which is not a Type A or Type B propellent, including propane, isobutane, n-butane, and dimethyl ether (also known as dimethyl oxide). Volatile organic compound (VOC) means any compound of carbon, excluding carbon monoxide, carbon dioxide, carbonic acid, metallic carbides or carbonates, and ammonium carbonate, which participates in atmospheric photochemical reactions other than those defined as exempt compounds. These exempt compounds have been determined to have negligible photochemical reactivity. For purposes of determining compliance with emission limits, VOC will be measured by test methods given in this section. Where such a method also measures compounds with negligible photochemical reactivity, an owner or operator may exclude these negligibly reactive compounds when determining compliance with an emission standard. However, the U.S. EPA may require such owner or operator, as a precondition to excluding these compounds for purposes of determining compliance, to provide monitoring methods and monitoring results demonstrating, to the satisfaction of the U.S. EPA, the amount of negligibly reactive compounds in the source's emissions. Usage directions means the text or graphics on the product's principal display panel, label, or accompanying literature which describes to the end user how and in what quantity the product is to be used. Wasp and hornet insecticide means any insecticide product that is designed for use against wasps, hornets, yellow jackets or bees by allowing the user to spray a high volume directed stream or burst from a safe distance at the intended pest or its hiding place. Wax means a material or synthetic thermoplastic substance generally of high molecular weight hydrocarbons or high molecular weight esters of fatty acids or alcohols, except glycerol and high polymers (plastics). Wax includes, but is not limited to, substances derived from the secretions of plants and animals such as carnuba wax and beeswax, substances of a mineral origin such as ozocerite and paraffin, and synthetic polymers such as polyethylene. Wood floor wax means wax-based products for use solely on wood floors. (3) Standards. (i) Except as provided in paragraphs (a) (4), (5), and (7) of this section, no person shall sell, supply, offer for sale, or manufacture for sale in California any consumer product which, at the time of sale or manufacture, contains volatile organic compounds in excess of the limits specified in the following Table of Standards after the specified effective dates.
