FR940622-0-00042 FR940622-0-00011 Emergency Department Comment: Two commenters believe that we should define emergency department to include the provision of emergency services, as not all hospitals have a formal ``emergency department.'' Response: We believe that section 1867 of the Act applies to all Medicare participating facilities that offer emergency services. It was not Congress' intent to limit the scope of the provision to only those facilities that have organized areas specifically labelled as emergency departments or emergency rooms. If so, a facility could easily circumvent its responsibilities under the Act simply by renaming the department to something other than ``emergency department'' or by using an approach other than departmentalization in providing hospital services. This would clearly contravene the underlying principle of the statute that obligates hospitals to render emergency care within their capacity when they normally undertake to render such care in individual cases. For example, many psychiatric hospitals do not have organized emergency departments. However, many of these facilities offer 24-hour psychiatric services on a walk-in basis for persons who are not patients of the hospital. Although these hospitals do not have organized emergency departments, they are presenting themselves to the public as providing care for psychiatric emergencies. We believe this type of facility must comply with the requirements of section 1867 of the Act and render emergency care within their capability to do so (or provide for a transfer in accordance with section 1867(c) of the Act). In order to clarify this issue, we believe it is helpful if the regulations define the term ``hospital with an emergency department'' to clarify which hospitals are subject to the requirements of section 1867. Therefore, as we previously indicated, we have inserted in §489.24(b) the definition of a hospital with an emergency department. Patient Consent Comment: One commenter noted that the first sentence of proposed §489.24(a) contains a conflict in language as it appears to refer to individuals coming in alone and then refers to a request made on the individual's behalf. Response: The statute and the regulations focus on the individual coming to an emergency department who may need treatment, whether or not that individual is alone or with his or her entire family. However, we are clarifying the language to state that the request for treatment may be made by the individual or on the individual's behalf. Comment: Eleven commenters questioned the hospital's responsibility to a patient who refuses treatment or refuses a medically appropriate transfer. Response: The statute deems a hospital as having met its statutory obligations under this provision if an individual refuses treatment or a medically appropriate transfer. We are adding requirements, discussed below, to ensure that the individual's refusal is informed and not obtained under duress. Comment: One commenter stated that proposed §489.24(c) (2) and (3) are inconsistent in that an individual's refusal to consent to treatment must be in writing, but a refusal to consent to transfer does not. Other commenters urged HCFA to require that refusals to consent to treatment be in writing and that they reflect that the individual, or a legally responsible person acting on his or her behalf, understands the hospital's obligations under the statute and is aware of the risks of refusing treatment. Response: We agree that the decision to refuse or consent to treatment must be an informed one, and we believe that the hospital is obliged to inform the individual (or the person requesting examination or treatment on his or her behalf) of the reasonably foreseeable risks and benefits of refusing or consenting to treatment. Sections 6211(b) (1) and (2) of OBRA 89 amended section 1867(b) of the Act to require hospitals to inform individuals (or persons acting on their behalf) of the risks and benefits to the individual of examination and treatment and/or transfer, and to ``take all reasonable steps to secure the individual's (or person's) written informed consent to refuse such examination and treatment,'' transfer, or both. We are therefore amending §489.24(c) (2) and (4) to comply with these OBRA 89 requirements. Thus, the medical record should contain a description of the examination and treatment offered to the individual. We also believe that hospitals should not attempt to coerce individuals into making judgments against their best interest by informing them that they will have to pay for their care if they remain, but that their care will be free or at low cost if they transfer to a charity hospital. It should also be noted that hospitals generally require an individual's consent to treatment to be in writing. (See §482.24(c)(2)(v) requiring properly executed informed consent forms for procedures and treatments specified by hospital medical staff or Federal or State law requirements.) Comment: One commenter stated that HCFA should require a request for transfer to be in writing to ensure that it is not coerced. It should acknowledge the individual's awareness of his or her right to emergency treatment under the statute and outline the benefits and risks of transfer. Response: We agree and, based upon this comment and section 6211(c)(1) of OBRA 89, are revising §489.24(d)(1)(ii)(A) to provide that requests for transfer must be in writing and signed by the individual requesting the transfer or by a legally responsible person acting on the individual's behalf. The requests should contain a brief statement of the hospital's obligations under the statute and the benefits and risks that were outlined to the person signing the request. The request should be made a part of the patient's medical record, and a copy of it should be sent to the receiving facility along with the individual transferred. It is reasonable to conclude that, by permitting requests for transfer to be made only by the individual or a legally responsible person acting on the individual's behalf, Congress intended requests to be documented in the manner suggested by the commenter. Moreover, this requirement will reduce litigation about whether an individual requested the transfer. Comment: Three commenters recommended that a person acting on the patient's behalf does not have to be ``legally'' responsible for the patient. Response: We agree and are revising §§489.24(c)(2) and (c)(4) to reflect this change because section 9307 of OBRA 86 deleted the phrase ``legally responsible'' from sections 1867(b)(2) and (b)(3) of the Act. However, as section 1867(c) of the Act continues to contain the phrase ``legally responsible'', it is being retained in §489.24(d).
