FR940110-1-00070 FR940110-1-00006 Section 960.13 of the proposed rule provides that at the time of initial disbursement of a subsidized advance or a direct subsidy by a Bank for an approved AHP application, the Bank shall verify in writing that the project complies with all applicable requirements contained in proposed §960.9 and all obligations committed to in the approved AHP application. The Bank shall verify the amount of subsidy being provided in connection with the application and being charged against the AHP fund. The Bank shall include in its AHP implementation plan its verification procedures for such purposes. I. Monitoring Requirements Section 960.14 of the proposed rule sets forth the requirements for monitoring AHP-assisted housing projects. Section 960.14 is intended to implement the statutory requirement of section 10(j)(9)(C) of the Act, which provides that the Board's regulations shall ensure that advances made under the AHP be used only to assist projects for which adequate long-term monitoring is available. See 12 U.S.C. 1430(j)(9)(C). The Board's existing AHP regulation provides that each Bank must monitor housing projects funded through its AHP. See 12 CFR 960.7(b). Section 960.14(a) of the proposed rule carries forward this requirement, and §960.14(e) through (h) of the proposed rule sets forth the specific monitoring requirements for the Banks, which are discussed further below. Section 960.14(b) of the proposed rule provides that each Bank shall include in its AHP implementation plan an explanation of how it intends to meet the monitoring requirements of §960.14 of the proposed rule. Under §960.14(c) of the proposed rule, a Bank may contract with an applicant, a state housing finance agency, or another entity to perform the tasks required to carry out the Bank's monitoring responsibilities; however, the Bank remains ultimately responsible for meeting the monitoring requirements set forth in §960.14 (e) through (h) of the proposed rule. Thus, a Bank may decide in its monitoring plan that applicants will have no long-term monitoring responsibilities. Alternatively, the Bank may decide to require applicants to perform long-term monitoring as a condition of approval of an AHP award, or the Bank may determine what entity has the responsibility for monitoring on a project-by-project basis. 1. Applicant Monitoring of Construction or Rehabilitation Section 960.14(d) of the proposed rule adds a new requirement that if a subsidized advance or direct subsidy is used to finance construction or rehabilitation of a project, the Bank shall require the applicant to monitor the construction or rehabilitation until completion, and to make progress reports to the Bank. Where an applicant finances construction or rehabilitation, the applicant usually monitors the progress of the project in connection with approving disbursements of funds to the borrower. Therefore, the Board believes that where an applicant uses a subsidized advance or direct subsidy to make loans for construction or rehabilitation of an AHP-assisted project, the applicant is in the best position to monitor the progress of such construction or rehabilitation and to make progress reports to the Bank. 2. Bank Monitoring Requirements Section 960.14 (e) through (h) of the proposed rule sets forth the specific aspects of an AHP project that a Bank is required to monitor. Section 960.14(e) of the proposed rule sets for the monitoring responsibilities that are long-term in nature, as required by section 10(j)(9)(C) of the Act. See 12 U.S.C. 1430(j)(9)(C). Section 960.14(f) and (h) of the proposed rule sets forth the short-term monitoring responsibilities for compliance with the special needs and economic mobility priorities. Section 960.14(g) sets forth the monitoring responsibilities for the District Bank priority or priorities, which may or may not be long-term, depending on the nature of the priority selected by the Bank. a. Monitoring of long-term requirements. Section 960.14(e) of the proposed rule sets forth the requirements for monitoring the long-term requirements for owner-occupied and rental housing projects assisted under the AHP. (i) Owner-occupied housing units. Section 960.14(e)(1)(i) of the proposed rule provides that at the time a household enters into a purchase contract for an AHP-assisted housing unit or by the closing on the financing for such unit, or at the time a household that already owns the housing unit receives a commitment of a loan or a grant pursuant to the AHP, the Bank or its designee shall obtain a certification from the sponsor that the household has an income at or below the level committed to in the AHP application.
