FR940912-2-00088 FR940912-2-00057 5. prevents and heals osteoporosis; 6. rebuilds bone and restores lost bone; 7. eliminates pain associated with bone ailments; 8. is absorbed by the body better than other forms of calcium; 9. prevents bone fractures; 10. straightens spinal curvatures; and 11. provides any benefit in the prevention, treatment, or cure of osteoporosis, arthritis, back pain, or any other bone ailment or condition; unless, at the time of making such representation, respondents possess and rely upon competent and reliable scientific evidence that substantiates the representation. For purposes of this Order, ``competent and reliable scientific evidence'' shall mean tests, analyses, research, studies, or other evidence based on the expertise of professionals in the relevant area, that has been conducted and evaluated in an objective manner by persons qualified to do so, using procedures generally accepted in the profession to yield accurate and reliable results. II It is further ordered that RN Nutrition, a limited partnership, and George Page Rank and James W. Nugent, individually and as co-partners, trading and doing business as RN Nutrition, or under any other name, their successors and assigns, and respondents' agents, representatives, and employees, directly or through any partnership, corporation, subsidiary, division or other device, in connection with the labeling, advertising, promotion, offering for sale, sale, or distribution of BoneRestore or any food or dietary supplement, food, or drug, as ``food'' and ``drug'' are defined in section 15 of the Federal Trade Commission Act, in or affecting commerce, as ``commerce'' is defined in the Federal Trade Commission Act, do forthwith cease and desist from representing, directly or by implication, that any endorsement (as ``endorsement'' is defined in 16 CFR 255.0(b)) of the product represents the typical or ordinary experience of members of the public who use the product, unless, at the time of making such representation, respondents possess and rely upon competent and reliable evidence, which when appropriate must be competent and reliable scientific evidence, that substantiates such representation. III It is further ordered that RN Nutrition, a limited partnership, and George Page Rank and James W. Nugent, individually and as co-partners, trading and doing business as RN Nutrition, or under any other name, their successors and assigns, and respondents' agents, representatives, and employees, directly or through any partnership, corporation, subsidiary, division or other device, in connection with the labeling, advertising, promotion, offering for sale, sale, or distribution of BoneRestore or any food or dietary supplement, food, or drug, as ``food'' and ``drug'' are defined in section 15 of the Federal Trade Commission Act, in or affecting commerce, as ``commerce'' is defined in the Federal Trade Commission Act, do forthwith cease and desist from using the name ``BoneRestore,'' or any other name, in a manner that represents, directly or by implication, that such product has the ability to restore, build, or increase bone unless, at the time of making the representation, respondents possess and rely upon competent and reliable scientific evidence that substantiates the representation that it restores, builds, or increases bone. This provision does not otherwise affect respondents' ability to use the trade name ``BoneRestore,'' or any other brand name, to make a qualified representation that is substantiated by competent and reliable scientific evidence.
