FR940727-0-00010 FR940727-0-00003 Pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 553, it is also found and determined, upon good cause, that it is impracticable, unnecessary, and contrary to the public interest to give preliminary notice prior to putting this rule into effect, and that good cause exists for not postponing the effective date of this rule until 30 days after publication in the Federal Register because: (1) This rule relaxes requirements currently in effect; (2) this rule should be in effect as soon as possible because handlers are currently processing olives; (3) this rule was unanimously recommended by the committee at a public meeting; and (4) this rule provides a 30-day comment period, and any comments received will be considered prior to finalization of this rule. Lists of Subjects 7 CFR Part 932 Marketing agreements, Olives, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. 7 CFR Part 944 Avocados, Food grades and standards, Grapefruit, Grapes, Imports, Kiwifruit, Limes, Olives, Oranges. For the reasons set forth in the preamble, 7 CFR Parts 932 and 944 are amended as follows: 1. The authority citation for both 7 CFR Parts 932 and 944 continues to read as follows: Authority: 7 U.S.C. 601&hyph;674. PART 932_OLIVES GROWN IN CALIFORNIA 2. Section 932.152 is amended by revising paragraphs (a), (b), (f)(2), (f)(3), and Table II in paragraph (g)(1) to read as follows: §932.152 Outgoing regulations. (a) Inspection stations. Processed olives shall be sampled and graded only at an inspection station which shall be any olive processing plant having facilities for in-line inspection which are satisfactory to the Inspection Service and the committee, or at an olive processing plant which has an approved Quality Assurance Program in effect. (b) Inspection _(1) General. Inspection of packaged olives for conformance with §932.52 shall be by a Quality Assurance Program approved by the Processed Products Branch (PPB), USDA; or by in-line inspection. A PPB approved Quality Assurance Program shall be pursuant to a Quality Assurance contract as referred to in §52.2. During in-line inspection, no handler shall perform the final processing operations which immediately precede the packaging of the olives unless an inspector is present when the olives are so processed. (2) Pitting operations. If olives are sized prior to pitting and such olives meet the size requirements for packaging as canned whole ripe olives but are held in containers prior to final processing, such olives shall be identified to the satisfaction of the Inspection Service and be held separate and apart from other olives until such time as they are submitted for inspection prior to being packaged. If olives are sized prior to pitting and such olives do not meet the size requirements for packaging as canned whole ripe olives but meet the applicable size requirements specified in §932.52 for halved, sliced, chopped, or minced styles of canned ripe olives, such olives shall be identified to the satisfaction of the Inspection Service and be held separate and apart from other olives until such time as they are submitted for inspection prior to being packaged. * * * * * (f) Size designations (1)␣*␣*␣* (2) The size of the canned whole olives shall conform with the applicable count per pound range indicated in Table I of paragraph (f)(1) of this section. When the count per pound of whole olives falls between two count ranges, the size designation shall be that of the smaller size. The average count for canned whole ripe olives is determined from all containers in the sample and is calculated on the basis of the drained weight of the olives. (3) Pitted olives must meet the size requirements for canned whole olives specified in paragraphs (f)(1) and (f)(2) of this section prior to pitting, or must meet the size designations specified in §52.3754 of the U.S. Standards for Grades of Canned Ripe Olives subsequent to pitting, subject to the following minimum size requirements:
