FR940513-2-00133 FR940513-2-00063 [Docket No. AB&hyph;213 (Sub-No. 4)] Canadian Pacific Limited_Abandonment_Between Skinner and Vanceboro, Maine AGENCY: Interstate Commerce Commission. ACTION: Notice of final scope of study for environmental impact statement. SUMMARY: This notice announces the final scope of study prepared in response to written comments, as well as oral comments given at public meetings, for the environmental impact statement to be prepared for the above proceeding. Written comments on the final scope are requested. DATES: Written comments on the final scope of work are due June 13, 1994. ADDRESSES: Phillis Johnson-Ball, Interstate Commerce Commission, Section of Environmental Analysis, Room 3221, 12th and Constitution Avenue, NW, Washington, DC 20423. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Phillis Johnson-Ball (202) 927&hyph;6213 or Vicki Dettmar (202) 927&hyph;6211. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Canadian Pacific Limited has filed an application with the Commission seeking authority to discontinue and abandon all freight and passenger rail operations over 201.2 miles of rail line between Skinner and Vanceboro (The Skinner-Vanceboro Line) in the Maine counties of Franklin, Somerset, Piscataquis, Penobscot, Aroostook, and Washington. The proposed abandonment activities would include the discontinuance of rail service over the entire line; the diversion of traffic to motor carriers or other railroads; and the salvage of all rails, ties, railroad-related appurtenances, and standing structures. We believe that if the Commission approves the abandonment, this action would constitute a major Federal action having the potential to significantly affect the quality of the human environment. Therefore, we will prepare an environmental impact statement (EIS). A notice of intent to prepare an EIS and to hold public scoping meetings for this proceeding was published on February 22, 1994. The notice requested comments in writing or orally at public scoping meetings that were held in Woodland, Maine and Bangor, Maine on March 15 and March 16, 1994, respectively. Over 50 parties provided comment and/or attended the scoping meetings. In accordance with the Commission's environmental rules at 49 CFR 1105, the final scope of study is summarized below. SUMMARY OF THE SCOPE OF STUDY: Abandonment and salvage activities may significantly affect the environment in the project area. Based on the comments and our initial evaluation, the proposed abandonment may result in a number of environmental impacts. These impacts include: Land Use Impacts Transportation Impacts Energy Impacts Air Quality Impacts Noise Impacts Impacts to Public Health and Safety Impacts to Biological Resources Impacts to Water Resources Socioeconomic Impacts from Physical Environmental Changes Impacts to Historic and Cultural Resources Impacts to Recreational Resources We want to make it clear here that the EIS will only analyze the environmental effects that relate to this abandonment proposal. The environmental review process is not the proper forum for analyzing the ``need'' for or the economic merits of a proposed project. It is through the development of a separate evidentiary record that addresses the merits of the proposed abandonment that the Commission considers issues of economic impact and the impacts to rural and community development as required by 49 U.S.C. 10903 (a) (2). Copies of the complete scope of study have been served on all the parties to this proceeding. A copy of the scoping document may be obtained by contacting Phillis Johnson-Ball at (202) 927&hyph;6213 or Vicki Dettmar at (202) 927&hyph;6211. A notice of availability of the draft EIS will be announced in the Federal Register and served on parties to the proceeding. By the Commission, Elaine K. Kaiser, Chief, Section of Environmental Analysis. Sidney L. Strickland, Jr. Secretary.
