FR940825-1-00033 FR940825-1-00008 IV. Reimbursement for Costs of Implementing and Operating Verification System Section 214(g) authorizes HUD to reimburse covered entities for the costs incurred in implementing and operating the system developed by the Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) for verifying immigration status. The INS system is referred to as the Systematic Alien Verification for Entitlements or SAVE. Although implementation and operation of the INS verification system is not specifically addressed in this rule, detailed guidance will be issued to covered entities at the time of publication of the final rule. HUD will be developing a method of coordinating with the INS for verifying immigration status through SAVE, which includes an automated system, and a manual search capability. HUD anticipates that the cost of necessary verification inquiries made on the automated system will be billed directly to HUD. V. Section 214 Coverage of HUD Programs A. HUD Programs Covered by Section 214 Paragraph (b) of section 214 states that its restrictions concerning noncitizens with ineligible immigration status apply to the provision of ``financial assistance made available pursuant to the United States Housing Act of 1937, section 235, or 236 of the National Housing Act, or section 101 of the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1965.'' 1. Programs Covered by the 1937 Act The programs providing financial assistance on behalf of tenants (or homebuyers) pursuant to the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437 et seq. ) (1937 Act) are the Public and Indian Housing programs, the Section 8 Housing Assistance Payments programs, and the Housing Development Grant programs (with respect to low income units only). All of these programs provide housing, either directly (such as public housing) or indirectly (such as through Section 8 Certificates), that is assisted by HUD. a. Public and Indian Housing Programs. Included among the Public and Indian Housing programs are the Mutual Help and Turnkey III Homeownership Opportunity programs. The restrictions against financial assistance to noncitizens with ineligible immigration status are to be applied to current homebuyers under the Turnkey III and Mutual Help programs only to the extent that applying the restrictions would be consistent with existing contracts. All homeownership contracts executed after the effective date of the final rule will be covered by the restrictions. Another homeownership program covered is the HOPE for Public and Indian Housing Homeownership program developed pursuant to 42 U.S.C. 1437aaa. b. Section 8 Housing Assistance Payments Programs. The Section 8 Housing Assistance Payments programs include New Construction, Substantial Rehabilitation, Moderate Rehabilitation, Certificate, Voucher, State Housing Agency and Farmers Home Administered, Section 202 Housing for the Elderly or Handicapped projects (when section 8 assistance is involved), Loan Management and Property Disposition projects. While the Rental Rehabilitation program also is operated under the 1937 Act (section 17 of the 1937 Act), it does not provide financial assistance to tenants except to the extent tenants participate in the Section 8 Certificate or Voucher programs, which are separately covered by the restrictions of section 214. 2. Section 235 of the NHA The program authorized under section 235 of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1715z) (NHA), provides for payments by HUD to the mortgagee on behalf of a low income mortgagor to reduce the homebuyer's payments to an affordable level, e.g. , the higher of a certain percentage of income or the amount that would be payable if the interest charged on the mortgage loan were set at some figure such as four percent. This program is available to purchasers of single family homes, and to purchasers of units in cooperatives and condominiums. The rule will affect mainly new applicants for participation in the program. Assistance contracts of section 235 homeowners who executed their contracts before the effective date of this rule will be honored without regard to their citizenship or immigration status. Additionally, mortgagors who refinance their section 235 mortgages (which were executed before the effective date of the final rule, and whose assistance contracts were unchanged after that date) with mortgages insured under section 235(r) of the NHA are not subject to the section 214 requirements. The reason for the latter exemption is that many old 235 mortgages bear an interest rate higher than 12 percent. If the section 214 requirements (with the required recertifications) are made applicable to current 235 mortgagors who agree to refinance under section 235(r), this may be a disincentive to refinancing, and also would be detrimental to HUD. The section 235(r) program is designed to aid HUD in saving millions of dollars in section 235 assistance payments by refinancing the 235 mortgages at a lower interest rate. Because the 235(r) program was designed specifically to provide for the refinancing of section 235 mortgages, HUD does not believe that this is the type of contract modification or program change that triggers the section 214 requirements. The rule will largely have an impact on current section 235 homeowners themselves only if a homeowner's mortgage is to be revised for some reason (other than refinancing under section 235(r)), in which case the modification will include application of the restrictions on immigration status as if the mortgagor were an applicant for participation in the assistance program. Although there may be no new mortgages insured and assisted under this program, at conveyance of properties already insured and assisted under the program, purchasers will be required to demonstrate eligibility in order to be approved for assistance (and thereafter at each annual recertification, to continue to receive assistance).
