FR940902-2-00081 FR940902-2-00033 5.0␣DEVELOPMENT OF ON-SITE AND OFF-SITE ROADS. 5.1␣ HUD RESPONSIBILITIES. On-Site Street Construction. HUD will provide sufficient funds for the construction of on-site streets, in accordance with the American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials (AASHTO) standards. The IHA will have the overall responsibility for construction of on-site streets. The Tribal government must determine the type of streets to be constructed in conjunction with housing projects, and whether the streets will be included in the BIA Roads System for maintenance by the BIA. HUD will advise each IHA and Tribe which receives a HUD Housing Grant that the on-site streets must be designed and constructed to AASHTO standards to be eligible for inclusion on the BIA roads system. 5.2␣BIA RESPONSIBILITIES. 5.2.1␣Access Road Construction. When requested by the Tribal government, the BIA will plan and construct access roads to housing developments. Sufficient lead time is required to develop access roads. This lead time may be as much as 21/2 years. The BIA will coordinate access road construction with the IHA and make every effort to complete such roads prior to the completion of the housing project. 5.2.2␣Road/Street Maintenance. IHA-developed streets may be added to the BIA Roads System only when the street(s) and related curb, gutters and drainage features have been built to acceptable AASHTO specifications and standards, and the right-of-way is transferred to the BIA. When requested by the Tribal government, the BIA Area Office will accept IHA developed streets on the BIA Roads System and will provide ongoing maintenance for those streets that meet the above specifications and standards. 6.0␣DEVELOPMENT OF SANITATION FACILITIES. 6.1␣HUD RESPONSIBILITY . To the extent that funds are appropriated by Congress, HUD will fund the water, waste water, solid waste facilities, and O&M infrastructure necessary for the traditional HUD financed housing projects. O&M infrastructure includes the plant, equipment, tools and training needed by utility authorities to provide continuing sanitation service to the residents of HUD-financed homes, as well as the long range planning necessary to identify and implement those requirements. 6.2␣ IHS RESPONSIBILITY. IHS provides water, waste water, solid waste facilities, and O&M infrastructure based on Congressional directives and to the extent that funds are appropriated. IHS also receives funds from Tribes or other agencies to provide sanitation facilities under its authorities. Eligibility for IHS financial assistance is determined by IHS on a project by project basis, and funding is based on a duly executed MOA. 6.3␣ IHS PARTICIPATION IN HUD FUNDED SANITATION FACILITIES CONSTRUCTION. When requested by the Tribe and the IHA, IHS may participate in the construction of sanitation facilities funded under the traditional HUD-assisted housing development program. IHS participation will be on a project by project basis, pursuant to an approved MOA duly executed by the IHA, Tribe, IHS, and if necessary, HUD. 6.4␣ INDIVIDUAL AND COMMUNITY SANITATION SYSTEMS . Where it is determined that sanitation facilities are feasible and necessary, the following conditions will apply: 6.4.1␣The agency financing the house construction or improvement is responsible for the installation of all dwelling plumbing facilities. 6.4.2␣Where facilities serve only HUD-assisted housing project homes, HUD will fund the total cost of the sanitation facilities necessary to serve the project. Where HUD-assisted housing project homes are interspersed with existing homes also served by a sanitation facility, HUD shall fund a prorated share of sanitation facilities costs. All community sanitation system construction, improvement, or expansion will be designed on the basis of a total community concept, such that the proposed sanitation facilities are (a) safe and adequate to meet the environmental health needs of residents, (b) compatible with tribal infrastructure development, and (c) economically feasible to construct and operate. 7.0␣ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE. Each signatory agency (HUD, BIA, and IHS) shall be responsible for following its own applicable procedures addressing the requirements of the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA), and related and/or similar environmental legislation and/or Executive Orders. The Memorandum of Understanding (MOU), dated June 21, 1991, signed by BIA, HUD, IHS, and the Environmental Protection Agency clarifies each agencies' role in environmental protection. In the implementation of the roles identified in the MOU and the responsibilities assigned in the IA, to the extent feasible, all signatory agencies will adopt and/or combine environmental documents that comply with NEPA and related regulations, which are provided by the other signatory agencies, in order to reduce duplication and paperwork. Copies of one signatory agency's environmental determination documentation (e.g., archeological review) may be required by another signatory agency prior to granting approvals; however, the approving agency shall not require the applying agency to change procedures, format, etc., during the review process and prior to granting its approval. Dated: August 26, 1994. Joseph Shuldiner, Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;21739 Filed 9&hyph;1&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4210&hyph;33&hyph;P
