FR940407-0-00062 FR940407-0-00014 B. Overview Today's notice promulgates rules for EIP's which may be adopted by an authorized governing body, including States, local governments, and Indian governing bodies (henceforth State), for certain O 3 and CO nonattainment areas pursuant to sections 182(g)(3), 182(g)(5), 187(d)(3), and 187(g) of the Act. These sections mandate for certain areas, and identify as one of three options for certain other areas, the use of EIP's in certain cases. An EIP is mandated upon the failure of a State to submit an adequate demonstration showing that the area has met applicable milestones for RFP in extreme O 3 nonattainment areas (section 182(g)(5)). An EIP is identified as one of three options upon such failure in serious and severe O 3 nonattainment areas (section 182(g)(3)). 1 Further, an EIP is also mandated upon the failure of a State to submit a milestone demonstration showing adequately that the area has met a required specific emissions reductions milestone or to attain the CO NAAQS in serious CO nonattainment areas (section 187(d)(3), 187(g)). 1 The other two options are to have the area reclassified to the next higher classification and to implement specific additional measures adequate to meet the next milestone as provided in the applicable contingency plan. Section 182(g)(4)(A) of the Act requires that EIP's adopted by States pursuant to the sections of the Act cited above, characterized in today's notice as statutory EIP's, be consistent with the Agency's final rules for EIP's. This section also requires that such EIP's be nondiscriminatory with regard to applicable laws regarding interstate commerce. In addition, section 182(g)(4)(B) imposes constraints on how any revenues generated by such programs shall be used. The scope of the EIP rules includes programs which may be adopted for ``reducing emissions from permitted stationary sources, area sources, and mobile sources.'' Other sections of title I also explicitly allow for EIP's to be included as provisions in SIP's in general (section 110(a)(2)(A)), as well as specifically in nonattainment area SIP's (section 172(c)(6)). Economic incentives are allowable in Federal implementation plans (FIP's) by definition (section 302(y)), and in Federal O 3 measures through the system of regulations for control of emissions from consumer or commercial products (section 183(e)(4)). Today's notice serves as the Agency's final guidance for EIP's adopted by States pursuant to the sections of the Act relating to general SIP provisions, characterized in today's notice as discretionary EIP's. Discretionary EIP's may be adopted for any criteria pollutant in both nonattainment and attainment areas. C. Principles and Regulatory Elements The rules and guidance in today's notice are broadly applicable to any type of statutory or discretionary EIP, respectively. This notice requires that EIP's submitted for approval to the EPA as part of a SIP for a nonattainment area contain design features that will ensure that the program will not interfere with other requirements of the Act and that emissions reductions credited to the program will be quantifiable; consistent with SIP attainment and RFP demonstrations; surplus to reductions required by, and credited to, other implementation plan provisions to avoid double counting of reductions; enforceable at both the State and Federal levels; and permanent over the entire duration of the program. 2 The Agency does not intend to limit flexibility and innovation beyond those constraints that are necessary to meet these requirements. 2 The program need not continue forever to generate permanent emissions reductions. Such reductions can be discrete or continuous, depending on the nature of the program. Discrete (i.e., temporary) reductions can be used to defer but not solely to satisfy continuous emission reduction requirements (e.g., RACT). This notice identifies key program provisions which must generally be included to ensure that the above requirements will be met. Adequate program designs will generally include the following elements: Clearly defined goals and an incentive mechanism that can be rationally related to accomplishing the goals; a clearly defined scope, which identifies affected sources and assures that the program will not interfere with any other applicable Federal regulatory requirements; a program baseline from which projected program results (e.g., quantifiable emissions reductions) can be determined; credible, workable, replicable procedures for quantifying emissions and/or emission-related parameters, as appropriate; source requirements, including those for MRR, that are consistent with specified quantification procedures and allow for compliance certification and enforcement; requirements for projecting program results and dealing with uncertainty; and an implementation schedule, administrative system, and enforcement provisions adequate for ensuring Federal and State enforceability of the program. All EIP's for which SIP credit is taken in attainment and RFP demonstrations must include additional elements, such as audit procedures to evaluate program implementation and track results, and, in certain cases, reconciliation procedures to trigger corrective or contingency measures to make up any shortfall between projected emissions reductions and emissions reductions actually achieved in practice.
