FR941122-2-00066 FR941122-2-00054 3. The National Physical Fitness Demonstration Centers This award focuses attention on individual schools, recognized by State Departments of Education, which have outstanding programs of physical education that contribute to students' physical fitness. Each Demonstration Center receives a certificate and a pennant distributed by the State Director. Organizations (schools, youth and community groups, etc.) which participate in the PCPFS awards programs purchase the award and recognition materials directly from the administering organization. The organization shall furnish the necessary personnel, materials, services and facilities to administer the PCPFS awards, recognitions and activities including purchase and/or production of all award materials; distribution of award materials; promotion; statistical evaluations of programs; quarterly and annual budget and demographic reports; and other administrative duties as will be determined in a Memorandum of Agreement and an annual plan. The organization will be expected to provide input regarding new activities or initiatives to support the program, recommendations to improve program usage and promotion. The organization also will work with the PCPFS to consider other recognitions bearing the President's Council on Physical Fitness and Sports and/or Presidential insignias. Organizations interested in administering the programs should submit pertinent qualification information for evaluation purposes on each of the following areas: (1) Experience in administering national awards programs; (2) Discussion of specific work previously performed or currently being performed with particular emphasis on those projects dealing with physical fitness, sports or other physical activities of a similar nature, with emphasis on work with schools and organizations on a national basis; (3) Personnel: name, professional qualifications and specific experience of key personnel who would be available to work on these projects; (4) Facilities: availability and description of facilities required to administer the program as well as computer based telecommunication resources; (5) Collection Experience: discussion of experience in developing an annual budget and collecting and managing monies from organizations or individuals; (6) Proposed plan for managing the President's Council on Physical Fitness and Sports awards programs, including such financial aspects as cost of award materials, promotion, distribution and program management. The organization will be selected by the PCPFS based on its qualifications and capability to administer a program of this nature. Dated: November 16, 1994. Sandra Perlmutter, Executive Director, President's Council on Physical Fitness and Sports. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;28723 Filed 11&hyph;21&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4160&hyph;17&hyph;M
