FR940926-0-00005 FR940926-0-00002 We are making no changes based on these comments. Because of the difficulty in obtaining infestation through adult oviposition, ARS turned to artificial infestation methods. The most successful artificial infestation method used by ARS did not attempt to rear the insects on carambola, except during the cold treatment period, during which eggs and larvae were reared on both treated and control carambola. Following the treatment period, the eggs and larvae were removed from both the treated and control carambola and were placed onto a moist larval diet. This significantly increased survival of eggs and larvae from the controls, and provided optimum conditions for survival to occur among the treated eggs and larvae. This method biased the tests toward the insects' survival, rather than toward mortality. With regard to the commenter's statement regarding the number of fruit flies raised on carambola, ARS concluded that the effects of the treatment could not be attributed to infestation load. ARS reported that, although the results were erratic, occasional large numbers of fruit flies, greatly exceeding the ``normal'' field infestations, were reared from artificially infested carambola controls. From this, ARS concluded that the effects of the treatment could not be attributed to infestation load. ARS indicated that it chose the optimum infestation methods that provided insect recovery while testing the quarantine security limits of the treatment. The commenter also stated that field populations of flies might naturally be better adapted to surviving the cold than the laboratory-reared flies used. We are making no changes based on this comment. ARS concluded that there is no evidence that fruit flies from different elevations in Hawaii respond differently to cold treatments. According to ARS, this is consistent with previous testing that revealed no evidence that Caribbean fruit flies from their northernmost range in Florida respond differently to cold treatments of carambola. The commenter also stated that, although the tested treatment satisfied statistical security requirements, the fact that some fruit flies survived the treatment might indicate an unacceptable risk when the treatment is applied on a commercial scale. We are making no changes based on this comment. The data provided by ARS indicates that ``probit 9'' security (at least 99.968 percent insect mortality rate) was obtained by storage of carambola at 1.1 # 0.6 C for 12 days. Effective Date This is a substantive rule that relieves restrictions and, pursuant to the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 553, may be made effective less than 30 days after publication in the Federal Register . Immediate implementation of this rule is necessary to provide relief to those persons who are adversely affected by restrictions we no longer find warranted. The shipping season for carambola from Hawaii is imminent. Making this rule effective immediately will allow interested producers and others in the marketing chain to benefit during this year's shipping season. Therefore, the Administrator of the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service has determined that this rule should be effective upon publication in the Federal Register . Executive Order 12866 and Regulatory Flexibility Act This rule has been determined to be not significant for purposes of Executive Order 12866 and therefore has not been reviewed by the Office of Management and Budget. We are allowing the fruit of carambola to move from Hawaii to other parts of the United States, under safeguards to prevent the introduction of injurious plant pests from Hawaii. At present, there are approximately 5 to 10 farms in Hawaii that produce commercial quantities of carambola. These farms are small, family-owned, operations. This rule will provide Hawaiian producers with access to markets in other parts of the United States. We estimate that approximately 1,500 to 3,000 pounds of fresh carambola fruit might be shipped from Hawaii to other parts of the United States annually. These shipments would have an estimated annual market value of between $3,000 and $9,800, depending on market prices. This represents less than .0002 percent of total Hawaiian agricultural production. The average annual market value of Hawaiian agricultural products totals about $600 million. Small shippers of Hawaiian fruits and vegetables may also receive some benefits from this rule. We estimate that between 10 and 15 small entities will be able to increase marginally the volume of products shipped to other parts of the United States. Under these circumstances, the Administrator of the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service has determined that this rule will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. Executive Order 12778 This rule has been reviewed under Executive Order 12778, Civil Justice Reform. This rule: (1) Preempts all State and local laws and regulations that are inconsistent with this rule; (2) has no retroactive effect; and (3) does not require administrative proceedings before parties may file suit in court challenging this rule.
