FR940203-0-00073 FR940203-0-00017 Channel Islands National Marine Sanctuary Comment: Many reviewers commented on the Channel Islands National Marine Sanctuary and the impacts that they believe the ship shock testing will have on the marine life within the sanctuary. One commenter stated that the contiguous line drawn between the two territorial sea limits was only 6 miles (9.6 km) from the sanctuary at Santa Barbara. This commenter believed the shock tests could have a negative effect on the marine mammals and seabirds that inhabit the Sanctuary. The commenter goes on to state that both noise and concussions generated from the test could, at the least, startle and disrupt pinnipeds, cetaceans and seabirds within the Sanctuary, and at the worst, the concussions could injure or kill these creatures. This commenter recommended that NMFS require the Navy to conduct ship shock trials south of latitude 33 ○27 ’ N., at least 20 nm from the Sanctuary boundary, to give an added buffer zone to protect the resources of the Sanctuary. Response: There is no evidence that ship shock tests, conducted within the OSTR will impact the resources of the Channel Islands National Marine Sanctuary, and commenters have not offered contrary documentation (refer to related comment under ``Mitigation and Monitoring'' above). While the actual ship shock test site will likely be upwards of 50 nm from the outer boundary of the Sanctuary (in the southwestern portion of the OSTR), the northeastern boundary of the OSTR is located no closer than 6 nm (11.1 km) from the outer perimeter of the Sanctuary, a distance greater than calculated for onset of all types of take except acoustic harassment at significant water depths. As mentioned previously, the Navy will be utilizing NMFS' 1993 marine mammal survey data to limit the test site within the OSTR to an area with few or no marine mammals. This current aerial survey data will be used to ``reduce'' the test area to a site that will minimize potential impacts to marine mammals. Arbitrarily limiting the test area to a particular area of the OSTR at this stage would be premature, and may not result in reduced impacts to marine mammals and other marine life. Other Concerns Comment: The City of Malibu and one supporting commenter object to the issuance of an incidental take permit because the activity is contrary to local policy aimed at protecting marine life in the waters of Santa Monica Bay and the nearby Channel Islands. Response: The OSTR is located over 70 nm from Santa Monica Bay, and the likely test site an additional 30&hyph;40 nm farther offshore. Based upon information in the EA on this issue, NMFS believes that there will not be an adverse impact on marine resources of the SCB (including Santa Monica Bay). Comment: One commenter noted that NMFS has failed to ensure that the proposed activity is consistent with California's coastal management program and that the EA failed to address the manner in which protection of environmentally sensitive habitat areas, the productivity and quality of coastal waters and the protection of marine resources will be accomplished. Response: NMFS believes the EA fully describes the mitigation measures that will be required under the small take regulations to protect marine life and particularly marine mammals. Because the Navy is considered the lead agency under 15 CFR 930.40, the EA does not discuss the California coastal management program. However, the proposed rule made note of the requirement for consistency. This final rule contains a similar statement (see Classification below). Comment: One commenter noted that the proposed activity may require a section 404 permit under the Federal Water Pollution Control Act and a permit under the Rivers and Harbors Act of 1989 (sic).
