FR941026-1-00030 FR941026-1-00013 Section 1653.5(d) provides that orders requiring a series of payments will not be deemed qualifying orders. If an order requires a payment greater than the account balance as of the date of the payment, the full amount of the account will be paid pursuant to the order. If the account subsequently receives additional money, that money will not be paid pursuant to the court order. A new court order would be required for payment of the additional sums. In essence, a payment pursuant to a court order extinguishes all entitlements under that court order; further payment can only be made pursuant to a subsequent order. Section 1653.5(e) provides that joint payments are not permitted. If more than one person is awarded a portion of the account, the amount awarded to each must be specified in the order. Although the checks will be made payable only to the payee(s) named in the order, the Board will permit each payee to specify the address to which the check should be sent, even if that address is different from an address listed in the court order. However, only the payee may designate an address to which the check should be sent, and such designation must be done in writing. The Board will not honor a change of address submitted, for example, by the payee's attorney. A strict rule against accepting address changes from anyone other than the payee is necessary to protect against forbidden alienations of the benefits to which the payee, as a beneficiary of the TSP, has become entitled. Unless the address is changed by the payee, the check will be sent to an address provided in the court order. If an order provides an address that is ``in care of'' another individual, the check will be issued to the payee but sent to the ``in care of'' address. Section 1653.5(f) provides that prior to payment the TSP recordkeeper must have the payee's full name, mailing address, and Social Security number. This information may be provided in the court order or separately by the parties or their representatives. However, as discussed in connection with paragraph (e), only the payee may change the mailing address for the check to an address other than his or her own address. The payee's representative may not do so. Section 1653.5(g) provides that payment will be made to the payee's estate if the payee dies before payment is made pursuant to a court order. It is not necessary that the court order be submitted to the Board prior to the death of the payee, as long as the order was issued prior to the payee's death and in all other respects constitutes a qualifying order. The court may, in the order, provide for an individual or entity other than the payee's estate to receive payment in the event of the payee's death. If the participant dies prior to payment of the account, a court order entered prior to the participant's death will be honored. It does not matter that the order may not have been received by the Board prior to the participant's death. However, if the order is not received by the Board prior to otherwise proper payment of the account to someone other than the payee(s) specified in the court order, then the court order will not be honored. The Board will neither seek nor accept a return of funds properly paid prior to receipt of a court order. Section 1653.5(h) provides that remarriage or termination of a legal separation does not nullify a court order that has already been submitted to the Board. The Board does not believe it can be presumed that in all cases in which a domestic relations court divides property, including a TSP account, the division should be rendered void merely because the parties choose to remarry. If that is the court's intent, then the parties must obtain an order to that effect and submit it to the Board before payment is made pursuant to the original court order. Section 1653.5(i) reflects the last sentence of 5 U.S.C. 8467(a), which provides that, ``Any payment under this subsection to a person bars recovery by any other person.'' Once payment pursuant to a court order has been properly made, the Board will not accept return of the money disbursed. Nor will an additional payment be made to another payee. Section 1653.5(j) provides that payments will be made from the TSP investment funds on a pro rata basis. For example, if a participant's $10,000 account balance is invested 50% ($5,000) in the G Fund, 30% ($3,000) in the C Fund and 20% ($2,000) in the F Fund, then an award of $1,000 would be paid $500 from the G Fund, $300 from the C Fund, and $200 from the F Fund. The Board will not honor any provision in a court order that requires the payment to be made other than pro rata from the TSP investment funds. Regulatory Flexibility Act I certify that these regulations will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. They will affect only internal Board procedures relating to the processing of and payment pursuant to retirement benefits court orders. Paperwork Reduction Act I certify that these regulations do not require additional reporting under the criteria of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980. List of Subjects 5 CFR Part 1650 Employment benefit plans, Government employees, Retirement, Pensions. 5 CFR Part 1653 Employment benefit plans, Government employees, Retirement, Pensions.
