FR940727-0-00098 FR940727-0-00025 SAUSA: Special Assistant U.S. Attorney SJA: Staff Judge Advocate TDY: temporary Duty TJAG: The Judge Advocate General UCMJ: Uniform Code of Military Justice USACIDC: U.S. Army Criminal Investigation Command USALSA: U.S. Army Legal Services Agency USARCS: U.S. Army Claims Service USATDS: U.S. Army Trial Defense Service USMA: United States Military Academy U.S.C.: United States Code Terms Active Duty Full-time duty in the active military service of the United States. Includes: full-time training duty; annual training duty; active duty for training; attendance, while in the active military service, at a school designated as a Service School by law or by the Secretary of the military department concerned; and, attendance, while in the active military service, at advanced civil schooling and training with industry. It does not include full-time National Guard duty under Title 32, United States Code. Army Activities Activities of or under the control of the Army, one of its instrumentalities, or the Army National Guard, including activities for which the Army has been designated the administrative agency, and those designated activities located in an area in which the Army has been assigned single service claims responsibility by DOD directive. Army Property Real or personal property of the United States or its instrumentalities and, if the United States is responsible therefore, real or personal property of a foreign government which is in the possession or control of the Army, one of its instrumentalities, or the Army National Guard, including property of an activity for which the Army has been designated the administrative agency, and property located in an area in which the Army has been assigned single service claims responsibility. Centralized Organization That organization of a DOD component responsible for coordinating and monitoring of criminal, civil, contractual, and administrative remedies relating to contract fraud. For DOD components other than the Army, the Centralized organizations are as follows: the Office of General Counsel, Department of the Air Force; the Office of the Inspector General, Department of the Navy; and the Office of General Counsel, Defense Logistics Agency. Claim The Government's right to recover money or property from any individual, partnership, association, corporation, governmental body, or other legal entity (foreign and domestic) except an instrumentality of the United States. A claim against several joint debtors or tortfeasors arising from a single transaction or incident will be considered one claim. Claims Officer A commissioned officer, warrant officer, or qualified civilian employee designated by the responsible commander and trained or experienced in the conduct of investigations and the processing of claims. Corruption Practices that include, but are not limited to, solicitation, offer, payment, or acceptance of bribes or gratuities; kickbacks; conflicts of interest; or unauthorized disclosure of official information related to procurement matters. Counsel for Consultation An attorney, provided by DA at no expense to the military member or civilian employee, who will provide legal advice to the witness concerning the authority of OSC, the nature of an OSC interview and their individual rights and obligations. The counsel may accompany the witness to the interview and advise the witness during the interview. No attorney-client relationship is established in this procedure. Counsel for Representation An attorney, provided by DA at no expense to the military member or civilian employee, who will act as the individual's lawyer in all contacts with the MSPB and the OSC during the pendancy of the OSC investigation and any subsequent OSC initiated action before the MSPB. An attorney-client relationship will be established between the individual and counsel for representation. DA Personnel DA personnel includes the following: a. Military and civilian personnel of the Active Army and The U.S. Army Reserve. b. Soldiers of the Army National Guard of the United States (Title 10, U.S.C.) and, when specified by statute or where a Federal interest is involved, soldiers in the Army National Guard (Title 32, U.S.C.). It also includes technicians under 32 U.S.C. 709(a)(d). c. USMA cadets. d. Nonappropriated fund employees. e. Foreign nationals who perform services for DA overseas. f. Other individuals hired by or for the Army. Debarment Administrative action taken by a debarring authority to exclude a contractor from Government contracting and Government-approved subcontracting for a specified period. Deciding Official (Chapter 7) SJA, legal adviser, or Litigation Division attorney who makes the final determination concerning release of official information.
