FR941222-0-00071 FR941222-0-00011 II. Briefs, Oral Argument, Recommendations, and Bench Decisions As part of its ongoing review of ways in which unfair labor practice proceedings can be revamped to move the cases more expeditiously, the Board proposed to give its ALJs the discretion, in appropriate cases, to dispense with post-hearing briefs or proposed findings and conclusions, to hear oral argument, and to issue bench decisions. These changes were proposed in the form of amendments to §102.35(j) (renumbered to §102.35(b)(10)), §102.42, and §102.45(a) of the Board's Rules and Regulations. Of the eight comments received, two generally supported or did not oppose these changes, while the remaining comments generally opposed the changes. The comments opposing the changes generally expressed the concern that dispensing with post-hearing briefs and issuing bench decisions would be prejudicial to respondents given the absence of pretrial discovery in Board proceedings, and would result in lower quality ALJ decisions leading to further litigation. As with the settlement-judge proposal, the Board recognizes that problems could arise under the proposed changes if not properly utilized. As the Board noted in the NPR, many cases are not suitable for these expedited procedures, and if inappropriate cases were selected, the resulting remands could delay the final disposition of the cases. As indicated in the NPR, however, the Board believes that if ALJs choose the cases carefully, the benefits of expediting those cases would outweigh any problems arising in other cases where the procedures are improvidently utilized. In order to provide some guidance to the ALJs in this regard, the Board in the NPR suggested certain types of cases in which it may be appropriate to dispense with briefs and/or to issue bench decisions, such as cases that turn on a very straightforward credibility issue; cases involving one-day hearings; cases involving a well-settled legal issue where there is no dispute as to the facts; short record single-issue cases; or cases in which a party defaults by not appearing at the hearing. The Board indicates that in more complex cases, including cases with lengthy records, these procedures would likely not be appropriate. The Board continues to believe that the proposed changes would be beneficial if properly implemented in accordance with the cautions and guidance expressed by the Board in the NPR. However, in view of the Agency's lack of experience with such procedures, as with the settlement-judge proposal, the Board has decided to implement the procedure at this time for a one-year trial period. As the dissent states, the Board has held that a judge's issuance of an oral decision did ``not satisfactorily compl[y] with the requirements of Section 10(c) of the National Labor Regulations Act, as amended, and Section 102.45 of the Board's Rules and Regulations, as amended, with regard to the preparation of a written decision.'' See Local Union No. 195, Plumbers (Stone & Webster Engineering Corp.), 237 NLRB 931, 931 (1978). See also Plastic Film Products Corp ., 232 NLRB 722, 722 (1977). It is clear, however, that it is the Board's regulations, and not Section 10(c) of the Act, which has been the obstacle to such decision. See id . at fn 1 in both cases (Member Murphy concurring). Indeed, in a subsequent case, a different panel of the Board, which included one of our dissenting colleagues, upheld an oral decision by a judge. See Jumbo Produce, 294 NLRB 998, 998&hyph;999 (1989) (rejecting General Counsel's contention that ALJ's dismissal of an 8(a)(1) allegation at the hearing was ``procedurally incorrect'' under Stone & Webster ``because he did not issue a written decision,'' inasmuch as the judge had allowed the General Counsel to present his legal and factual arguments and had stated on the record the reasons for his findings). The rule changes which we adopt today on an experimental basis are designed to remove any regulatory obstacle which may exist in light of the Board's decisions in Stone & Webster and Plastic Film Products and are fully consistent with the Board's decision in Jumbo Produce . In any event, the new provisions on bench decisions do not violate Section 10(c). Section 102.45 of the rules, as amended, provides that all decisions, including bench decisions, must contain findings of fact, conclusions, and the reasons or basis therefor upon all material issues of fact and law, as well as a recommended order, including affirmative provisions, all as required by Section 10(c). The amendments to §102.45 of the rules provide that the administrative law judge will certify the accuracy of the pages of the transcript which contain the decision and shall cause those pages to be served on the parties and filed with the Board. Thus, these provisions provide for a written decision, in the form of a certified copy of the record pages containing the judge's full decision, which is served on the parties, in full compliance with the provisions of Section 10(c) of the Act. To the extent that the decisions in Stone & Webster and Plastic Film Products suggest otherwise, we conclude that they are based on a misreading of the requirements of Section 10(c), and they are overruled by the new provisions of the Rules. Pursuant to the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. 601 et seq.) the NLRB certifies that these rules will not have a significant impact on small business entities. List of Subjects in 29 CFR Part 102 Administrative practice and procedure, Labor management relations. For reasons set forth above, during the one-year experimental period, 29 CFR Part 102 is amended as follows: PART 102_RULES AND REGULATIONS, SERIES 8 1. The authority citation for 29 CFR Part 102 continues to read as follows: Authority: Section 6, National Labor Relations Act, as amended (29 U.S.C. 151, 156). Section 102.117(c) also issued under Section 552(a)(4)(A) of the Freedom of Information Act, as amended (5 U.S.C. 552(a)(4)(A)). Sections 102.143 through 102.155 also issued under Section 504(c)(1) of the Equal Access to Justice Act, as amended (5 U.S.C. 504(c)(1)).
