FR940830-1-00105 FR940830-1-00015 Therefore, we are proposing to amend 7 CFR 273.9(c)(1)(ii) to require that housing assistance provided to a third party on behalf of a household by a State or local GA program or another basic assistance program comparable to GA (as defined in ยง271.2) shall be counted as income, unless the assistance is one of the following: a. Assistance provided for utility costs. The exclusion is not limited to the costs identified in 7 CFR 273.9(d)(5) as allowable costs for the purposes of the excess shelter deduction. b. Energy assistance. c. Assistance provided by a State or local housing authority. d. Emergency assistance for migrant or seasonal farmworker households in the job stream. e. Transitional housing assistance for the homeless. f. Emergency or special assistance over and above the normal grant. g. Assistance provided under a GA program if no payments are made under the program in cash. Current regulations at 7 CFR 273.9(c)(1)(ii) address both PA and GA vendor payments. The Food Stamp Program regulations at 7 CFR 271.2 define GA as assistance financed by State or local funds ``as part of a program which provides assistance to cover living expenses or other basic needs intended to promote the health or well-being of recipients.'' PA is defined in that section to mean certain specified programs authorized under the Social Security Act of 1935, such as Aid to Families with Dependent Children (AFDC) and aid to the aged, blind and disabled. The 1993 Leland Act did not make any changes in the provisions of section 5(k) of the Act concerning treatment of PA vendor payments. Therefore, PA and GA vendor payments must be treated differently, and we are proposing in this rule to separate the provisions for treatment of PA and GA vendor payments. Because of the need to reorganize part of 7 CFR 273.9(c)(1) to distinguish between treatment of GA and PA payments, we are proposing to take advantage of this opportunity to restructure 7 CFR 273.9(c)(1) in its entirety. We are proposing this reorganization to make specific vendor payment exclusions easier to locate in the regulations. We are not proposing any changes in the requirements of the section except those required by the 1993 Leland Act related to the GA vendor payments. We are proposing minor changes in the language of the section for clarity. We are also proposing to remove the reference in current 7 CFR 273.9(c)(1)(iii) to the experimental housing allowance programs in Green Bay, Wisconsin, and South Bend, Indiana, because the programs are no longer in existence. Under the proposed reorganization of ยง273.9(c)(1), the provisions for excluding vendor payments would be divided into seven paragraphs as follows:
