FR940302-2-00029 FR940302-2-00015 Privacy Act of 1974; Amend Record Systems AGENCY: Department of the Navy, DOD. ACTION: Amend record systems. SUMMARY: The Department of the Navy proposes to amend three systems of records to its inventory of record systems subject to the Privacy Act of 1974 (5 U.S.C. 552a), as amended. DATES: The amendments will be effective on April 1, 1994, unless comments are received that would result in a contrary determination. ADDRESSES: Send comments to the Head, PA/FOIA Branch, Office of the Chief of Naval Operations (N09B30), 2000 Navy Pentagon, Washington, DC 20350&hyph;2000. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mrs. Gwendolyn Aitken at (703) 614&hyph;2004 or DSN 224&hyph;2004. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Department of the Navy record system notices for records systems subject to the Privacy Act of 1974 (5 U.S.C. 552a), as amended, have been published in the Federal Register and are available from the address above. The specific changes to the systems of records are set forth below followed by the systems of records notices published in their entirety, as amended. The amendments are not within the purview of subsection (r) of the Privacy Act of 1974 (5 U.S.C. 552a), as amended, which requires the submission of new or altered systems reports. Dated: February 23, 1994. Patricia L. Toppings, Alternate OSD Federal Register Liaison Officer, Department of Defense. N05521&hyph;1 System name: Access Control System (February 22, 1993, 58 FR 10765). Changes: * * * * * Storage: Delete entry and replace with `File folders, card files, magnetic tape, personal computers.' * * * * * Safeguards: Delete entry and replace with `Access provided on a need to know basis only. Manual records are maintained in file cabinets under the control of authorized personnel during working hours. The office space in which the file cabinets are located is locked outside of official working hours. Computer terminals are located in supervised areas. Access is controlled by password or other user code system.' * * * * * Record source categories: Delete entry and replace with `Visit requests; individual; records of the activity; investigators; witnesses; contractors; companies.' * * * * * N05521&hyph;1 System name: Access Control System. System location: Organizational elements of the Department of the Navy. Official mailing addresses are published as an appendix to the Navy's compilation of systems of records notices. Categories of individuals covered by the system: Individuals considered or seeking consideration for access to space under the control of the Department of the Navy and any visitor (military, civilian, contractor) requiring access to a naval base/activity or contractor facility. Categories of records in the system: Visit requests for permission to transact commercial business, visitor clearance data for individuals to visit a naval base/activity/contractor facility; barring lists and letters of exclusion, and badge/pass issuance records. Authority for maintenance of the system: 5 U.S.C. 301; Departmental Regulations and E.O. 9397. Purpose(s): To maintain all aspects of proper access control, to replace lost badges, to retrieve passes upon separation, to maintain visitor statistics and background information. Routine uses of records maintained in the system, including categories of users and the purposes of such uses: In addition to those disclosures generally permitted under 5 U.S.C. 552a(b) of the Privacy Act, these records or information contained therein may specifically be disclosed outside the DoD as a routine use pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(b)(3) as follows: To designated contractors when Navy member is visiting that contractor's facility. The `Blanket Routine Uses' that appear at the beginning of the Navy's compilation of systems of records notices apply to this system. Policies and practices for storing, retrieving, accessing, retaining, and disposing of records in the system: Storage: File folders, card files, magnetic tape, personal computers. Retrievability: Name, Social Security Number, Case number, organization. Safeguards: Access provided on a need to know basis only. Manual records are maintained in file cabinets under the control of authorized personnel during working hours. The office space in which the file cabinets are located is locked outside of official working hours. Computer terminals are located in supervised areas. Access is controlled by password or other user code system. Retention and disposal: Records are retained for 30 days and then destroyed. System manager(s) and address: Commanding officer of the activity in question. Official mailing addresses are published as an appendix to the Navy's compilation of systems of records notices. Notification procedure: Individuals seeking to determine whether information about themselves is contained in this system should address written inquiries to the Commanding officer of the activity in question. Official mailing addresses are published as an appendix to the Navy's compilation of systems of records notices. Record access procedures: Individuals seeking access to information about themselves contained in this system should address written inquiries to the Commanding officer of the activity in question. Official mailing addresses are published as an appendix to the Navy's compilation of systems of records notices. Contesting record procedures: The Navy's rules for accessing records and contesting contents and appealing initial agency determinations are published in Secretary of the Navy Instruction 5211.5; 32 CFR part 701; or may be obtained from the system manager. Record source categories: Visit requests; individual; records of the activity; investigators; witnesses; contractors; companies. Exemptions claimed for the system: None. N05527&hyph;1 System name: Security Incident System (February 22, 1993, 58 FR 10766). Changes: * * * * * Purpose(s): Delete entry and replace with `To track and prosecute offenses, counsel victims, and other administrative actions; to support insurance claims and civil litigation; to revoke base, station, or activity driving privileges.' * * * * * Storage: Delete entry and replace with `File folders, card files, personal computer, magnetic tape.' * * * * * N05527&hyph;1 System name: Security Incident System. System location: Organizational elements of the Department of the Navy. Official mailing addresses are published as an appendix to the Navy's compilation of systems of records notices. Categories of individuals covered by the system: Individuals involved in or witnessing incidents requiring the attention of base, station, or activity security personnel. Categories of records in the system: Incident/complaint report, investigator's report, data sheets which contain information on victims and perpetrators, military magistrate's records, confinement records, traffic accident and violation records, traffic court file, citations to appear before U.S. Magistrate. Authority for maintenance of the system: 5 U.S.C. 301, Departmental Regulations and E.O. 9397. Purpose(s): To track and prosecute offenses, counsel victims, and other administrative actions; to support insurance claims and civil litigation; to revoke base, station, or activity driving privileges. Routine uses of records maintained in the system, including categories of users and the purposes of such uses: In addition to those disclosures generally permitted under 5 U.S.C. 552a(b) of the Privacy Act, these records or information contained therein may specifically be disclosed outside the DoD as a routine use pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(b)(3) as follows: The `Blanket Routine Uses' that appear at the beginning of the Navy's compilation of systems of records notices apply to this system. Policies and practices for storing, retrieving, accessing, retaining, and disposing of records in the system: Storage: File folders, card files, personal computer, magnetic tape. Retrievability: Name, Social Security Number, case number, and organization Safeguards: Access provided on a need to know basis only. Manual records are maintained in file cabinets under the control of authorized personnel during working hours. The office space in which the file cabinets are located is locked outside of official working hours. Computer terminals are located in supervised areas. Access is controlled by password or other user code system. Retention and disposal: Maintained for five years and then destroyed. System manager(s) and address: Commanding Officer of the activity in question. Official mailing addresses are published as an appendix to the Navy's compilation of systems of records notices. Notification procedure: Individuals seeking to determine whether this system contains information about themselves should address written inquiries to the Commanding Officer or head of the activity where assigned. Official mailing addresses are published as an appendix to the Navy's compilation of systems of records notices. Written requests should contain full name, Social Security Number, and must be signed by the individual. Record access procedures: Individuals seeking access to information about themselves should address written inquiries to the Commanding Officer or head of the activity where assigned. Official mailing addresses are published as an appendix to the Navy's compilation of systems of records notices. Written requests should contain full name, Social Security Number, and must be signed by the individual. Contesting record procedures: The Navy's rules for accessing records and contesting contents and appealing initial agency determinations are published in Secretary of the Navy Instruction 5211.5; 32 CFR part 701; or may be obtained from the system manager. Record source procedures: Individual concerned, other records of the activity, investigators, witnesses, correspondents. Exemptions claimed for the system: Parts of this system may be exempt under 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2), as applicable. An exemption rule for this system has been published in accordance with the requirements of 5 U.S.C. 553(b)(1), (2) and (3), (c) and (e) and published in 32 CFR part 701, subpart G. For additional information contact the system manager. N05527&hyph;2 System name: Security Inspection and Violation System (February 22, 1993, 58 FR 10767). Changes: * * * * * Storage: Delete entry and replace with `File folders, card files, personal computers, and magnetic tape.' * * * * * Safeguards: Delete entry and replace with `Access provided on a need to know basis only. Manual records are maintained in file cabinets under the control of authorized personnel during working hours. The office space in which the file cabinets are located is locked outside of official working hours. Computer terminals are located in supervised areas. Access is controlled by password or other user code system.' Retention and disposal: Delete entry and replace with `Records are retained for three years and then destroyed.' * * * * * Record source categories: Delete entry and replace with `Individual; records of the activity; investigator's reports; witness statements.' * * * * * N05527&hyph;2 System name: Security Inspection and Violation System. System location: Organizational elements of the Department of the Navy. Official mailing addresses are published as an appendix to the Navy's compilation of systems of records notices. Categories of individuals covered by the system: Individuals involved in security violations. Categories of records in the system: Security violation reports, security inspection reports. Authority for maintenance of the system: 5 U.S.C. 301, Departmental Regulations and E.O. 9397. Purpose(s): To identify problem areas in security indoctrination, to alert command management officials to areas which present larger than normal security problems and identify personnel who are cited as responsible for non-compliance with procedures. Routine uses of records maintained in the system, including categories of users and the purposes of such uses: In addition to those disclosures generally permitted under 5 U.S.C. 552a(b) of the Privacy Act, these records or information contained therein may specifically be disclosed outside the DoD as a routine use pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(b)(3) as follows: The `Blanket Routine Uses' that appear at the beginning of the Navy's compilation of systems of records notices apply to this system. Policies and practices for storing, retrieving, accessing, retaining, and disposing of records in the system: Storage: File folders, card files, personal computers, and magnetic tape. Retrievability: Name, Social Security Number, Case number, organization. Safeguards: Access provided on a need to know basis only. Manual records are maintained in file cabinets under the control of authorized personnel during working hours. The office space in which the file cabinets are located is locked outside of official working hours. Computer terminals are located in supervised areas. Access is controlled by password or other user code system. Retention and disposal: Records are retained for three years and then destroyed. System manager(s) and address: Commanding officer of the activity in question. Official mailing addresses are published as an appendix to the Navy's compilation of systems of records notices. Notification procedure: Individuals seeking to determine whether information about themselves is contained in this system should address written inquiries to the Commanding officer of the activity in question. Official mailing addresses are published as an appendix to the Navy's compilation of systems of records notices. Record access procedures: Individuals seeking access to information about themselves contained in this system should address written inquiries to the Commanding officer of the activity in question. Official mailing addresses are published as an appendix to the Navy's compilation of systems of records notices. Contesting record procedures: The Navy's rules for accessing records and contesting contents and appealing initial agency determinations are published in Secretary of the Navy Instruction 5211.5; 32 CFR part 701; or may be obtained from the system manager. Record source categories: Individual; records of the activity; investigator's reports; witness statements. Exemptions claimed for the system: None. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;4721 Filed 3&hyph;1&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 5000&hyph;04&hyph;F
