FR940405-1-00085 FR940405-1-00013 Clearly the upper respiratory effects and severe headaches associated with poor indoor air quality are of the type that interfere with the performance of work. The severe headaches were such that medical treatment had to be sought; certainly such headaches were impairing at the time they occurred, even though they were not permanent. The upper respiratory symptoms were also severe enough to either require medical attention or restrict activity. There is ample precedent in OSHA rulemaking proceedings for the regulation of working conditions to avoid health impairments that are material but not life threatening. The Supreme Court in the cotton dust case, 2 concluded that OSHA had the authority to promulgate regulations that would avoid Byssinosis, a respiratory disease which in the large majority of cases is not deadly or disabling, and is reversible if the employee left the cotton mills. Stage 1/2 byssinosis, the most frequent type, has relatively mild symptoms. In the case of occupational exposure to formaldehyde, the regulation was designed to avoid, among other things, sensory irritation. 3 2 AFL&hyph;CIO v. Marshall, 452 U. S. 490 (1981) 3 See 52 FR 46168, 46235 (12/4/87) Moreover in the ``Air Contaminants'' standard, OSHA regulated many chemicals, such as acetone, gypsum and limestone which caused less severe impairments of health. 4 In promulgating the final air contaminant rule OSHA analyzed which sorts of conditions would constitute material impairment, concluding that ``. . . the OSH Act is designed to be protective of workers and is to protect against impairment with less impact than severe impairment.'' 5 The less severe conditions, such as upper respiratory symptoms and severe headaches, caused by poor indoor air quality are the same type as the PELs preamble concluded were material impairments. These specific conclusions of the Agency with respect to what constitutes material impairments were upheld by the Court of Appeals on review 6 although the Court disagreed with OSHA on other matters. 4 See 54 FR 2332, 2361 (1/19/89) 5 See discussion, 54 FR at 2361&hyph;2362 6 See AFL&hyph;CIO v. OSHA, 965 F. 2d 962, 975 (11th Cir., 1992). The Court noted that ``section 6(b)(5) of the Act charges OSHA with addressing all forms of `material impairment of health or functional capacity,' and not exclusively `death or serious physical harm' . . . from exposure to toxic substances.'' Therefore OSHA concludes that the adverse health effects caused by poor indoor air quality, which range from legionellosis to severe headaches to upper respiratory symptoms are material impairments of health which the Act allows the Agency to regulate. The effects of the pneumonia caused by Legionella are deadly or severe. Although the rate of risk may not be as large as 1/1000 because the number of employees at risk is large. This effect alone makes a substantial contribution to a finding of significant risk, especially when taking into account the large number of cases. As to the severe headaches, the Agency estimates that the excess risk of developing the type of non-migraine headache which may need medical attention or restrict activity which has been associated with poor indoor air quality is 57 per 1,000 exposed employees. In addition the excess risk of developing upper respiratory symptoms which are severe enough to require medical attention or restrict activity is estimated to be 85 per 1,000 exposed employees. These numbers are extrapolated from actual field studies and therefore show the magnitude of the problem at present. There is no doubt that better maintenance of ventilation systems such as required in the proposal will improve the quality of air in covered workplaces and reduce the number of cases. In addition the types of good practices prescribed in the proposal will substantially reduce the type of microbial contamination associated with Legionnaire's disease. Therefore, OSHA concludes that this number of less severe effects along with the severe effects from Legionnaire's disease, together, constitute a significant risk. Accordingly, OSHA preliminarily concludes that, the proposal will substantially reduce a significant risk of material impairment of health from poor indoor air quality.
