FR940628-2-00132 FR940628-2-00096 ( F ) Management systems. ( G ) Crime analysis system. ( H ) Crime prevention. ( I ) Police department accreditation. ( J ) Community Policing. (ii) Project Staff (12 Points Maximum). (A) The extent to which technical and management staff members proposed for the project have: ( 1 ) Demonstrated extensive experience in police program development, research, management, curriculum design, training development, delivery and on-site technical assistance delivery which involved community policing; and ( 2 ) Relevant technical skills and prior experience of proposed individuals that display ability to handle complex issues relating to public housing security and implementing revisions to organizations. (B) The extent to which the proposed staff has: ( 1 ) Implemented community policing, law enforcement policy, practices and procedures. ( 2 ) Expertise on a management and administrative level_with Federal and/or local law enforcement, technical security design experience, and law enforcement training. (3) Quality of Management and Work Plan (30 Points Maximum). (i) Soundness and completeness of the overall plan for the allocation of resources and schedule to accomplish the tasks of work within the contract time frame, including: feasibility, clarity and completeness of work assignment plan and schedule of tasks; delineation of task responsibilities and accountability and communication among project staff and between grantee and HUD; reasonableness and completeness of procedures for supervising and coordinating task performance of project staff; and, adequacy of controls over scheduling and expenditures. (15 points maximum) (ii) Appropriateness of the proposed level of effort to be provided by the Project Director, key professional staff, supporting staff and principal authors of the application. (15 points maximum) (4) Corporate and Management Expertise (20 Points Maximum). (i) Ability of the applicant to conduct high quality work within the contract time frame and budget. (ii) Ability of the applicant to provide stability, continuity and uniformity of both staff and management. (iii) Successful experience in managing and implementing HUD or other federal agency contracts. (g) Review Process. Applications submitted in response to this competitive announcement will be reviewed by a panel of HUD representatives, which will make recommendations to the Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development based upon the applicant's score. The panel will assign numerical values based on the weighted selection factors. In the case of a tie, preference will be given to the highest numerical score for the Program Implementation Plan (TAB 3 of the application) . The final award decision will be made by the Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing, Department of Housing and Urban Development. Letters will be sent to all applicants notifying them that their proposal has been selected or the reason(s) it was not selected. HUD will then negotiate specific terms of the award with the selected applicant.
