FR940110-1-00017 FR940110-1-00001 §701.307 Development of county FIP. (a) A county FIP shall be developed in each designated county according to the provisions of the State FIP. The county FIP shall be developed by the CCRG. The CCRG, working with the governing body of the conservation district, the State forestry agency representatives, the county supervisor of the Farmers Home Administration, and others with conservation and environmental interest shall develop recommendations for the county program. (b) The county FIP shall be recommended by the COC and service forester and approved by the STC and State forester. §701.308 Adaptation of practices. (a) The practices included in the State FIP shall satisfy the conditions and requirements of the National FIP. The STC and State Forester may modify or delete National FIP provisions to make practices more restrictive where such changes satisfy the objectives of the program. (b) The practices included in the county FIP must meet the conditions and requirements of the State FIP. The COC in consultation with State Forestry representative or Service Forester may modify or delete State FIP provisions to make practices more restrictive where such changes satisfy the objectives of the program. §701.309 Levels and rates of cost-share assistance. (a) The maximum cost-share assistance for each practice shall be the percentage of the actual cost of performing the practice considered necessary by ASCS to ensure completion of the practice by the participants. (b) Levels of cost-share assistance shall be approved by the STC and shall not be in excess of sixty-five (65) percent of actual costs incurred by the landowners. (c) For the purpose of establishing rates of cost-share assistance, the average cost of performing a practice may be the average cost for a State, a county or a part of a county, as determined by the STC. (d) The rates of cost-share assistance for practices included in the county FIP may be lower than the rates approved for general use in the State, as determined by the COC. §701.310 Prior approval for cost-share assistance. Costs will be shared only for those practices, or components of practices, for which cost-share assistance is requested and approval issued before performance is started. §701.311 Methods of approval. The COC shall determine the extent to which Federal funds may be made available to share the cost of each approved practice. Approvals shall be made based on consideration of the county allocation, cost-effective opportunities for increasing timber production, potential for enhancing other forest resources, the forestry needs in the county, and the practices for which requested cost-share assistance is considered by the COC as most needed. The method approved shall provide for the issuance of notices of approval showing for each approved practice the number of units of the practice for which the Federal Government will share in the cost and the amount of the cost share for the performance of that number of units of the practice. Notices of approved requests shall be issued before the practice may be started. No practice may be approved for cost-share assistance except as authorized by the county FIP. Available funds for cost-share assistance shall not be allocated on a pro-rata basis, but shall be directed to the accomplishment of the most production attainable. (a) Cost-share assistance may be approved under annual agreements or long-term agreements. (b) Land covered by a GPCP contract is not excluded from an annual or long-term agreement if the land is otherwise eligible. (c) The same practices, cost-share levels, and general program provisions apply to both annual agreements and long-term agreements.
