FR940722-1-00043 FR940722-1-00012 Proposed new paragraph (c) would add new fire protection requirements for cargo and baggage compartments for commuter category airplanes. The proposed rule would require on of the following alternatives: (1) Either the compartment must be located where pilots seated at their duty station would easily discover the fire or the compartment must be equipped with a smoke or fire detector system to warn the pilot's station. The compartment must also provide access to the compartment with a fire extinguisher. (2) The compartment may be inaccessible, but must be equipped with a fire detector system that warns the pilot station, and the compartment must have ceiling and sidewall floor panels constructed of materials that have been subjected to and meet the vertical self-extinguishing tests of appendix F of this part. (3) The compartment must be constructed and sealed to contain any fire. The proposed new section is necessary for several reasons. The proposals for additional requirements for commuter category airplane cargo and baggage compartments were developed after an examination of reported incidents of inflight fires and their causes. Although most of these incidents of inflight fires occurred on transport category airplanes, the reported sources of the fires showed that the fires originate from sources, such as matches in the pockets of clothing, that are as likely to be found on part 23 airplanes as on transport category airplanes. The same potential for inflight fires exists on commuter category airplanes and adequate protection should be provided. The potential for inflight fires also showed a need to examine the flame resistant requirements of current §23.787(d) and to consider requirements that would improve the fire protection on other categories of airplanes. As a part of this consideration, fire protection was discussed with certain airframe manufacturing representatives. Information provided in these discussions showed that materials that meet self-extinguishing flame requirements are available at about the same cost as materials that meet flame resistance requirements. Based on a review of the fire incidents and the information on availability of improved materials, the proposal for §23.855(b), which would replace current §23.787(d), would require self-extinguishing materials to be used in the cargo and baggage compartments of all part 23 airplanes. Section 23.867␣Electrical Bonding and Protection Against Lightning and Static Electricity This proposed revision would change the heading that precedes the section from ``Lightning Evaluation'' to ``Electrical Bonding and Lightning Protection.'' It would also revise the section heading from ``Lightning protection of structures'' to ``Electrical bonding and protection against lightning and static electricity.'' The proposed revisions more accurately clarify the content of the section. Section 23.1303␣Flight and Navigation Instruments The lead in for §23.1303(a) would be revised to clarify that the instruments required by this section are the minimum ones required. Also, §23.1303(d) would add a requirement for those airplanes whose performance must be based on weight, altitude, and temperature to be equipped with a free air temperature indicator. A new sentence added to §23.1303(e)(2) would state that nuisance overspeed warnings should not occur at lower speeds where pilots might ignore the warning. A new paragraph (f) would propose requirements for attitude instruments that include a means for flightcrew members to adjust the reference symbol. Finally, it would add a new paragraph (g) to define certain specific instruments required for a commuter category airplane. The proposal for §23.1303(e)(2) was developed following a Joint Aviation Authority recommendation that the warning should not occur below the maximum operating limit speed (V MO /M MO )/ To determine the effect that this recommended V MO /M MO limit would have on the design of overspeed warning devices, the FAA contacted several equipment manufacturers. These manufacturers responded that it would be possible to establish a lower limit at V MO /M MO , but that the design changes needed to ensure that the warning occurred between the presently required upper limit and the recommended lower limit would be very expensive. The FAA notes that no known safety problem justifies that cost of these design changes. However, the FAA is also aware that if warnings of any type occur when the pilots know that no particular problem exists, such warnings may become a nuisance. If warnings become a nuisance, a pilot may disregard a warning when the airplane is approaching a flight speed where an unsafe flight condition may occur. Regulatory action is therefore needed to ensure that the warning will occur within appropriate speed limits. Proposed §23.1303(e)(2) would require manufacturers to establish a lower speed limit so that nuisance overspeed warnings will not occur. The manufacturer would be required to show that this limit is appropriate for the airplane design but would not be required to set this lower limit at one specific speed, such as V MO /M MO , which would be costly to achieve.
