FR940419-1-00081 FR940419-1-00009 §964.320 HUD Policy on training, employment, contracting and subcontracting of public housing residents. In accordance with section 3 of the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1968 and the implementing regulations at 24 CFR part 135, PHAs, their contractors and subcontractors shall make best efforts, consistent with existing Federal, State, and local laws and regulations, to give low and very low-income persons the training and employment opportunities generated by section 3 covered assistance (as this term is defined in 24 CFR 135.7) and to give section 3 business concerns the contracting opportunities generated by section 3 covered assistance. §964.325 Announcement of funding availability. A Notice of Funding Availability will be published periodically in the Federal Register containing the amounts of funds available, funding criteria, where to obtain and submit applications, the deadline for the submissions, and further explanation of the selection criteria. §964.330 Grant Set-Aside Assistance. The Department may make available five percent (5%) of any amounts available in each fiscal year (subsequent to the first funding cycle) available to eligible HAs to supplement grants previously awarded under this program. These supplemental grants would be awarded if the HA demonstrates that the funds cannot otherwise be obtained and are needed to maintain adequate levels of services to residents. §964.335 Grant agreement. (a) General. HUD will enter into a grant agreement with the recipients of a Family Investment Centers grant, which defines the legal framework for the relationship between HUD and a HA. (b) Term of grant agreement. A grant will be for a term of three to five years depending upon the tasks undertaken, as defined under this subpart. §964.340 Resident compensation. Residents employed to provide services or renovation or conversion work funded under this program shall be paid at a rate not less than the highest of: (a) The minimum wage that would be applicable to the employees under the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 (FLSA), if section 6(a)(1) of the FLSA applied to the resident and if the resident were not exempt under section 13 of the FLSA; (b) The State or local minimum wage for the most nearly comparable covered employment; or (c) The prevailing rate of pay for persons employed in similar public occupations by the same employer. §964.345 Treatment of income. Program participation shall begin on the first day the resident enters training or begins to receive services. Furthermore, the earnings of and benefits to any HA resident resulting from participation in the FIC program shall not be considered as income in computing the resident's total annual income that is used to determine the resident rental payment during: (a) The period that the resident participates in the program; and (b) The period that begins with the commencement of employment of the resident in the first job acquired by the resident after completion of the program that is not funded by assistance under the 1937 Act, and ends on the earlier of: (1) The date the resident ceases to continue employment without good cause; or (2) The expiration of the 18-month period beginning on the date of commencement of employment in the first job not funded by assistance under this program. (See §913.106, Annual Income.) §964.350 Administrative requirements. The HUD Inspector General, the Comptroller General of the United States, or any duly authorized representative shall have access to all records required to be retained by this subpart or by any agreements with HUD for the purpose of audit or other examinations.
