FR940202-1-00020 FR940202-1-00009 DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE Forest Service 36 CFR Part 223 Sale and Disposal of National Forest System Timber; Downpayment AGENCY: Forest Service, USDA. ACTION: Advance notice of proposed rulemaking; request for comment. SUMMARY: The Forest Service hereby gives notice of its intent to develop a proposed rule and related policy to address a number of financial security provisions related to National Forest System (NFS) timber sale contracts. Specifically, the proposals will address the following: Transfer or refund of the downpayment made pursuant to timber sale contract special provision C(T)4.220 # _ DOWNPAYMENT ; criteria which the Chief will use for determining speculative bidding; and the need for reduction of the performance bond amount before all volume is removed. The proposed policy is needed to ensure that the government has an adequate level of financial security, to assure the timely completion of timber sale contracts by avoiding contract defaults resulting from speculative bidding, and to maintain competition between qualified bidders by monitoring for speculative bidding. DATES: Comments regarding this advance notice must be received in writing by March 4, 1994. ADDRESSES: Send written comments to Director, Timber Management Staff (2400), Forest Service, USDA, P.O. Box 96090, Washington, DC 20090&hyph;6090. The public may inspect comments received on this policy in the office of the Director, Timber Management Staff, Third Floor, Northwest Wing, Auditors Building, 201 14th Street, SW. To facilitate entrance into the building, visitors are encouraged to call ahead (205&hyph;0893). FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Fred O. Walk, Timber Management Staff, (202) 205&hyph;0858. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The General Accounting Office (GAO), in testimony before the House Appropriations Subcommittee on Interior and Related Agencies on April 24, 1991, testified that the Forest Service's key contracting measures such as downpayments, periodic payments, performance bonds, and calculations of damages were similar to those of other timber sellers, with the exception that the Forest Service returns or credits the downpayment before the contract is substantially complete. GAO testified that, by crediting or returning the downpayment, the Forest Service has less security to protect the government's financial interest, in terms of access to funds in the event of a default. GAO's testimony included a recommendation that the Secretary of Agriculture direct the Chief of the Forest Service to retain the downpayment until the contract is substantially complete. The Department of Agriculture published a final rule in the Federal Register on July 31, 1991 (56 FR 36099), that implemented the downpayment requirements of Section 2(d) of the Federal Timber Contract Payment Modification Act of October 16, 1984 (98 Stat, 2213; 16 U.S.C. 618(d)). In the final rule, the Secretary of Agriculture directed the Forest Service to develop and publish for comment a proposed rule that would eliminate transfer or refund of the downpayment and that would respond to GAO's concern that the downpayment be retained until the contract is substantially complete. Further, the Department, in responding to public comment in the July 31, 1991, final rule (56 FR 36100) agreed that additional and specific criteria are needed for determining speculative bidding and indicated that the Forest Service would develop proposed criteria and publish them in the Federal Register for public comment prior to adoption of any criteria. The timber sale contract requires a performance bond equal to 10 percent of the total bid value of the timber sale. The current timber sale contract language, in Standard Provision B9.11 Bond Reduction, prohibition reduction of the performance bond until a purchaser has completed removal of timber, other than substandard timber form the sale area, under Standard Provision B2.12. However, retaining the full amount of the performance bond until all volume has been removed may result in the Government having an excessive amount of financial security. The agency is considering a revision of this provision to avoid retention of excessive security. The Forest Service invites comments on how the agency can best address the concerns of GAO, establish criteria which the Chief can use in determining speculative bidding, and avoid having an excessive amount of financial security when the performance bond is retained until all volume is removed. Comments received will be considered in the development of a proposed rule on downpayment and associated proposed policy related to performance bonds and speculative bidding criteria. The proposed rule and policies will be published in the Federal Register for comment. Dated: December 28, 1993. David M. Unger, Associate Chef. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;2301 Filed 2&hyph;1&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3410&hyph;11&hyph;M
