FR940412-2-00130 FR940412-2-00090 Applicants must submit: 1. An original copy of the application, signed by the duly authorized official of the applicant organization, with a complete set of the appropriate appendices; and 2. Two additional, legible copies of the application and all appendices. These materials should be sent to the following address: Center for Substance Abuse Prevention Programs, Division of Research Grants, NIH, Westwood Building, Room 240, 5333 Westbard Avenue, Bethesda, Maryland 20892.* *If an overnight carrier or express mail is used, the Zip Code is 20816. Review Process: Applications accepted for review will be assigned, at the central receipt point (Division of Research Grants, NIH), to an Initial Review Group (IRG) composed primarily of non-Federal experts. Applications will be reviewed by the IRG for technical merit in accordance with established PHS/SAMHSA peer review procedures for grants. Notification of the IRG's recommendation will be sent to the applicant upon completion of the initial review. In addition to the IRG's recommendations on technical merit, applications will undergo a second level of review by the appropriate advisory council, whose review may be based on policy considerations as well as technical merit. Applications may be considered for funding only if the advisory council concurs with the IRG's recommendation for approval. Review Criteria: Each application will be reviewed and evaluated for technical merit using the following criteria: General •Potential as a demonstration project to make a significant contribution to knowledge of comprehensive community-based substance abuse prevention services, and systems services development. Knowledge •Consistency of the project with state-of-the-art approaches to substance abuse prevention services, evaluation designs, and coalition program development; •Demonstrated knowledge of the health and substance abuse problems in the target community and the ethnic, cultural, economic, and age factors that impact the community and prevention services. Cultural Competence •Evidence of understanding the significance of cultural and gender diversity in achieving a comprehensive community prevention services project; evidence in demonstrating both sensitivity and responsiveness to cultural differences and similarities; and effectiveness in using cultural symbols to communicate messages. •Established experience and credibility in working with single and multi-cultural communities in developing collaborative working relationships that allow the members of the targeted community to draw on community based values, traditions, and customs in the development of the project's plan and strategies, in addition to other support.
