FR941221-0-00021 FR941221-0-00009 26 CFR Parts 31 and 602 [TD 8577] RIN 1545&hyph;AT05 Electronic Filing of Form W&hyph;4 AGENCY: Internal Revenue Service (IRS), Treasury. ACTION: Temporary regulations. SUMMARY: This document contains temporary regulations relating to Form W&hyph;4, Employee's Withholding Allowance Certificate. The temporary regulations authorize employers to establish systems that permit employees to make certain changes to their Forms W&hyph;4 electronically. The regulations provide employers and employees with guidance necessary to comply with the law and affect employers who choose to establish electronic systems and employees who use them. The text of these temporary regulations also serves as the text of the proposed regulations set forth in the notice of proposed rulemaking on this subject in the Proposed Rules section of this issue of the Federal Register . EFFECTIVE DATE: These temporary regulations are effective December 21, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Russ Weinheimer, (202) 622&hyph;6060 (not a toll-free number). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Paperwork Reduction Act The collection of information contained in these regulations has been reviewed and, pending receipt and evaluation of public comments, approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1545&hyph;1435. For further information concerning this collection of information, and where to submit comments on the collection of information and the accuracy of the estimated burden, and suggestions for reducing this burden, please refer to the preamble to the cross-referencing notice of proposed rulemaking published in the Proposed Rules section of this issue of the Federal Register . Background On April 15, 1994, a notice of proposed rulemaking [EE&hyph;45&hyph;93] containing proposed regulations relating to Form W&hyph;4, Employee's Withholding Allowance Certificate, was published in the Federal Register (59 FR 18057). The proposed regulations would authorize employers to establish electronic systems for employees to use in filing changes to their Forms W&hyph;4. These electronic systems could not be used for Forms W&hyph;4 required upon commencement of employment, on which more than 10 withholding exemptions are claimed, or, if the employee is expected to earn more than $200 per week, on which exemption from withholding is claimed. In addition, under the proposed regulations an employer would have to retain a paper option for those employees who are eligible to use the electronic system but do not wish to do so. Written comments responding to the notice have been received, and a public hearing was held on July 15, 1994. The commentators generally approved of the proposed regulations, but also urged that the IRS go farther. Specifically, they recommended that electronic systems be allowed for all Forms W&hyph;4 without exception, and that employers be allowed to mandate the use of an electronic system rather than be required to maintain a paper option for their employees. One commentator, however, was concerned about employees being overwhelmed by the transition to electronic systems and requested confirmation that a paper option would continue to be available. Explanation of Provisions While the IRS has not concluded its evaluation of the merits of these recommendations, it has been decided that the final regulations on this subject will not further restrict situations where electronic Forms W&hyph;4 can be used. In order to allow the use of electronic systems for filing Forms W&hyph;4 as quickly as possible, these temporary regulations authorize employers to establish electronic systems as contemplated in the proposed regulations, effective immediately. The IRS invites further comments on the electronic filing of Forms W&hyph;4 and the practical implementation of systems that make such filing possible. To this end, a notice of proposed rulemaking appears in the Proposed Rules section of this issue of the Federal Register . While the text of these temporary regulations also serves as the text for those proposed regulations, comments are specifically requested on whether electronic systems should be allowed for additional categories of Forms W&hyph;4 and the extent to which employers should be allowed to mandate the use of an electronic system. Those further comments will be considered in determining the appropriate balance between the advantages to employers of fully electronic systems, ensuring adequate employee access, and the IRS's concerns relating to enforcement. This expanded comment process and, in particular, comments and insights arising from the experience of employers and the IRS during this interim period, is expected to provide information that is very helpful in developing final regulations.
