FR940128-1-00029 FR940128-1-00006 The agency is proposing to define ``shucked shellfish'' in §123.3(s) as meaning molluscan shellfish that have one or both shells removed. The labeling and recordkeeping requirements proposed in §123.28(c) apply to shucked shellfish. The agency is proposing to define ``tag'' in §123.3(t) as a record of harvesting information attached to a container of shellstock by the harvester or processor. Under proposed §1240.60(b), the tag or bill-of-lading will identify the processor, harvester, date of harvest, and State, including the specific location of harvest. Most shellfish-producing States and countries currently require that shellfish harvested in their waters bear documentation with such information. This information is the minimum necessary to permit ready identification of site and time of harvest of the shellfish. Because raw molluscan shellfish directly reflect the quality of the harvesting area, this information is necessary to provide assurance that the shellfish were harvested from an area that was safe and open for harvesting. B. Purpose and Criteria Section 123.5(a) of the proposed regulations references the umbrella CGMP guidelines in part 110 as providing general guidance with regard to such matters as facility design, materials, personnel practices, and cleaning and sanitation procedures. Because part 110 provides guidance of general applicability to all foods, the agency intends that this guidance will continue to be valid for seafood processors when the proposed regulations at part 123 are issued in final form. Proposed §123.5(b) makes clear that the purpose of subpart A of part 123 is to set forth requirements specific to the processing and importation of fish and fishery products. C. HACCP Plans 1. Summary FDA is proposing to require in §123.6 that commercial processors and importers of fish and fishery products develop and implement HACCP plans in keeping with Principle 6 of the NACMCF discussed previously. Development and implementation of an HACCP plan requires that processors think through the entire process flow from raw materials to finished product shipping to ensure that safety hazards are controlled by design, and that they operate that process as a matter of daily routine. For importers, the thought process will begin with a decision from whom and from where to buy fishery products and follow through to arrangements for shipment to the United States, storage in the United States, and end when the product leaves the control of the importer. The plan provides the structure for the preventive controls, including the recordkeeping associated with those controls, that a processor or importer is to employ. In summary, FDA has tentatively concluded that the essential elements of this structure must include: (1) The identification of hazards to ensure that the processor or importer knows what the hazards are, so that it controls them by design rather than by chance (proposed §123.6(b)(1)); (2) the identification of critical control points to ensure that the processor or importer knows where to monitor to prevent or minimize the occurrence of the relevant hazard (proposed §123.6(b)(2)); (3) the identification of critical limits that must be met at each critical control point, so that the processor or importer has objective standards in place by which to determine whether it is controlling the relevant hazard (proposed §123.6(b)(3)); (4) the identification of procedures for how and when the processor or importer will monitor the critical control points to ensure both that monitoring is done as a matter of routine, and that it is done in an appropriate manner and with sufficient frequency to establish preventive control (proposed §123.6(b)(4)); and (5) a recordkeeping system for that monitoring that will establish for the processor's or importer's benefit that it is effectively implementing a system of preventive controls, and record how those controls are operating over time (proposed §123.6(b)(5)). The recordkeeping system is the key to HACCP. As explained above, the records will enable the processor or importer, and ultimately the regulator, to see the operations of the processor or importer through time, rather than only how they are functioning at a particular moment in time. Among other things, HACCP records can reveal trends that might otherwise go undetected until significant problems occurred.
