FR940613-0-00004 FR940613-0-00002 14 CFR Part 39 [Docket No. 93&hyph;NM&hyph;90&hyph;AD; Amendment 39&hyph;8933; AD 94&hyph;12&hyph;05] Airworthiness Directives; McDonnell Douglas Model DC&hyph;10 Series Airplanes and Model KC&hyph;10A (Military) Airplanes AGENCY: Federal Aviation Administration, DOT. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: This amendment adopts a new airworthiness directive (AD), applicable to all McDonnell Douglas Model DC&hyph;10 series airplanes and Model KC&hyph;10A (military) airplanes, that requires inspections to detect cracks in wing stringer number 41; installation of a repair, if necessary; and modification of that stringer. This amendment is prompted by reports of fatigue cracks in outer wing stringer number 41. The actions specified by this AD are intended to prevent reduced structural integrity of the wing. DATES: Effective July 13, 1994. The incorporation by reference of certain publications listed in the regulations is approved by the Director of the Federal Register as of July 13, 1994. ADDRESSES: The service information referenced in this AD may be obtained from McDonnell Douglas Corporation, P.O. Box 1771, Long Beach, California 90801&hyph;1771, Attention: Business Unit Manager, Technical Administrative Support, Dept. L51, M.C. 2&hyph;98. This information may be examined at the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), Transport Airplane Directorate, Rules Docket, 1601 Lind Avenue SW., Renton, Washington; or at the FAA, Transport Airplane Directorate, Los Angeles Aircraft Certification Office, 3229 East Spring Street, Long Beach, California; or at the Office of the Federal Register, 800 North Capitol Street NW., suite 700, Washington, DC. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Maureen Moreland, Aerospace Engineer, Airframe Branch, ANM&hyph;120L, FAA, Transport Airplane Directorate, Los Angeles Aircraft Certification Office, 3229 East Spring Street, Long Beach, California 90806&hyph;2425; telephone (310) 988&hyph;5238; fax (310) 988&hyph;5210. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: A proposal to amend part 39 of the Federal Aviation Regulations to include an airworthiness directive (AD) that is applicable to all McDonnell Douglas Model DC&hyph;10 series airplanes and Model KC&hyph;10A (military) airplanes was published in the Federal Register on September 24, 1993 (58 FR 49946). That action proposed to require inspections to detect cracks in wing stringer number 41; installation of a repair, if necessary; and modification of that stringer. Interested persons have been afforded an opportunity to participate in the making of this amendment. Due consideration has been given to the comments received. One commenter supports the proposed rule. The Air Transport Association (ATA) of America, on behalf of one of its members, requests that the FAA include a flow diagram in the proposal since its provisions are complex. The FAA does not concur. The FAA considers that the requirements of this AD are presented in a reasonably clear manner in the text of the final rule. In addition, McDonnell Douglas DC&hyph;10 Service Bulletin 57&hyph;114, Revision 1, dated July 26, 1993, which is referenced in the AD as the appropriate source of service information, provides corresponding guidance for accomplishment of the actions required by this AD. ATA also suggests that, prior to issuance of the final rule, the FAA should verify that the service bulletin will not create problems for operators, and that accomplishment of the service bulletin should be verified by an operator before the AD is finalized. One ATA member experienced difficulty accomplishing the permanent repair specified in the service bulletin because parts listed did not fit, drawings were erroneous, and fastener grip lengths were inadequate for the repair. The FAA concurs with the commenter's request. The FAA has conveyed these concerns to the manufacturer, and has verified that the initial problems expressed by the commenter have been corrected in Revision 1 of the service bulletin. Since Revision 1 of the service bulletin was cited in the proposal as the appropriate source of service information, the FAA finds that no change to the AD is necessary. One commenter requests that the FAA allow visual inspection methods to be used in lieu of the proposed eddy current inspection methods. The commenter indicates that fastener accessibility enables accomplishment of a visual inspection and provides an equivalent level of crack detection. The FAA does not concur. Based on the results of crack growth analysis, the FAA has determined that a visual inspection of the stringer cannot provide an acceptable level of crack detection. In addition, the FAA based the repetitive inspection intervals on the crack growth analysis results based upon the minimum crack length detectable by eddy current inspection. The commenter also requests that credit be given for general visual inspections accomplished previously. A second commenter supports the proposed rule, but requests that the AD be revised to state that inspections accomplished within 1,500 landings prior to the effective date of the AD are acceptable in lieu of the initial inspection. The commenters provide no justification for these requests. Since the FAA has determined that a visual inspection of the stringer does not provide an acceptable level of crack detection, as discussed previously, the FAA considers that the requirement for eddy current inspections is appropriate and credit cannot be extended for general visual inspections accomplished previously. However, the phrase ``unless accomplished previously,'' which appears in the ``Compliance'' paragraph of the final rule, provides credit for operators that have accomplished the required inspection prior to the effective date of this AD in accordance with McDonnell Douglas DC&hyph;10 Service Bulletin 57&hyph;114, Revision 1, dated July 26, 1993. One commenter requests that the first inspection accomplished to comply with this AD be required during the airplane's next heavy maintenance visit if a general visual inspection has been accomplished prior to the effective date of the AD. The FAA does not concur. A general visual inspection of the stringer does not provide an acceptable level of crack detection, as discussed previously. In developing an appropriate initial compliance time for this action, the FAA considered the safety implications and normal maintenance schedules for timely accomplishment of the inspection. In consideration of these items, the FAA has determined that 6,500 total landings or 1,500 landings after the effective date of the AD, whichever occurs later, represents the maximum interval of time allowable wherein the inspection can reasonably be accomplished and an acceptable level of safety can be maintained. The same commenter states that the service bulletin cited in the AD specifies that one reason for accomplishing the actions described in the service bulletin is to prevent unscheduled maintenance downtime for replacement of a cracked stringer; therefore, the commenter questions the need for this AD. The commenter adds that, to date, stringer 41 cracking has not impacted its maintenance due to the viable maintenance program currently in place. The commenter states that imposing an AD at this time would only complicate its maintenance program and would contribute little toward ensuring that the airplane wing structure is operating in good condition.
