FR940817-2-00057 FR940817-2-00043 During EPA's consideration of the 1990 Ethyl submission, EPA's Office of Research and Development (ORD) conducted a manganese inhalation risk assessment based on the available data which found that because of ``the considerable uncertainties and data gaps in the available information *␣*␣* it is not possible *␣*␣* to conclude definitively that the increased use of MMT as a fuel additive will (or will not) increase public health risk.'' 2 (EPA also investigated potential hazards associated with water contamination resulting from accidental spills or leakages of pure MMT and concluded that spills or leaks, if they occurred, are likely to be contained and therefore would not pose a human health risk due to groundwater contamination. However, data available to EPA are insufficient to determine whether spills and leaks could affect exposure to benthic organisms.) 2 See ``Comments on the Use of Methylcyclopentadienyl Manganese Tricarbonyl in Unleaded Gasoline'', Docket A&hyph;90&hyph;16. Additionally, in order to obtain assistance in describing information needed to improve its manganese health risk assessment (and also to improve its environmental hazard identification of issues associated with MMT itself), EPA, in conjunction with the National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences, conducted a Manganese/MMT Symposium and Workshop on March 12&hyph;15, 1991. The conference allowed the Agency to solicit scientific information from invited extramural scientists reflecting a wide range of scientific disciplines. Invited participants included representatives of Ethyl Corporation, the Environmental Defense Fund, the Centers for Disease Control, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration and Environment Canada. A summary of the workshop discussions was provided to each participant and the information obtained from this meeting was also used by EPA to prepare a report on prioritized research needed for improving its manganese inhalation risk assessment. 3 3 Preuss, P.W. (1991) ORD Document on Information Needed to Improve the Risk Characterization of Manganese Tetraoxide (Mn 3 O 4 ) and Methylcyclopentadienyl Manganese Tricarbonyl, December 12, 1991 (memorandum to Richard Wilson). Washington, DC: U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Office of Research and Development; December 16, 1991. For further information the reader is referred to Air Docket A&hyph;93&hyph;26, II&hyph;A&hyph;16. EPA raised the issue of potential health effects associated with manganese exposure as a concern in its January 1992 denial, but did not base its decision on this concern because the Agency concluded that the uncertainties regarding hydrocarbon emissions increases prevented EPA from making the requisite ``cause or contribute'' determination concerning effects on regulated emissions. On February 13, 1992, Ethyl filed a petition for review of the January 8, 1992 waiver denial decision in the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit. EPA and Ethyl subsequently entered discussions concerning a possible settlement of the court case. In the context of those discussions, Ethyl submitted to the Agency new emissions test data developed by Ethyl since the denial decision.
