FR941122-0-00047 FR941122-0-00010 (2) Any affected unit that: (i) Is not otherwise subject to any Acid Rain emissions limitation or emissions reduction requirements during Phase I; and (ii) Meets the requirement, as set forth in paragraphs (c)(4)(ii) and (d) of this section, that for each year for which the unit is to be covered by the reduced utilization plan, the unit's baseline divided by 2,000 lbs/ton and multiplied by the lesser of the unit's 1985 actual SO 2 emissions rate or 1985 allowable SO 2 emissions rate does not exceed the sum of (A) The lesser of 10 percent of the amount under paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section or 200 tons, plus (B) The unit's baseline divided by 2,000 lbs/ton and multiplied by the lesser of: The greater of the unit's 1989 or 1990 actual SO 2 emissions rate; or, as of November 15, 1990, the most stringent federally enforceable or State enforceable SO 2 emissions limitation covering the unit for 1995&hyph;1999. (b)(1) The designated representative of any unit under paragraph (a)(1) of this section shall include in the Acid Rain permit application for the unit a reduced utilization plan, meeting the requirements of this section, when the owners and operators of the unit plan to: * * * * * (ii) * * * (A) Shifting generation of the unit to a unit under paragraph (a)(2) of this section or to a sulfur-free generator; or * * * * * (3)(i) Improved unit efficiency measures shall be implemented in the unit after December 31, 1987. Such measures include supply-side measures listed in appendix A, section 2.1 of part 73 of this chapter. * * * * * (c) * * * (4) * * * (i) Identification of each compensating unit or sulfur-free generator. (ii) For each compensating unit. (A) Each of the following: The unit's 1985 actual SO 2 emissions rate; the unit's 1985 allowable emissions rate; the unit's 1989 actual SO 2 emissions rate; the unit's 1990 actual SO 2 emissions rate; and, as of November 15, 1990, the most stringent unit-specific federally enforceable or State enforceable SO 2 emissions limitation covering the unit for 1995&hyph;1999. For purposes of determining the most stringent emissions limitation, applicable emissions limitations shall be converted to lbs/mmBtu in accordance with appendix B of this part. Where the most stringent emissions limitation is not the same for every year in 1995&hyph;1999, the most stringent emissions limitation shall be stated separately for each year. (B) The unit's baseline divided by 2,000 lbs/ton and multiplied by the lesser of the unit's 1985 actual SO 2 emissions rate or 1985 allowable SO 2 emissions rate. (C) The unit's baseline divided by 2000 lbs/ton and multiplied by the lesser of: The greater of the unit's 1989 or 1990 actual SO 2 emissions rate; or, as of November 15, 1990, the most stringent unit-specific federally enforceable or State enforceable SO 2 emissions limitation covering the unit for 1995&hyph;1999. Where the most stringent emissions limitation is not the same for every year in 1995&hyph;1999, the calculation in the prior sentence shall be made separately for each year. (D) The difference between the amount under paragraph (c)(4)(ii)(B) of this section and the amount under paragraph (c)(4)(ii)(C) of this section. If the difference calculated in the prior sentence for any year exceeds the lesser of 10 percent of the amount under paragraph (c)(4)(ii)(B) of this section or 200 tons, the unit shall not be designated as a compensating unit for the year. Where the most stringent unit-specific federally enforceable or State enforceable SO 2 emissions limitation is not the same for every year in 1995&hyph;1999, the difference shall be calculated separately for each year. (E) The allowance allocation calculated as the amount under paragraph (c)(4)(ii)(B) of this section. If the compensating unit is a new unit, it shall be deemed to have a baseline of zero and shall be allocated no allowances. (F) Where, as of November 15, 1990, a non-unit-specific federally enforceable or State enforceable SO 2 emissions limitation covers the unit for any year in 1995&hyph;1999, the designated representative shall state each such limitation and propose a method for applying unit-specific and non-unit-specific emissions limitations under paragraph (d) of this section. * * * * * (iv) For each compensating unit or sulfur-free generator not in the dispatch system of the unit reducing utilization under the plan, the system directives or power purchase agreements or other contractual agreements governing the acquisition, by the dispatch system, of the electrical energy that is generated by the compensating unit or sulfur-free generator and on which the plan relies to accomplish reduced utilization. Such contractual agreements shall identify the specific compensating unit or sulfur-free generator from which the dispatch system acquires such electrical energy. * * * * * (d) Administrator's Action. (1) If the Administrator approves the reduced utilization plan, he or she will allocate allowances, as provided in the approved plan, to the Allowance Tracking System account for any designated compensating unit upon issuance of an Acid Rain permit containing the plan, except that, if the plan is conditionally approved, the allowances will be allocated upon revision of the permit to activate the plan. (2) Where, as of November 15, 1990, a non-unit-specific federally enforceable or State enforceable emissions limitation covers the unit for any year during 1995&hyph;1999, the Administrator will specify on a case-by-case basis a method for using unit-specific and non-unit specific emissions limitations in approving or disapproving the compensating unit. The specified method will not treat a non-unit-specific emissions limitation as a unit-specific emissions limitation and will not result in compensating units retaining allowances allocated under paragraph (d)(1) of this section for emissions reductions necessary to meet a non-unit-specific emissions limitation. Such method may require an end-of-year review and the disapproval and de-designation, and adjustment of the allowances allocated to, the compensating unit and may require the designated representative of the compensating unit to surrender allowances by the allowance transfer deadline of the year that is subject to the review. Any surrendered allowances shall have the same or an earlier compliance use date as the allowances originally allocated for the year, and the designated representative may identify the serial numbers of the allowances to be deducted. In the absence of such identification, such allowances will be deducted on a first-in, first-out basis under ยง73.35(c)(2) of this chapter. * * * * * (f) * * * (1) * * * (ii) The designated representative of any Phase I unit (including a unit governed by a reduced utilization plan relying on energy conservation, improved unit efficiency, sulfur-free generation, or a compensating unit) shall surrender allowances, and the Administrator will deduct or return allowances, in accordance with paragraph (d)(2) of this section and subpart I of this part.
