FR940302-0-00012 FR940302-0-00005 List of Subjects in 15 CFR Part 946 Administrative practice and procedure, Certification, Commissioning, Decommissioning, National Weather Service, Weather service modernization. Dated: February 23, 1994. Elbert W. Friday, Jr., Assistant Administrator for Weather Services. For the reasons set out in the preamble, 15 CFR part 946 is amended as follows: PART 946_MODERNIZATION OF THE NATIONAL WEATHER SERVICE 1. The authority citation for part 946 continues to read as follows: Authority: Title VII of Pub. L. 102&hyph;567, 106 Stat. 4303 (15 U.S.C. 313 note). 2. An Appendix A is added at the end of part 946 to read as follows: Appendix A to Part 946_National Weather Service Modernization Criteria I. Modernization Criteria for Actions Not Requiring Certification (A) Commissioning of New Weather Observation Systems (1) Automated Surface Observation Systems (ASOS) Purpose: Successful commissioning for full operational use requires a demonstration, by tests and other means, that the ASOS equipment, as installed in the field office, meets its technical requirements; that the prescribed operating, maintenance, and logistic support elements are in place; that operations have been properly staffed with trained personnel and that the equipment can be operated with all other installed mating elements of the modernized NWS system. Note: It may be necessary to incorporate work-arounds to complete some of the items listed below in a timely and cost-effective manner. A work-around provides for an alternative method of meeting a commissioning criteria through the application of a pre-approved operational procedure implemented on a temporary basis, for example, by human augmentation of the observation for the occurrence of freezing rain, until such time as a freezing rain sensor has been accepted for operational use with ASOS. The ASOS Plan referenced below includes a process for recommending, approving, and documenting work arounds and requires that they be tracked as open items until they can be eliminated by implementation of the originally intended capability. References: The criteria and evaluation elements for commissioning are set forth and further detailed in the NWS-Sponsored Automated Surface Observing System (ASOS) Site Component Commissioning Plan (the ASOS Plan), more specifically in Addendum I, Appendix D of the ASOS Site Component Commissioning Evaluation Package (the ASOS Package). Criteria: a. ASOS Acceptance Test: The site component acceptance test, which includes objective tests to demonstrate that the ASOS, as installed at the given site, meets its technical specifications, has been successfully completed in accordance with item 1a, p. D&hyph;2 of Appendix D of the ASOS Package. b. Sensor Siting: Sensor sitings provide representative observations in accordance with Appendix C of the ASOS Package, Guidance for Evaluating Representativeness of ASOS Observations and item 1b, p. D&hyph;2 of Appendix D of the ASOS Package. c. Initialization Parameters: Initialization parameters are in agreement with source information provided by the ASOS Program Office, in accordance with item 1c, pp. D&hyph;2 & D&hyph;3 of Appendix D of the ASOS Package. d. Sensor Performance Verification: Sensor performance has been verified in accordance with the requirements stated in the ASOS Site Technical Manual and item 1d, p. D&hyph;3 of the ASOS Package. e. Field Modification Kits/Firmware Installed: All critical field modification kits and firmware for the site as required by attachments 3a & b (pp. D&hyph;45 & D&hyph;46) or memorandum issued to the regions, have been installed on the ASOS in accordance with item 1e, p. D&hyph;4 of Appendix of the ASOS Package.
