FR941230-1-00031 FR941230-1-00004 (d) Research agreements) _(1) General rule. A research agreement described in either paragraph (d)(2) or (d)(3) of this section does not result in private business use. (2) Corporate-sponsored research. A research agreement relating to a facility used for basic research supported or sponsored by a nongovernmental person is described in this paragraph (d)(2) if any license or other use of resulting technology by the sponsor is permitted only on the same terms as the recipient would permit that use by any unrelated, nonsponsoring party (that is, the sponsor must pay a competitive price for its use), with the price paid for that use determined at the time the license or other resulting technology is available for use. Although the recipient need not permit persons other than the sponsor to use any license or other resulting technology, the price paid by the sponsor must be no less than the price that would be paid by any non-sponsoring party. (3) Cooperative research agreements. A research agreement relating to a facility used pursuant to a joint industry-university cooperative research arrangement is described in this paragraph (d)(3) if_ (i) Multiple, unrelated sponsors agree to fund university-performed basic research; (ii) The research to be performed and the manner in which it is to be performed (for example, selection of the personnel to perform the research) is determined by the university; (iii) Title to any patent or other product incidentally resulting from the basic research lies exclusively with the university; and (iv) Sponsors are entitled to no more than a nonexclusive, royalty-free license to use the product of any of that research. (4) Basic research. For purposes of this paragraph (d), basic research has the same meaning as under section 41(e)(7)(A) (that is, any original investigation for the advancement of scientific knowledge not having a specific commercial objective, except that this term does not include basic research conducted outside the United States or basic research in the social sciences, arts, or humanities). Basic research does not include applied or practical research, product development, or similar activities. (e) Exception for general public use_ (1) General public use_ (i) In general. Private business use does not include use as a member of the general public ( general public use ). Use of a financed facility by nongovernmental persons in their trades or businesses is treated as general public use only if_ (A) The facility is intended for use by the general public; and (B) The use by those nongovernmental persons is reasonably expected to be on the same basis as use by other members of the general public. (ii) Relation to other use. Use of a financed facility by the general public does not prevent the proceeds from being used for a private business use because of other use under this section. (2) Intended for use by the general public. (i) Number of users. A facility is not intended for use by the general public if less than 25 percent of the reasonably expected direct use of the facility is by persons that individually account for no more than 1 percent of the use of the facility. (ii) Persons constituting the general public. Although the general public ordinarily includes natural persons not engaged in trades or businesses, the general public may consist entirely of a large number of nongovernmental persons engaged in different types of trades or businesses. The general public cannot consist predominately of a large number of nongovernmental persons engaged in the same type of trade or business. For example, an electric transmission line used by a large number of electric utilities is not used by the general public. See, however, Example 6 of paragraph (h) of this section. (3) Use on the same basis_ (i) Use related to other facilities_ (A) General rule. The use of a financed facility by a nongovernmental person is not on the same basis as use by the general public if the financed facility is functionally and integrally related to another facility that is used by that nongovernmental person (the primary facility ) and significant economic benefits with respect to the primary facility arise from the use of the related facility that are not available to the general public. If more than 75 percent of the use of the related facility is by the general public and not use in connection with the primary facility, the benefits to the primary facility are treated as insignificant for this purpose.
