FR941004-1-00045 FR941004-1-00015 The fibrous-rooted plant grows on decomposed granitic sands between elevations of 460 to 1,090 m (1,500 to 3,600 ft) in foothill woodlands and converted chaparral grasslands in the Sierra Nevada foothills. No other species of Calyptridium co-occurs with C. pulchellum. The seven populations of C . pulchellum are found in Fresno, Madera, and Mariposa Counties over a range of 1,940 sq km (750 sq mi). Six populations of C . pulchellum occur on private land and one population occurs on Forest Service land (Sierra National Forest). C . pulchellum is threatened by urbanization and potentially by overgrazing. John C. Fremont collected Carpenteria californica from an area in the Kings River watershed on his third expedition to California in 1846. John Torrey (1852) first described C . californica from specimens sent to him by John Fremont. The monotypic genus Carpenteria is one of California's many endemic genera that are relicts without any close relatives; this genus probably had a wider range earlier in Tertiary time (Barbour and Major 1988). Carpenteria californica is an erect to spreading evergreen shrub in the mock orange family (Philadelphaceae) that grows to a height of 1 to 6.5 m (3 to 13 ft). The plant has glossy green, opposite leaves and pale bark that peels in large sheets in the fall. Terminal, white, showy flowers appear in May or June and last through July at the upper elevational limits. C . californica is found in drainages and mesic areas on mostly granitic soils from 460 to 1,220 m (1,500 to 4,000 ft) in elevation within the chaparral and cismontane woodland communities of the foothills of the Sierra Nevada in eastern Fresno County. C . californica is known from six populations distributed over a 583 sq km (225 sq mi) area. One population of C . californica is on private lands, four are on lands administered by the U.S. Forest Service (Sierra National Forest), and one is on both private and Forest Service lands. Collectively, approximately 30 percent of C. californica individuals occur on private lands. A portion of one population of C. californica is protected on a preserve owned by TNC. C . californica is threatened by urbanization, fire management practices, overgrazing and trampling by cattle, and inadequate State regulatory mechanisms. Logging, illegal dumping, highway construction, maintenance of roads and rights-of-way activities, and competition from native brush species have the potential to adversely impact this species. Frank Vasek (1964) first collected and described Clarkia springvillensis from its type locality along Balch Park Road near Springville, Tulare County. C . springvillensis is an erect annual herb in the evening-primrose family (Onagraceae). The 1 m (3 ft) tall plant has simple or usually branched stems. The bright green leaves are 2 to 9 cm (0.8 to 3.5 in) long and 5 to 20 mm (0.2 to 0.8 in) wide. The lavender-pink flowers appear in May to July and usually have a dark purplish basal spot. C . springvillensis can be separated from the sympatric congener C . unguiculata by the absence of long hairs on the calyx and ovary, the purple sepals, and the dark purplish spot at the base of the petals. Clarkia springvillensis is found on granitic soils in open sunny sites in blue oak woodlands and on roadbanks from 360 to 910 m (1,220 to 3,000 ft) in elevation. Nine of the 10 historically reported populations of C. springvillensis are extant, all in Tulare County. Eight of the nine populations are found within a 111 sq km (43 sq mi) area in eastern Tulare County, with the remaining population occurring 26 km (16 mi) to the northwest. One population of C . springvillensis is partially protected where it occurs on California Department of Fish and Game land, one population is on lands owned by Tulare County, three are on privately owned land, and four populations are on lands administered by the Forest Service (Sequoia National Forest). Urbanization, overgrazing, timber operations, inadequate State regulatory mechanisms, sphinx moth predation, and roadway maintenance activities threaten this plant. Alice Eastwood (1931) described Fritillaria striata from specimens collected by Roy Weston on the Rattlesnake Grade in the Greenhorn Mountains of Kern County. F . striata is a slender, herbaceous perennial in the lily family (Liliaceae). An unbranched stem grows 5 to 10 cm (2 to 4 in) above the surface of the ground from an underground bulb. The predominantly basal, alternate to opposite leaves are oblong to lance-shaped, 1 to 2 cm (0.4 to 0.8 in) wide and 6 to 10 cm (2 to 4 in) long. The upper leaves are narrower and undulate. The one to four fragrant, bell-shaped flowers appear from February through April. F . striata differs from the related F . pluriflora (adobe lily), which occurs in the northern Sacramento Valley foothills, in the shape, size, and coloring of the flowers, the conspicuous nectaries, and the connivent (converging) stigmas (Stebbins 1989, Eastwood 1931). Fritillaria striata is found on heavy, usually red clay soils on the grasslands and in the blue oak woodlands of the southeastern San Joaquin Valley and southern Sierra Nevada foothills. Fourteen populations of F . striata occur in Kern County and three populations are found in Tulare County (California Natural Diversity Data Base (CNDDB) 1993) discontinuously scattered over a 7,250 sq km (2,800 sq mi) area. The 17 populations range in elevation from 300 to 1,430 m (1,000 to 4,800 ft). All populations occur on private lands. F . striata is threatened by urbanization, livestock use, competition from nonnative grasses, agriculture land conversion, road widening, emergency road maintenance, inadequate State regulatory mechanisms, and off-highway vehicle use.
