FR940127-2-00196 FR940127-2-00111 Standard grants will be awarded to support basic studies in selected areas of aquaculture research. Consideration will be given to proposals that address innovative as well as fundamental approaches to the research areas outlined below that are consistent with the mission of USDA. Program subareas and guidelines are provided below as bases from which proposals may be developed: Program Area 1.0␣Aquaculture Research The overall objective of this research program is to enhance the knowledge base necessary for the continued growth of the domestic aquaculture industry as a form of sustainable agriculture. Emphasis is placed on research leading to improved production efficiency, increased competitiveness and wise environmental stewardship in private sector aquaculture in the United States. Because of limited funds for this program, only proposals focused on the interception, removal, and/or disposal of waste in commercially important finfish production systems will be considered. Research should be directed towards studies aimed at a systems approach to (1) reduce the impact of waste within aquacultural production systems and/or (2) the interception, removal, and disposal of waste from aquacultural production systems. Studies should target the development or the refinement of cost effective waste management systems. Innovative approaches to reduction and removal of both dissolved and solid waste should be considered. The quantitative and qualitative characteristics of waste, as a result of feed formulation and feeding strategies, should be considered in the rational design of control systems and alternative waste management strategies. Mass balance approaches to understanding the fate of phosphorus and nitrogen in these systems should also be addressed. Priority will be given to multi-disciplinary, multi-institutional team approaches and proposals with broad application to the aquaculture industry. Review Criteria Proposals will be evaluated by a peer review group of qualified scientists selected in accordance with §3400.11 of the administrative provisions governing the Special Research Grants Program. In accordance with §3400.5(a), the following selection criteria for proposals will be used in lieu of those which appear in §3400.15 of the administrative provisions: ␣ 1Criteria 1Maximum score Overall Scientific and Technical Quality 40 Creative and innovative scientific approach Clear, concise, and achievable objectives Technical soundness of procedures Feasibility of attaining objectives Relevance and Importance of Proposed Research to Solution of Specific Area of Inquiry 20 Justification for specific proposed approach Literature review focused on specific approach Proposal addresses specific area of inquiry Budget, Resources, and Personnel 20 Necessary facilities, resources, and personnel available Budget appropriate for proposed research Demonstrated scientific capability of investigators Collaboration 10 Evidence of significant contributions by collaborators Evidence and justification of multi-disciplinary and/or multi-institutional collaboration Application of Research Results 10 Planned application and implementation of research results Extension, transferability and publication of results Potential for results to enhance agricultural sustainability Total 100 How to Obtain Application Materials Copies of this solicitation, the Application Kit, and the administrative provisions governing this program, 7 CFR part 3400 (56 FR 58146, November 15, 1991), may be obtained by writing to the address or calling the telephone number below: Proposal Services Branch, Awards Management Division, Cooperative State Research Service, U.S. Department of Agriculture, room 303, Aerospace Center, AG Box 2245, Washington, DC 20250&hyph;2245, Telephone: (202) 401&hyph;5048 These materials may also be requested via Internet by sending a message with your name, mailing address (not e-mail) and telephone number, to psb@csrs.esusda.gov which states that you want a copy of the application materials for the Fiscal Year 1994 Special Research Grants Program_Aquaculture Research. The materials will then be mailed to you (not e-mailed) as quickly as possible. What to Submit An original and nine copies of each proposal must be submitted. This number of copies is necessary to permit thorough, objective peer evaluation of all proposals received before funding decisions are made. Each copy of each proposal must include a Form CSRS&hyph;661, ``Application for Funding'' attached to the front. The Special Research Grants Program should be indicated in Block 7, and ``Aquaculture Research 1.0'' should be indicated in Block 8. Proposers should note that one copy of this form, preferably the original, must contain pen-and-ink signatures of the principal investigator(s) and the authorized organizational representative. (Form CSRS&hyph;661 and the other required forms and certifications are contained in the Application Kit.) One copy of each proposal not selected for funding will be retained for a period of one year. The remaining copies will be destroyed.
