FR940616-0-00093 FR940616-0-00011 Notice (§9.111) Comment: This Section Should Clarify How HUD Will Communicate with People with Disabilities. Section 9.111 provides that HUD shall make available to employees, applicants, participants, beneficiaries, and other interested persons, information regarding the provisions of part 9. One commenter stated that although the preamble to the part 9 proposed rule indicated that certain HUD materials will be made available on tape and in Braille, nothing in the regulation makes that clear. The commenter requested that the part 9 proposed rule describe the specific ways in which HUD will communicate effectively with applicants, participants, personnel or other Federal entities, and members of the public who have disabilities. Response. To make available to individuals with disabilities the information required by §9.111, HUD will use, to the extent necessary, the auxiliary aids and services described in §9.103. The definition of ``auxiliary aids'' in §9.103 provides in relevant part as follows: ``Although auxiliary aids are required explicitly only by §9.160(a)(1), they may also be necessary to meet other requirements of the proposed regulation.'' General Prohibitions Against Discrimination (§9.130) Section 9.130 lists the general prohibitions against discrimination under section 504. Subsection (b)(vi) of §9.130 states that it is discriminatory to: ``Deny a dwelling to an otherwise qualified buyer or renter because of a disability of that buyer or renter or a person residing or intending to reside in that dwelling after it is sold, rented or made available.'' (§9.130(b)(vi)) Comment: §9.130 Should Include Relatives, Friends and Associates of Individuals with Disabilities. Three commenters stated that this paragraph was similar to language in the Fair Housing Act, except that the Fair Housing Act adds a third category of discrimination_``or because of a disability of any person associated with that person.'' The commenters urged adoption of this category of individuals so that the section 504 regulations, like the Fair Housing regulations (24 CFR 100.202), will prohibit discrimination against buyers and renters who have relatives, friends or associates who have disabilities. Response. The Fair Housing Act prohibits, inter alia, discrimination against any person on the basis of disability, whether or not it is the aggrieved person or an associate or relative of that person who is disabled. Because of differences in the language and structure of the Fair Housing Act and section 504, the Fair Housing Act language is not necessarily transferable to section 504. Comment: This Section Should Incorporate Language Concerning Reasonable Accommodation. One commenter requested that HUD incorporate the language of §100.204 of the Fair Housing Act regulations concerning reasonable accommodation in the part 9 rule's provision establishing the general prohibitions against discrimination under section 504. Response. HUD's Fair Housing Act regulation concerning reasonable accommodation is not appropriate for the section 504 regulations. The reasonable accommodation requirements of the Fair Housing Act are narrower than the ``reasonable modification'' requirements of section 504, because the Fair Housing Act requirements only refer to reasonable modifications and the rules, policies, practices or services associated with a dwelling unit. ( See 24 CFR 100.204.) Under section 504, reasonable modifications will vary in the context of each Federal program or activity. Accordingly, it is important that the interpretation of reasonable modification with respect to a program or activity covered by section 504 not be limited to the interpretation provided by HUD's Fair Housing Act regulations. Additionally, as noted previously, the term, ``qualified individuals with disabilities,'' used throughout the part 8 and part 9 rules implicitly incorporates the concept of reasonable accommodation or reasonable modification.
