FR940325-2-00067 FR940325-2-00039 DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES Administration for Children and Families [Program Announcement No. 93612&hyph;943] Administration for Native Americans: Availability of Financial Assistance AGENCY: Administration for Native Americans (ANA), Administration for Children and Families (ACF), Department of Health and Human Services, (HHS). ACTION: Announcement of availability of competitive financial assistance to assist eligible applicants in assuring the survival and continuing vitality of their Native American languages. SUMMARY: The Administration for Native Americans (ANA) announces the availability of fiscal year 1994 funds for Native American Language projects. Financial assistance provided by ANA is designed to assist applicants in designing projects which will promote the survival and continuing vitality of Native American languages. DATES: The closing date for submission of applications is June 23, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Dr. Gerald E. Gipp (202) 690&hyph;6662 or Ginny Gorman (202) 401&hyph;7260, Administration for Native Americans, Department of Health and Human Services, 200 Independence Avenue, SW., rm 348F, Washington, DC 20201&hyph;0001. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: A. Introduction and Purpose The program announcement states the availability of fiscal year 1994 financial assistance to eligible applicants for the purpose of assisting Native Americans in assuring the survival and continuing vitality of their languages. Financial assistance awards made under this program announcement will be on a competitive basis and the proposals will be reviewed against the evaluation criteria in this announcement. The Congress has recognized that the history of past policies of the United States toward Indian and other Native American languages has resulted in a dramatic decrease in the number of Native American languages that have survived over the past five hundred years. Consequently, the ``Native American Languages Act'' was enacted (Title I, Pub. L. 101&hyph;477) to address this decline. This legislation invested the United States government with the responsibility to work together with Native Americans to ensure the survival of cultures and languages unique to Native America. This law declared that it is the policy of the United States to ``preserve, protect, and promote the rights and freedom of Native Americans to use, practice, and develop Native American languages.'' While the Congress made a significant first step in passing this legislation in 1990, it served only as a declaration of policy. No program initiatives were proposed, nor any funds authorized to enact any significant programs in furtherance of this policy. In 1992, Congressional testimony provided estimates that of the several hundred languages that once existed, only about one hundred and fifty-five (155) languages are still spoken or remembered today. However, only 20 are spoken by persons of all ages, 30 are spoken by adults of all ages, about 60 are spoken by middle-aged adults, and 45 are spoken only by the most elderly. In response to this testimony, the Congress passed P.L. 102&hyph;524, ``the Native American Languages Act of 1992'' (the Act) to assist Native Americans in assuring the survival and continuing vitality of their languages. Passage of the Act is an important second step in attempting to ensure the survival and continuation of Native American languages, as it provides the basic foundation upon which the Tribal nations can rebuild their economic strength and rich cultural diversity. While the Federal government recognizes that substantial loss of Native American languages has occurred over the past several hundred years, the nature and magnitude of the status of Native American languages will be better defined when eligible applicants under the Act have completed language assessments. The Administration for Native Americans (ANA) believes that responsibility for achieving self-sufficiency rests with the governing bodies of Indian tribes, Alaska Native villages, and in the leadership of Native American groups. This belief supports the ANA principle that the local community and its leadership are responsible for determining goals, setting priorities, and planning and implementing programs which support the community's long range goals.
