FR941019-1-00069 FR941019-1-00009 Under the Department's regulations, one of the factors that trustee officials must consider when selecting a restoration, rehabilitation, replacement, and/or acquisition alternative is the relationship between estimated costs and estimated benefits. 43 CFR 11.82(d)(2), as amended by 59 FR 14285. Total damages will depend on the sum of compensable value and restoration, rehabilitation, replacement, and/or acquisition costs. Often there will be tradeoffs between compensable value and restoration, rehabilitation, replacement, and/or acquisition costs. For example, a fast-paced restoration, rehabilitation, replacement, and/or acquisition alternative may result in a lower level of interim lost use, and thus reduce associated compensable values. However, implementation of such an alternative may result in significantly higher restoration, rehabilitation, replacement, and/or acquisition costs. In some cases, there may be sufficient data to demonstrate that some restoration, rehabilitation, replacement, and/or acquisition alternatives result in substantially lower total damages than others. NOAA has solicited comment on whether, under OPA, trustee officials should be required to explain their rationale if they select a restoration, rehabilitation, replacement, and/or acquisition alternative that does not minimize total damages. 59 FR 1134. The Department solicits comment on whether a similar requirement should be added to the Department's regulations. A commenter suggested that socioeconomic effects of restoration, rehabilitation, replacement, and/or acquisition alternatives might be added to the list of factors that trustee officials are to consider in making their selection among alternatives. The Department's regulations provide that trustee officials may consider all relevant considerations when selecting a restoration, rehabilitation, replacement, and/or acquisition alternative. 43 CFR 11.82(d), as amended by 59 FR 14284&hyph;85. Therefore, trustee officials already have the ability to consider socioeconomic effects if relevant. 4. Services Versus Resources Several commenters expressed confusion over whether the Department intended restoration, rehabilitation, replacement, and/or acquisition of the equivalent to be measured in terms of the services provided by a resource, the resource itself, or both. Several commenters noted apparent inconsistencies in the regulations. Some commenters stated that restoration, rehabilitation, replacement, and/or acquisition of the equivalent should be strictly limited to the services provided by the resource. For example, some commenters believed that if an injured stream was used for fishing and nothing else, PRPs should only be liable for the cost of cleaning that stream to the point where fishing opportunities are returned to baseline. These commenters thought that requiring restoration, rehabilitation, replacement, and/or acquisition of the equivalent of both services and the resource itself would create economic inefficiencies and would constitute double counting. Other commenters indicated that measuring restoration, rehabilitation, replacement, and/or acquisition of the equivalent in terms of services only would fail to fully compensate the public. These commenters expressed concern that using services alone as a measurement could prevent trustee officials from attaining complete restoration, rehabilitation, replacement, and/or acquisition of the equivalent. The Department intends to carefully review the use of the terms ``resources'' and ``services'' in this biennial review. The Department solicits comment on whether restoration, rehabilitation, replacement, and/or acquisition should be measured in terms of services, resources, or both. The Department also solicits comment on the definition of ``services'' and whether it should be modified or additional concepts should be developed or defined to further clarify this issue. 5. Committed Use One commenter stated that the concept of committed use should not apply to restoration, rehabilitation, replacement, and/or acquisition of equivalent resources, in the sense that restoration of a resource or service to a level of environmental quality beyond that needed to support existing committed uses should not be required. ``Committed use'' is defined as a current or planned public use for which there is a documented commitment established. 43 CFR 11.14(h). Under the Department's regulations, the concept of committed use applies only to the calculation of compensable value and does not affect the appropriate level of restoration, rehabilitation, replacement, and/or acquisition of equivalent resources. See 43 CFR 11.84(b)(2). The committed use requirement was designed to prevent trustee officials from assessing compensable value for purely speculative uses of a resource. When measuring restoration, rehabilitation, replacement, and/or acquisition, the guiding concept is whether baseline conditions have been reestablished, irrespective of consideration of compensable values. Failure to account for potential services when measuring restoration, rehabilitation, replacement, and/or acquisition of equivalent resources could violate Ohio v. Interior, which stated: Our decision to uphold the ``committed use'' requirement is premised on our interpretation of the regulation to mean that a trustee is not prohibited from recovering costs of restoring or replacing a natural resource even when that resource has no documented ``committed use.'' 880 F.2d at 462.
