FR940921-0-00046 FR940921-0-00016 In addition to the requirements for natural gas refueling stations, EPA is also requiring in today's rule natural gas-fueled light-duty vehicles and light-duty trucks be equipped with refueling receptacles which comply with the recently adopted ANSI/AGA NGV1 standard. This requirement will be implemented consistent with the timing of the ORVR provisions for other vehicles (three year phase-in beginning with the 1998 model year for light-duty vehicles and the 2001 model year for light-duty trucks). The Agency expects, however, that all new natural gas- fueled vehicles will have ANSI/AGA NGV1 nozzles long before this due to the desire for standardized refueling coupling geometry within the industry. EPA does not believe that the cost of the refueling station controls is prohibitive and believes that today's requirement is both feasible and reasonable. Consistent with this view, most new stations being installed would meet this requirement. The Agency agrees that in certain cases, such as those where additional compression equipment is needed, the cost of retrofitting may not be reasonable. Thus, for in-use refueling stations which must be retrofitted to meet this requirement, the Agency will waive the requirement in situations where the station operator can demonstrate, to the satisfaction of the Administrator, that compliance with this provision would require the use of additional compression equipment, or other similar costs. The impact of such waivers should be minimal given the small number of stations currently operating, and the small percentage of those stations which would not currently meet these requirements. As was discussed earlier, the lack of exhaust THC standards in today's rule is a function of cost and legal constraints, and the Agency believes that control of methane is appropriate where it is feasible and economically reasonable. Thus, EPA does not believe that the desire to control refueling emissions from natural gas vehicles is inconsistent with the adoption of exhaust NMHC standards. 2. LPG Vehicle/Pump Interface Summary of the proposal: Since LPG is transferred in a sealed system there is little concern about refueling emissions at the vehicle/pump interface during the actual fuel transfer. Of concern to the Agency, however, are emissions released when the nozzle is disconnected from the vehicle. At this point any fuel which is trapped in the dead space between the nozzle and the vehicle receptacle is released. In the NPRM the Agency proposed that refueling equipment be designed so as to prevent this escape of fuel, such as through the use of low-loss, no-bleed couplings, although no specific numerical standards were included. As with the natural gas provisions in the NPRM, the timing of this requirement was not explicit in the NPRM preamble. However, the regulatory text stated that the provisions would take effect with the 1994 model year. Summary of the comments: The Agency received few comments on this particular aspect of the proposed refueling provisions. The comments that addressed this issue tended to agree with the need for control. However, the comments otherwise differed. One commenter suggested that any hardware requirement be performance-based, rather than prescriptive, so as to be consistent with EPA's previous consideration of refueling controls for gasoline vehicles. Also, the lack of a numerical standard was interpreted as being a zero-emission standard, which one commenter suggested is infeasible. Another commenter stated that just requiring new refueling nozzles at all current LPG fueling facilities would cost about $30 million, but provided no supporting documentation for that claim. EPA response to comments: The Agency believes that it is appropriate to minimize the amount of LPG fuel which is vented from the dead space between the refueling nozzle check valve and the vehicle refueling receptacle check valve but also agrees that a zero-emission standard is unreasonable. Both the nozzle and the vehicle receptacle geometries play an integral role in the size of this dead space. Thus, any performance specification for vehicle/pump interface refueling emissions would have to address the nozzle and receptacle as a single system. In the case of LPG, there is not a standardized geometry for refueling nozzles, at least in terms of the parameters which would affect this dead space. Thus, it is difficult for the Agency to define a performance specification such as that which has been considered for gasoline vehicles based upon an industry standard nozzle geometry. The Agency is aware that the LPG industry is developing nozzles which dramatically reduce the dead space, especially when used in conjunction with low-bleed inserts in the vehicle receptacle.
