FR940114-2-00167 FR940114-2-00102 3. Effluent flow monitoring is also required in the proposed permit. The purpose of this requirement is to assess the pollutant loading discharged into the receiving water. 4. The visual inspection provision in Part II.D.1. of the proposed permit is required to assure against discharges resulting from structural failure of berms, dikes, dams and other water control structures. A visual inspection is an effective tool for assuring proper operation and maintenance. 5. Monitoring provisions for turbidity, arsenic, settleable solids, and flow (in Parts II.D.1.c., d., e., and f., respectively) are included in the proposed permit. These provisions are included to explain how, when, and where to collect these samples. B. Reporting. 1. Reporting of effluent violations is required in writing within a reasonable time period. This is found in Permit Part IV.G.2.c. 2. Reporting of visual violations from suction dredges is required in writing within a reasonable time period. This is found in Permit Part II.D.2.b. 3. The results of all monitoring or notice of no discharge must be reported to EPA by November 30 of each year. This is found in Permit Part IV.B. V. Best Management Practices (BMPs) A. Mechanical and Hydraulic Removal of Overburden 1. BMP conditions in Permit Parts III.A.1. to III.A.5. of the proposed permit were developed pursuant to section 304(e) of the CWA. These BMPs are established in 40 CFR 440.148 and are necessary for control and treatment of the drainage and infiltration water at gold placer mines and to prevent solids and toxic metals from being released to the receiving streams. a. The intent of Permit Part III.A.1. is to avoid contamination of nonprocess water, reduce the volume of water requiring treatment and maximize the retention time and the settling capacity of the settling ponds. The diversion must totally circumvent any gold recovery units, treatment facilities, etc. Any mine drainage sources that pass through the actual mining area and are subject to transporting pollutants must be treated prior to discharge. b. Permit Part III.A.2. is required to assure that water retention devices are constructed appropriately. This may be achieved by utilizing on-site material in a manner that the fine sealing material (such as clays) are mixed in the berms with coarser materials. Berms should be toed into the underlying earth, constructed in layers or lifts and each layer thoroughly compacted to ensure mechanical and watertight integrity of the berms. Other impermeable material such as plastic sheets or membranes may be used inside the berms when sealing fines are unavailable or in short supply. The side slope of berms should not be greater than the natural angle of repose of the materials used in the berms or a slope of 2:1, whichever is flatter. c. The intent of Permit Part III.A.3 is to ensure that the investment in pollution control pay the maximum benefit in terms of reduced pollutant volumes reaching water of the United States. These measures may include location of the storage ponds and storage areas to assure that they will not be washed out by reasonably predictable flooding or by the return of a relocated stream to it original stream bed. Materials removed from settling ponds should be placed in bermed areas where liquids from the materials cannot flow overland to waters of the United States. It may be necessary, in some cases, to collect such liquids and pump or divert them back to the settling pond for treatment. This requirement applies both during the active mining season and at all other times until reclamation is completed. d. Permit Part III.A.4. is required to assure that the amount of wastewater that is discharged is kept to a minimum. e. The provisions of Permit Part III.A.5. will ensure that water control devices are adequately maintained. This specifies that structures should be inspected on a regular basis for any signs of structural weakness or incipient failure. Whenever such weakness or incipient failure becomes evident, repair or augmentation of the structure to reasonably ensure against catastrophic failure shall be made immediately. 2. BMP condition Permit Part III.A.6. of the proposed permit is required pursuant to 40 CFR 122.44(k)(3). The purpose of this requirement is to assure that all reasonable measures are taken to decrease the amount of pollutants being discharged to waters of the United States. 3. The same BMPs are required of operations utilizing hydraulic removal of overburden pursuant to 40 CFR 122.44(k)(3). The purpose of these requirements is to assure that reasonable measures are taken to decrease the amount of pollutants being discharged to waters of the United States.
