FR941110-0-00201 FR941110-0-00016 Comment: A provider organization recommended that issues that may be resolved at settlement include citation of a deficiency; severity and scope of the deficiency; the remedy imposed; exclusion of the deficiency as the basis for increased sanctions in the future; and exclusion of the deficiency or deficiencies cited on the HCFA Form-2567 as the basis for further enforcement action by any other agency or office of the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS). Response: We do not accept the suggestion to include in the regulation specific deficiency related issues that may be discussed at settlement. Providers have many opportunities to discuss and resolve the deficiency-related issues raised by the commenter before the settlement of the civil money penalty would occur. Providers have the opportunity to question survey findings during the survey, at the exit conference, while awaiting receipt of the official deficiency statement, upon receipt of same, and through ongoing dialogue with the State and HCFA regional offices. Also, all States must have a dispute resolution process as required by §488.331 of this rule to enable providers to discuss perceived discrepancies in the survey process. While the existence of a deficiency may arise at settlement discussions, it is unnecessary to mention it or any other of the above issues which are predicated on the existence of deficiencies and which may arise. Moreover, we have no authority, as the commenter suggests, to exclude a deficiency in the present but increase the enforcement action if it is repeated in the future. Section 488.450␣Continuation of Payments to a Facility With Deficiencies Virtually everyone who commented vehemently disagrees with this proposed section. Consumer groups oppose this section because, they believe, it forces HCFA or the State to terminate a facility's provider agreement rather than to impose alternative remedies. State organizations disagree with the provision that the State must agree to repay FFP for Medicaid facilities rather than the facility agreeing to repay (as stipulated for Medicare). Providers argue that the proposed rule is too strict, because repayment of Federal funding would begin the day that the State survey agency identifies deficiencies rather than when HCFA or the State imposes remedies when facilities do not correct deficiencies. Providers also believe that asking for an agreement to repay Federal funds for deficiencies at low scope and severity levels is harsh. Comment: Several commenters believed that proposed §488.232, as redesignated at §488.450, will force States to impose termination instead of alternative remedies for all instances of noncompliance in NFs. They based their belief on the provision that says that, when the State survey agency prefers an alternative remedy in lieu of termination, the State must agree to repay FFP. If the NF fails to correct the deficiencies during the correction period, the State would be liable. These commenters said, that because many States have no intention of entering into an agreement to repay FFP, the State must start termination. One commenter stated that if the provision remains as a prerequisite to the use of alternative remedies, reliance on termination procedures will continue. In the commenter's view, the end result will be more litigation, because providers will be placed in the unenviable position of having to respond to potential decertification for relatively minor infractions. Other commenters criticized HCFA's proposed rule because it denies the intent of OBRA to make available to States a range of remedies to be used as alternatives to termination for deficiencies of lesser severity and places NFs in the undesirable position of having to respond to decertification actions for relatively minor violations. Response: We are aware of the difficulties posed by the repayment provisions of sections 1819(h)(2)(C) and 1919(h)(3)(D) of the Act. As almost all commenters noted, these requirements constitute a significant disincentive to impose alternative remedies because the Act requires that either the facility (under Medicare) or the State (under Medicaid) repay the Federal government should the facility fail to correct identified deficiencies. We note, however, that sections 1819(h)(2)(C) and 1919(h)(3)(D) of the Act specify the rules that must apply to SNFs and NFs when the only course chosen to respond to the violation of certification requirements is through alternative remedies. We reach this conclusion because of the literal language of both of the provisions of the Act, which specifies that these remediation provisions apply when the State survey agency determines that it would be more appropriate to employ alternative means to assure compliance than to seek a provider agreement termination. Thus, the commenters are quite right that when an alternative remedy only is being sought, the repayment provisions of the Act for SNFs and NFs are inescapable.
