FR940616-2-00015 FR940616-2-00009 In this investigation, the respondents have urged the Department to make use of the alternative methodology provided in section 773(c)(2) of the Act. In particular, they have argued that the primary input into PRC pencils, lindenwood, cannot be valued elsewhere. Petitioner has also questioned the Department's ability to value certain inputs using publicly available published information (PAPI) from India, as Indian input statistics cover broader product categories. Petitioner does not request that the Department use the alternative methodology for FMV. Instead, it suggests that U.S. producers' costs be used to value these inputs. For purposes of the preliminary determination, we have relied on the methodology provided by section 773(c)(1) of the Act to determine FMV. The sources of individual factor prices are discussed under the FMV section, below. However, as a result of the comments made by petitioner and respondents on the relevance of factor prices in India, we will be seeking additional data on factor values and on export prices that could also be used under the alternative methodology provided in section 773(c)(2) of the Act for possible use in our final determination. Surrogate Country As discussed above, section 773(c)(4) of the Act requires the Department to value the NME producers' factors of production, to the extent possible, in one or more market economy countries that are at a level of economic development comparable to that of the nonmarket economy country, and that are significant producers of comparable merchandise. The Department has determined that India and Pakistan are the countries most comparable to the PRC in terms of overall economic development. ( See memorandum from the Office of Policy to the file, dated March 18, 1994.) In addition, there is evidence on the record that pencils are produced in India. Although India is the preferred surrogate country for purposes of valuing the factors of production used in producing the subject merchandise, we have resorted to Pakistan and Indonesia for certain surrogate values where Indian values were either unavailable or significantly outdated. We have obtained and relied upon PAPI wherever possible. Fair Value Comparisons To determine whether sales of pencils from the PRC to the United States by Guangdong and Shanghai Lansheng were made at less than fair value, we compared the United States price (USP) to the foreign market value (FMV), as specified in the ``United States Price'' and ``Foreign Market Value'' sections of this notice. Because all of SFTC's responses were not received in time for consideration in this preliminary determination and, therefore, we had only partial information for calculating FMV, we have based SFTC's margin on the best information available (BIA). ( See ``Best Information Available'' section of this notice.)
