FR940128-1-00028 FR940128-1-00006 Consistent with the regulations at part 113, the proposed definition of ``processor'' also includes persons engaged in the production of foods that are to be used in market or consumer tests. FDA has tentatively concluded that HACCP controls are needed for such products because the hazards associated with them are no different from those that can affect other commercial products. There are, however, certain handlers of seafood that are not included in the coverage of the proposed definition. Fishing vessels that essentially only harvest are not covered by the proposed HACCP regulations. As explained earlier, FDA has traditionally refrained from directly regulating fishing vessels. The agency anticipates that the regulations being proposed here would affect vessels indirectly through processor and importer controls over raw materials and imported shipments, e.g., preventive controls such as the purchasing of raw materials only from fishing vessels that engage in proper sanitation and time/temperature practices and that harvest only from approved areas. Transportation companies that carry, but do not otherwise process, fish and fishery products are also outside the scope of the proposed definition, although the agency expects that transporters will be affected indirectly in the same manner as fishing vessels (see also ยง110.93). FDA invites comment on this aspect of the coverage of the proposed regulations. Proper refrigeration during transport is important for the safety of scombroid species products and of cooked, ready-to-eat products. Time and temperature conditions during shipment can also affect decomposition related to other factors bearing on seafood quality. These proposed regulations will affect transportation companies indirectly through the preventive controls the processor or importer will need to impose to ensure that the raw materials or imported shipments that it receives are free of relevant hazards and have been appropriately handled. FDA invites public discussion on whether this approach is adequate, and, if not, whether HACCP requirements should be applied directly to transportation companies. This issue is complex, especially because it is not unusual for transporters to deliver a variety of food products, including seafood, to several consignees during a single shipment. The agency has also tentatively decided to exclude retail establishments from the definition of ``processor.'' As with fishing vessels, FDA has traditionally exercised enforcement discretion with regard to retail establishments. The number of retail establishments in this country_literally in the hundreds of thousands_would totally overwhelm any rational Federal inspection system. FDA has traditionally provided training and other forms of technical assistance to States and local governments to inspect retail food establishments through the agency's retail Federal/State cooperative program. A major part of that cooperative program involves the development of model codes, some of which have been widely adopted by State and local governments. FDA is now consolidating those model codes into a single, updated food code for the retail sector. Appropriate HACCP-based controls are included to address seafood hazards at retail. Consequently, FDA will continue to operate through the Federal/State cooperative mechanism and has not included a retail component in proposed part 123. FDA requests comments on this tentative approach. States are strongly encouraged, however, to consider how the principles in these regulations could be applied to seafood at retail and to shift to HACCP-type inspection systems as appropriate. Because of the high perishability of fresh seafood and the sometimes lengthy and complex distribution chain, these products can have relatively short shelf lives by the time they reach fresh fish counters and restaurants. In addition, seafood can be subject at retail both to cross-contamination because of poor handling practices and to species substitution. Improper handling of seafood and other problems at retail have been documented in recent years. NAS has concluded that a significant number of reported acute health problems were likely linked to handling and preparation practices in food service establishments (Ref. 7, p. 27). The February, 1992 edition of Consumer Reports magazine reported on a number of such problems with regard to seafood that were observed in retail establishments. A number of studies have found lack of adequate temperature controls in retail facilities (Ref. 48, p. 75). The agency is proposing to define ``shellfish control authority'' in ยง123.3(p) as the government entity responsible for implementing a comprehensive shellfish sanitation program. The shellfish control authority, among other things, is responsible for classifying shellfish growing waters, performing inspections of shellfish processors, and issuing certification numbers to shellfish processors. FDA relies on recognized governmental public health and food control agencies, both domestic and foreign, to carry out these functions. The agency is proposing to define ``shellstock'' in ยง123.3(q) as meaning raw, in-shell molluscan shellfish. This specific product form designation is needed because the applicability of the tagging, labeling, and recordkeeping requirements proposed in ยง123.28(b) and (c) is determined by whether the product is shellstock or shucked product, respectively.
