FR940216-2-00040 FR940216-2-00026 SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The following is a summary of the application. The complete application may be obtained for a fee at the SEC's Public Reference Branch. Applicants' Representations 1. The Investment Company is a Massachusetts business trust registered under the Act as an open-end management investment company. The Investment Company is a series company and consists of fourteen separate funds, each of which has separate investment objectives and policies (the ``Funds''). 1 FRIMCo is the administrator, State Street is the adviser, custodian, and transfer agent, and RFD is the distributor of the Investment Company. The Funds consist of both money market funds and funds with fluctuating net asset values, the shares of which are sold and redeemed daily at net asset value without a sales or redemption charge. 1 As used in the application, the term ``Fund'' includes funds created by future investment companies. 2. Applicants seek the requested relief on behalf of the Funds, and all future investment companies that are advised by State Street and that are in the same ``group of investment companies'' as defined in rule 11a&hyph;3 under the Act. A. Multi-Class System 1. Applicants propose to create a multi-class distribution system (the ``Multi-Class System''). The Investment Company would be permitted to offer an unlimited number of classes of additional classes of shares (``New Shares'') in connection with (a) the existing distribution plan adopted pursuant to section 12b&hyph;1 under the Act (the ``Distribution Plan''); (b) a services plan adopted pursuant to rule 12b&hyph;1 under the Act providing for certain shareholder services which may be in lieu of or in addition to, the Distribution Plan (the ``Services Plan''); and/or (c) a non-rule 12b&hyph;1 administrative plan (the ``Shareholder Administrative Plan''); or (d) with No Distribution Plan, Services Plan, or Shareholder Administrative Plan (collectively, the ``Plans''). The New Shares would be subject to the same investment objective, policies and limitations as the Investment Company's existing shares. Applicants also propose to assess a CDSL on certain redemptions of shares and to waive the CDSL under certain circumstances. 2. Regarding each class of New Shares, the Investment Company could enter into a Services Plan agreement and/or a Shareholder Administrative Plan agreement (the ``Plan Agreements'') with the distributor and/or groups, organizations or institutions such as banking organizations, broker-dealers, trade associations, membership organizations, investment advisers and managers, financial planners and pension plans (``Organizations'') concerning the provision of certain services to the clients, members, or customers of such Organizations who from time to time own New Shares which are offered in connection with a particular class (``Class Shareholders''). 3. The services provided pursuant to the Plans will augment or replace (and not be duplicative of) the services to be provided to the Funds by FRIMCo, RFD and State Street. Applicants propose to ``unbundle'' the services to be provided to the Funds to permit Organizations to select those services they wish to provide to their Class Shareholders under the Plan Agreements, with the precise services to be rendered to be tailored to their Class Shareholders' needs. 4. Regarding each class of New Shares, the applicable Fund would pay the distributor and/or an Organization for its services and assistance in accordance with the terms of its particular Plan Agreement (the ``Plan Payments'') and the expense of such payments would be borne entirely by the owners of the class of shares of the Fund to which each Plan Agreement relates. Plan Payments will not exceed the limits imposed under article III, section 26 of the Rules of Fair Practice of the National Association of Securities Dealers (``NASD'') for the class. To assure that the limit is not exceeded, each Plan Agreement would include a ``cap'' or other similar provision limiting the amount of Plan Payments payable under each Plan and across all Plans. 5. Expenses of the Investment Company that cannot be attributed directly to any one Fund will be allocated to each Fund based on the relative net assets of such Fund. Expenses that may be attributable to a Fund but not to a particular class will be allocated to a class based on the relative percentage of net assets of such class. Each class will bear certain expenses attributable specifically to such class, as set forth in condition 1 below (``Class Expenses'').
