FR941202-0-00039 FR941202-0-00002 The interim rule eliminates the requirement for a unique number or code, and thus allows institutions to truncate the account or card number disclosed on ATM receipts. With a truncated number, it becomes less feasible for a criminal to duplicate a card with an account number that matches the consumer's PIN. For the consumer's purposes, the printed number would continue to provide enough information for the consumer (and the financial institution) to identify the transaction. The Board believes that the change will not substantially diminish consumer protections. The purpose of the receipt requirement is to allow consumers to verify transactions. Under the amendment, the receipt will still provide sufficient information to allow the consumer to identify transfers: the date of the transfer; the amount of the transfer; the type of transfer and type of account; the location of the terminal; and identification of any third party to or from which funds are transferred. Using this information, a consumer could match each transaction on the periodic statement with the receipt received at the time the transaction took place. In addition, a consumer would have the necessary information to identify and resolve errors in documentation. Ordinarily the Board publishes proposed rules for a public comment period before their adoption. In the present case, the Board believes the situation represents a serious fraud problem for consumers and financial institutions, and that it is important to act expeditiously in amending the current rule. The Board believes also that the amendment being adopted will reduce fraud without compromising consumers' ability to identify their EFT transactions at ATMs. Delay in the adoption of this amendment would cause continued losses to consumers and financial institutions, which is contrary to the public interest. Furthermore, the amendment relieves the restriction that the account number be ``unique,'' and does not require institutions to take any action to implement the amended regulation. Modification of the identification number on the receipt is discretionary to the institution. Thus, the Board finds that good cause exists for the adoption of an interim rule without prior comment, pursuant to the Administrative Procedure Act (5 U.S.C. 553(b)(3)(B)). Accordingly, the Board is adopting an interim rule that takes effect immediately, and publishing that interim rule for public comment for a 60-day period, after which the Board will adopt a final rule that takes into account any comment that may be received. The amendment to Regulation E set forth below does not expressly refer to truncation of the account number. The Board notes, however, that it plans to codify the permissibility of truncation in the Official Staff Commentary to Regulation E, following the Board's final action on this interim rule. (This amendment of Regulation E supersedes a proposed change under the regulatory review project that was published for comment earlier this year (59 FR 10684, March 7, 1994).) III. Form of Comment Letters Comment letters should refer to Docket No. R&hyph;0859. The Board requests that, when possible, comments be prepared using a standard ``Courier'' typeface with a type size of 10 or 12 characters per inch. This will enable the Board to convert the text into machine-readable form through electronic scanning, and will facilitate automated retrieval of comments for review. Comments may also be submitted on computer diskettes, using either the 3.5 ’ ’ or 5.25 ’ ’ size, in any IBM-compatible DOS-based format. Comments on computer diskettes must be accompanied by a hard copy version. IV. Regulatory Flexibility Analysis and Paperwork Reduction Act The amendment to Regulation E will provide more flexibility to financial institutions in complying with the EFT Act requirements for identifying a transaction on receipts provided at electronic terminals. In accordance with section 3507 of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980 (44 U.S.C. 35; 5 CFR 1320.13), the revision will be reviewed by the Board under the authority delegated to the Board by the Office of Management and Budget after consideration of comment received during the public comment period. Nevertheless, given that the amendment provides for more flexibility in complying with the law, the Board believes there is a negligible impact on the paperwork burden for state member banks and institutions supervised by other agencies. List of Subjects in 12 CFR Part 205 Consumer protection, Electronic fund transfers, Federal Reserve System, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. For the reasons set forth in the preamble, the Board amends 12 CFR part 205 as set forth below: PART 205_ELECTRONIC FUND TRANSFERS (REGULATION E) 1. The authority citation for part 205 continues to read as follows: Authority: 12 U.S.C. 1693. 2. Section 205.9 is amended by revising paragraph (a)(4), to read as follows: §205.9 Documentation of transfers. (a) *␣*␣* (4) A number or code that identifies the consumer initiating the transfer, the consumer's account(s), or the access device used to initiate the transfer. * * * * * By order of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, November 28, 1994. William W. Wiles, Secretary of the Board. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;29625 Filed 12&hyph;1&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6210&hyph;01&hyph;P
