FR941005-2-00134 FR941005-2-00090 The Commission believes that allowing floor traders to provide customers with quote sizes greater than the minimum ``ten-up'' guarantee, while not being obligated with respect to broker-dealer orders, is consistent with the Act in that it will facilitate customer orders. The Commission also believes the rule change will encourage market participants to make larger markets, resulting in tighter spreads, which, in turn, should contribute to more liquid options markets. Furthermore, allowing floor traders to increase the quote sizes available to customer orders furthers the underlying purposes of the ``ten-up'' rule. The proposal also requires that order sizes be maintained equally for all orders of the same account type, as defined by OFPA B&hyph;6. Accordingly, if a specialist elects to give a size of twenty-up to one broker-dealer, he must honor the size of twenty-up for all broker-dealer orders. In the absence of a stated size to any bid or offer, the size shall be deemed to be for one contract only, subject to the minimum volume guarantees for public customers orders, as established in Rule 1033(a). The Commission believes this requirement will help to ensure the integrity and fairness of the Phlx's markets in that it will help prevent order discrimination within account types. The Commission finds good cause for approving Amendment No. 1 to the Exchange's proposal prior to the thirtieth day after the date of publication of notice of filing thereof in the Federal Register . Amendment No. 1 eliminates the term ``public customers'' from OFPA B&hyph;7, which was proposed in the original filing. Because existing Phlx OFPA B&hyph;6 already distinguishes between account types, of which ``public customers'' is one type, the Commission does not believe the proposal's elimination of the term raises any new or substantive issues. Moreover, the minimum volume guarantees afforded by Rule 1033(a) are only available to public customer orders and the elimination of the term from OFPA B&hyph;7 does not affect the ten-up guarantee. Amendment No. 1 also replaces a reference to the Phlx ``ten-up'' rule with a citation to OFPA A&hyph;11, which is the floor advice currently governing minimum volume guarantees. The Commission believes this change is non-substantive and does not affect the operation or implementation of either Rule 1033(a), OFPA A&hyph;11, or the filing. III. Solicitation of Comments Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views and arguments concerning Amendment No. 1. Persons making written submission should file six copies thereof with the Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549. Copies of the submission, all subsequent amendments, all written statements with respect to the proposed rule change that are filed with the Commission, and all written communications relating to the proposed rule change between the Commission and any person, other than those that may be withheld from the public in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552, will be available for inspection and copying at the Commission's Public Reference Section, 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. Copies of such filing will also be available for inspection and copying at the principal office of the above-mentioned self-regulatory organization. All submissions should refer to the file number in the caption above and should be submitted by October 26, 1994. It therefore is ordered, pursuant to Section 19(b)(2) of the Act, 6 that the proposed rule change (SR-Phlx&hyph;91&hyph;46) is approved, as amended. 6 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(2) (1982). For the Commission, by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. 2 2 17 CFR 200.30&hyph;3(a)(12) (1993). Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;24614 Filed 10&hyph;4&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
