FR940926-1-00015 FR940926-1-00006 (m) A manufacturer may, at his option, provide information concerning which tables in the document that accompanies the vehicle pursuant to ยง575.6(a) of this chapter apply to the vehicle. This information may not precede or interrupt the information required by paragraph (j) of this section. (n) In the case of passenger cars admitted to the United States under 49 CFR 591.5(f) to which the label required by this section has not been affixed by the original producer or assembler of the passenger car, a label meeting the requirements of this paragraph shall be affixed by the importer before the vehicle is imported into the United States, if the car is from a line listed in Appendix A of part 541 of this chapter. This label shall be in addition to, and not in place of, the label required by paragraphs (a) through (m), inclusive, of this section. (1) The label shall, unless riveted, be permanently affixed in such a manner that it cannot be removed without destroying or defacing it. (2) The label shall be affixed to either the hinge pillar, door-latch post, or the door edge that meets the door-latch post, next to the driver's seating position or, if none of these locations is practicable, to the left side of the instrument panel. If that location is also not practicable, the label shall be affixed to the inward-facing surface of the door next to the driver's seating position. The location of the label shall be such that it is easily readable without moving any part of the vehicle except an outer door. (3) The lettering on the label shall be of a color that contrasts with the background of the label. (4) The label shall contain the following statements, in the English language, lettered in block capitals and numerals not less than three thirty-seconds of an inch high, in the order shown: (i) Model year (if applicable) or year of manufacture and line of the vehicle as reported by the manufacturer that produced or assembled the vehicle. ``Model year'' is used as defined in ยง565.3(h) of this chapter. ``Line'' is used as defined in ยง541.4 of this chapter. (ii) Name of the importer: The full corporate or individual name of the importer of the vehicle shall be spelled out, except that such abbreviations as ``Co.'' or ``Inc.'' and their foreign equivalents and the middle initial of individuals, may be used. The name of the importer shall be preceded by the words ``Imported By.'' (iii) The statement: ``This vehicle conforms to the applicable Federal motor vehicle theft prevention standard in effect on the date of manufacture.'' (o) (1) In the case of a passenger car imported into the United States under 49 CFR 591.5(f) which does not have an identification number that complies with paragraph S4.2, S4.3, and S4.7 of 49 CFR 571.115 at the time of importation, the Registered Importer shall permanently affix a label to the vehicle in such a manner that, unless the label is riveted, it cannot be removed without being destroyed or defaced. The label shall be in addition to the label required by paragraph (a) of this section, and shall be affixed to the vehicle in a location specified in paragraph (f) of this section. (2) The label shall contain the following statement, in the English language, lettered in block capitals and numerals not less than three thirty-seconds of an inch high, with the location on the vehicle of the manufacturer's identification number provided in the blank: ORIGINAL MANUFACTURER'S IDENTIFICATION NUMBER SUBSTITUTING FOR U.S. VIN IS LOCATED XXXXXXXX . Issued on September 21, 1994. Barry Felrice, Associate Administrator for Rulemaking. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;23732 Filed 9&hyph;23&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;59&hyph;P
