FR940513-2-00240 FR940513-2-00096 All HOPE I applicants' applications will be screened. A cross-check will be made against the HOPE I Planning grants and HOPE I Implementation grants, to assure compliance with section 20(f)(4) of the 1937 Act, which states: ``The Secretary may not provide financial assistance under this subsection to any resident management corporation or resident council with respect to which assistance for the development or formation of such entity is provided under title III.'' HOPE I Planning and Implementation grantees were required to propose plans to establish a RC, RMC, or cooperative association where one did not exist for the proposed homeownership site, including the development or formation of that entity. In addition, HOPE I Full Planning and Implementation grant applicants were expected to include in their applications all eligible activities necessary to make their proposed homeownership program feasible (even if some of the proposed activities were to be carried out with non-HOPE I funds, such as resident management funds). Consequently, in reviewing Tenant Opportunities Program grant applications, the following rules apply: Rule 1. An applicant for TOP funds that has received a HOPE I Full Planning or Implementation grant (as a lead or joint applicant) may not also receive a TOP grant, unless the applicant proposed in its HOPE I application to use resident management funding to carry out those activities. Rule 2. An applicant for TOP funds that has received a HOPE I Mini Planning grant (as a lead or joint applicant) may not receive a TOP grant for any activity proposed for funding in the HOPE I grant. (6) All applicants will have an opportunity to correct technical deficiencies in this application submission as provided for in this NOFA. D. Funding As noted, $25 million is being made available on a competitive basis under this NOFA to resident grantees that submit timely applications and are selected for funding. Section 20 provides that not more than an aggregate of $100,000 may be approved with respect to any TOP project. Of the $25 million total current funds, $1 million will be awarded to National Resident Organizations (NROs), Statewide Resident Organizations (SROs), and Regional Resident Organizations (RROs) to provide technical assistance to public and Indian housing residents desiring either to establish an RC/RMC/RO where one does not exist or organize an inactive RC/RMC/RO. The awards will be competitive, using the Rating Factors in Section I.M of this NOFA, and applicants must meet eligibility requirements. With the remainder of the available funding, the Department will be providing two kinds of grants: (1) Basic Grants; and (2) Additional Grants. Basic Grants All resident grantees that are selected for funding (including additional funding grantees) will access the grant funds through a line of credit control system (LOCCS), based on the line items approved in the work plan/budget. To monitor and ensure the progress of the funded resident grantees this year, each resident grantee will be allowed to draw down up to 10% of the grant funds to begin implementing Tasks 1 and 2 of the workplan. If the resident grantee has reached the 10% limit and all activities set forth in Tasks 1 and 2 are not completed, the resident grantee will not be allowed to draw down any additional funds until all activities are completed. The local field office will monitor this progress through the semiannual progress reports that are required to be submitted by the resident grantees. Additional Grants RCs/RMCs/ROs selected for funding in FYs 1988&hyph;1993 (including a mini-grant for start-up activities) that received less than a total of $100,000 may apply for an Additional Grant not to exceed (including previous grants) the total statutory maximum of $100,000. A RC/RMC/RO considered for additional funding will be asked to demonstrate progress based on its Work Plan previously approved by HUD. All additional grantees will be evaluated to determine if Tasks 1 and 2 of the workplan have been completed. If the tasks are not completed, the grantee will follow the same procedures as the Basic Grantees and, upon completion of the tasks, proceed to complete all other tasks listed in the workplan. This year applicants will not be disqualified for funding if all of the activities identified in the work plan are not completed. However, applicants applying for additional grants will receive a higher score if the RC/RMC/RO can demonstrate the accomplishment of all of the following activities: (1) Developed an active community organization that includes democratically elected officers; (2) Issued by-laws governing the operation of the organization; (3) Developed an organizational structure that consists of one or more of the following: floor/block captains or residential community groups and program committees to carry out specific tasks; (4) Developed a basic financial management and accounting system that will provide effective control over and accountability for all grant funds, or acquired an accounting service to perform this function; (5) Identified community needs and interests for achieving resident management, and determined the level and degree of skills and community participation available to support program development; (6) Obtained a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) between the RC/RMC/RO and the HA that states the elements of their relationship and delineates what support the HA will provide to the resident organization (e.g., on-the-job training, technical assistance, equipment, space, etc.) and the activities to be conducted by the RC/RMC/RO; (7) Completed the first phase of the Board and Leadership Training provided by the consultant/trainer that is selected by the RC/RMC/RO; and (8) Has formal recognition from the HA as the duly elected RC/RMC/RO to represent residents in meetings with the HA or other entities. E. TOP Technical Assistance Grant (TOP TAG) Grant awards will be made through a TOP Technical Assistance Grant (TOP TAG), which defines the legal framework for the relationship between HUD and a resident grantee for the proposed activities approved for funding. The TAG will contain all applicable requirements, including administrative requirements such as progress reports, a final report, a final audit, and accessing the Line of Credit Control System (LOCCS) to draw down funds. All necessary materials regarding the TAG will be furnished at a later date to applicants that are selected to receive funding. F. Definitions The following definitions apply to applicants: National Resident Organization (NRO). An incorporated nonprofit organization or association for public or Indian housing that meets each of the following requirements: (1) It is national (i.e., conducts activities or provides services in at least two HUD Areas or two States); and (2) It has experience in providing start-up and capacity-building training to residents and resident organizations.
