FR940127-2-00005 FR940127-2-00004 DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE International Trade Administration [A&hyph;570&hyph;830] Initiation of Antidumping Duty Investigation: Coumarin From the People's Republic of China AGENCY: Import Administration, International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce. EFFECTIVE DATE: January 27, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: David J. Goldberger or Michelle Frederick, Office of Antidumping Investigations, Import Administration, International Trade Administration, U.S. Department of Commerce, 14th Street and Constitution Avenue NW., Washington, DC, 20230; telephone (202) 482&hyph;4136 or 482&hyph;0186, respectively. INITIATION OF INVESTIGATION: The Petition On December 30, 1993, we received a petition filed in proper form by Rhone-Poulenc Specialty Chemicals Co. (petitioner). Petitioner submitted amendments to the petition on January 13 and 14, 1994. In accordance with 19 CFR 353.12, petitioner alleges that imports of coumarin from the People's Republic of China (PRC) are being, or are likely to be, sold in the United States at less than fair value within the meaning of section 731 of the Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (the Act), and that such imports are materially injuring, or threatening material injury to, a U.S. industry. Petitioner stated that it has standing to file the petition because it is an interested party, as defined under section 771(9)(C) of the Act, and the petition is filed on behalf of the U.S. industry producing the product subject to this investigation. If any interested party, as described under paragraphs (C), (D), (E), or (F) of section 771(9) of the Act, wishes to register support for, or opposition to, this petition, it should file a written notification with the Assistant Secretary for Import Administration. Scope of Investigation The product covered by this investigation is coumarin. Coumarin is an aroma chemical with the chemical formula C 9 H 6 O 2 that is also known by other names, including 2H-1-benzopyran-2-one, 1,2-benzopyrone, cis-o-coumaric acid lactone, coumarinic anhydride, 2&hyph;Oxo-1,2-benzopyran, 5,6-benzo-alpha-pyrone, ortho-hydroxyc innamic acid lactone, cis-ortho-coumaric acid anhydride, and tonka bean camphor. All forms and variations of coumarin are included within the scope of the petition, such as coumarin in crystal, flake, or powder form, and ``crude'' or unrefined coumarin (i.e. prior to purification or crystallization). Excluded from the scope are ethylcoumarins (C 11 H 10 O 2 ) and methylcoumarins (C 10 H 8 O 2 ). Coumarin is classifiable under subheading 2932.21.0000 of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (HTSUS). Although the HTSUS subheading is provided for convenience and customs purposes, our written description of the scope of this investigation is dispositive. United States Price and Foreign Market Value Petitioner based United States price (USP) on average unit prices derived from U.S. Census import statistics, and on price lists from U.S. importers of coumarin. Petitioner contends that the foreign market value (FMV) of PRC-produced imports subject to this investigation must be determined in accordance with section 773(c) of the Act, which concerns non-market economy (NME) countries. The PRC is presumed to be an NME within the meaning of section 771(18)(C) of the Act, and the Department has treated it as such in previous investigations (see, e.g., Final Determination of Sales at Less Than Fair Value: Certain Compact Ductile Iron Waterworks Fittings and Accessories Thereof from the PRC, 58 FR 37908 (July 14, 1993)). In the course of this investigation, parties will have the opportunity to address this NME presumption and provide relevant information and argument on this issue. In addition, parties will have the opportunity in this investigation to submit comments on whether FMV should be based on prices or costs in the NME (see Amendment to Final Determination of Sales at Less Than Fair Value and Amendment to Antidumping Duty Order: Chrome-Plated Lug Nuts from the People's Republic of China, 57 FR 15052 (April 24, 1992)). Because of the extent of central control in an NME, the Department further considers that a single antidumping margin, should there be one, is appropriate for all exporters from the NME. Only if individual NME exporters are free of central government ownership and can demonstrate an absence of central governmental control with respect to the pricing of exports, both in law and in fact, will they be considered eligible for separate, owner-specific deposit rates. (See Final Determination of Sales at Less Than Fair Value: Helical Spring Lock Washers from the People's Republic of China, September 20, 1993, (58 FR 48833) for a discussion of the information the Department considers appropriate to warrant calculation of separate rates.) In accordance with section 773(c) of the Act, FMV in NME cases is based on NME producers' factors of production (valued in a market economy country). Absent evidence that the PRC government determines which factories shall produce for export to the United States, we intend, for purposes of this investigation, to base FMV only on those factories in the PRC which are known to produce coumarin for export to the United States. Petitioner calculated FMV on the basis of the valuation of the factors of production. The factors of production used by petitioner were based on petitioner's experience at its manufacturing facility, which it states is comparable to the PRC production process. In valuing the factors of production, petitioner used India as the surrogate country. For purposes of this initiation, we have, pursuant to section 773(c)(4) of the Act, accepted India as an appropriate surrogate country because its economy is comparable to the PRC's.
