FR940525-2-00210 FR940525-2-00119 This program is subject to the requirements of Executive Order 12372 (Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs) and the regulations in 34 CFR part 79. The objective of the Executive order is to foster an intergovernmental partnership and to strengthen federalism by relying on State and local processes for State and local government coordination and review of proposed Federal financial assistance. Applicants must contact the appropriate State Single Point of Contact to find out about, and to comply with, the State's process under Executive Order 12372. Applicants proposing to perform activities in more than one State should immediately contact the Single Point of Contact for each of those States and follow the procedure established in each State under the Executive order. If you want to know the name and address of any State Single Point of Contact, see the list published in the Federal Register on September 24, 1993 (58 FR 50162&hyph;50164). In States that have not established a process or chosen a program for review, State, areawide, regional, and local entities may submit comments directly to the Department. Any State Process Recommendation and other comments submitted by a State Single Point of Contact and any comments from State, areawide, regional, and local entities must be mailed or hand-delivered by the date indicated in this notice to the following address: The Secretary, E.O. 12372_CFDA # 84.199J, U.S. Department of Education, room 4181, 400 Maryland Avenue SW., Washington, DC 20202&hyph;0125. Proof of mailing will be determined on the same basis as applications (see 34 CFR 75.102). Recommendations or comments may be hand-delivered until 4:30 p.m. (Washington, DC time) on the date indicated in this notice. Please note that the above address is not the same address as the one to which the applicant submits its completed application. Do not send applications to the above address. Instructions for Transmittal of Applications (a) If an applicant wants to apply for a grant, the applicant shall_ (1) Mail the original and six copies of the application on or before the deadline date to: U.S. Department of Education, Application Control Center, Attention: (CFDA # 84.199J), Washington, DC 20202&hyph;4725 or (2) Hand deliver the original and six copies of the application by 4:30 p.m. (Washington, DC time) on the deadline date to: U.S. Department of Education, Application Control Center, Attention: (CFDA # 84.199J), room # 3633, Regional Office Building # 3, 7th and D Streets SW., Washington, DC 20202&hyph;4725. (b) An applicant must show one of the following as proof of mailing: (1) A legibly dated U.S. Postal Service postmark. (2) A legible mail receipt with the date of mailing stamped by the U.S. Postal Service. (3) A dated shipping label, invoice, or receipt from a commercial carrier. (4) Any other proof of mailing acceptable to the Secretary. (c) If an application is mailed through the U.S. Postal Service, the Secretary does not accept either of the following as proof of mailing: (1) A private metered postmark. (2) A mail receipt that is not dated by the U.S. Postal Service. Notes: (1) The U.S. Postal Service does not uniformly provide a dated postmark. Before relying on this method, an applicant should check with its local post office. (2) The Application Control Center will mail a Grant Application Receipt Acknowledgement to each applicant. If an applicant fails to receive the notification of application receipt within 15 days from the date of mailing the application, the applicant should call the U.S. Department of Education Application Control Center at (202) 708&hyph;9494. (3) The applicant must indicate on the envelope and_if not provided by the Department_in Item 10 of the Application for Federal Assistance (Standard Form 424) the CFDA number_and suffix letter, if any_of the competition under which the application is being submitted. Application Instructions and Forms To apply for an award under this program competition, your application must be organized in the following order and include the following five parts: Part I: Application for Federal Assistance (Standard Form 424 (Rev. 4&hyph;88)). Part II: Budget Information. Part III: Budget Narrative. Part IV: Program Narrative. Part V: Additional Assurances and Certifications: a. Assurances_Non-Construction Programs (Standard Form 424B). b. Certification regarding Lobbying; Debarment, Suspension, and Other Responsibility Matters; and Drug-Free Workplace Requirements (ED 80&hyph;0013) and Instructions. c. Certification regarding Debarment, Suspension, Ineligibility and Voluntary Exclusion: Lower Tier Covered Transactions (ED 80&hyph;0014, 9/90) and Instructions. (NOTE: ED 80&hyph;0014 is intended for the use of grantees and should not be transmitted to the Department.) d. Disclosure of Lobbying Activities (Standard Form LLL) (if applicable) and Instructions, and Disclosure of Lobbying Activities Continuation Sheet (Standard Form LLL&hyph;A). All forms and instructions are included as Appendix A of this notice. Questions and answers pertaining to this program are included, as Appendix B, to assist potential applicants. An applicant may submit information on a photostatic copy of the forms in Appendix A. However, each of the pertinent documents must include an original ink signature. All applicants must submit ONE original signed application, including ink signatures on all forms and assurances and SIX copies of the application. Please mark each application as original or copy. Local or State agencies may choose to submit two copies with the original. No grant may be awarded unless a complete application form has been received.
