FR940628-1-00058 FR940628-1-00011 DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR Bureau of Reclamation 43 CFR Part 426 [RIN Number 1006&hyph;AA33] Acreage Limitation Rules and Regulations AGENCY: Bureau of Reclamation, Interior. ACTION: Notice of proposed rulemaking. SUMMARY: The Reclamation Reform Act of 1982 (RRA), as amended, requires landholders (landowners and lessees) to meet certain requirements in order to be eligible to receive irrigation water from Bureau of Reclamation (Reclamation) projects. The purposes of the proposed rule are to improve compliance with the form submittal requirements of the RRA and the Acreage Limitation Rules and Regulations (43 CFR Part 426), help ensure that irrigation water is delivered only to eligible landholders, and recoup administrative costs Reclamation incurs in conjunction with noncompliance with these requirements. The proposed rule revises the existing rules by adding a section that will impose fees on districts when statutory and regulatory requirements concerning the submittal of forms are not met. DATES: Comments must be submitted on or before August 29, 1994. ADDRESSES: Written comments must be submitted to J. William McDonald, Assistant Commissioner_Resources Management, Bureau of Reclamation, Attention: D&hyph;5640, P.O. Box 25007, Denver, CO 80225. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Gary Anderson, Chief, Reclamation Law Administration Branch, Bureau of Reclamation, Attention: D&hyph;5640, P.O. Box 25007, Denver, CO 80225, Telephone: (303) 236&hyph;1061, extension 221. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The RRA limits the amount of owned land on which a landholder can receive irrigation water and places a limit on the amount of leased land that can receive such water at a subsidized water rate. In order to ensure compliance with the ownership limitations and the limitations on subsidies, certain statutory and regulatory requirements must be met. One of these requirements applies to all landholders whose landholdings in districts subject to the acreage limitation provisions total more than 40 acres. These landholders must complete RRA certification or reporting forms prior to receipt of irrigation water. The forms must be completed annually and submitted to each district in which the landholder receives irrigation water. Landholders must disclose on the forms all the land they own and lease directly or indirectly in Reclamation projects that are subject to the acreage limitation provisions. The forms must be resubmitted whenever a landholding change occurs. If a landholding does not change, a verification statement to that effect must be submitted each year. While the RRA and 43 CFR Part 426 set limits on the receipt of irrigation water and establish requirements that must be met in order to receive such water, the current rules do not address situations in which water has been delivered to landholders who failed to meet all the requirements. These situations were not addressed because the RRA does not contemplate such deliveries. Districts, rather than Reclamation, generally control the deliveries of irrigation water to landholders. Pursuant to their contracts with the United States, the districts are legally obligated not to deliver irrigation water to landholders who do not meet the eligibility requirements in the RRA. With respect to the form requirements discussed previously, 43 CFR 426.10(k) specifically states that failure by landholders to submit the required certification or reporting form(s) will result in loss of eligibility to receive irrigation water. However, during its water district reviews, Reclamation has found that in some instances, districts have delivered irrigation water to landholders who had failed to meet the form requirements and other requirements of the law and rules. In 1988, Reclamation adopted a compensation policy whereby full-cost charges were assessed for irrigation water that had been delivered to ineligible landholders. This policy is based on the legal theory that when irrigation water is delivered to ineligible recipients, it is an unlawful conversion of the Government's property interest in the water, and the Government is therefore entitled to be compensated for the conversion. Since Reclamation cannot recover the water that was delivered to the ineligible recipients, it has been Reclamation's position that it is entitled to recover the value of its property interest in that water and that the full-cost water rate prescribed in the RRA is an appropriate measure of the water's value.
