FR941017-1-00009 FR941017-1-00001 H. Siting Away From Densely Populated Centers. Population density considerations beyond the exclusion area have been required since issuance of part 100 in 1962. The current rule requires a ``low population zone'' (LPZ) beyond the immediate exclusion area. The LPZ boundary must be of such a size that an individual located at its outer boundary must not receive a dose in excess of the values given in part 100 over the course of the accident. While numerical values of population or population density are not specified for this region, the regulation also requires that the nearest boundary of a densely populated center of about 25,000 or more persons be located no closer than one and one-third times the LPZ outer boundary. Part 100 has no population criteria other than the size of the LPZ and the proximity of the nearest population center, but notes that ``where very large cities are involved, a greater distance may be necessary.'' Whereas the exclusion area size is based upon limitation of individual risk, population density requirements serve to set societal risk limitations and reflect consideration of accidents beyond the design basis, or severe accidents. Such accidents were clearly a consideration in the original issuance of part 100, since the Statement of Considerations (27 FR 3509; April 12, 1962) noted that: Further, since accidents of greater potential hazard than those commonly postulated as representing an upper limit are conceivable, although highly improbable, it was considered desirable to provide for protection against excessive exposure doses to people in large centers, where effective protective measures might not be feasible *␣*␣*. Hence, the population center distance was added as a site requirement. Limitation of population density beyond the exclusion area has the following benefits: (a) It facilitates emergency preparedness and planning; and (b) It reduces potential doses to large numbers of people and reduces property damage in the event of severe accidents. Although the Commission's Safety Goal policy provides guidance on individual risk limitations, in the form of the Quantitative Health Objectives (QHO), it provides no guidance with regard to societal risk limitations and therefore cannot be used to ascertain whether a particular population density would meet the Safety Goal. However, results of severe accident risk studies, particularly those obtained from NUREG&hyph;1150, can provide useful insights for considering potential criteria for population density. Severe accidents having the highest consequences are those where core-melt together with early bypass of or containment failure occurs. Such an event would likely lead to a ``large release'' (without defining this precisely). Based upon NUREG&hyph;1150, the probability of a core-melt accident together with early containment failure or bypass for some current generation LWRs is estimated to be between 10 ^5 and 10 ^6 per reactor year. For future plants, this value is expected to be less than 10 ^6 per reactor year. If a reactor was located nearer to a large city than current NRC practice permitted, the likelihood of exposing a large number of people to significant releases of radioactive material would be about the same as the probability of a core-melt and early containment failure, that is, less than 10 ^6 per reactor year for future reactor designs. It is worth noting that events having the very low likelihood of about 10 ^6 per reactor year or lower have been regarded in past licensing actions to be ``incredible'', and as such, have not been required to be incorporated into the design basis of the plant. Hence, based solely upon accident likelihood, it might be argued that siting a reactor nearer to a large city than current NRC practice would pose no undue risk. If, however, a reactor were sited away from large cities, the likelihood of the city being affected would be reduced because of two factors. First, because the wind is expected to blow in all directions with roughly the same frequency, the likelihood that radioactive material would actually be carried towards the city is reduced significantly because it is likely that the wind will blow in a direction away from the city. Second, the radiological dose consequences would also be reduced with distance because the radioactive material becomes increasingly diluted by the atmosphere and the inventory becomes depleted due to the natural processes of fallout and rainout before reaching the city. Analyses indicate that if a reactor were located at distances ranging from 10 to about 20 miles away from a city, depending upon its size, the likelihood of exposure of large numbers of people within the city would be reduced by factors of ten to one hundred or more compared with locating a reactor very close to a city. In summary, next-generation reactors are expected to have risk characteristics sufficiently low that the safety of the public is reasonably assured by the reactor and plant design and operation itself, resulting in a very low likelihood of occurrence of a severe accident. Such a plant can satisfy the QHOs of the Safety Goal with a very small exclusion area distance (as low as 0.1 miles). The consequences of design basis accidents, analyzed using revised source terms and with a realistic evaluation of engineered safety features, are likely to be found acceptable at distances of 0.25 miles or less. With regard to population density beyond the exclusion area, siting a reactor closer to a densely populated city than is current NRC practice would pose a very low risk to the populace. Nevertheless, the Commission considers that defense-in-depth considerations and the additional enhancement in safety to be gained by siting reactors away from densely populated centers should be maintained. The Commission is proposing a two-tier approach with regard to population density and reactor sites. The proposed rule states that reactor sites should be located away from very densely populated centers, and that areas of low population density are, generally, preferred. The Commission believes that a site not falling within these two categories, although not preferred, could be found acceptable under certain conditions. The Commission is not establishing specific numerical criteria for evaluation of population density in siting future reactor facilities because the acceptability of a specific site from the standpoint of population density must be considered in the overall context of safety and environmental considerations. The Commission's intent is to assure that a site that has significant safety, environmental or economic advantages is not rejected solely because it has a higher population density than other available sites. Population density is but one factor that must be balanced against the other advantages and disadvantages of a particular site in determining the site's acceptability. Thus, it must be recognized that sites with higher population density, so long as they are located away from very densely populated centers, can be approved by the Commission if they present advantages in terms of other considerations applicable to the evaluation of proposed sites. On April 28, 1977, Free Environment, Inc. et al., filed a petition for rulemaking (PRM&hyph;50&hyph;20) requesting, among other things, that ``the central Iowa nuclear project and other reactors be sited at least 40 miles from major population centers.'' The petitioner also stated that ``locating reactors in sparsely-populated areas *␣*␣* has been endorsed in non-binding NRC guidelines for reactor siting.'' The petitioner did not specify what constituted a major population center. The only NRC guidelines concerning population density in regard to reactor siting are in Regulatory Guide 4.7, issued in 1974, and revised in 1975, prior to the date of the petition. This guide states population density values of 500 persons per square mile out to a distance of 30 miles from the reactor, not 40 miles.
