FR940830-2-00120 FR940830-2-00057 First, the same card that provides access to ATMs also usually provides access to POS devices, and virtually every ATM network, including the networks operated by EPS and Money Station, also operates a POS network. As Money Station reads the proposed Final Judgment, EPS is free in the future to place restrictions on members of its MAC network (which operates both a POS and ATM network) with respect to their right to be members in other POS networks or even, possibly, on their right to use third-party processors for their POS outlets. Such POS-related restrictions, if imposed, would add to the entry barriers in regional ATM access already created by the ``collective action'' problem. The proposed Final Judgment should be clarified so that access to the MAC ATM network or to the MAC POS network is not denied, impeded, or discriminated against through pricing or other means if a financial institution elects to join a competing POS network. 1 1 Money Station believes that EPS enjoys a position of dominance with respect to access to regional POS networks that is comparable to the dominant position EPS has maintained in markets for regional ATM network access. Second, the proposed Final Judgment uses the phrase ``shall not restrict in any manner'' or similar phrases several times. For example, Section IV(H) mandates that ``Defendant shall in no manner restrict any depository institution ATM deployer from enabling ATMs to function in multiple ATM networks.'' There is no definition of the verb ``restrict'' in the proposed Final Judgment. The proposed Final Judgment clearly does prohibit directly exclusionary contracts and discriminatory pricing related to ATM network membership. However, it is not clear that the proposed Final Judgment deals effectively with various other disincentives that EPS may establish that would further discourage banks from incurring the already significant costs and risks of joining multiple networks. Although the proposed Final Judgment does prohibit penalties imposed on or direct legal obstructions to a bank's joining a competitive network, it is not clear that a reward for not joining to competitive network is a restriction under the proposed Final Judgment. Given EPS's history of practices to preserve its monopoly in the regional ATM access, it seems prudent to clarify that the phrase ``shall not restrict'' bars any practice that creates disincentives for a bank to belong to multiple networks. Third, Section IV(G)(2) of the proposed Final Judgment appears on its face to give EPS the discretion, with respect to transactions between depository institutions that are members of an EPS network and switched by a third-party processor, to impose a royalty fee equal to the price of transactions switched ( i.e., processed) by EPS itself. Because the third-party processor must charge some fee to cover its costs in this situation, the combination of a license fee equal to EPS's fee (referred to in this provision as ``loyalties that shall not be greater than the price for switched transactions'') plus the third-party processor's fee will necessarily exceed EPS's direct fee. Therefore, this provision appears to give EPS a means to continue to hamper severely third-party processors seeking to dissipate EPS's monopoly power. This may well negate the effectiveness of the proposed Final Judgment's intent to open up competition in the ATM processing services and, indirectly, in regional ATM access. In Money Station's view, Section IV(G)(2) should either be revised or clarified. Fourth, Money Station believes that skeptical scrutiny should be given to the provision in Section IV(H) that permits EPS to ``restrict the branding of access cards that contain an integrated circuit computer chip with a stored value function.'' This language is an exemption for what are known as ``smart cards'' from the requirement in Section IV(H) that EPS cannot bar ATM card issuers that choose to be affiliated with multiple ATM networks from issuing cards that display multiple ATM network logos or from displaying multiple ATM network logos on their ATMs. Money Station believes that this exemption could well have a powerful anti-competitive effect on the development and competitiveness of ATM networks other than EPS. This effect would occur if EPS took the position that the exemption language applied to access cards that contain both a normal ``mag stripe'' feature_as do most ATM cards_as well as a ``smart card'' feature. If so, and if EPS inserted a ``smart card'' feature on an appreciable number of cards with a traditional ``mag stripe'' feature, 2 the multi-branding purpose of Section IV(H)_which seeks to sustain the competitiveness of other ATM networks_would be undermined. In addition, Money Station is concerned that as a result of this exemption, EPS will require that ATM or POS machines that are part of EPS's network may not accept ATM or POS cards with a ``smart card'' feature other than that utilized or approved by EPS. In this event, the pro-competitive purpose of preventing EPS from barring co-branding of ATM machines would also be undermined. To the best of Money Station's knowledge, EPS is not a developer of ``smart card'' technology, but simply a customer of developers of that technology. Money Station thus believes that the theory cited in support of the exemption_``that *␣*␣* restrictive branding of electronic stored value cards will encourage innovation and competition'' in connection with such cards 3 _has no applicability to EPS. 2 Money Station believes that this is highly likely because EPS is likely to want its access cards to work at ATM machines that lack an EPS trademark, but contain the PLUS or CIRRUS trademarks and that are configured only to accept cards with a ``mag stripe.'' 3 59 Fed. Reg. 24721, n. 10. ␣␣␣Respectfully submitted, A. Edward Gough, President.
