FR941003-1-00070 FR941003-1-00006 (C) Owners of affected properties. Individuals or organizations that own property that may be affected by an undertaking may request to participate. Qualifying property is not limited to historic property, but may include any real property affected directly or indirectly by the undertaking. (D) Other individuals and organizations that have notified the Agency Official of their concern about the effects of the undertaking on historic properties. (5) Indian tribes and Native Hawaiian organizations. (i) Section 101(d)(6)(B) of the Act requires the Agency Official to consult with any Indian tribe or Native Hawaiian organization that attaches religious and cultural significance to historic properties that may be affected by an undertaking. To meet this responsibility, the Agency Official, at the outset of the Section 106 process, shall identify Indian tribes and Native Hawaiian organizations likely to have such interests and notify them of their opportunity to participate in the Section 106 process. The Agency Official shall provide for Indian tribe and Native Hawaiian participation in accordance with guidance issued by the National Park Service and the following principles: (A) Consultation shall be designed to identify the Indian tribe's or Native Hawaiian organization's general concerns and interests regarding historic properties, and to seek their assistance in identifying historic properties and assessing effects on such properties. The Agency Official shall commence consultation through the Indian tribe's or Native Hawaiian organization's governing body and also include traditional cultural authorities and members of traditional communities where appropriate. (B) To the extent feasible, consultation shall be initiated prior to any other public involvement procedures, in order to identify and resolve possible concerns about the confidentiality of information on historic properties. If the Indian tribe or the Native Hawaiian organization requests confidentiality, the Agency Official shall use the authority of Section 304 of the Act to protect the confidentiality of information about historic properties. (C) Consultation shall be carried out in a manner that respects the cultural values, modes of communication, and systems of interaction used by the Indian tribe or Native Hawaiian organization. The Agency Official shall be sensitive both in choosing a culturally appropriate manner of communication and in timing a request for views from Indian tribes and Native Hawaiian organizations. The Agency Official shall initiate efforts to obtain such views early enough in the planning process, if necessary prior to other public involvement, to allow adequate time for responses and discussion of relevant preservation and traditional cultural issues. (D) Consultation shall include an Indian tribe that does not reside in the vicinity of the undertaking when the Indian tribe has an interest in historic properties affected by the undertaking and has notified the Agency Official of that interest. (ii) When an Indian tribe has assumed the functions of a State Historic Preservation Officer in the Section 106 process with respect to tribal lands under Section 101(d)(2)(C) of the Act, the Agency Official shall consult with the Indian tribe in accordance with the plan prepared by the tribe pursuant to that section. The Agency Official need not consult with the State Historic Preservation Officer except:
