FR940819-2-00143 FR940819-2-00083 We will be discussing the attached certification procedures and guidance with your offices at opportunities over the next several weeks. In conjunction with FHWA's Advance Planning Seminar which is scheduled for the week of April 10, we expect to have FHWA and FTA field staff participating in this seminar assist us in refining the attached certification procedures and guidance. Additionally, we will meet with field staff during May to discuss the certification process in more detail after additional guidance has been developed. As indicated in the attached paper, once this meeting has been held and the guidance refined, Headquarters staff will participate with field staff in conducting a pilot certification review in each region. Certification reviews should not be initiated by field staff pending the issuance of the additional guidance and/or completion of the pilot certification reviews. If you have questions on certification, please contact Deborah Burns, Office of Planning, TGM&hyph;21, at (202) 366&hyph;1637 or Sheldon Edner, Office of Environment and Planning, HEP&hyph;21, at (202) 366&hyph;4066. Gordon J. Linton, Administrator, Federal Transit Administration. Rodney E. Slater, Administrator, Federal Highway Administration. Guidance Certification of the Metropolitan Planning Process in TMAs Principles/Process •Must be a joint action by FHWA and FTA. •Must be based on a serious examination of the planning process that documents the adequacy of the planning process. However, the workload involved in reviewing the planning process for approximately 135 MPOs once every 3 years combined with other oversight and administrative responsibilities demands a process that utilizes and builds on the other oversight functions including TIP findings, Unified Planning Work Program approvals and conformity findings. •The certification process must recognize the differences among areas and not expect each area to respond to the requirements to some predefined minimum level/standard. The goal should be to encourage an improved planning process in each area rather than a process that only minimally meets the requirements. •Process must recognize that certification is likely to involve negotiated improvements and schedules rather than pass or fail ratings. In this vein, the ISTEA sanction provisions are viewed as a ``last resort'' action to be used in situations where the parties involved are unresponsive to needed corrections or there are very serious inadequacies in the planning process. In almost all cases, it is likely that the ``planning finding'' process discussed below would probably have identified deficiencies and may have already affected the advancement of projects. •While certification is the formal mechanism provided by ISTEA for determining the adequacy of the planning process in TMAs, a ``once-every-three-years-look'' at the planning process is not sufficient to ensure that the planning process, its products, and our actions related to the planning process meet the requirements. Fortunately, the regulations provide additional mechanisms for assuring the adequacy of the planning process, i.e., the planning finding that must be made on each TIP/TIP amendment in all metropolitan planning areas prior to its inclusion in an approved STIP, the air quality conformity determination process in nonattainment and maintenance areas, and the review and approval of the planning work programs for all metropolitan areas. The planning finding provides a mechanism for identifying problems and requiring immediate corrective action without going through the more formal certification process. In addition, the planning finding process can provide an early warning mechanism for initiating a certification review prior to end of the normal 3 year certification period as well as in highlighting parts of the planning process that need to be examined in more depth as part of regularly scheduled certification reviews (and conversely identifying those parts that are clearly meeting the regulatory requirements and therefore require less review in the certification process). Although pre-ISTEA planning findings may have relied primarily on the State and MPO self-certification statements, this is not expected to be the case under the regulations. It is expected that FHWA/FTA as part of the planning findings process will review the adequacy of public involvement, financial constraint, relationship of projects in TIP to the transportation plan, and satisfaction of the provisions relating to the restriction on SOV projects in TMAs that are nonattainment for carbon monoxide and/or ozone. The conformity regulations require consultation with a number of agencies (including FHWA and FTA) on key elements of the metropolitan planning process, including models to be used, proposed plans and TIPs, research and data collection related to the transportation planning process. The concerns that may be raised through this consultation process will provide another mechanism for identifying potential shortcomings in the planning process. Additionally, as part of the conformity determination in nonattainment areas requiring TCMs, FHWA and FTA must specifically consider comments concerning the financial feasibility of the plan and TIP made through the conformity consultation process and the metropolitan planning public involvement process.
