FR940314-2-00035 FR940314-2-00015 Members (Within the Meaning of Section 325.2(l) of the Regulations) The member companies of ASIA are listed in Attachment A to this Certificate, which is incorporated by reference. Terms and Conditions of Certificate (a) Except as expressly authorized in paragraph 4(f), in engaging in Export Trade Activities and Methods of Operation, neither ASIA nor any Member shall intentionally disclose, directly or indirectly, to any other Member or Supplier any information that is about its or any other Member's or Supplier's costs, production, capacity, inventories, domestic prices, domestic sales, terms of domestic marketing or sale, or U.S. business plans, strategies, or methods, unless (1) such information is already generally available to the trade or public; or (2) the information disclosed is a necessary term or condition (e.g., price, time required to fill an order, etc.) of an actual or potential bona fide sale and the disclosure is limited to the prospective purchaser. (b) Any agreements, discussions, or exchanges of information under this Certificate relating to quantities of Products available for Export Markets, product specifications or standards, export prices, product quality or other terms and conditions of export sales (other than export financing, servicing and repair arrangements) shall be in connection only with actual or potential bona fide export transactions and shall be on a transaction-by-transaction basis only and shall include only those Members participating or having a genuine interest in participating in such transactions; provided that ASIA and/or its Members may discuss standardization of Products and Services for purposes of making bona fide recommendations to foreign governmental or private standard-setting organizations. (c) Participation by a Member in any Export Trade Activity or Method of Operation under this Certificate shall be entirely voluntary as to that Member, subject to the honoring of contractual commitments for sales of Products or Services in specific export transactions. A Member may withdraw from coverage under this Certificate at any time by giving written notice to ASIA, a copy of which ASIA shall promptly transmit to the Secretary of Commerce and the Attorney General. (d) ASIA and its Members will comply with requests made by the Secretary of Commerce on behalf of the Secretary or the Attorney General for information or documents relevant to conduct under the Certificate. The Secretary of Commerce will request such information or documents when either the Attorney General or the Secretary believes that the information or documents are required to determine that the Export Trade, Export Trade Activities or Methods of Operation of a person protected by this Certificate of Review continue to comply with the standards of Section 303(a) of the Act. Protection Provided by Certificate This Certificate protects ASIA, its Members and their directors, officers, and employees acting on their behalf from private treble damage actions and government criminal and civil suits under U.S. federal and state antitrust laws for the export conduct specified in the Certificate and carried out during its effective period in compliance with its terms and conditions. Effective Period of Certificate This Certificate continues in effect from the effective date (March 1, l994) until it is relinquished, modified, or revoked as provided in the Act and the Regulations. Other Conduct Nothing in this Certificate prohibits ASIA and its Members from engaging in conduct not specified in this Certificate, but such conduct is subject to the normal application of the antitrust laws. Disclaimer
