FR940506-1-00036 FR940506-1-00012 Fee Assessments Processors would be responsible for collecting all fee assessments and for paying them bimonthly (i.e., every 2 months). Section 313 of the Magnuson Act stipulates that fees shall be assessed against all fishing vessels and U.S. fish processors participating in Research Plan fisheries under the jurisdiction of the Council, including those not required to have observers. Fee assessments would not apply to fish, except halibut, caught in the territorial sea (0&hyph;3 miles), or to any fish caught in internal waters of the State. Recordkeeping and reporting requirement changes that would require processors to indicate if fish are caught in Federal or State waters will be developed prior to implementation of the fee collection system. Catcher vessels would be expected to pay half of the fee liabilities on their retained catches to the processor(s) responsible for making the bimonthly fee assessment payments to NMFS. NMFS would calculate bimonthly fee assessments by multiplying the fee percentage times the standard exvessel price times the round weight or round-weight equivalent of all retained catches, by species, in Research Plan fisheries. For example, if the fee percentage for Research Plan fisheries were 1.00 percent, and the standard exvessel price of pollock were $0.09/lb ($0.20/kg), a retained catch of 500,000 lbs (227,727 kg) of pollock would result in a fee assessment due from the processor of: 0.0100×$0.09/lb.×500,000 lbs=$450.00. Retained catch is defined as the catch retained by either at-sea or shoreside processors. The round weight of fish delivered to shoreside processors would be determined from scale weights. Standard product recovery rates would be used to derive round-weight equivalents when other than whole fish is delivered to shoreside processors. Standard product recovery rates also would be used to calculate round-weight equivalents of groundfish and halibut harvested by or delivered to at-sea processors. For crab at-sea processors, scale weights of sample catches would be used to calculate weight of retained catch. NMFS is developing a regulatory amendment to establish standard product recovery rates that would be used throughout the industry to calculate round-weight equivalents of retained catch. Assuming Secretarial approval, NMFS anticipates that standard product recovery rates will be effective by 1995. If a more reliable system for determining total weights is implemented in the future, these regulations would be amended accordingly. Public comment is specifically encouraged on this aspect of the proposed Research Plan. NMFS would obtain values for the weight of retained catch to be used in calculating fee assessments through existing data reporting systems. Groundfish data would be obtained from Weekly Production Reports or from ADF&G fish tickets for those vessel operators who are not required to submit Weekly Production Reports under Federal regulations but who sell catch directly to consumers. Crab data would be obtained from ADF&G Weekly Processor Reports, fish tickets, or other required reports. Halibut data would be obtained from the IPHC or from Individual Fishing Quota (IFQ) reports, when available. NMFS would bill processors bimonthly for their fee assessments. The bimonthly periods would be determined on the basis of weekly reporting periods. NMFS is preparing a rule to revise the definition of a weekly reporting period. Assuming its approval, the 1995 bimonthly periods would be January 1 through February 25; February 26 through April 29; April 30 through July 1; July 2 through September 2; September 3 through October 28; and October 29 through December 31. The Director, Alaska Region, NMFS, (Regional Director) would need to receive payments within 30 days of the date the bill is issued. Interest and administrative charges would be charged for late payments. Payments would be deposited in the Fund within the U.S. Treasury. A processor would be required to notify the Regional Director, in writing, within 30 days of issuance of the bill, if any billed amount is disputed. The processor would be responsible for paying the undisputed amount of the bill within 30 days of its issuance, and for providing documentation supporting the disputed amount claimed to be under- or over-billed. Within 60 days of the date of issuance of the disputed bill, the Regional Director would review the disputed bill and the documentation provided by the processor, and would notify the processor of his determination. If the Regional Director determines a billing error has occurred, the processor's account would be rectified by credit or subsequent billing. If the Regional Director determines a billing error has not occurred, the balance of the disputed bill would be due within 15 days of issuance of the determination. Interest and administrative charges would be assessed for payments that are not received within 15 days. Processor permits would not be issued until all fee assessments are paid. (See Permit and Recordkeeping Requirements in this preamble).
