FR940728-0-00052 FR940728-0-00019 I. Authority These regulations are issued under the authority of Sections 2002 and 3001 et seq. of the Solid Waste Disposal Act, as amended by the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, as amended by the Hazardous and Solid Waste Amendments of 1984, 42 U.S.C. 6912 and 6921 et seq. II. Background A. Statutory Definition of Solid Waste The statutory definition of solid waste, RCRA Section 1004 (27), is the starting point for determining RCRA Subtitle C jurisdiction. This is because the term ``hazardous waste'' is a subset of ``solid waste.'' RCRA Sections 1004 (5) and 1004 (27). The statutory definition of solid waste indicates that ``garbage, refuse, sludge *␣*␣* and other discarded material'' are solid wastes. The critical issue is when secondary materials (see definition at 50 FR at 616 n. 4, Jan. 4, 1985) that are going to be recycled can be solid wastes. Today's rulemaking addresses this question for certain operations commonly occurring in the petroleum refining and related industries. The reader should note that EPA is conducting an assessment of the RCRA Definition of Solid Waste, as described in the EPA report, RCRA Implementation Study Update . 1 This ongoing effort may result in proposed regulatory changes to the definition set forth in 40 CFR 261.2 and related requirements. Today's action, however, is fairly narrow, applying to situations where certain oil-bearing secondary materials are used or reused within the petroleum refining process. EPA will continue its broad policy review of the Definition of Solid Waste, but deemed unnecessary any delay in issuing today's rule. 1 RCRA Implementation Study Update: The Definition of Solid Waste, U.S. EPA, July 1992, # EPA530&hyph;R&hyph;92&hyph;021. B. Prior Litigation In its decision in American Mining Congress v. EPA, 824 F. 2d 1177 (D.C. Cir. 1987) ( AMC I ), a divided panel of the District of Columbia Circuit held that the Agency's rules defining the statutory term ``solid waste,'' RCRA Section 1004 (27), exceeded the Agency's statutory authority to the extent that the rules asserted RCRA authority over ``materials that are recycled and reused in an ongoing manufacturing or industrial process.'' Id. at 1186 (emphasis original). Because ``these materials have not yet become part of the waste disposal problem'', id., they are not yet ``discarded'' within the meaning of Section 1004 (27) and so cannot be considered to be ``solid wastes.'' Subsequent judicial decisions confirm that the holding in AMC I is limited to situations involving ``materials that are `destined for immediate reuse in another phase of the industry's ongoing production process' and that `have not yet become part of the waste disposal problem.''' American Mining Congress v. EPA, 907 F. 2d 1179, 1186 (D.C. Cir. 1990 ( AMC II ) (emphasis original); American Petroleum Inst. v. EPA, 906 F. 2d 729, 740&hyph;41 (D.C. Cir. 1990) ( API ); Shell Oil v. EPA, 950 F. 2d 741, 755&hyph;56 (D.C. Cir. 1991); Chemical Waste Management v. EPA, 976 F. 2d 2, 14 (D.C. Cir. 1992), cert. denied 113 S.Ct. 1961 (1993). C. January 8, 1988 Proposal On January 8, 1988, EPA proposed rules to implement the AMC I opinion. Of particular significance to today's action, EPA proposed certain amendments relating to the scope of the regulatory definition of solid waste as applied to operations occurring within the petroleum refining industry. In particular, the Agency proposed to exclude from the regulatory definition of solid waste secondary materials associated with ``on-going fuel production activities in the petroleum refining industry. These activities involve situations where crude oil is refined, and oil-bearing residues from that refining process are returned for further refining as part of one continuous and on-going process.'' 53 FR at 525 (Jan. 8, 1988). The Agency specifically proposed to exclude oil-bearing residues from the refining process when those residues are generated on-site and inserted into that on-site petroleum refining process or coker, provided that these residues are not managed in such a way as to be ``characterized by elements of discard'' such as placement in a disposal unit like a surface impoundment. Id . EPA is not taking any action today with respect to the portions of the January 8, 1988 proposal dealing with non-petroleum materials. These issues are being addressed by other on-going Agency activities (see above, Section II.A.). The Agency is, as described below, taking final action with respect to the petroleum materials. D. Description of Petroleum Exploration, Development & Production, and the Petroleum Refining Process The presence of petroleum in geologic formations is confirmed by the drilling of exploratory wells. Once located, the development of a petroleum reservoir includes the drilling of additional wells to extract the oil or gas, and well completion and stimulation techniques designed to increase the recovery of oil or gas from that reservoir. Petroleum production generally includes all the activities associated with the recovery of petroleum from the geologic formation. These production activities involve the operation and maintenance of the producing well, and the handling and separation of the recovered crude oil, natural gas, natural gas liquids, and water. The separation of water/crude oil emulsions is performed in tanks by gravity settling, or heat may be added to separate emulsions. Crude oil is then transported via pipeline, vehicle or vessel to stock tanks and ultimately to the refinery. Petroleum refining involves several manufacturing operations and processes, including crude desalting, atmospheric and vacuum distillation, hydrotreating, catalytic cracking, thermal processing and residual upgrading, light hydrocarbon processing, hydrocracking, catalytic reforming, extraction, isomerization, lubricating oil processing, sulfur removal and recovery, and product blending and inventory. Products manufactured from petroleum refining include hydrogen, fuel gas, sulfur, liquified petroleum gas, butane, aromatic feedstocks, leaded and unleaded motor gasolines, jet fuel, kerosene, diesel, heating oil, fuel oil, and asphalt. See generally, 55 FR at 46359 (Nov. 2, 1990); and EPA's Development Document for the effluent guidelines for the petroleum refining industry. 2 2 Section III of Development Document for Effluent Limitations Guidelines, New Source Performance Standards and Pretreatment Standards for the Petroleum Refining Point Source Category, U.S. EPA, October 1982, National Technical Information Service # PB838&hyph;172569. E. Petroleum Refining Wastewater Treatment Petroleum refining operations generate large amounts of wastewater that require treatment in order to reduce or remove wastewater pollutants so as to produce effluent that meets discharge requirements of the Clean Water Act. Principal sources of wastewater are refinery process units (where wastewater comes in direct contact with oil), as well as oily cooling waters from cooling towers and heat exchangers. Storm water, which may be subject to minor oil contamination from leaks or spills, is also a type of wastewater at a petroleum refinery. 3 3 Id ., and see Manual on Disposal of Refinery Wastes: Volume on Liquid Wastes, American Petroleum Institute, 1969, pp. 3&hyph;4 to 3&hyph;5. Wastewater treatment systems at petroleum refineries generally consist of: (1) a drainage and collection system to collect and carry wastewaters to treatment units; (2) a primary treatment system to separate oil/water/solids, and (3) a secondary treatment system, normally involving biological treatment, to remove soluble biodegradable wastewater pollutants. Some refineries have tertiary treatment systems as well, consisting of water polishing steps before discharge. Secondary and tertiary treatment is frequently conducted using surface impoundments. Primary treatment, i.e. the initial separation of water, oil, and solids, normally occurs in tanks.
