FR940512-1-00077 FR940512-1-00010 §366.42 When does a Director issue a final written decision? (a) If the center submits a corrective action plan in accordance with §366.40(b), the Director shall provide to the center, not later than the 120th day after the center receives the Director's initial written notice, a final written decision approving or disapproving the center's corrective action plan and informing the center, if appropriate, of the termination of the center's funds or any other proposed significant adverse action against the center. (b) The Director shall send the final written decision to the center by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, or other means that provide a record that the center received the Director's final written decision. (c) A Director's final written decision to terminate funds or take any other adverse action against a center may not take effect until 30 days after the date that the center receives it. (d) If a center appeals pursuant to §366.44(a), the Director's final written decision to terminate funds or take any other adverse action against a center does not take effect until the Secretary issues a final decision. (Authority: 29 U.S.C. 711(c) and 796f&hyph;2 (g) and (i)) §366.43 What must be included in the Director's final written decision? The Director's final written decision to disapprove a center's corrective action plan required by §366.42 must_ (a) Address any response from the center to the Director's initial written notice to terminate funds or take other significant adverse action against the center; (b) Include a statement of the reasons why the Director could not approve the corrective action plan; and (c) Inform the center of its right to appeal to the Secretary the Director's final written decision to terminate funds or take any other significant adverse action against the center. (Authority: 29 U.S.C. 711(c) and 796f&hyph;2 (g) and (i)) §366.44 How does a center appeal a decision included in a Director's initial written notice or a Director's final written decision? (a) To obtain the Secretary's review of a Director's final written decision to disapprove a center's corrective action plan submitted pursuant to §366.40(b), the center shall file, within 30 days from receipt of the Director's final written decision, a formal written appeal with the Secretary giving the reasons why the center believes that the Director should have approved the center's corrective action plan. ( Cross-reference: See §366.42) (b) To obtain the Secretary's review of a decision described in a Director's initial written notice, a center that does not submit a corrective action plan to a Director shall file, in accordance with paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section, a formal written appeal with the Secretary giving the reasons why the center believes that the Director should have found the center in compliance with the standards and assurances in section 725 (b) and (c) of the Act and subparts F and G of this part. (c) To appeal to the Secretary a decision described in a Director's initial written notice or a Director's final written decision to disapprove a center's corrective action plan and to terminate or take other significant adverse action, a center shall file with the Secretary_ (1) A formal written appeal_ (i) On or after the 90th day but not later than the 120th day following a center's receipt of a Director's initial written notice; or (ii) On or before the 30th day after a center's receipt of the Director's final written decision to disapprove a center's corrective action plan and to terminate or take other significant adverse action;
