FR940228-2-00090 FR940228-2-00057 The Exchange believes that the proposal will permit the effective enforcement of the Exchange's position limit rules while taking into account compliance and monitoring realities. The CBOE states that situations involving numerous violations and/or substantial overages will continue to be referred to the CBOE's Business Conduct Committee (``BCC'') for appropriate sanctions on a case by case basis. The Commission finds that the proposed rule change is consistent with the requirements of the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder applicable to a national securities exchange, and, in particular, with the requirements of section 6(b)(5) in that it is designed to prevent fraudulent and manipulative acts and practices, to promote just and equitable principles of trade, and, in general, to protect investors and the public interest. In addition, the Commission believes that the proposal is consistent with the section 6(b)(6) requirement that the rules of an exchange provide that its members, and persons associated with its members, be appropriately disciplined for violation of the rules of the exchange. Specifically, the Commission believes that the proposal, in this limited context, should provide the CBOE with a prompt and effective means to enforce compliance with position limits while taking into account the difficulties of CBOE members in detecting and correcting position limit infractions by non-member customers. The Commission believes that the CBOE's proposal strikes a reasonable balance between the Exchange's need to enforce its position limit rules and its desire to take into consideration the difficulties of CBOE members in detecting position limit violations that occur in non-member customer accounts. Further, the Commission believes that the revised fine schedule will prove sufficient to deter position limit violations. In this regard, by tallying the infractions in all of a member's non-member customer accounts cumulatively for purposes of the fine schedule, the proposal will require members to continually monitor compliance for position limit violations in non-member customer accounts. In addition, the Commission notes that the CBOE plans to refer cases involving numerous violations and/or substantial overages to the Exchange's BCC, thus providing the Exchange with the flexibility to impose a stricter sanction for more egregious infractions. The Commission finds that the CBOE's rephrasing of the current language of new subparagraph (b) is consistent with the Act in that it clarifies Exchange Rule 17.50(b), thereby facilitating the enforcement of the rule. It is therefore ordered, pursuant to Section 19(b)(2) of the Act, 4 that the proposed rule change (File No. SR&hyph;CBOE&hyph;93&hyph;48) is approved. 4 15 U.S.C. 72s(b)(2) (1988). For the Commission, by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. 5 5 17 CFR 200.30&hyph;3(a)(12) (1993). Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;4425 Filed 2&hyph;25&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
