FR940913-2-00091 FR940913-2-00066 Privacy Act of 1974; Revisions to System of Records AGENCY: Nuclear Regulatory Commission. ACTION: Proposed revision of an existing system of records. SUMMARY: In accordance with the Privacy Act of 1974, as amended, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) is publishing for public comment revisions to an existing system of records, NRC&hyph;32, Licensee and Applicant Taxpayer Identification Number Records_NRC. The proposed revisions add six new routine uses which will enhance the NRC's ability to collect certain license fee debts owed to the U.S. Government. Corresponding changes to other portions of the system notice are also being made as a result of the additional routine use disclosures. DATES: The revised system of records will become effective without further notice on October 24, 1994 unless comments received on or before that date cause a contrary decision. If, based on NRC's review of comments received, changes are made, NRC will publish a new final notice. ADDRESSES: Send comments to the Secretary of the Commission, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555, Attention: Docketing and Service Branch. Copies of comments may be examined at the NRC Public Document Room at 2120 L Street, NW., Lower Level, Washington, DC. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Jona L. Souder, Privacy Act Program Manager, Freedom of Information/Local Public Document Room Branch, Division of Freedom of Information and Publications Services, Office of Administration, Washington, DC 20555, Telephone: 301&hyph;415&hyph;7170. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Nuclear Regulatory Commission proposes to amend its system of records entitled ``NRC&hyph;32, Licensee and Applicant Taxpayer Identification Number Records_NRC,'' to establish six new routine uses which will enhance the NRC's ability to collect certain license fee debts owed to the U.S. Government. Existing routine use b. is redesignated h. New routine use b. permits the disclosure of information in the system to the Defense Manpower Data Center of the Department of Defense, the United States Postal Service, and other Federal, State, or local agencies for computer matching to identify individuals who are (1) delinquent in their repayment of debts owed to NRC and (2) receiving Federal salary or benefit payments. NRC will use the information obtained as a result of the matching to collect the debts under the provisions of the Debt Collection Act of 1982 (Pub. L. 97&hyph;365) by voluntary repayment, by administrative or salary offset, or by referral to collection agencies. New routine use c. permits the disclosure of information in the system to the General Accounting Office, Department of Justice, U.S. Attorney, or other Federal agencies for further collection action on delinquent accounts. New routine use d. permits disclosures to commercial credit reporting agencies to obtain or add to a credit history file for use in the administration of debt collection. New routine use e. permits disclosures to any Federal agency where an NRC debtor is employed or receiving remuneration to enable that agency to collect a debt owed to the NRC. New routine use f. permits disclosure to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) for computer matching under 26 U.S.C. 6103(m)(2) to obtain the mailing address of a taxpayer to collect or to compromise a claim by NRC against a taxpayer under 31 U.S.C. 3711, 3717, and 3718. New routine use g. permits the disclosure of information from the system to the IRS to collect a debt by offset against the debtor's tax refunds under the Federal Tax Refund Offset Program. Other revisions to the system of records notice are also being made. These include changes to (1) clarify the categories of individuals covered, (2) add paper records to the categories of records, (3) update the authority for maintaining the system, and (4) expand the record source categories. Accordingly, NRC proposes to amend ``NRC&hyph;32, Licensee and Applicant Taxpayer Identification Number Records_NRC,'' in its entirety to read as follows: NRC&hyph;32 System Name: Licensee and Applicant Taxpayer Identification Number Records_NRC. System Location: License Fee and Debt Collection Branch, Office of the Controller, NRC, 11545 Rockville Pike, Rockville, Maryland. Categories of Individuals Covered by the System: NRC licensees and individuals or corporations who have filed applications for an NRC license.
