FR940128-1-00031 FR940128-1-00006 In addition, seafood trade associations, university Sea Grant extension offices, and others have already developed work sheets and other aids to facilitate HACCP planning for seafood. Industry members are encouraged to contact their trade associations and state universities or Sea Grant extension offices on such matters. 3. Effective Date Even with these forms of assistance, however, FDA recognizes that HACCP plans cannot be written and implemented overnight. As has already been discussed, the HACCP system of controls can involve new ways of thinking and performing on a routine basis. Consequently, FDA is proposing that these regulations will become effective 1 year after issuance of the final rule in this proceeding. The agency has tentatively concluded that this period of time is sufficient to permit the development and implementation of HACCP plans by the industry. FDA specifically invites comment on whether 1 year will be adequate. The agency's objective is to provide enough time to permit processors and importers to understand HACCP, analyze the relevant hazards, and develop an appropriate HACCP plan, but also to avoid unnecessary delay. After the proposed effective date, inspection of HACCP plans will occur as part of routine, mandatory plant inspections and import examinations. FDA is not proposing to require that HACCP plans be submitted to FDA in advance, or that preapproval by FDA be a condition of their adoption or implementation. FDA is not requiring preapproval for two reasons. First, HACCP plans can only properly be judged in the context of the facility itself. Thus, while FDA investigators will consider the adequacy of the plan during their inspections, preapproval does not seem warranted. Second, the agency simply does not have the resources to make preapproval a requirement. Given the protections that are built into the HACCP approach, FDA tentatively finds that preapproval is not necessary to ensure that fish and fishery products are not produced under conditions whereby they may be adulterated under section 402(a)(4) of the act. 4. Location and Product Type FDA is proposing in ยง123.6(a) to require that every processor and importer have and implement an HACCP plan that is specific both to each location where that processor engages in processing and to each kind of fish and fishery product being processed. A plan should be specific to each location because the likely hazards, critical control points, critical limits, and monitoring procedures can vary from one facility to the next depending on such factors as type of equipment, conditions and procedures, and location. A plan also should be specific to each type of fish and fishery product for the same kinds of reasons. Hazards can vary depending on species, location of catch, and other factors. FDA does not intend, however, to require a processor or importer to write a separate plan, or separate part of a plan, for each fish and fishery product it handles if the likely hazards, critical control points, critical limits, and monitoring procedures are identical for each of them. For example, the preventive controls necessary to ensure safety for most deep water species of finfish from the north Atlantic may be virtually identical. The agency has tentatively concluded that, in such cases, a processor or importer may group the fish or fish products together in an HACCP plan. 5. Safety Hazards Only FDA is proposing to require at ยง123.6(b)(1) that HACCP plans identify the human food safety hazards that must be controlled for each fish and fishery product being processed by a processor or importer. There exists a range of opinion on whether HACCP should apply solely to safety hazards, as this provision proposes to require, or whether HACCP should apply to other types of hazards, such as decomposition not normally associated with illness in humans. One school of thought holds that HACCP should apply to safety hazards only in order to keep it focused and to not overwhelm operators with an unnecessarily large number of critical control points that have no bearing on the primary concern of safety. Another view holds that, for seafood at least, HACCP-type controls can be applied to various consumer risks without generating an excessive number of critical control points. The Codex Committee on Food Hygiene came to the latter conclusion (Ref. 46), as did NOAA as a result of its experiences during the MSSP (Ref. 35, p. 70). Partly for that reason, the FDA/NOAA HACCP pilot programs involved HACCP controls for safety and HACCP-type controls for other hazards as well. For purposes of these proposed regulations, however, FDA's application of HACCP is intended for the efficient enforcement of section 402(a)(1) and 402(a)(4) of the act, which applies to products that contain substances that may render the product injurious to health and to processing conditions that are insanitary and that could render a product injurious to health. Consequently, FDA is proposing to require that HACCP plans include identification of hazards that could affect human food safety only. To facilitate the production of such plans, FDA has listed in proposed ยง123.6(b)(1) the types of hazards that have been associated with seafood (see section II.C. of this document for a discussion of these hazards). All of these hazards are identified and discussed in the NAS report on seafood safety (Ref. 7).
