FR940317-1-00151 FR940317-1-00013 (i) Before apparently abandoned claims are forwarded to USARCS, a certified letter should be sent to the claimant requesting his/her intentions within a specified period, usually 30 days. If no reply is received within a reasonable time, usually 30 days, the files may be closed and forwarded to USARCS, except as follows: (ii) Tort claims under subparts D, E and F. Additionally, a paragraph of the letter should state that failure to respond will result in the presumption that the claim is abandoned. Further, it should be stated that if the claimant is dissatisfied with the action taken, the claimant may file suit in an appropriate United States District Court no later than six months from the date of mailing of the letter, or the claimant's remedy will be forever barred. (iii) In tort claims under subpart C, the last paragraph should advise the claimant that failure to respond will result in the presumption that the claim is abandoned, and that if the claimant is dissatisfied with the action taken, the claimant has a right to appeal the action for a review and final decision. Further, it should be stated that the claimant only has 60 days to submit such an appeal. (iv) Only after each of the above actions has been completed, may a tort claim be considered to be abandoned, and be forwarded to USARCS for retirement. If correspondence to a claimant is returned as undelivered, and the claimant is an active duty service member, a current military address can usually be obtained from the Commander, U.S. Army Enlisted Records and Evaluation Center, Army Worldwide Locator Service, ATTN: PCRE-RF, Fort Benjamin Harrison, IN 46249&hyph;5301. ยง536.235 Retrieval of claims files. (a) Field claims offices will occasionally have need of a file that has been sent to USARCS for centralized recovery or retirement (for example, action on a ``late'' reconsideration request). When requesting the return of a file from USARCS (either in writing or telephonically), the requesting office must provide_ (1) The claim number. (2) The claimant's name. (3) The date the file was forwarded to USARCS. (4) The name of the TGBL carrier (if the claim was a household goods or hold baggage shipment claim). (5) Whether the file was forwarded for retirement or centralized recovery.
