FR940503-1-00021 FR940503-1-00006 (iii) Used for the collection, storage, use, processing, or final disposal of_ (A) Wastewater, which property is necessary for such preliminary, primary, or secondary treatment; or (B) Sewage sludge removed during such preliminary, primary, or secondary treatment; and (iv) Functionally related and subordinate to property described in this paragraph (b)(1). (2) Other applicable definitions _(i) Advanced or tertiary treatment generally means the treatment of wastewater after secondary treatment. Advanced or tertiary treatment ranges from biological treatment extensions to physical-chemical separation techniques such as denitrification, ammonia stripping, carbon adsorption, and chemical precipitation. (ii) Nonconventional pollutants are any pollutants that are not listed in 40 CFR 401.15, 401.16, part 423, app. A. (iii) Preliminary treatment generally means treatment that removes large extraneous matter from incoming wastewater and renders the incoming wastewater more amenable to subsequent treatment and handling. (iv) Pretreatmen t means processes that equalize flow and loadings, or that precondition wastewater to neutralize or remove toxic, priority, nonconventional pollutants, and other wastes that could adversely affect sewers or inhibit preliminary, primary, or secondary treatment operations. (v) Primary treatment means treatment that removes material that floats or will settle, usually by screens or settling tanks. (vi) Priority pollutants are those pollutants listed in 40 CFR part 423, app. A. (vii) Secondary treatment means the stage in sewage treatment in which a bacterial process (or an equivalent process) consumes the organic parts of wastes, usually by trickling filters or an activated sludge process. (viii) Sewage sludge means sludge as defined in 40 CFR 122.2. (ix) Toxic pollutants are those pollutants listed in 40 CFR 401.15. (c) Other property not included in the definition of a sewage facility. Property other than property described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section is not a sewage facility. Thus, for example, property is not a sewage facility, or functionally related and subordinate property, if the property is used for pretreatment, advanced treatment, or tertiary treatment of wastewater (whether or not this treatment is necessary to perform preliminary, primary, or secondary treatment), or the related collection, storage, use, processing, or final disposal of the wastewater. In addition, property used to treat, process, or use wastewater subsequent to the time the wastewater can be discharged into navigable waters is not a sewage facility. (d) Allocation of costs. In the case of property that has both a use described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section (a sewage treatment function) and a use other than sewage treatment, only the portion of the cost of the property allocable to the sewage treatment function is taken into account as an expenditure to provide sewage facilities. The portion of the cost of property allocable to the sewage treatment function is determined by allocating the cost of that property between the property's sewage treatment function and any other uses by any method which, based on all the facts and circumstances, reasonably reflects a separation of costs for each use of the property. (e) Effective date. This section applies to issues of bonds issued 60 days after publication of the final regulations in the Federal Register . Margaret Milner Richardson, Commissioner of Internal Revenue. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;10584 Filed 5&hyph;2&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4830&hyph;01&hyph;U
