FR940127-1-00065 FR940127-1-00016 15. Non-native aloes ( Aloe spp.) All species of Aloe are included in the CITES appendices, with nearly all in Appendix II, including the plants called Aloe vera (synonym Aloe barbadensis ). The genus is essentially African in range, extending to Madagascar and the Arabian Peninsula, and perhaps naturally to the Canary Islands. Plants regarded as Aloe vera have been used for millennia and the yellow-flowered species may be extinct in its native range in the wild; it may have been native to the Canary Islands, or perhaps the southern Arabian Peninsula or northeastern Africa (e.g., Ethiopia), where similar species occur. The whole plants commonly in trade as aloe vera are of artificially propagated (or also naturalized) origin. Their regulation has become an enforcement burden. To deal with this situation, the Service is considering submission of a proposal by June 1994 to remove the non-native populations of Aloe that are geographically unrelated to the general African area. Thus, all species of Aloe where they may be native, including all of Africa considered broadly (e.g., including neighboring islands such as the Canary Islands and Socotra) and the Arabian Peninsula, would continue to be regulated by CITES. The September 1993 meeting of the CITES Plants Committee favored submission of some such proposal on this problem, and the conservation committee of the International Organization for Succulent Plant Study offered to assist in its preparation. Information is requested on whether exclusion of plants from this non-native population of Aloe would significantly increase risk to the survival in its native range of any Aloe ( i.e., species, subspecies, botanical variety, or significant population). Future Actions The Service will consider all available information in deciding which proposals warrant consideration by the Parties. The U.S. proposals must be submitted to the CITES Secretariat by June 10, 1994, for consideration at the November 1994 meeting of the Conference of the Parties in Fort Lauderdale, Florida. After the June date, the Service will publish a further Federal Register notice to announce its decisions on the potential proposals discussed above. Persons having current biological or trade information about the species being considered are invited to contact the Service's Office of Scientific Authority at the above address. The primary author of this notice is Dr. Charles W. Dane, Chief, Office of Scientific Authority, under the authority of the Endangered Species Act of 1973, 16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq. List of Subjects in 50 CFR Part 23 Endangered and threatened species, Exports, Imports, Treaties. Dated: January 3, 1994. Mollie H. Beattie, Director. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;1613 Filed 1&hyph;26&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4310&hyph;55&hyph;M
