FR940426-1-00046 FR940426-1-00006 Section 6.42, Third Party Arrangements ATF's review of its regulations disclosed that some confusion exists over the breadth of the proscription on indirect means to induce. Some industry members incorrectly view the two examples in §6.42 as exclusive of the situations covered by the regulation. Additionally, ATF believes some industry members interpret the examples as meaning the third party receiving the means to induce must be an agent of an individual retailer. By enacting the phrase ``directly or indirectly or through an affiliate,'' Congress intended the broadest possible application of the proscriptions of the FAA Act. The term ``indirectly'' encompasses more than simply trade practice activities with agents of retailers. It covers such activities with any representative of a retailer or industry member, whether or not such representative is technically an agent of the retailer or industry member. Thus, an industry member providing the means to induce to any third party who will pass the means on to the retailer, or use them in a manner to benefit the retailer, is indirectly providing the means to induce to the retailer. Accordingly, ATF proposes revising §6.42 to clarify that the examples are simply illustrative and not exclusive of the situations resulting in indirect inducements. A revision to the final sentence is proposed for clarity. Section 6.43, Sale of Equipment The petitioners recommend deleting the last sentence of §6.43. The petitioners believe that negotiation by an industry member with an equipment company for a special price for a retailer for equipment should not be a means to induce unless the industry member subsidizes the special price. ATF does not agree. The means to induce is not the special price, but the service provided by the industry member in negotiating with the equipment company, or using its influence on behalf of the retailer. In the past, ATF has experienced cases in which a retailer, believing that it received special price consideration, altered its buying patterns resulting in exclusion of a competitor's products. Also, a conforming change to the cross-reference is proposed. Section 6.46, Outside Signs ATF proposes to make outside signs an exception in subpart D. See the discussion under proposed §6.102. Section 6.47, Items Intended for Consumers The petitioners recommend deleting this section because they believe that it is redundant and unnecessary in light of §6.93 and their proposed revisions to §6.87. ATF proposes to remove this section since the general prohibition in §6.41 covers things of value not specifically excepted in subpart D. Those of the examples listed in §6.47 which ATF proposes to allow will be listed in the proposed revision of §6.84, Point of sale advertising and consumer advertising specialties. Section 6.52, Cooperative Advertising ATF proposes that the phrase ``placed by the retailer'' be deleted from this section and that language be added to emphasize that it does not matter whether the retailer or the industry member places the advertisement. The means to induce to be addressed here is the cooperative nature of the transaction and the benefit received by the retailer. For clarity, ATF proposes cross-referencing §6.52 to §6.98, Advertising Service. Section 6.67, Sales to a Retailer Whose Account is in Arrears ATF's current position is contained in Revenue Ruling 54&hyph;162, 1954&hyph;1 C.B. 340. On August 1, 1979, ATF proposed a regulation (Notice No. 327, 44 FR 45298) on credit arrears which would have provided that a supplier could continue to sell to a retailer, with unpaid purchases existing in excess of 30 days, without violating the extension of credit provision if the retailer either made payments in accordance with Revenue Ruling 54&hyph;162 or the amount of arrears did not exceed an average purchase by the retailer from the supplier over the preceding 4 month period. Commenters on the proposal objected to the proposal stating that it would require extensive bookkeeping checks or it might force repayment of large outstanding debts in order to keep dealing with a wholesaler. Several commenters recommended that ATF simply adhere to the credit requirements imposed by State law. ATF withdrew the proposal (T.D. ATF&hyph;74, 45 FR 63242, September 23, 1980) from further consideration. ATF is again raising the issue and proposing to adopt in the regulations the position stated in Revenue Ruling 54&hyph;162. However, comments on other possible approaches will be considered. Section 6.71, Quota Sales and Section 6.72, Tie-in Sales In addition to the language change to §6.71 discussed under §6.41, the petitioners propose to eliminate the tie-in prohibition in §6.72 and consolidate the remaining provisions into §6.71. The petitioners recommend deleting the first two sentences of §6.72 because they believe that there is no statutory basis for this regulation under the FAA Act. The petitioners state that the classic ``tying relationship'' prohibited by the antitrust laws is not addressed by section 105 of the FAA Act notwithstanding that subsection 105(b) of the FAA Act bears the heading ``Tied-House.'' The petitioners further state that prohibitions against tie-in agreements are covered adequately by the Federal antitrust laws.
