FR940523-2-00031 FR940523-2-00020 Energy Information Administration Form EIA&hyph;886, ``Alternate Fuel Vehicle Suppliers' Annual Report'' AGENCY: Energy Information Administration, Department of Energy. ACTION: Notice of the proposed new Form EIA&hyph;886, ``Alternate Fuel Vehicle Suppliers Annual Report'' and Solicitation of Comments. SUMMARY: The Energy Information Administration (EIA), as part of its continuing effort to reduce paperwork and respondent burden (required by the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980, Public Law 96&hyph;511, 44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq. ), conducts a presurvey consultation program to provide the general public and other Federal agencies with an opportunity to comment on proposed and/or continuing reporting forms. This program helps to ensure that requested data can be provided in the desired format, reporting burden is minimized, reporting forms are clearly understood, and the impact of collection requirements on respondents can be properly assessed. Currently, EIA is soliciting comments concerning the proposed new Form EIA&hyph;886, ``Alternate Fuel Vehicle Suppliers' Annual Report''. DATES: Written comments must be submitted on or before June 22, 1994. If you anticipate that you will be submitting comments, but find it difficult to do so within the period of time allowed by this notice, you should advise the contact listed below of your intention to do so as soon as possible. ADDRESSES: Send comments to Frank Elsen, Office of Coal, Nuclear, Electric and Alternate Fuels, EI&hyph;523, Forrestal Building, U.S. Department of Energy, Washington, DC 20585, (202) 254&hyph;5425, FAX (202) 254&hyph;5765. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION OR TO OBTAIN COPIES OF THE PROPOSED FORM AND INSTRUCTIONS: Requests for additional information or copies of the form and instructions should be directed to Frank Elsen at the address listed above. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: I. Background. II. Current Actions. III. Request for Comments. I. Background In order to fulfill its responsibilities under the Federal Energy Administration Act of 1974 (Pub. L. 93&hyph;275) and the Department of Energy Organization Act (Pub. L. 95&hyph;91), the Energy Information Administration is obliged to carry out a central, comprehensive, and unified energy data and information program. As part of this program, EIA collects, evaluates, assembles, analyzes, and disseminates data and information related to energy resource reserves, production, demand, and technology, and related economic and statistical information relevant to the adequacy of energy resources to meet demands in the near and longer term future for the Nation's economic and social needs. The Form EIA&hyph;886 will collect data from Alternate Fuel Vehicle (AFV) suppliers (i.e., Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEMs) and Conversion Companies) according to the requirements of section 503 (b)(2) of the Energy Policy Act of 1992 (EPACT). The survey will extend to both on-road and off-road, domestically manufactured/converted and imported vehicles. Actual data are requested for the previous calendar year (e.g., 1994); planned data are solicited for the next calendar year (e.g., 1995). II. Current Actions This form is a new, annual data collection effort. This clearance is sought for three years. III. Request for Comments Prospective respondents and other interested parties should comment on the actions discussed in item II. The following general guidelines are provided to assist in the preparation of responses. As a Potential Respondent: A. Are the instructions and definitions clear and sufficient? If not, which instructions require clarification? B. Can the data be submitted using the definitions included in the instructions? C. Can data be submitted in accordance with the response time specified in the instructions?
