FR940111-0-00083 FR940111-0-00019 Section 453.4(b), however, does not specifically address the practice of conditioning the furnishing of any funeral goods or services on the payment of fees, such as ``casket handling'' fees, because those fees have developed since the Rule's implementation, and because they are not conditioned charges for ``goods'' or ``services''_the conditioned products referred to in that provision. The Commission thus has concluded that so-called ``casket handling'' fees, and other non-declinable fees that are more aptly referred to as ``recovery of overhead and profit'' fees, need to be separately addressed in the Rule. 141 141 The Commission prohibits fees that are similar in purpose to ``casket handling fees'' in its Advertising of Ophthalmic Goods and Services Trade Regulation Rule, 16 CFR Part 456. That Rule requires eye doctors to give consumers a copy of their eyeglass prescription, so that consumers can shop for eyeglasses. Section 456.7(c) of that Rule further prohibits eye doctors from charging consumers a fee ``as a condition for releasing the prescription,'' other than the examination fee. The section thus prevents eye doctors from charging a fee for goods and services not provided that, in effect, would penalize consumers who wish to comparison shop for ophthalmic goods. Like the non-declinable ``casket handling fee,'' the conditional fee prohibited by this Ophthalmic Goods and Services Rule frustrates a consumer's right under the Rule to exercise free choice. The Commission recognizes the legitimate desire and expectation of funeral industry members to recover overhead costs and realize a profit. The Rule, however, permits consumers to select and buy only the items wanted unless state or local law require otherwise. The Funeral Rule is designed to permit funeral providers to have one non-declinable fee to recover general overhead costs_the fee for the basic services of funeral director and staff. Permitting funeral providers to have additional surcharges, whether they are called ``casket handling fees,'' or something else, would frustrate the Rule's aim to promote full itemization and informed consumer choice. To prevent that result and clarify the current requirements of the Rule, the Commission has added paragraph (b)(1)(ii) to §453.4 of the Rule. That amendment prohibits as an unfair or deceptive act or practice the furnishing of funeral goods or services upon payment of any conditional ``fees'' not otherwise permitted by the Rule. The amendment, however, permits funeral providers to recover overhead in the two ways permitted by the original Rule_by marking up the items offered for sale to the public, and by having the non-declinable fee for basic services of funeral director and staff, permitted by §§453.2(b)(4)(iii)(C) and 453.4(b)(2)(i)(A) of the Rule. The Commission also has amended §453.2(b)(4)(iii)(C)(2) of the Rule to require, among other things, disclosure of: (1) The dollar amount charged for any non-declinable basic professional services when that charge is included in the price of the provider's caskets; and (2) the statement ``This same fee shall be added to the total cost of your funeral arrangements if you provide the casket.'' These amendments are intended to have the same effect as the amendment to §453.4(b) above_they prohibit funeral providers (who choose not to itemize the charge for basic professional services) from charging consumers who purchase caskets from third parties a non-declinable fee for recovery of overhead and profit in addition to the professional services fee charged to all customers. These two amendments are not intended to impede funeral providers from recovering overhead costs and earning profits from their operations. Efficient providers can structure their prices charged to all consumers to recover the revenue lost to third-party casket (or other merchandise) sales. The evidence indicates that providers for many years have so adjusted their pricing structure to account for consumer-supplied caskets (in ship-in cases), outer burial containers, and alternative containers. 142 142 See, e.g., the evidence cited at note 136, supra. Providers asserted that the impact of a ban on imposing separate, non-declinable casket handling fees, in addition to the non-declinable professional services fee, would be increased professional service fees to all consumers. The funeral provider industry made the same argument in the original proceeding regarding the effect of consumer declinations caused by Rule-required itemization. 143 As the Commission reasoned at that time, providers under the Rule can set or shift prices as they wish, but the long-term competitive impact of the Rule's price availability provisions might not permit providers to recover lost revenue from casket declinations simply by raising professional service fees. In the short-term, some consumers might spend more and some less than they would without the right to decline if providers actually raise service fees in order to recoup revenue lost to third-party casket sales. As discussed earlier, however, the evidence in this proceeding indicates that, although service fees generally are underpriced by roughly the average handling fee amount, providers are reluctant to raise service fees even under current competitive conditions. In any event, the evidence indicates that the impact of a ban on handling fees would more likely be increased competition in the sale of caskets, and, in turn, an overall reduction in casket prices over time. 144 143 See R-B&hyph;5 at 42298. 144 See, e.g., the evidence discussed at notes 135&hyph;138, supra. 4. GPL Timing/Distribution Requirements. Section 453.2(b)(4) of the Rule required providers to give for retention a General Price List to persons who inquire in person about funeral arrangements or the prices of funeral goods and services. The GPL must contain, among other things, several disclosures about consumers' right to select only those items they desire and the retail prices for 17 specified items, if offered for sale. Providers under §453.2(b)(4)(i) of the original Rule were required to offer the GPL `` upon beginning discussion either of funeral arrangements or of the selection of any funeral goods or funeral services.'' (Emphasis added.)
