FR940118-1-00023 FR940118-1-00006 (6) Communications among the Librarian of Congress and staff of the Copyright Office or Library of Congress concerning decisions, opinions, reports, selection of arbitrators or findings on any matter or proceeding conducted under 17 U.S.C. chapter 8; (7) Offers of settlement which have not been accepted, unless they have been made public by the offeror; (8) Records not herein listed but which may be withheld as ``exempted'' if a CARP or the Librarian of Congress finds compelling reasons for such action to exist. §251.22 Public access. (a) Location of Records . All records relating to rate adjustment and distribution proceedings under this subchapter which are: (1) Required to be filed with the Copyright Office; or (2) Submitted to or produced by the Copyright Office or Library of Congress under 17 U.S.C. 801 and 802, or (3) Submitted to or produced by a Copyright Arbitration Royalty Panel during the course of a concluded proceeding shall be maintained at the Copyright Office. In the case of records submitted to or produced by a CARP which is currently conducting a proceeding, such records shall be maintained by the chairperson of that Panel at the location of the hearing or at a location specified by the panel. Upon conclusion of the proceeding, all records shall be delivered by the chairperson to the Copyright Office. (b) Requesting information . Requests for information or access to records described in §251.21 shall be directed to the Copyright Office at the address listed in §251.1. No requests shall be directed to or accepted by a Copyright Arbitration Royalty Panel. In the case of records in the possession of a CARP, the Copyright Office shall make arrangements with the Panel for access and copying by the person making the request. (c) Fees . Fees for photocopies of CARP or Copyright Office records are $0.40 per page, and fees for searching for records, certification of documents, and other costs incurred are as provided in 17 U.S.C. 705, 708. §251.23 FOIA and Privacy Act [Reserved] Subpart D_Standards of Conduct [Reserved] Subpart E_Procedures of Copyright Arbitration Royalty Panels §251.40 Scope. This subpart governs the proceedings of Copyright Arbitration Royalty Panels for the adjustment of royalty rates and distribution of royalty fees convened under 17 U.S.C. 803. This subpart does not apply to other arbitration proceedings specified by 17 U.S.C., or to actions or rulemakings of the Librarian of Congress or the Register of Copyrights, except where expressly provided in the provisions of this subpart. §251.41 Formal hearings. (a) The formal hearings that will be conducted under the rules of this subpart are rate adjustment hearings and royalty fee distribution hearings. All parties intending to participate in a hearing of a Copyright Arbitration Royalty Panel must file a notice of their intention. A CARP may also, on its own motion or on the petition of an interested party, hold other proceedings it considers necessary to the exercise of its functions, subject to the provisions of §251.7. All such proceedings will be governed by the rules of this subpart. (b) During the time periods provided in §251.45(a) and §251.63, any party to the proceeding may petition the Librarian of Congress to have the determination of the controversy rendered strictly on the submission of written pleadings. Replies to such petitions may be filed within 14 days. The Librarian, upon recommendation of the Register of Copyright, shall rule on the petition prior to the declaration of a controversy and initiation of a proceeding. §251.42 Suspension or waiver of rules. For purposes of an individual proceeding, the provisions of this subpart may be suspended or waived, in whole or in part, by a Copyright Arbitration Royalty Panel upon a showing of good cause, subject to the provisions of §251.7. Such suspension or waiver shall apply only to the proceeding of the CARP taking that action, and shall not be binding on any other Panel or proceeding. Where procedures have not been specifically prescribed in this subpart, and subject to §251.7, the Panel shall follow procedures consistent with 5 U.S.C. chapter 5, subchapter II. §251.43 Written cases. (a) The proceedings of a Copyright Arbitration Royalty Panel for rate adjustment, royalty fee distribution, or arbitration conducted under 17 U.S.C. 1010 shall begin with the filing of written direct cases of the parties who have filed a notice of intent to participate in the hearing. (b) The written direct case shall include all testimony, including each witness's background and qualifications, along with all the exhibits to be presented in the direct case. (c) Each party may designate a portion of past records, including records of the Copyright Royalty Tribunal, that it wants included in its direct case. Complete testimony of each witness whose testimony is designated (i.e., direct, cross and redirect) must be referenced.
