FR940426-0-00041 FR940426-0-00011 D. Accommodation With Respect to Pro Rata Consolidation Generally accepted accounting principles in some countries allow pro rata consolidation for certain joint ventures that would be accounted for under the equity method pursuant to U.S. GAAP. Net income and shareholders' equity are not affected by an issuer's use of pro rata consolidation rather than the equity method. There may, however, be significant differences in line item amounts reported in the balance sheet and statements of income and cash flows as a result of the method chosen. The Commission is adopting, with certain modifications from the proposal, amendments to the forms to streamline the reconciliation of these differences with respect to foreign private issuers that account for an investment in a joint venture using pro rata consolidation. The amendments would require an issuer to provide summarized financial information of the current assets/liabilities, noncurrent assets/liabilities, net sales, gross profit and net income relating to its pro rata interest in the joint venture. 43 Separate financial statements of a joint venture accounted for using the pro rata method are not required to be presented. 43 These are the same captions as required by Rule 1&hyph;02(aa) of Regulation S&hyph;X (17 CFR ยง210.1&hyph;02(aa)). Most commenters supported the proposal to allow an issuer that uses pro rata consolidation to provide summarized condensed financial information on a joint venture in lieu of all of the reconciliation information that would otherwise be required. Several commenters indicated that condensed cash flow information should be provided to differentiate cash flow associated with entities controlled by the registrant from those associated with the joint venture. As suggested by these commenters, the rule requires summarized cash flow information_i.e., totals for major captions of operating, financing and investing activities. As pointed out by commenters, there can be differences between the accounting standards used in the primary statements and U.S. GAAP relating to the joint venture that effect recognition and measurement. The rule as adopted makes clear that the omission from the reconciliation requirement only relates to differences in classification and display. The Commission requested comment on whether the proposed amendment should be limited to certain types of joint ventures. Several commenters suggested that limitations should apply in order to avoid extending relief to certain financing situations where the intended purpose was to keep the selected debt and other financing off the balance sheet. The accounting standards in many countries would limit the application of pro rata consolidation to appropriate situations. However, given the variability of standards and interpretations, the rule as adopted limits the accommodation to a joint venture that is a contractual arrangement whereby two or more parties undertake an economic activity in which the power to govern the financial and operating policies of the economic activity for purposes of deriving economic benefits are contractually shared. Therefore, relief under the rule will be available with respect to the accounting for any operating entity in which the issuer holds an equity interest if the significant financial and operating policies of the entity are, by contractual arrangement, jointly controlled by all parties having an equity interest in that entity. The Commission believes that few, if any, substantive joint ventures will fall outside the scope of this relief. However, in the event that an issuer accounts for other types of joint ventures using pro rata consolidation, the Commission's staff will consider upon request whether to grant similar relief. E. Elimination of Certain Financial Statement Schedules The amendments to eliminate six financial schedules are adopted as proposed. As suggested by several commenters, the Commission is proposing to eliminate several financial schedules and to provide comparable relief to domestic issuers in a companion release. 44 44 See Securities Act Release No. 7055 (April 19, 1994). IV. Safe Harbors for Public Announcements of Unregistered Offerings and Broker-Dealer Research Reports A. Company Announcements of Unregistered Offerings As noted in the Proposing Release, the growing number of offshore offerings and U.S. private placements has resulted in repeated requests for guidance concerning appropriate disclosure of such offerings, in light of the limitations on general solicitation and directed selling efforts in private placements and offshore offerings under Regulation S. 45 To address these concerns, the Commission today is adopting a new safe harbor for issuers' announcements of offerings not registered or required to be registered under the Securities Act. 46 The safe harbor is available to both domestic and foreign issuers. 45 17 CFR 230.901&hyph;230.904 and Preliminary Notes. 46 See new Rule 135c (ยง230.135c) and revisions to Rule 902(b) of Regulations S (ยง230.902(b)) and Rule 502(c) of Regulation D (ยง230.502(c)). Rule 902(b) will provide that announcements made pursuant to either Rule 135 or new Rule 135c will not constitute ``directed selling efforts'' for purposes of Regulation S. Rule 502(c) will exclude Rule 135c announcements from the prohibition on general solicitation or general advertising.
