FR940325-2-00131 FR940325-2-00057 Stipulation It is stipulated by and between the undersigned parties, by their respective attorneys, that: 1. The parties to this Stipulation consent that Final Judgment in the form attached may be filed and entered by the Court, upon any party's or the Court's own motion, at any time after compliance with the requirements of the Antitrust Procedures and Penalties Act (15 U.S.C. 16), without further notice to any party or other proceedings, provided that plaintiff has not withdrawn its consent, which it may do at any time before entry of the proposed Final Judgment by serving notice on the defendants and by filing that notice with the Court. 2. If plaintiff withdraws its consent or the proposed Final Judgment is not entered pursuant to this Stipulation, this Stipulation shall be of no effect whatever and its making shall be without prejudice to any party in this or any other proceeding. Dated: March 14, 1994. For the Plaintiff. Anne K. Bingaman, Assistant Attorney General. Joseph H. Widmar, Gail Kursh, Attorneys, U.S. Department of Justice. Edward D. Eliasberg, Jr., Karen L. Gable, Jesse M. Caplan, Kenneth M. Dintzer, Attorneys, U.S. Department of Justice, 555 4th Street NW., Washington, DC 20001, 202/307&hyph;0808. For the Defendants: Counsel for Pioneer Valley Hospital, Inc.; Mountain View Hospital, Inc.; Lakeview Hospital, Inc.; and Brigham City Community Hospital, Inc. Counsel for HCA Health Services of Utah d/b/a St. Marks's Hospital. David L. Jones, President, for Holy Cross Hospital of Salt Lake City; and St. Benedict's Hospital. For the Defendants. Robert D. Paul, Shaw, Pittman, Potts & Trowbridge. Richard W. Casey, Giauque, Crockett, Bendinger & Peterson Counsel for IHC Hospitals, Inc. For the Defendants. Robert C. Jones, Counsel for Pioneer Valley Hospital, Inc.; Lakeview Hospital, Inc.; Mountain View Hospital, Inc.; and Brigham City Community Hospital, Inc. For the Defendants. Greg Tucker, Counsel for HCA Health Services of Utah, Inc. d/b/a St. Mark's Hospital.
