FR940804-0-00057 FR940804-0-00022 For initial SIP disapprovals where EPA subsequently fully approves the revised SIP, sanctions would be deferred and/or stayed unless and until EPA's proposed full approval was reversed by a proposed disapproval or final disapproval of the revised SIP in whole or in part. At that point, the interim final determination that the deficiency had been corrected would be rescinded or reversed. For initial SIP disapprovals where EPA subsequently proposes to conditionally approve the revised SIP, sanctions would be deferred and/or stayed unless and until EPA reverses its proposed conditional approval by a proposed disapproval or final disapproval of the revised SIP in whole or in part. For initial SIP disapprovals where EPA subsequently conditionally approves the revised SIP in final, sanctions would be deferred and/or stayed unless and until the conditional approval converts to a disapproval, or EPA proposes to disapprove in whole or in part the revised SIP the State submits to fulfill the commitment in its conditionally-approved SIP. 17 When any of these events occur with respect to a proposed or final conditional approval, the interim final determination that the deficiency had been corrected would be rescinded or reversed. 17 On July, 9, 1992, EPA issued a policy that included a discussion of how conditional approvals convert to disapprovals (see memorandum entitled ``Processing of State Implementation Plan (SIP) Submittals'' from John Calcagni to Air Division Directors, Regions I&hyph;X, July 9, 1992). But note that, by this action, EPA is withdrawing the part of the July 1992 guidance that addresses how conditional approvals convert to disapprovals. In the near future, EPA intends to issue additional guidance to address this aspect of the conditional approval policy. For initial findings of nonimplementation, sanctions would be deferred and/or stayed unless and until EPA reversed its proposed finding that the State was implementing its SIP by proposing to find or finally finding that the State was not implementing its SIP or by withdrawing its proposed finding that the State was implementing its SIP. At the point of that subsequent action, the interim final determination that the State had corrected the deficiency would be rescinded or reversed. (Exactly how the application of sanctions would be deferred and/or stayed following SIP disapprovals and nonimplementation findings is discussed in greater detail below in this section. Change one is reflected in the rule in ยง52.31 (d)(2), (d)(3), and (d)(4).)
