FR940817-1-00062 FR940817-1-00014 J. Transferability Restriction Currently, the availability of exemptions is conditioned on a written specification, in the plan or other written agreement, that a derivative security awarded under the plan may not be transferred by the participant other than by will or the laws of descent and distribution, or pursuant to a qualified domestic relations order. 70 The restriction on transferability initially was derived from the Internal Revenue Code as a reflection of prior business practice and was designed to limit opportunities for the speculative abuse of options. 70 Rule 16b&hyph;3(a)(2) [17 CFR 240.16b&hyph;3(a)(2)]. By interpretation, plans that are not subject to I.R.C. Section 401(a) have been allowed to permit transfers of derivative securities pursuant to ``domestic relations orders'' that satisfy the requirements of I.R.C. Sections 414(p)(1) (A) and (B). See Premark International, Inc. (Mar. 6, 1992). However, questions have been raised about whether this restriction needs to be retained, given the presence of other safeguards in Rule 16b&hyph;3 and given the fact that the current Section 16 regulatory framework generally recognizes economic parity between derivative securities and their underlying equity securities. Accordingly, the proposed amendments to Rule 16b&hyph;3 would delete the transferability restriction. 71 Commenters are asked to address whether there is any continuing need for this restriction, either in whole or in part, and should address the extent to which nontransferability may act as a safeguard, both in Rule 16b&hyph;3 and in the context of compensatory cash-only instruments as discussed above. 71 Of course, in many cases transferability restrictions would continue to exist because of Internal Revenue Code requirements or companies' policies. Assuming the restriction is retained but modified, would it be appropriate to recast it as a transactional requirement, so that only derivative securities for which the exemption is claimed would need to satisfy this requirement? 72 Comment also is solicited on whether, if the restriction is retained, additional kinds of transfers should be permitted, such as transfers to family members of insiders, family partnerships, charitable institutions, and trusts whose beneficiaries are insiders and their families, or transfers by a non-employee director to a third party entity (such as the director's law firm) without consideration pursuant to an agreement that provides that any compensation received for the director's services is received for the benefit of that entity. Comment also is solicited on whether the rule should permit only transfers that are exempt from short-swing profit recovery, such as bona fide gifts. 72 Options that satisfy the transferability restrictions currently may be issued on an exempt basis pursuant to a plan that also issues on a non-exempt basis options that may be transferred, without consideration, to family members, family trusts and family partnerships. See Time Warner Inc. (Dec. 18, 1992) Q. 1. If transfers to family members and family entities are permitted, should these be limited to transfers for estate planning purposes? Should such transfers be limited to persons or entities composed of persons who are members of the insider's immediate family sharing the same household, such that the insider will retain an indirect pecuniary interest in the derivative securities following the transfer, 73 and any subsequent disposition by the transferee would be attributed to the insider? Finally, comment is solicited on the combined effect of liberalizing or eliminating transferability restrictions and the proposal, discussed above, to provide that securities obtained in an exempt grant may be disposed of within six months if the disposition is a gift or otherwise exempt from short-swing profit recovery. Should the rules provide that the six-month holding period would continue to run in the hands of the transferee? 73 Rule 16a&hyph;1(a)(2)(ii)(A) [17 CFR 240.16a&hyph;1(a)(2)(ii)(A)] provides a rebuttable presumption that an insider has an ``indirect pecuniary interest'' in securities held by members of the insider's family sharing the same household. III. Revisions to Reporting System A. Reporting of Exempt Transactions The Commission is reconsidering its approach to the reporting of transactions pursuant to the Section 16 regulatory scheme. Under the current rules, transactions exempt from short-swing profit recovery (other than exempt exercises and conversions of derivative securities) must be reported annually. 74 Reporting of exempt transactions has been required to provide interested parties with the opportunity to evaluate insiders' claims to exemptions; facilitate reconciliation of insiders' holdings at the end of the fiscal year; and provide indications of insiders' views of their corporations' prospects, although annual reporting generally is permitted since these transactions are viewed as having less potential than non-exempt transactions to reflect insiders' investment assessments of their corporations. 74 The report would be on Form 5, or, at the option of the reporting person, on a Form 4 filed before the Form 5 would be due. The Commission has received various suggestions that would further streamline Section 16(a) reporting. These proposals seek to simplify reporting through different basic approaches. One approach would delete or substantially reduce the reporting of exempt transactions. A second approach would not reduce significantly the reportable transactions, but rather would reduce the flexibility provided insiders with respect to using Form 4 or Form 5 to report a number of exempt transactions. A third approach would introduce issuer annual reporting of insider holdings and information as to transactions during the fiscal year. These proposals highlight several questions as to what extent, if at all, investors need information with respect to exempt transactions and whether investors need a reconciliation of insiders' equity holdings from year to year. The suggestions received by the Commission include: 1. Elimination of the requirement to report exempt transactions, or certain classes of exempt transactions, such as exempt employee benefit plan transactions; 75 75 Many of these transactions currently may be reported on an aggregated basis, as of the most recent date for which plan information is available. Aggregated reporting also is permitted, by staff interpretation, for acquisitions and holdings resulting from reinvestment of dividends or interest in exempt transactions, and acquisitions of dividend equivalent rights in exempt employee benefit plan transactions. Palmer & Dodge (Jan. 31, 1992) and Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom (Jun. 23, 1992). This result would be codified by proposed amendments to Instructions 4(a) (ii) and (iv) to Form 5 and the Note to Instruction 4(a)(ii) to Form 4. Aggregated reporting is not available for additional securities acquired through voluntary cash contributions under dividend or interest reinvestment plans. See n. 89 of the Adopting Release. 2. Replacement of annual reporting on Form 5 with a table to be included in the issuer's Form 10&hyph;K annual report disclosing and reconciling transactions and insiders' holdings; 3. Replacement of annual reporting on Form 5 with a requirement that each Form 4 filed include information (as a separate line item, in a footnote or in a reconciliation column) with respect to exempt transactions that had occurred since the last Form 4; 4. Replacement of annual reporting on Form 5 with a requirement that each Form 4 filed include information with respect to exempt transactions that had occurred since the last Form 4, except that broad-based plan transactions would continue to be reportable annually (either on Form 5 or on Form 4); and
