FR940803-2-00018 FR940803-2-00014 DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION Notice of Proposed Information Collection Requests AGENCY: Department of Education. ACTION: Notice of proposed information collection requests. SUMMARY: The Acting Director, Information Resources Management Service, invites comments on the proposed information collection requests as required by the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980. DATES: Interested persons are invited to submit comments on or before September 2, 1994. ADDRESSES: Written comments should be addressed to the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, Attention: Dan Chenok: Desk Officer, Department of Education, Office of Management and Budget, 725 17th Street, NW., Room 3208, New Executive Office Building, Washington, DC 20503. Requests for copies of the proposed information collection requests should be addressed to Patrick J. Sherrill, Department of Education, 400 Maryland Avenue, SW., Room 5624, Regional Office Building 3, Washington, DC 20202&hyph;4651. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Patrick J. Sherrill (202) 708&hyph;9915. Individuals who use a telecommunications device for the deaf (TDD) may call the Federal Information Relay Service (FIRS) at 1&hyph;800&hyph;877&hyph;8339 between 8 a.m. and 8 p.m., Eastern time, Monday through Friday. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Section 3517 of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980 (44 U.S.C. Chapter 35) requires that the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) provide interested Federal agencies and the public an early opportunity to comment on information collection requests. OMB may amend or waive the requirement for public consultation to the extent that public participation in the approval process would defeat the purpose of the information collection, violate State or Federal law, or substantially interfere with any agency's ability to perform its statutory obligations. The Acting Director of the Information Resources Management Service, publishes this notice containing proposed information collection requests prior to submission of these requests to OMB. Each proposed information collection, grouped by office, contains the following: (1) Type of review requested, e.g., new, revision, extension, existing or reinstatement; (2) Title; (3) Frequency of collection; (4) The affected public; (5) Reporting burden; and/or (6) Recordkeeping burden; and (7) Abstract. OMB invites public comment at the address specified above. Copies of the requests are available from Patrick J. Sherrill at the address specified above. Dated: July 28, 1994. Mary R. Liggett, Acting Director, Information Resources Management Service. Office of Educational Research and Improvement Type of Review: Existing Title: Application for Educational Research Program: Field-Initiated Studies Frequency: Annually Affected Public: Individuals or households; State or local governments; Businesses or other for-profit; Non-profit institutions; Small businesses or organizations Reporting Burden: Responses: 450; Burden Hours: 4,950 Recordkeeping Burden: Recordkeepers: 0; Burden Hours: 0 Abstract: This form will be used by State educational agencies to apply for funding under the Educational Research Field-Initiated Studies Program. The Department will use the information to make grant awards. Type of Review: Existing Title: Final Performance Report for Improving Access to Research Library Resources Program, HEA Title II&hyph;C Frequency: Annually Affected Public: Non-profit institutions Reporting Burden: Responses: 40; Burden Hours: 160 Recordkeeping Burden: Recordkeepers: 40; Burden Hours: 40 Abstract: This form is needed to evaluate project performance under the discretionary grant program Improving Access to Research Library Resources, HEA Title II&hyph;C. Office of Special Education and Rehabilitative Services Type of Review: Extension Title: Part B, Individuals With Disabilities Education Act, Implementation of Free and Appropriate Public Education Requirement Frequency: Annually Affected Public: State or local governments Reporting Burden: Responses: 58; Burden Hours: 198,418 Recordkeeping Burden: Recordkeepers: 0; Burden Hours: 0 Abstract: This form is completed by States to give important information about children with disabilities receiving special education and related services. This information is used by the Department to monitor activities and report to Congress.
