FR940203-1-00023 FR940203-1-00005 We have included in this notice of proposed rulemaking two alternative examples of the regulatory text that might be used to implement the various alternative proposals discussed herein. The ``Alternative A'' regulatory text is based on the allocation of all of the annual charges among a single class of licensees and exemptees, including all major and minor municipal and non-municipal licensees and all exemptees. The allocation is based solely on the respective capacity of each hydropower project as measured in kilowatts. The ``Alternative B'' regulatory text retains the current separate categories and formulae for major municipal and non-municipal licensees. Minor licensees and exemptees would be classified with the comparable groups of major licensees and their charges would be assessed pursuant to the formulae currently used for those groups. Both the ``Alternative A'' and ``Alternative B'' regulatory texts implement a minimum charge of $100 and a maximum charge of two percent of the total of all charges. Under both alternatives, assessments would not commence prior to the commencement of project construction. 19 19 Attached to this NOPR as Appendices A, B and C are three tables prepared by the Commission's staff which shows the impact that some of the ideas discussed herein might have on the annual charges of representative licensees and exemptees. B. Transition Arrangements While the Commission believes that many of the regulatory amendments discussed above would in the long run render the regulations more rational and more fair and equitable, the Commission also recognizes that if these amendments were to be adopted en masse at a single stroke they might impose significant unanticipated burdens on some licensees and exemptees. Therefore, the Commission proposes a three-year transition period for phasing-in some of the changes it might adopt, particularly with respect to the changes described in the ``Alternative A'' regulatory text. Charges during the transition described therein would be calculated by the following steps. First, the difference between a project's charge using the current method and the proposed method would be divided into fourths. The charge for the first transition year would be the current method charge plus the one-fourth increment. (If the charge is reduced in going from the current method to the proposed method, the one-fourth increment would be subtracted.) 20 The charge for the second transition year would be the current method charge plus (or minus) the two-fourths increment. The charge for the third transition year would be the current method charge plus (or minus) the three-fourths increment. The charge for the fourth year would be calculated solely by the proposed method. 20 In order to avoid any net increase or decrease in the total of all charges assessed in any single year, the total amount of the reductions in the charges must be matched by an equal amount of ``increases'' in charges. The ``increases,'' however, would in fact simply be a partial elimination of a reduction that would otherwise occur_to balance the elimination of part of an actual increase elsewhere that would otherwise occur.
