FR940928-2-00110 FR940928-2-00067 Part D: The proposed change will delete the specific value for the rated loop recirculation flow rate found in the limiting safety system settings. The proposed change does not change the limiting safety system settings or alter the method for calculating the settings. The proposed change does not affect or change any margin of safety. The proposed change does not alter the APRM rod block or trip settings, nor does it change the combinations of power and flow conditions which could produce the APRM flow biased rod block and scram trips. Furthermore, the value for rated loop recirculation flow rate will continue to be contained in plant procedures which are controlled by the 10 CFR 50.59 process. Therefore, the proposed change does not involve a reduction in a margin of safety. Part E: The proposed change to remove the APRM rod block and RBM upscale setpoint equations does not change the equations or alter the method for calculating the equations. The proposed change does not change or affect any safety-related plant equipment or its functions; or any equipment, systems, or setpoints designed to prevent or mitigate accidents. Removing these rod block equations does not create any new challenges to safety-related systems or equipment, or other equipment whose failure could cause an accident; and does not change the function and manner of operation of the APRM or RBM subsystems. The requirements of TS 6.9.1.7 will continue to ensure that these equations are developed using NRC-approved methodology, and are consistent with applicable limits of the plant safety analysis. Therefore, the proposed change does not involve a reduction in a margin of safety. The NRC staff has reviewed the licensee's analysis and, based on this review, it appears that the three standards of 10 CFR 50.92(c) are satisfied. Therefore, the NRC staff proposes to determine that the amendment request involves no significant hazards consideration. Local Public Document Room location: Athens Public Library, South Street, Athens, Alabama 35611. Attorney for licensee: General Counsel, Tennessee Valley Authority, 400 West Summit Hill Drive, ET 11H, Knoxville, Tennessee 37902. NRC Project Director: Frederick J. Hebdon. TU Electric Company, Docket Nos. 50&hyph;445 and 50&hyph;446, Comanche Peak Steam Electric Station, Units 1 and 2, Somervell County, Texas Date of amendment request: August 9, 1994. Brief description of amendments: The proposed amendments would revise the technical specifications by eliminating the high negative neutron flux rate trip function. Basis for proposed no significant hazards consideration determination: As required by 10 CFR 50.91(a), the licensee has provided its analysis of the issue of no significant hazards consideration, which is presented below: 1. The proposed change does not involve a significant increase in the probability or consequences of an accident previously evaluated. The deletion of the High Negative Neutron Flux Rate trip does not adversely affect the probability of any accident. In fact, the deletion of this reactor trip is expected to reduce the probability of inadvertent reactor trips during surveillance testing. The only previously evaluated accidents whose consequences could be potentially affected by this change are the dropped rod events. Presently the High Negative Neutron Flux Rate trip function responds to these events by initiating a reactor trip. Analyses of these events, using currently licensed analysis methodologies have demonstrated that this trip function is not necessary. Although the scenarios for the various rod drop events without this trip function differ from the existing event scenarios, the unit will either be safely shutdown or return to an acceptable reactor power level, and as before, DNB does not occur. Therefore, the proposed changes would not have a significant effect on the consequences of an accident previously evaluated. 2. The proposed changes do not create the possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any accident previously evaluated. The proposed changes remove a feature from the Reactor Trip System that is a potential source of inadvertent or unnecessary reactor trips. While the changes delete an accident mitigation feature, they do not add new hardware to the units and do not change plant operations; consequently, no new failure modes are introduced. Therefore, the removal of this trip function cannot create the possibility of an [sic] new or different kind of accident from any accident previously evaluated.
