FR940831-2-00089 FR940831-2-00067 JUSTICE/DAG&hyph;008 System name: Special Candidates for Presidential Appointments and Noncareer SES Positions Records System. System location: Office of the Deputy Attorney General; United States Department of Justice; 10th and Constitution Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20530. Categories of individuals covered by the system: The system encompasses all individuals under consideration for presidential appointments as division heads, deputy division heads, or noncareer SES positions in the Department of Justice. Categories of records in the system: The system of records consists of personnel folders which may contain up to a total of four sections. The personnel section contains records such as résumés, letters of recommendation, and related personnel matters. The character section contains completed and portions of ongoing background investigations and matters related thereto. The Congressional section contains Congressional and other political type recommendations regarding appointment. The protest section contains correspondence, if any exists, protesting the appointment of candidates. The majority of these personnel folders contain only the personnel section. Authority for maintenance of the system: These records are maintained pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 301. Purpose(s): Records are maintained in this system to assist the President, White House officials or employees, the Congress, and/or Department of Justice officials in obtaining information necessary to determine the qualifications and suitability of candidates for the positions of Department of Justice division head, deputy division head or noncareer SES. Routine uses of records maintained in the system, including categories of users and the purposes of such uses: Relevant information from this system may be disclosed as indicated below: The routine uses of these records vary with the amount of consideration given to nominating, clearing or selecting the candidate for appointment. In some instances, the records are stored, reviewed by designated Department personnel, and destroyed as outlined under Retention and Disposal. The candidate's record folder , or a portion thereof, may be provided to the White House. The fact that the candidate was being considered for appointment would be made known to the references supplied by the candidate and others contacted. Information about the candidate, as then known, might be supplied to such references and/or such contacted individuals as necessary to verify already obtained information or to seek elaboration of that information. Information permitted to be released to the news media and the public pursuant to 28 CFR 50.2 may be made available unless it is determined that release of the specific information in the context of a particular case would constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy. Information not otherwise required to be released pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552 may be made available to a Member of Congress or staff acting upon the Member's behalf when the Member or staff requests the information on behalf of and at the request of the individual who is the subject of the record. A record from this system of records may be disclosed as a routine use to the General Services Administration and the National Archives and Records Administration in records management inspections conducted under the authority of 44 U.S.C. 2904 and 2906. In the event that a record(s) in this system indicates a violation or potential violation of law_criminal, civil, or regulatory in nature_the relevant records may be referred to the appropriate Federal, State, local, or foreign agency charged with the responsibility for investigating or prosecuting such violation or charged with enforcing or implementing such law. Information may be disclosed to officials and employees of the White House or any Federal agency
