FR940304-1-00133 FR940304-1-00014 The next most stringent standard level is standard level 6. This standard level is projected to save 3.06 quads of energy. This level produces life-cycle cost savings compared to the base case of $43, with a payback of 5.3 years, which is slightly more than one third of the average product lifetime. However, this level causes payback as high as 9.1 years for other classes (over 60 percent of product life) and reduces manufacturer short-run return on equity from 8.6 percent to 5.2 percent, a reduction of almost 40 percent. Also, at this standard level, some classes are assumed to incorporate variable-speed compressors, for which there is not a DOE test procedure. The Department believes that the development of such a test procedure would be a lengthy process which would probably delay the effective date of the standard for room air conditioners. The Department therefore, concludes that the burdens of standard level 6 for room air conditioners outweigh the benefits, and rejects the standard level. After carefully considering the analysis, the Department is amending the National Appliance Energy Conservation Act-imposed 1990 standard for room air conditioners with standard level 5 for room air conditioners. The Department concludes that standard level 5 for room air conditioners saves a significant amount of energy and is technologically feasible and economically justified. There would be significant energy savings at this level of efficiency. During the period 1996&hyph;2030, these savings are calculated to be 2.22 quads of primary energy. In addition, the standard could have a positive effect on the environment by reducing the emissions of NO 2 and SO 2 by 353,000 tons and 394,000 tons, respectively, or by as much as 0.18 percent each by the year 2030. Furthermore, the standard will reduce emissions of CO 2 by 181 million tons, or as much as 0.18 percent, over the forecast period. The technologies that are necessary to meet this standard are presently available. The Department finds the level to be economically justified. The consumer payback of this standard level is 3.5 years for the representative class and no more than 7.0 years for any class. This standard is at or near the lowest life-cycle cost for all classes and is expected to result in a reduction in life-cycle cost of approximately $53 for the representative class. Additionally, the standard is expected to have essentially no impact on the prototypical manufacturer's return on equity of 8.6 percent. Since this standard does not involve substantial redesign or retooling, the Department expects that it will not have negative impacts on smaller competitors. b. Water Heaters 1. Efficiency Levels Analyzed. The Department examined a range of standard levels for water heaters. Table 4&hyph;3 presents the efficiency levels selected for analysis for the four classes of water heaters. Electric and gas storage water heaters each have five efficiency levels that were analyzed, but were paired together to yield the eight combinations shown below. Level 8 corresponds to the highest efficiency level, max tech, considered in the engineering analysis for each class.
