FR941212-0-00087 FR941212-0-00019 (b) Information from other investigations. (1) The investigator should obtain a copy of the report of any prior investigation that was made for purposes other than claims; for example_ (i) Police reports. (ii) Line of duty reports. (iii) AR 15&hyph;6 investigations. (iv) Reports of survey. (v) IG investigations. (vi) Safety investigations. (vii) Government contractor investigations. (viii) Investigations by other governmental agencies such as National Transportation Safety Board; Food and Drug Administration; Center for Disease Control; Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, and Firearms; and Consumer Product Safety Commission. (2) While such an investigation may not be adequate for claims and litigation purposes, it may contain evidence and leads of value to the investigator. If the report of the prior investigation contains diagrams, photographs, or witness statements, it is not necessary for the investigator to cover the same ground. Copies of such items may be made and included in the claims investigation. Generally, however, it will be necessary for the investigator to obtain more complete statements from witnesses. This is especially true for statements in medical quality assurance reports and reports of Army accidents prepared by Army safety personnel, as there are regulatory restrictions on the use of these statements in connection with claims and litigation. (3) When military records fail to confirm the occurrence of a traffic accident upon which a claim is based, or substantial doubt arises regarding the nature or extent of the actual damages or injuries allegedly sustained, claims authorities should contact the Bureau of Motor Vehicles of the appropriate State or municipality to ascertain whether an accident report of the incident is a matter of record and, if so, a copy of such report should be obtained. (c) Statements of witnesses. Perhaps the most important phase of an investigation is the securing of statements from available witnesses, including the claimant and persons associated with him or her, for example, persons riding in the vehicle. The claims investigator may take the unsworn statements of a witness or may, if the statement is satisfactory for claims purposes, use a statement secured by another investigator. (d) Photographs and diagrams. Claims investigators should have cameras and obtain photographs and diagrams to describe the scene of incidents that they investigate. Photographs and drawings should indicate when taken or made and by whom. (e) Claims requiring information of a specialized nature. Depending on the nature of the incident, the investigator must decide on the specialized nature of evidence that will be required. In this regard, reference should be made to DA Pam 27&hyph;162 wherein specific items of information and documentation required for various categories of incidents are listed. Sufficient documentation of property losses or damages and personal injury or death should be obtained. Technical advice and assistance will be furnished by other DA agencies such as the Tank and Automotive Command or the Army Safety Center for vehicular accidents, or the Army Aviation Reserve Board and the Corpus Christi Army Depot for aircraft accidents. (f) Completion of investigation. Upon completion of the investigation, the investigator must carefully review the report to ascertain whether all pertinent information has been included and inconsistencies reconciled. The review should take into consideration the following questions: Is the report of investigation complete enough to enable the approving authority to decide how the incident occurred? On whom does the responsibility for the incident rest? What is the extent of any loss or damage suffered? In the ordinary case, if the investigator has included in the report all information pertaining to the ``what,'' ``who,'' ``where,'' ``when,'' and ``how'' of the occurrence, the information needed by those who must decide the claim will be satisfied. Claims Receipt and Disposition ยง536.20 Presentation. (a) Who may present. (1) A claim may be presented by the owner of the property, or in the owner's name by a duly authorized agent or legal representative. As used in this regulation an owner includes the following: (i) For real property. The mortgagor, or the mortgagee, if he or she can maintain a cause of action in the local courts involving a tort to that specific property. When notice of divided interests in real property is received, the claim should, if feasible, be treated as a single claim or a release from all interests must be obtained. (ii) For personal property. A bailee, leasee, mortgagee, and conditional vendor, or others having title for purposes of security only, are not proper claimants unless specifically authorized in the subpart in question. If more than one party has an interest in the property, all must join in the claim or a release from all interests must be obtained. (2) A claim for personal injury may be presented by the injured person or by a duly authorized agent or legal representative. (3) A claim based on death may be presented by the executor or administrator of the deceased's estate, or by any person determined to be legally or beneficially entitled. The amount allowed will, to the extent practicable, be apportioned among the beneficiaries in accordance with the law applicable to the incident. (4) A claim for medical, hospital, or burial expenses may be presented by any person who by reason of family relationship has, in fact, incurred the expenses for which the claim is made. For claims cognizable under the provisions of the FTCA, see subpart D. (See ยง536.86 for restrictions on damages allowable in claims involving death or personal injury under the Act of 9 October 1962 (10 U.S.C. 2737).) (5) A claim presented by an agent or legal representative will be made in the name of the claimant and signed by the agent or legal representative showing his or her title or capacity. Where a claim is presented by an agent or legal representative_ (i) Written evidence of the authority of the agent or legal representative to act, such as a power of attorney, is required, or (ii) Where the authority is conferred by State statute, a citation to that statute is required. (See DA Pam 27&hyph;162, appendix H, section I, paragraph 14&hyph;2; see also ยง536.21 for additional requirements relating to settlements.) (6) A claim normally will include all damages that accrue by reason of the incident. Where the same claimant has both a claim for damage to or loss of property and a claim for personal injury or claim based on death arising out of the same incident, each of the foregoing or any combination of them ordinarily represent only an integral part of a single claim or cause of action. Under subparts C through J of this part, a single claimant is entitled to be compensated only one time for all damages or injuries arising out of an incident. (b) Subrogation. A claim may be presented by the subrogee in his or her own name if authorized by the law of the place where the incident giving rise to the claim occurred, provided subrogation is not barred by the portion of this part applicable to the type of claim involved. (1) The claims of the subrogor (insured) and subrogee (insurer) for damages arising out of the same incident constitute separate claims and it is permissible for the aggregate of such claims to exceed the monetary jurisdiction of the approving or settlement authority. (2) A subrogor and a subrogee may file a claim jointly or individually. A fully subrogated claim will be paid only to the subrogee. Whether a claim is fully subrogated is a matter to be determined by local law. Some jurisdictions permit the property owner to file for property damage even though he or she has been compensated for the repairs by his or her insurer. In such instances a release should be obtained from both parties in interest or be released by both of them. The approved payment in a joint claim will be by joint check that will be sent to the subrogee unless both parties specify otherwise. If separate claims are filed, payment will be by check issued to each claimant to the extent of his or her undisputed interest.
