FR940907-1-00046 FR940907-1-00015 (2) Whenever a registrant discloses a security rating pursuant to this paragraph (g), the registrant shall disclose the following for each security rating disclosed: (i) The identity of the rating organization assigning the rating; (ii) The rating assigned; (iii) The relative rank of the rating within the assigning rating organization's overall classification system; (iv) A description of what the rating addresses; (v) All material scope limitations of the rating; (vi) Any material differences between the terms of the security as assumed in rating the security, and the terms of the security as specified in the governing instruments; (vii) Any material differences in the terms of the security as assumed in rating the security, and the terms of the security as marketed to investors; (viii) A statement informing investors that a security rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell, or hold securities, that it may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating organization, and that each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating; and (ix) Any published designation reflecting the results of any other evaluation done by the rating organization in connection with the rating, along with an explanation of the designation's meaning and the relative rank of the designation. Instructions to Item 202. * * * * * 6. For purposes of paragraph (g), the term nationally recognized statistical rating organization shall have the same meaning as used in §240.15c3&hyph;1(c)(2)(vi)(F). 7. A registrant shall disclose any material limitations to the security rating on the outside front cover page of the prospectus. 8. If a registrant includes information about security ratings in a prospectus pursuant to paragraph (g), the registrant shall update the description of each rating as set forth in this instruction 8: A. If a change in a rating already included in the prospectus is available subsequent to the filing of the registration statement, but prior to its effectiveness, the registrant shall include such rating change in the final prospectus. If the rating change is material, or if the registrant is required to disclose a materially different rating from any disclosed rating which becomes available during this period, the registrant shall amend the registration statement to include the rating change or the additional rating and should consider recirculating the preliminary prospectus. B. If an additional rating that the registrant is required to disclose, or if a material change in a rating already included, becomes available during any period in which offers or sales are being made, the registrant shall disclose such additional rating or rating change by means of a post-effective amendment, or sticker to the prospectus pursuant to §230.424(b) of this chapter. However, a post-effective amendment or sticker is not required in the case of a registration statement on Form S&hyph;3 (§239.13 of this chapter) if the registrant timely discloses the additional rating or the rating change in a document incorporated by reference into the registration statement subsequent to its effectiveness and prior to termination of the offering. 9. If a registrant discloses a security rating assigned by a non-NRSRO, the registrant also should include the written consent of the non-NRSRO rating organization. With respect to the written consent of any NRSRO, see §230.436(g) of this chapter. When the registrant has filed a registration statement on Form F&hyph;9 (§239.39 of this chapter), see §230.436(g) of this chapter with respect to the written consent of any rating organization specified in the Instruction to paragraph (A)(2) of General Instruction I of Form F&hyph;9. PART 230_GENERAL RULES AND REGULATIONS, SECURITIES ACT OF 1933 7. The authority citation for Part 230 continues to read in part as follows: Authority: 15 U.S.C. 77b, 77f, 77g, 77h, 77j, 77s, 77sss, 78c, 78 l , 78m, 78n, 78o, 78w, 78 ll (d), 79t, 80a&hyph;8, 80a&hyph;29, 80a&hyph;30, and 80a&hyph;37, unless otherwise noted. * * * * * 8. By amending §230.134 by revising paragraph (a)(14) to read as follows: §230.134 Communications not deemed a prospectus. * * * * * (a) *␣*␣* (14)(i) With respect to any class of securities, the security rating(s) assigned to the class of securities by any nationally recognized statistical rating organization(s) and the name(s) of the nationally recognized statistical rating organization(s) which assigned such rating(s), and with respect to any class of securities registered on Form F&hyph;9 (§239.39 of this chapter), the security rating(s) assigned to the class of securities by any other rating organization(s) specified in the Instruction to paragraph (a)(2) of General Instruction I of Form F&hyph;9 and the name(s) of the rating organization(s) which assigned such rating(s). (ii) For the purpose of paragraph (a)(14)(i) of this section, the term nationally recognized statistical rating organization shall have the same meaning as used in §240.15c3&hyph;1(c)(2)(vi)(F) of this chapter. (iii) For the purpose of paragraph (a)(14)(i) of this section, the term class of securities shall not include a class of securities issued by a registered investment company that does not constitute a class of senior securities for purposes of Section 18 of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. §80a&hyph;18). * * * * * 9. By amending §230.430A by revising paragraph (a) to read as follows: §230.430A Prospectus in a registration statement at the time of effectiveness. (a) The form of prospectus filed as part of a registration statement that is declared effective may omit information with respect to the public offering price, underwriting syndicate (including any material relationships between the registrant and underwriters not named therein), underwriting discounts or commissions, discounts or commissions to dealers, amount of proceeds, conversion rates, call prices, final security ratings, and other items dependent upon the offering price; delivery dates, and terms of the securities dependent upon the offering date; and such form of prospectus need not contain such information in order for the registration statement to meet the requirements of Section 7 of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. §77g) for the purposes of Section 5 of the Securities Act (15 U.S.C. §77e), Provided that: (1) The securities to be registered are offered for cash; (2) The registrant furnishes the undertakings required by Item 512(i) of Regulation S&hyph;K (§229.512(i) of this chapter); and (3) The information omitted in reliance upon this paragraph (a) from the form of prospectus filed as part of a registration statement that is declared effective is contained in a form of prospectus filed with the Commission pursuant to §230.424(b) or §230.497(h); except that if such form of prospectus is not so filed by the later of five business days after the effective date of the registration statement or five business days after the effectiveness of a post-effective amendment thereto that contains a form of prospectus, or transmitted by a means reasonably calculated to result in filing with the Commission by that date, the information omitted in reliance upon this paragraph (a) must be contained in an effective post-effective amendment to the registration statement. * * * * * 10. By amending §230.436 by revising paragraph (g) to read as follows: §230.436 Consents required in special cases. * * * * * (g)(1) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, the security rating assigned to a class of securities by a nationally recognized statistical rating organization, or, with respect to registration statements on Form F&hyph;9 (§239.39 of this chapter), by any other rating organization specified in the Instruction to paragraph (a)(2) of General Instruction I of Form F&hyph;9, shall not be considered a part of the registration statement prepared or certified by a person within the meaning of Sections 7 and 11 of the Act (15 U.S.C. §§776, 77k).
