FR940527-1-00030 FR940527-1-00014 II. Proposed Changes to DRG Classifications and Relative Weights A. Background Under the prospective payment system, we pay for inpatient hospital services on the basis of a rate per discharge that varies by the DRG to which a beneficiary's stay is assigned. The formula used to calculate payment for a specific case takes an individual hospital's payment rate per case and multiplies it by the weight of the DRG to which the case is assigned. Each DRG weight represents the average resources required to care for cases in that particular DRG relative to the average resources used to treat cases in other DRGs. Congress recognized that it would be necessary to recalculate the DRG relative weights periodically to account for changes in resource consumption. Accordingly, section 1886(d)(4)(C) of the Act requires that the Secretary adjust the DRG classifications and relative weights annually. These adjustments are made to reflect changes in treatment patterns, technology, and any other factors that may change the relative use of hospital resources. The proposed changes to the DRG classification system and the proposed recalibration of the DRG weights for discharges occurring on or after October 1, 1994 are discussed below. B. DRG Reclassification 1. General Cases are classified into DRGs for payment under the prospective payment system based on the principal diagnosis, up to eight additional diagnoses, and up to six procedures performed during the stay, as well as age, sex, and discharge status of the patient. The diagnosis and procedure information is reported by the hospital using codes from the International Classification of Diseases, Ninth Edition, Clinical Modification (ICD&hyph;9&hyph;CM). The Medicare fiscal intermediary enters the information into its claims system and subjects it to a series of automated screens called the Medicare Code Editor (MCE). These screens are designed to identify cases that require further review before classification into a DRG can be accomplished. After screening through the MCE and any further development of the claims, cases are classified by the GROUPER software program into the appropriate DRG. The GROUPER program was developed as a means of classifying each case into a DRG on the basis of the diagnosis and procedure codes and demographic information (that is, sex, age, and discharge status). It is used both to classify past cases in order to measure relative hospital resource consumption to establish the DRG weights and to classify current cases for purposes of determining payment. The records for all Medicare hospital inpatient discharges are maintained in the Medicare Provider Analysis and Review (MedPAR) file. The data in this file are used to evaluate possible DRG classification changes and to recalibrate the DRG weights. Currently, cases are assigned to one of 491 DRGs in 25 major diagnostic categories (MDCs). Most MDCs are based on a particular organ system of the body (for example, MDC 6, Diseases and Disorders of the Digestive System); however, some MDCs are not constructed on this basis since they involve multiple organ systems (for example, MDC 22, Burns). In general, principal diagnosis determines MDC assignment. However, there are four DRGs to which cases are assigned on the basis of procedure codes rather than first assigning them to an MDC based on the principal diagnosis. These are the DRGs for liver and bone marrow transplant (DRGs 480 and 481, respectively) and the two DRGs for tracheostomies (DRGs 482 and 483). Cases are assigned to these DRGs before classification to an MDC. Within most MDCs, cases are then divided into surgical DRGs (based on a surgical hierarchy that orders individual procedures or groups of procedures by resource intensity) and medical DRGs. Medical DRGs generally are differentiated on the basis of diagnosis and age. Some surgical and medical DRGs are further differentiated based on the presence or absence of complications or comorbidities (hereafter CC). Generally, GROUPER does not consider other procedures; that is, nonsurgical procedures or minor surgical procedures generally not performed in an operating room are not listed as operating room (OR) procedures in the GROUPER decision tables. However, there are a few non-OR procedures that do affect DRG assignment for certain principal diagnoses, such as extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy for patients with a principal diagnosis of urinary stones. The changes we are proposing to make to the DRG classification system for FY 1995 are set forth below. 2. MDC 2 (Diseases and Disorders of the Eye) When a case is coded with a principal diagnosis of subcorneal pustular dermatosis (diagnosis code 694.1), it is classified to MDC 2 (Diseases and Disorders of the Eye), where it is assigned to DRGs 46, 47, and 48 (Other Disorders of the Eye). 1 We recently received a suggestion from the public that we should review the DRG classification of subcorneal pustular dermatosis because it is a dermatological condition and is not a disease or disorder of the eye. 1 A single title combined with two DRG numbers is used to signify pairs. Generally, the first DRG is for cases with CC and the second is for cases without CC. If a third number is included, it represents cases of patients who are age 0&hyph;17. Occasionally, a pair of DRGs is split on age >17 and age 0&hyph;17.
