FR941221-0-00047 FR941221-0-00017 NATIONAL AERONAUTICS AND SPACE ADMINISTRATION 48 CFR Parts 1828 and 1852 RIN 2700&hyph;AB12 Changes to NASA FAR Supplement Cross-Waiver of Liability Clauses in NASA Contracts AGENCY: Office of Procurement, Contract Management Division, National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA). ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: This final rule is the regulatory basis for cross-waiver clauses to be included in contracts for NASA Space Shuttle services, ELV launches, and Space Station activities. These clauses represent the required implementation of a previously published final rule regarding NASA's policy of cross-waivers of liability in agreements for Space Shuttle services, ELV launches, and Space Station activities. By incorporating these cross-waivers of liability clauses in contracts for Space Shuttle services, ELV launches, and Space Station activities, NASA and the other parties agree not to bring claims against each other for any damage to property or for injury or death of employees that occurs during the time a cross-waiver is in effect. In addition, the clauses implement another requirement of the agreements which is to flow down these cross-waivers to their related entities ensuring that a party, its contractors, and subcontractors, waive their right to sue the other party, its contractors, and subcontractors for damages sustained in connection with activities conducted under the agreements. EFFECTIVE DATE: December 31, 1994. ADDRESSES: Office of Procurement, Contract Management Division (Code HK), National Aeronautics and Space Administration, 300 E Street, SW, Washington, DC 20546. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Ms. Deborah O'Neill, Telephone: (202) 358&hyph;0440. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background In September 1991, NASA published a final rule (14 CFR Part 1266) that established cross-waivers of liability as the regulatory basis for cross-waiver provisions to be included in agreements for NASA Space Shuttle launch services, space station activities, and ELV program launches. By developing broad, consistent cross-waivers, NASA established a known regime of liability limitation to encourage space exploration and investment by reducing insurance costs and the potential for litigation. To be made fully effective, the cross-waivers needed to be incorporated into applicable NASA prime contracts as well as subcontracts. This final rule establishes the regulatory basis for inclusion of these new cross-waivers in contracts for Space Shuttle services, Space Station activities, and ELV program launches.
