FR940503-2-00170 FR940503-2-00103 Comments: One commenter recommends that training objectives highlight the need for teachers to become more effective in motivating students to set and achieve their goals, and to help students understand the direct relationship of their success in school (i.e., traditional academic subjects) and future success in the world of work. Discussion: The priority does not preclude projects that help teachers motivate students and help students understand the relationship between their success in school and future success in the world of work. Changes: None. Comments: Two commenters recommend networking and collaboration to promote the interchange of ideas among teachers, community members, parents and others involved in education. Discussion: The priority as written requires partnerships that encourage collaboration and networking. Changes: None. Comments: One commenter recommends adding language under Required Activities that would provide for those with disabilities. Discussion: The Secretary intended to emphasize the provision of professional development opportunities that are aligned with challenging academic content standards for all students. Changes: ``All'' has been added to part ``a'' of Required Activities . Comments: One commenter recommends adding language to part ``c'' of Required Activities to include those with expertise in the education of children with disabilities. Discussion: The Secretary intended that projects funded under this program help all students achieve challenging academic standards. The Secretary intended that groups such as experts in the field of educating children with disabilities be involved. Changes: The phrase ``experts in the education of children with disabilities'' has been added to part ``c'' of Required Activities . Comments: One commenter recommends adding arts and cultural organizations as potential partners in these projects. Discussion: The priority permits arts and cultural organizations to participate as partners in these projects. However, the Secretary intended to encourage broad participation. Changes: The Absolute Priority section of the notice has been revised by adding arts and cultural organizations as potential partners in the professional development of teachers. Priorities: Absolute Priority Under 34 CFR 75.105(c)(3) the Secretary gives an absolute preference to applications that meet the following priority. The Secretary funds under this competition only applications that meet this absolute priority: Projects that design and implement innovative, high quality, standards-based preservice, induction and/or inservice professional development programs for K&hyph;12 teachers and other educators. Each project must involve one or more local education agencies (LEAs) working in partnership with one or more institutions of higher education (IHEs) and others such as State education officials and representatives from professional organizations, private schools, arts and cultural organizations, business, and the community, as appropriate. Programs and activities must be built upon relevant and current research including a demonstrated relationship between the professional development approach and lessons learned from relevant research and exemplary practice. A grounding in research findings must also be evident in the content of the professional development activities. Required Activities Each project must: a. Provide professional development opportunities that are aligned with challenging academic content standards for all students as developed through voluntary national, State, and/or local efforts in one or more subjects such as English, mathematics, science, history, geography, civics, foreign languages, economics, and the arts. b. Consider the implications of available professional standards such as those for beginning and expert teachers and other educators, as well as for teacher preparation, credentialling, and ongoing staff development as appropriate to the particular focus of the project. c. Establish an advisory committee composed of school and university practitioners; state education officials; experts in the education of children with disabilities; parents; professional organization, community and business representatives; and others as appropriate. The advisory committee must guide the project activities to ensure a systemic approach including cross-institutional planning, coordination, and resource allocation. d. Evaluate the following aspects of the project: 1. The degree to which the professional development content and strategies reflect relevant research and exemplary practice; 2. The degree to which the project activities were actually implemented as compared to the original design; and 3. The nature and impact of project outcomes related to improved teaching and increased student learning and development. The evaluation must use state-of-the-art documentation and assessment approaches. Intergovernmental Review This program is subject to the requirements of Executive Order 12372 and the regulations in 34 CFR part 79. The objective of the Executive Order is to foster an intergovernmental partnership and a strengthened federalism by relying on processes developed by State and local governments for coordination and review of proposed Federal financial assistance. In accordance with the order, this document is intended to provide early notification of the Department's specific plans and actions for this program. Applicable Program Regulations: The Education Department General Administrative Regulations (EDGAR) in 34 CFR parts 74, 75, 77, 79, 80, 81, 82, 85, and 86. Program Authority: 20 U.S.C. 3151. (Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance Number: 84.215J Secretary's Fund for Innovation in Education: Innovation in Education Program) Dated: April 28, 1994. Sharon P. Robinson, Assistant Secretary for Educational Research and Improvement. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;10555 Filed 5&hyph;2&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4000&hyph;01&hyph;P
