FR941012-1-00067 FR941012-1-00012 EPA is denying the petition of ICI Americas with respect to paraquat. The petitioner requests the Agency to remove paraquat from the extremely hazardous substance list or, in the alternative, to revise the threshold planning quantity. Petitioner notes that the ``paraquat'' on the EHS list is actually paraquat dichloride since, strictly speaking, paraquat is a divalent cation which can form many different salts, and paraquat dichloride is the only commercially available paraquat salt in the United States. Further, the Chemical Abstract Service (CAS) number identified on the EHS list is the number for paraquat dichloride. Petitioner bases its request to delist paraquat (dichloride) on the fact that the only studies that show LD 50 or LC 50 tests below the Agency criteria for listing are tests on either the pure solid form of the chemical or the highly concentrated form of the solution. Petitioner claims that the toxicity for any commercially available form is much lower than the EHS listing criteria and that tests showing high toxicity are of no practical importance. EPA agrees with petitioner that paraquat dichloride is the appropriate listed chemical. To clear any confusion that may result from the conflict between the paraquat listing and the CAS number, EPA is making a technical amendment to the EHS listing in 40 CFR Part 355 by substituting the term paraquat dichloride for paraquat (published elsewhere in this issue of the Federal Register ). All indications from the petition are that the public has been complying with the regulations under the assumption that ``paraquat'' refers to the paraquat dichloride product. EPA disagrees with petitioner that paraquat dichloride should be removed from the EHS list because only highly concentrated forms show high toxicity. Paraquat dichloride qualifies as an EHS because some form of it shows high toxicity that exceeds the Agency's criteria. This is the case for many animal tests used to determine toxicity for regulatory purposes. Animals may be dosed in concentrated forms or at very high levels to determine toxicity. The dose in the studies may be much higher than any found in actual practice. In the case of LD 50 or LC 50 tests, half the animals die. If these tests show 50 percent mortality at a relatively low dose, they at least raise concerns that qualify for listing. Smaller numbers of subjects may be affected at much lower doses, but that does not eliminate any concern for the tested chemical. Paraquat dichloride is listed because it is grouped with those chemicals that exceed Agency criteria in some form. The basis for listing paraquat was a study (Murray and Gibson, 1972) which showed a formulation containing paraquat dichloride as having an oral (guinea pig) LD 50 value of 22 mg/kg. Although the toxicity of the paraquat dichloride formulation is caused solely by the paraquat ion, based on the LD 50 of 22mg/kg for paraquat ion, ICI estimated an oral LD 50 value of 30.4 mg/kg for paraquat dichloride which does not meet the EHS criteria. ICI sponsored two acute inhalation studies in rats (ICI, 1989). The studies resulted in an LC 50 value of .001 mg/liter for the paraquat ion, which can be estimated for paraquat dichloride to be an LC 50 of .00138 mg/liter. This value would meet the EHS criteria for listing of 0.5 mg/liter as noted above. EPA is changing the basis for listing value from oral LD 50 of 22 mg/kg for paraquat ion to inhalation LC 50 of 0.00138 mg/liter for paraquat dichloride. Petitioner, alternatively, requests that the threshold planning quantity for paraquat dichloride should be higher than the current amount of 10 pounds. The threshold planning quantity for paraquat is 10 pounds for the chemical in finely powdered form (particle size under 100 microns), in molten form, or in solution. For paraquat in solid form with particle size greater than 100 microns the threshold planning quantity is 10,000 pounds. EPA's reasoning for determining these levels is found in the November 17, 1986 interim final rule notice at 51 FR 41575&hyph;76 and 41577, as amended by the April 22, 1987 final rule notice at 52 FR 13390. A summary of that reasoning follows.
