FR941212-0-00039 FR941212-0-00015 FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION 47 CFR Part 63 [CC Docket No. 87&hyph;266; FCC 94&hyph;269] Telephone Company-Cable Television Cross-Ownership Rules and Regulatory Procedures for Video Dialtone Service AGENCY: Federal Communications Commission. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: In a Memorandum Opinion and Order on Reconsideration in Common Carrier Docket 87&hyph;266, the Commission substantially affirmed the Second Report and Order, while modifying and clarifying that Order in various respects. Among the more significant actions, we first reaffirm the basic video dialtone regulatory construct adopted in the Second Report and Order. Local exchange carriers (LECs) offering video dialtone service must make available a common carrier platform that provides sufficient capacity to serve multiple video programmers, and may not allocate all or substantially all analog capacity to a single ``anchor programmer.'' Second, we clarify and modify our video dialtone policy to help ensure that telephone ratepayers do not have to bear the costs of video dialtone. These measures should also protect cable operators from potential anticompetitive actions by LECs, stemming from LEC incentives and opportunities to price video dialtone service unreasonably low relative to the cost of providing such service. For instance, we set forth specific guidance for application of our pricing rules to ensure that interstate video dialtone rates cover video dialtone costs_both the incremental costs of video dialtone and a reasonable allocation of shared plant costs and overheads. We also establish a data collection program to monitor the impact of video dialtone deployment on local rates as well as on separation results. Third, we modify our assertion of exclusive jurisdiction over all video dialtone services to recognize that states have jurisdiction over intrastate video dialtone services. This modification should provide a sound jurisdictional basis for the exercise of federal and state regulatory authority over video dialtone services. Finally, we issue a Third Further Notice of Proposed Rulemaking seeking additional information and comment on various issues not adequately addressed in the record currently before us. EFFECTIVE DATE: January 11, 1995 except that paragraphs 7, 80, 85, and 86 of this Federal Register Summary shall be effective March 14, 1995. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Jane Jackson, (202) 418&hyph;1593 or Gary Phillips, (202) 418&hyph;1573, Policy and Program Planning Division, Common Carrier Bureau. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: This is a synopsis of the Memorandum Opinion and Order on Reconsideration in Common Carrier Docket 87&hyph;266: Telephone Company-Cable Television Cross-Ownership Rules, Sections 63.54&hyph;63.58, adopted October 20, 1994, and released November 7, 1994. The complete text of this Memorandum Opinion and Order on Reconsideration is available for inspection and copying, Monday through Friday, 9 a.m.&hyph;4:30 p.m., in the FCC Reference Room (room 239), 1919 M Street NW., Washington, DC 20554. The complete text of the Memorandum Opinion and Order on Reconsideration may also be purchased from the Commission's copy contractor, International Transcription Services, Inc., 2100 M Street NW., suite 140, Washington, DC 20037, (202) 857&hyph;3800. Paperwork Reduction Act 1. In the Memorandum Opinion and Order on Reconsideration, the Commission added video dialtone service to the basic service categories for which it requires that LECs report installation and maintenance activities. In addition, the Commission required that each of the Bell Operating Companies (BOCs) and GTE Service Corporation (GTE) to file, by March 14, 1995, a detailed description of the types of CPNI to which it anticipates having access as a provider of video dialtone service. The Commission directed the BOCs and GTE to explain how they would plan to use such information in marketing video dialtone services to video programmers or consumers. The Commission also required LECs providing video dialtone service to notify the Chief of the Common Carrier Bureau, of any anticipated or existing capacity shortfall in their video dialtone platform and of plans for addressing such shortfall. Such notice must be provided within thirty days after the LEC becomes aware of an anticipated shortfall or within five days after denying capacity to a video programmer, whichever occurs first. The public reporting burden for these collections of information is estimated to average approximately 200 hours per response, including the time for reviewing instructions, searching existing data sources, gathering and maintaining the data needed, and completing and reviewing these collections of information. Send comments regarding this burden estimate or any other aspect of these collections of information, including suggestions for reducing the burden, to the Federal Communications Commission, Records Management Branch, Paperwork Reduction Project (3060&hyph;0149), Washington, DC 20554 and to the Office of Management and Budget, Paperwork Reduction (3060&hyph;0149), Washington, DC 20503. Synopsis of Memorandum Opinion and Order on Reconsideration 2. The Memorandum Opinion and Order on Reconsideration clarifies or modifies the Second Report and Order, 57 FR 41106 (September 9, 1992), in several respects. These modifications are consistent with the Commission's intent to eliminate artificial regulatory barriers to competitive entry and to efficient investment, thereby facilitating competition in video delivery services, promoting investment in infrastructure, and fostering greater diversity in video programming.
