FR940922-0-00008 FR940922-0-00003 2. Part 107 is amended by adding a new §107.215 to read as follows: §107.215 Commitments by SBA. (a) General. A Licensee may apply for SBA's conditional commitment to reserve an amount of Leverage against which SBA may purchase its Preferred Securities or guarantee its Debentures or Participating Securities as and when offered for future public sales. The amount of any such commitment shall be not less than $1,000,000 but not more than 100 percent of Regulatory Capital. Applications shall be prepared and submitted in accordance with §107.210(b), as amended from time to time, except to the extent that this §107.215 is inconsistent therewith. (b) Commitment fees. The Licensee shall pay to SBA a nonrefundable fee of 3% of the face amount of the Debentures or Participating Securities reserved under the commitment or, in the case of Preferred Securities reserved under a commitment, 1% of the issue price of such Preferred Securities. No request for a draw will be approved unless this fee has been paid in full. The 2% fee required to be paid by issuers of Debentures or Participating Securities pursuant to §107.210(d) shall be credited against the 3% commitment fee paid pursuant to this paragraph (b). (c) Automatic cancellation of commitment. Unless the full amount of the commitment fee is paid by 5:00 p.m. Eastern Time on the 30th calendar day following SBA's issuance of its commitment, the commitment shall be automatically cancelled. (d) Lapse of commitment. Notwithstanding payment of the commitment fee, SBA's commitment shall automatically lapse at 5:00 p.m. Eastern Time on the 60th calendar day preceding the close of the next full Federal fiscal year following issuance of such commitment. (e) Additional record-keeping requirements. Following notification that SBA's commitment has been granted, a Licensee shall submit a Financial Statement on SBA Form 468 (Short Form) as of the close of each quarter of its fiscal year to SBA within 30 days after the close of the quarter, or with any request for a draw that is made within such 30-day period. If a Licensee is not in compliance with this paragraph, no draw request shall be considered. (f) Draws. (1) Minimum amount of draw. The minimum face amount of Debentures or Participating Securities that may be issued in connection with a draw against SBA's commitment is $1,000,000; plus multiples of $100,000 above $1,000,000. Preferred Securities may be issued in any amount. (2) Conditions to draws. No Licensee shall be eligible to make a draw against SBA's commitment unless it is in compliance with all applicable provisions of the Act and SBA regulations (i.e., no unresolved statutory or regulatory violations); Provided, however, that a Licensee that is not in compliance may nevertheless be eligible for draws if SBA determines that (i) The Licensee's outstanding violations are of non-substantive provisions of the Act or regulations and that the Licensee has not repeatedly violated non-substantive provisions of the Act or regulations or (ii) The Licensee has agreed with SBA as to a course of action for the resolution of its violations and such agreement does not preclude the issuance of Leverage by the Licensee. (3) Procedures for funding draws. (i) General. A request for a draw, which may be submitted at any time, is submitted in the form of a request that the Licensee's Preferred Security be purchased by SBA; or that its Debenture or Participating Security be guaranteed by SBA, sold to a short-term investor and subsequently included in the next pool for which the Licensee's securities are eligible. The following documentation shall accompany each such request for a draw: (A) If such request is submitted within 30 days following the close of the Licensee's fiscal quarter, the request shall be accompanied by a Financial Statement on SBA Form 468 (Short Form) reflecting the Licensee's condition as of the close of that fiscal quarter; otherwise, the request shall be accompanied by a formal statement of no material adverse change in financial condition since the filing of the most recent SBA Form 468 (Long or Short Form). (B) A certified statement executed by an officer of the Licensee or of a corporate general partner of the Licensee, or by an individual that is authorized to act as or for a general partner of the Licensee, as the case may be, representing that to the best of its knowledge and belief the Licensee is in compliance with all provisions of the Act and SBA regulations (i.e., no unresolved regulatory or statutory violations) or a statement as to the specific nature of any violations of which it is aware. (C) A statement that the proceeds are needed to fund a particular Small Concern, which statement shall also include the name and address of the Small Concern, the amount of the Licensee's proposed Financing, and the scheduled closing date thereof. Within 30 calendar days after the actual closing date, the Licensee shall submit an SBA Form 1031 confirming the closing of the transaction(s) with the proceeds of the draw or, within 60 calendar days after the scheduled closing date, the Licensee shall submit a written explanation of the failure to close. Failure to submit an accurate Form 1031 or satisfactory written explanation of failure to close will preclude consideration of any subsequent draw requests, and may be deemed an event affecting the Licensee's good standing or constituting consent to restricted operations, as the case may be. (ii) Draw process. (A) General. By submitting a request for a draw, a Licensee is conclusively presumed to have authorized SBA to purchase its Preferred Security, or to have authorized SBA or any agent or trustee designated by SBA to guaranty its Debenture or Participating Security and to sell it with SBA's guarantee, to enter into any agreements (and to bind the Licensee to such agreements) that may be necessary to effect: ( 1 ) The sale of the Licensee's security to a short-term investor, ( 2 ) Its purchase on the Licensee's behalf (or by the Licensee itself), and ( 3 ) The subsequent pooling of that security with other securities with the same maturity date: Provided, however, That the Licensee shall retain the right to repurchase its securities upon notice to SBA at least 10 days prior to the cut-off date for the pool in which the Licensee's security is to be included by tendering the face amount of the Debenture, or the face amount of the Participating Security plus Earned Prioritized Payments, as the case may be, to the short-term investor. (B) Debentures. An SBA guaranteed Debenture shall be sold to a short-term investor at a discount calculated with reference to a rate determined by the Secretary of the Treasury in accordance with Section 303(b) of the Act (but without regard to any interest subsidy to which the Licensee may be otherwise entitled), as if the maturity date of the Debenture were the next scheduled date for the sale of pool certificates: Provided, however, That if the actual sale of pool certificates shall take place after the scheduled date, the Licensee shall pay to the short-term investor, on the actual sale date, an additional sum equal to daily interest as scheduled on the Debenture, at the same rate, from the scheduled sale date to the actual sale date. Failure to make such interest payment on the closing date shall constitute an event giving rise to a condition affecting the Licensee's good standing. (C) Participating securities. The Licensee's Participating Security shall be sold to a short-term investor for a sum equal to the face amount thereof. The Licensee shall undertake, with SBA's guarantee, to pay the short-term investor, at the closing of the next scheduled sale of pool certificates, Prioritized Payments as scheduled on the Security at a rate determined by the Secretary of the Treasury in accordance with Section 303(b) of the Act, as if the maturity date of the Participating Security were the next scheduled date for the sale pool certificates. Dated: September 15, 1994. Erskine B. Bowles, Administrator. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;23338 Filed 9&hyph;21&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8025&hyph;01&hyph;M
