FR940727-2-00125 FR940727-2-00070 (2) Track an applicant from the time of Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS) approval until arrival in the United States; (3) Achieve initial reception and placement of individuals admitted into the U.S. as refugees; (4) Collect statistics concerning applicants; and (5) Assist in the collection of indebtedness owed to IOM and/or the United States Government. Also see ``Routine Uses'' paragraph of the Prefatory Statement published in the Federal Register (42 FR 49699, September 27, 1977). Policies and practices for storing, retrieving, accessing, retaining and disposing of records in the system: Storage: Electronic media; hard copy; microfilm. retrievability: By case number, alien number, and applicant name. Safeguards: All records containing personal information are maintained in secured file cabinets or in restricted areas access to which is limited to Department of State personnel and contractors; Refugee Data Center personnel and contractors; participating voluntary agency representatives; and others specifically authorized under the ``Guidelines for the Treatment of Refugee Records Maintained by Refugee Data Center'' which are incorporated in the cooperative agreement between the International Catholic Migration Commission and the Department of State. Access to computerized files is password-protected and under the direct supervision of the system manager. The system manager has the capability of printing audit trails of access from the computer media, thereby permitting regular and ad hoc monitoring of computer usage. Retention and disposal: Retention of these records varies depending upon the specific kind of record involved. They are retired or destroyed in accordance with published record schedules of the Department of State and as approved by the National Archives and Records Administration. More specified information may be obtained by writing to the Director, Office of Freedom of Information, Privacy, and Classification Review, Room 1239, Department of State, 2201 C Street, NW, Washington, DC 20520&hyph;1239. System manager and address: Executive Director, Bureau of Population, Refugees, and Migration, SA&hyph;1, Room 1251, Department of State, 2401 E Street NW., Washington, DC 20522. The on-site system manager is the Systems Manager, Refugee Data Center, 200 Park Avenue South, Room 801, New York, NY 10003. Notification procedure: Individuals who have reason to believe that the Refugee Data Center might have records pertaining to themselves should write to the Director, Office of Freedom of Information, Privacy and Classification Review, Room 1239, Department of State, 2201 C Street, NW, Washington, DC 20520&hyph;1239. The individual must specify that he/she wishes the records of the Refugee Data Center to be checked. At a minimum, the individual must include: Name, date and place of birth, the approximate date of arrival in the U.S., his/her INS ``A'' number; current mailing address and zip code, and signature. Record access and amendment procedures: Individuals who wish to gain access to or amend records pertaining to themselves should write to the Director, Office of Freedom of Information, Privacy and Classification Review (address above). Record source categories: These records contain information obtained directly from individual who is the subject of these records and relatives, sponsors, members of Congress, U.S. Government agencies, voluntary agencies, international organizations, and local sources at overseas posts. Systems exempted from certain provisions of the Act: None. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;18299 Filed 7&hyph;26&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4710&hyph;24&hyph;M
