FR940616-0-00085 FR940616-0-00011 Accordingly, this final rule provides that HUD will follow the ADAAG whenever it provides greater accessibility than the UFAS. Additionally, the terms ``UFAS'' and ``ADAAG'' will be added to the definition section of the part 9 rule_ยง9.103. Revised Definition of ``Accessible'' A minor revision is made to each of the definitions of accessible in ยง9.103. Each definition includes the phrase ``complies with applicable accessibility standards'' to clarify that the design, construction or alteration undertaken must comply with applicable accessibility standards. Revised Definition of ``Accessible Route'' This final rule revises the definition of accessible route . The definition of accessible route in the part 9 proposed rule was modeled on the definition of accessible route in 24 CFR part 8. However, on further consideration, the Department finds the part 8 definition to be too limited for purposes of part 9. Part 8 applies solely to HUD-assisted programs. The majority of these programs are concerned with assisting individuals and families to obtain decent and affordable housing by providing financial assistance (through rental subsidies or for the development and operation of public housing), or by endorsing a mortgage on a house or the mortgage note on a housing project (or both) for insurance. Thus, the part 8 definition of accessible route reflects part 8's focus on housing facilities. Part 9, however, applies to all programs or activities conducted by HUD. These programs and activities, as noted in the preamble to the part 9 proposed rule (56 FR 24605), consist of the following: (1) Employment; (2) HUD's contact with the general public as part of ongoing agency operations; and (3) those HUD programs directly administered by HUD for program beneficiaries and participants. Activities within category 2 include communications with the public (telephone contacts, office walk-ins or interviews) and the public's use of the agency facilities. Activities within category (3) include programs that provide Federal services or benefits (e.g., housing facilities in HUD's Property Disposition Program, training at both HUD and outside facilities, contracting and policy-development). These activities involve many types of buildings and facilities, not just housing facilities. Accordingly, the definition of accessible route route in part 9 is revised by replacing it with the definition of accessible route route used in the ADAAG. The definition of accessible route route in the ADAAG includes examples of interior accessible route routes and exterior accessible route routes. Revised Definition of ``Adaptability'' The definition of adaptability is also revised by this final rule. The definition of adaptability in the proposed part 9 rule was based on the definition of adaptability in 24 CFR part 8. The part 8 definition is solely concerned with adaptability in dwelling units, and, therefore, inappropriate for part 9, for the same reasons stated under the discussion of the revised definition of accessible route route. Accordingly, the Department is adopting the definition of adaptability based on the definition of adaptability provided in the UFAS and ADAAG, which provide the same definition for this term. As revised in this final rule, adaptability will mean the ability of certain elements of a dwelling unit, such as kitchen counters, sinks and grab bars, to be added or altered so as to accommodate the needs of individuals with or without disabilities or to accommodate the needs of persons with different types or degrees of disability. This definition differs from the definition in the part 9 proposed rule in that it refers to ``building spaces and elements'' instead of ``certain elements of a dwelling unit.'' Both UFAS and ADAAG use the phrase ``building spaces and elements.'' Replacement of Definition of ``Agency-Owned Housing Facility'' With ``PDP Housing Facility'' The final rule replaces the term ``agency-owned housing facility'' with PDP housing facility. PDP refers to HUD's Property Disposition Program, and a definition is also included for this term. (See discussion below.) Since the only HUD-owned housing facilities are those in the Property Disposition Program, the Department believed use of the term ``PDP housing facility'' is a more accurate term.
