FR940817-2-00262 FR940817-2-00113 When neural tissue, typically from fetal animals, is dissociated into a suspension of single cells, and the suspension is inoculated into tissue-culture dishes, the neurons and glia survive, grow, and establish functional neuronal networks. Such preparations have been made from most regions of the CNS and exhibit highly differentiated, site-specific properties that constitute an in vitro model of different portions of the CNS. Most of the neuronal transmitter and receptor phenotypes can be demonstrated, and a variety of synaptic interactions can be studied. Glial cells are also present, and neuroglial interactions are a prominent feature of the cultures. A substantial battery of assays (neurochemical and neurophysiologic) is now available to assess the development of the cultures and to indicate toxic effects of test agents added to the culture medium. Relatively pure populations of different cell types can be isolated and cultured, so that effects on specific cell types can be assessed independently. Pure glial cells or neurons, or even specific neural categories, can be prepared in this way and studied separately, or interaction between neurons and glial cells can be studied at high resolution. The neurobiologic measures used to assess the effect of any agent can be very specific (for example, activity of neurotransmitter-related enzyme or binding of a receptor ligand) or global (for example, neuron survival or concentration of glial fibrillary acidic protein). The two-dimensional character of the preparations makes them particularly suited for morphologic evaluation, and detailed electrophysiologic studies are readily performed. The toxic effects and mechanisms of anticonvulsants, excitatory amino acids, and various metals and divalent cations have been assessed with these preparations. The cerebellar granular cell culture system, for example, has been exploited recently in studies of the mechanism of alkyllead toxicity (Verity et al., 1990). A related preparation made from single-cell suspensions of neural tissue is the reaggregate culture. Instead of being placed in culture dishes and allowed to settle onto the surface of the dishes, the cells are kept in suspension by agitation; under appropriate conditions, they stick to one another and form aggregates of controllable size and composition. Typically, the cells in an aggregate organize and exhibit intercellular relations that are a function of, and bear some resemblance to, the brain region that was the source of the cells. The cells establish a three-dimensional, often laminated structure. Reaggregate cultures lend themselves to large-scale, quantitative experiments in which neurobiologic variables can be examined, although morphologic and ligand-binding studies are performed less readily than with surface cultures. Organotypic explant cultures also are closely related to the intact nervous system. Small pieces or slices of neural tissue are placed in culture and can be maintained for long periods with substantial maintenance of structural and cell-cell relations of intact tissue. Specific synaptic relations develop and can be maintained and evaluated, both morphologically and electrophysiologically. Because all regions of the nervous system are amenable to this sort of preparation, it is possible to analyze toxic agents that are active only in specific regions of the central or peripheral nervous system. Explants can be made from relatively thin slices of neural tissue, so detailed morphologic and intracellular electrophysiologic studies are possible. Their anatomic integrity is such that they capture many of the cell-cell interactions characteristic of the intact nervous system while allowing a direct, continuing evaluation of the effects of a potentially neurotoxic compound added to the culture medium. The process of myelination has been studied extensively in explant cultures, and considerable neurotoxicologic information has been gained. A preparation similar to an explant culture is the organ culture, in which an entire organ, such as the inner ear or a ganglion, rather than slices or fragments, is grown in vitro. Obviously, only structures so small that their viability is not compromised can be treated in this way. In general, the technical ease of maintaining a culture varies inversely with the degree to which it captures a spectrum of in vivo characteristics of nervous system behavior. The problem of biotransformation of potentially neurotoxic compounds is shared by all, although the more complete systems (explant or organ cultures) might alleviate this problem in specific instances. In many culture systems, complex and ill-defined additives_such as fetal calf serum, horse serum, and human placental serum_are used to promote cell survival. A number of thoroughly described synthetic media are now available, however, and such fully defined culture systems can be used where necessary.
