FR940916-0-00042 FR940916-0-00016 Some commenters suggested a shorter period of 30 days as conforming more closely to international commercial norms. Some shipyards were concerned that the 60-day turnaround is noncompetitive in the international market because a ``complete'' application may in itself take more than 60 days to draft. They suggested that guidelines would be necessary to define the procedures for submitting a complete application. Some suggested that for a pre-approved ship design, MARAD should be able to issue Letter Commitments within 30 days, and suggested that MARAD review its application requirements to ensure that it is not requiring burdensome information. One commenter suggested that a deadline for processing completed applications is an unnecessary requirement. MARAD Response: The discussion of the interim final rule stated that a separate Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (NPRM) would be published at a later date that would propose modifications to the Title XI regulations to improve administration of the entire Title XI program. Such modifications were not addressed in the interim rule because they were not required to implement the amendments made to Title XI resulting from enactment of the Shipbuilding Act. MARAD has determined that the two specific areas on which comments were solicited_the Letter of Interest and a deadline, such as 60 days, for processing a complete Title XI application_should be addressed in the NPRM because they apply to both the export and domestic programs. This will allow MARAD to deal with the issues at the same time. Commenters need not resubmit their views on Letters of Interest and the 60-day processing period in response to the new rulemaking. Meanwhile, MARAD will consider requests for Letters of Interest and will make every effort to finish its review of completed applications within 60 business days. Discussion of Regulations by Sections Note: Paragraph references are as designated or redesignated in the interim final rule. Section 298.2␣Definitions (c) Advanced Shipbuilding Technology (``AST''). Some shipyards urged that the requirement that AST/MST be located at a ``general shipyard facility'' should not preclude the design, development and construction of ship-borne AST/MST or mobile marine equipment that incorporates such technology. MARAD Response: The statutory definition of a General Shipyard Facility includes a ``Vessel'' designed for the construction, repair, rehabilitation, refurbishment or rebuilding of any vessel. To the extent that such a Vessel incorporated the AST/MST, the regulations would not preclude their eligibility for a Guarantee. (e) Closing. Certain shipyard commenters requested that the definition of ``Closing'' be amended to clarify that a Mortgage is not issued at every closing and that a Mortgage may not be available for collateral that does not constitute realty. MARAD Response: MARAD believes that the current regulations are sufficiently clear. To constitute a ``Closing'' under MARAD's regulations, a Mortgage need not be required. (f) Depository. A number of commenters argue that it is unfair for MARAD to allow foreign Vessel owners and operators to use as a Depository foreign financial institutions that are not available to U.S. Vessel owners and operators that participate in the Title XI program. One commenter was in favor of allowing foreign institutions in foreign countries to act as Depositories for Eligible Export Vessels. One commenter stated that the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico should be specifically added to the definition of Depositories acceptable under the domestic program and another stated that it assumes the definition of Depository will not exclude foreign branches of U.S. banks. MARAD Response: When a Shipowner or charterer fails to maintain an agreed financial condition, Title XI documents require that it make certain payments from its net cash flow to the Depository as collateral for MARAD. MARAD agrees that, for reasons related to the enforceability of its collateral interests, there is insufficient reason to allow foreign Depositories for Eligible Export Vessels or Vessels in the domestic program. To clarify further the range of acceptable financial institutions allowed in the Eligible Export Vessel Program, MARAD has explicitly added financial institutions located in the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and, with the subsequent specific approval of MARAD, foreign branches of U.S. financial institutions as acceptable Depository institutions, to hold Vessel charter hire and Reserve Funds. (i) Eligible Export Vessel. A number of commenters stated that the definition of Eligible Export Vessels was too ``vague'' and should be clarified to include all vessel types within the scope of 298.2(bb), the definition of ``Vessel.'' MARAD Response: The regulations provide that an Eligible Export Vessel means a ``vessel'' with certain characteristics and they also provide a more comprehensive definition of ``Vessel.'' MARAD intended the term Eligible Export Vessel to include the definition of Vessel. The clarification sought by commenters is obtained by amending section 298.2(i) to read: ``Eligible Export Vessel means a Vessel ``constructed, reconstructed, or reconditioned in the United States for use in world-wide trade that will, upon delivery or redelivery, be placed under or continued to be documented under the laws of a country other than the United States.''
