FR940304-1-00161 FR940304-1-00014 Microwave ovens . Section 325(l)(2)(A) of the Act specifies that the Department must consider, for amended standards, those standards that ``achieve the maximum improvement in energy efficiency which the Secretary determines is technologically feasible and economically justified.'' Accordingly, the Department first considered the max tech level of efficiency, i.e., standard level 5 for amended microwave oven standards. Of the standard levels analyzed, level 5 will save the most energy (0.84 quad between 1996 and 2030). In order to meet this standard, the Department assumes that all microwave ovens will have more efficient power supplies, fans and magnetrons; modified wave guides and reflective surfaces. However, the payback at this standard level of 13.0 years exceeds the 10-year product life, and this level produces increased life-cycle costs. The Department therefore concludes that the burdens of standard level 5 for microwave ovens outweigh the benefits, and rejects the standard level. The next most stringent standard level is standard level 4. This standard level is projected to save 0.77 quad of energy. However, the payback at this standard level of 7.4 years is nearly three quarters of the product life and produces an increase in life-cycle costs. The Department therefore concludes that the burdens of standard level 4 for microwave ovens outweigh the benefits, and rejects the standard level. After carefully considering the analysis, the Department is amending the National Appliance Energy Conservation Act-imposed 1990 standard for the microwave oven portion of kitchen ranges and ovens with standard level 3 for microwave ovens. The Department concludes that standard level 3 for microwave ovens saves a significant amount of energy and is technologically feasible and economically justified. There would be significant energy savings at this level of efficiency. During the period 1996&hyph;2030, these savings are calculated to be 0.67 quad of primary energy. In addition, the standard could have a positive effect on the environment by reducing the emissions of NO 2 and SO 2 by 128,000 tons and 156,000 tons, respectively, or by as much as 0.10 percent each by the year 2030. Furthermore, the standard will reduce emissions of CO 2 by 56 million tons, or 0.10 percent, over the forecast period. The technologies that are necessary to meet this standard are presently available. The Department finds the level to be economically justified. The consumer payback of this standard level is 2.9 years, which meets the rebuttable presumption test of economic justification. This standard is close to the lowest life-cycle cost for microwave ovens and is expected to result in a reduction in life-cycle cost of approximately $14. Additionally, the standard is expected to have almost no impact on the prototypical manufacturer's return on equity of 8.6 percent. Since this standard does not involve substantial redesign or retooling, the Department expects that it will not have negative impacts on smaller competitors. f. Pool Heaters 1. Efficiency Levels Analyzed. The Department examined a range of standard levels for pool heaters. In reviewing the design options necessary to achieve those standard levels, the Department determined that a new energy descriptor was needed to adequately address some of the design options in the analysis because the current energy descriptor, Thermal Efficiency, does not include pilot light usage or electrical consumption. For example, to consider electronic ignition, the savings in pilot light gas consumption would have to be accounted for in the descriptor. Furthermore, other design options, for instance, fan-assisted combustion, improve thermal efficiency but, at the same time, increase overall electrical consumption which, unless accounted for in the energy descriptor, could lead to higher Thermal Efficiency with little or no net energy savings. Because of the above, the Department conducted the analysis, and is proposing the standards, in terms of a new energy descriptor, annual efficiency. The test procedure to determine this energy descriptor is contained in the previously mentioned Notice of Proposed Rulemaking. Table 4&hyph;13 presents the four efficiency levels that had been selected for analysis for pool heaters. Level 4 corresponds to the highest efficiency level, max tech, considered in the engineering analysis.
