FR940617-1-00096 FR940617-1-00012 (c) Warnings. For products containing 70 percent or more isopropyl alcohol the following warning shall immediately follow the warning statement in §333.450(c)(4): ``Do not use with electrocautery procedures.'' (d) Directions. The labeling of the product contains the following statements, under the heading ``Directions,'' that reflect the conditions used when the product was tested according to §333.470(b)(3): (1) For products containing any ingredient identified in §333.412(a), (d), and (e) that are intended to remain on the skin after application. ``Clean the area. Apply product to the operative site prior to surgery'' (insert method of application, including any device used, when tested according to §333.470 (b)(3).) If appropriate, insert ``Dry and repeat procedure.'' (2) For products containing any ingredient identified in §333.412(b) or (c) that are intended to be removed from the skin after application. ``Apply product to the operative site prior to surgery'' (insert method of application, including any device used, when tested according to §333.470(b)(3).) ``When product dries, remove immediately with 70 percent alcohol, or use as directed by a physician.'' §333.465 Labeling of surgical hand scrub drug products. (a) Statement of identity. The labeling of the product contains the established name of the drug, if any, and identifies the product as an ``antiseptic,'' as stated above under §333.450(a), and/or ``surgical hand scrub.'' (b) Indication. The labeling of the product states, under the heading ``Indication,'' the following: ``Significantly reduces the number of micro-organisms on the hands and forearms prior to surgery or patient care.'' Other truthful and nonmisleading statements, describing only the indications for use that have been established and listed in paragraph (b) of this section, may also be used, as provided in §330.1(c)(2) of this chapter, subject to the provisions of section 502 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (the act) relating to misbranding and the prohibition in section 301(d) of the act against the introduction or delivery for introduction into interstate commerce of unapproved new drugs in violation of section 505(a) of the act. (c) Directions. The labeling of the product contains the following statements, under the heading ``Directions,'' that reflect the conditions used when the product was tested according to §333.470(b)(1): (1) For products to be used with water. ``Clean under nails with a nail pick. Nails should be maintained with a 1 millimeter free edge. Wet hands and forearms. Apply 5 milliliters (teaspoonful) or palmful to hands and forearms. Scrub thoroughly for (insert scrub duration used when tested according to §333.470(b)(1)) ``with a sterile'' (insert applicable device), ``paying particular attention to the nails, cuticles, and interdigital spaces. Rinse and repeat scrub'' (if applicable, insert instructions for second scrub used when tested according to §333.470(b)(1), if different from the first). (2) For products to be used without water. ``Clean under nails with a nail pick. Nails should be maintained with a 1 millimeter free edge. Place a `palmful' (5 grams) of product in one hand. Spread on both hands, paying particular attention to the nails, cuticles, and interdigital spaces, and rub into the skin until dry (approximately 1 to 2 minutes). Place a smaller amount (2.5 grams) into one hand, spread over both hands to wrist, and rub into the skin until dry (approximately 30 seconds).'' §333.470 Testing of health-care antiseptic drug products. (a) General testing criteria. The procedures in this section are designed to characterize the effectiveness of antiseptic drug products formulated for use as an antiseptic handwash or health-care personnel handwash, patient preoperative skin preparation, and surgical hand scrub. Requests for any modifications of the testing procedures in this section or alternative assay methods are to be submitted in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section. (1) In vitro testing. The following tests must be performed using the antiseptic ingredient, the vehicle, and the finished product for all drug product classes:
