FR940228-1-00073 FR940228-1-00010 Currently, the Department of Education uses a single application form that addresses both institutional eligibility requirements (as found in 34 CFR part 600) and the standards for certification of administrative capability and financial responsibility. In recent years, although institutions filed a single application form, they received separate notifications of action from the Department: an institutional eligibility notice and a certification letter. This created confusion because some institutions misinterpreted the institutional eligibility notice also to be the notice informing the institution that it met the requirements for ``certification'' and that the institution was now able to participate in a Title IV, HEA program. In order to reduce confusion, the Secretary is now combining these notices of ``institutional eligibility'' and ``certification'', issuing one ``Institutional Approval Notice'' to an institution that meets the institutional eligibility and certification requirements. The Institutional Approval Notice advises the institution that it is an eligible institution, and is approved to participate in the Title IV, HEA programs listed in the Notice and indicated in the institution's program participation agreement. The effective date of approval, which is specified in the Institutional Approval Notice, is the date that the Secretary signs the institution's program participation agreement. Under current practice, an institution that wishes to participate in a Title IV, HEA program for the first time must first apply to the Secretary for a certification that the institution meets the standards for participation found in Subpart B of these regulations. A currently participating institution must apply to the Secretary for a certification that the institution continues to meet these standards under a number of conditions. First, the institution must apply for certification if the Secretary requests the institution to apply. The Secretary reserves the right to require a participating institution to apply at any time if the Secretary is concerned about the institution's continued participation in a Title IV, HEA program. Currently, the Secretary exercises this authority only rarely, and generally when the Secretary receives reliable information that could affect the institution's eligibility under 34 CFR part 600 or the institution's financial responsibility or administrative capability under subpart B of these regulations. For example, if the Secretary receives information that an institution that does not grant degrees has received authorization from its State and accrediting agency to award degrees, the Secretary would require the institution to apply under 34 CFR part 600 to determine whether the institution satisfies the definition for a different type of institution and therefore might be eligible to apply to participate in HEA programs for which the institution earlier was not qualified. At the same time, the Secretary requires the institution to apply for recertification under this subpart. Similarly, if the Secretary receives reliable information that could affect whether an institution meets the factors of financial responsibility in this subpart, the Secretary requires the institution to apply for recertification. The Secretary does not intend to exercise this authority more frequently than under current practice. Second, a participating institution must apply for certification if the institution wishes to include in its participation a branch campus (as that term would be defined in 34 CFR part 600) or another location that offers 100 percent of an educational program. Adding a branch campus or additional location that offers 100 percent of an educational program can have a great effect on the ability of an institution to continue to participate in the Title IV, HEA programs. The Secretary considers it is appropriate to scrutinize the effect of such an addition. In particular, the Secretary believes it is necessary to examine whether the institution has the financial resources and the administrative capability necessary to support such an addition.
