FR940919-0-00006 FR940919-0-00001 Comment: Section 400.54(g)_One comment suggested the following rewrite of the last sentence to improve clarity: ``Master Yields are based on production history from all acreage of the crop in which the insured has an interest in the county.'' Another comment noted that the rule consistently requires that the producer provide four years of records in order to qualify for a Master Yield. This requirement has hampered new sales of crop insurance which use the Master Yield concept. Master Yields may vary drastically between landlord and tenant on the same piece of ground due to the fact that a producer's yield is calculated using records from all farms. The comment suggested that FCIC work with the industry to resolve these problems. Response: FCIC agrees with these comments and has made the necessary changes. Regarding the concerns about Master Yields, FCIC will not change the four-year record requirement because APH is also available on Master Yield crops. FCIC also will base Master Yields on the operator's records. By calculating Master Yields from the operator's records, the same APH yield will be provided for both the landlord and tenant. FCIC has implemented the Master Yield changes for the 1994 crop year. Comment: Section 400.54(h)_One comment suggested that the phrase ``whether continuous or not'' was misleading, considering the previous emphasis on maintaining continuity of production reports. The comment further made the following observations. If entering a yield is intended to allow use of history prior to the break in continuity of production reports, it should be so clarified. If intended to allow prior history regardless of a break in continuity of insurance, entering a yield will impose major difficulties. In conjunction with the revision in crop year definition, this could require companies to maintain yield history indefinitely. For example, a farmer many have had a policy five years ago but production history may have to go back 30 or 40 calendar years to accumulate 10 crop years of actual yields. Response: This provision does not affect the continuity requirements applicable to annual production reports provided by the insured. However, it does allow FCIC to use production history on file prior to a break in continuity of insurance coverage. FCIC reserves the latitude of implementing this provision by issuing procedures outlining records identification (tracking) methods to correctly assign such production. FCIC recently implemented a policyholder tracking system based on social security/employee identification numbers and may implement this provision in the future. Use of this procedure keeps an insured who may have had a low APH yield from canceling insurance for one year in order to achieve a fresh start, and thus, gain a higher yield. List of Subjects in 7 CFR Part 400 Actual Production History Coverage Plan, Crop Insurance. Final Rule Accordingly, pursuant to the authority contained in the Federal Crop Insurance Act, as amended by the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1993, the Federal Crop Insurance Corporation hereby amends 7 CFR part 400 by adding a new subpart to read as follows: PART 400_GENERAL ADMINISTRATIVE REGULATIONS
