FR940602-1-00054 FR940602-1-00013 (B) Employees engaged in work on containers that are not being handled by container gantry cranes. (2) Compliance with paragraph (j)(1)(ii) of this section shall be considered feasible when containers are being worked by container gantry cranes. (3) Where the employer determines in the particular case that an employee will be exposed to a fall hazard but that the use of a fall protection system meeting the requirements of paragraph (k) of this section is not feasible 5 the employer shall alert the exposed employee about the hazards involved and instruct the employee how to minimize the hazard. 5 See non-mandatory Appendix III to this part for examples of situations where the use of a fall protection system may prove infeasible. (k) Fall protection. When fall protection systems required by paragraph (j) of this section are employed, the following shall apply: (1) Each fall protection system component, except anchorages, shall have fall arrest/restraint as its only use. (2) Each fall protection system subjected to impact loading shall be immediately withdrawn from service and not used again until inspected and determined by a designated person to be undamaged and suitable for use. (3) Each fall protection system shall be rigged to minimize free-fall distance so that the employee will not contact any lower level stowage or vessel structure. (4) Each fall protection system adopted for use shall have an energy absorbing mechanism that will produce an arresting force on an employee of not greater than 1800 pounds (8 kN). (5) Each fall protection systems' hardware shall be designed and utilized so as to prevent accidental disengagement. (6) Each fall protection systems' fixed anchorages shall each be capable of sustaining a force of 5,000 (22.2 kN) pounds or be certified as capable of sustaining at least twice the potential impact load of an employee's fall. Such certification must be made by a registered professional engineer. When more than one employee is attached to an anchorage, the foregoing limits shall be multiplied by the number of employees attached. (7) When ``live'' (activated) container gantry crane lifting beams or attached devices are used as anchorage points the following requirements apply: (i) The crane shall be placed into a ``slow'' speed mode; (ii) The crane shall be equipped with a remote shut-off switch, capable of stopping all crane functions, in the control of employee(s) attached to the beam; and (iii) A visible or audible indicator shall be present to inform the same employee(s) when the remote shut-off is operational. (8) Fall protection system components shall be certified as a unit of being capable of sustaining at least twice the potential impact load of an employee's fall. Such certification must be made by a registered professional engineer. When more than one employee is attached to an anchorage, the foregoing limits shall be multiplied by the number of employees attached. (9) Each fall protection system shall incorporate the use of a full body harnesses. (10) Each device, such as a safety cage, that is used to transport employee(s) by being attached to a container gantry crane spreader, shall have a secondary means of attachment in place and engaged to prevent accidental disengagement. (11) Each fall protection system shall be inspected prior to each day's use by a designated person. Any defective components shall be removed from service. (12) Before using any fall protection system, the employee shall be trained in the use and application limits of the equipment, proper hook-up, anchoring and tie-off techniques, methods of use, and proper methods of equipment inspection and storage. (13) The employer shall establish and implement a procedure to safely retrieve personnel in case of a fall. (l) Working along unguarded edges. Fall protection meeting the requirements of paragraph (k) of this section must be provided when container operations require employees to work along unguarded edges (other than on the top of a container), where the fall distance is greater than 8 feet (2.4 m). ยง1918.86 Roll-on roll-off (RO-RO) operations. (See also ยง1918.24.)
