FR941212-0-00081 FR941212-0-00019 (11) Develop and maintain written plans for a disaster or civil disturbance. The plan should include a requirement for an advance party to assess the need for the presence of a special claims processing office. The plans may be internal Office of the SJA plans or an annex to an installation/organizational plan. (See also §536.8(c)(4)(iii).) (12) Implement the Army's Article 139 claims program. (See §536.142.) (e) Heads of claims processing offices. Heads of claims processing offices will_ (1) Investigate all potential and actual claims arising within its assigned jurisdiction, either on an area basis or on a command or agency basis. Only a claims processing office with approval authority can adjudicate and pay all presented claims within its monetary jurisdiction. (2) Ensure that units and organizations within its jurisdiction have appointed claims officers for the investigation of claims not requiring investigation by a JA. (See §536.16.) (3) Budget and fund for claims investigations and activities to include per diem and transportation of claims personnel, claimants and witnesses, independent medical examinations, appraisals, independent expert opinions, long distance phone calls, recording and photographic equipment, use of express mail or couriers, and other necessary expenses. (4) Within CONUS, procure and maintain legal publications on local law and verdicts relating to tort claims within their jurisdiction. (5) Notify the Commander, USARCS of all claims and claims incidents as required by §536.17 and §536.21(b)(2). (6) Implement the Army's Article 139 claims program. (See §536.142.) (f) Chief of Engineers. The COE, through the Chief Counsel, will_ (1) Provide general supervision of the claims activities of engineer area claims offices. (2) Ensure that each engineer area claims office has a claims attorney designated by the Commander, USARCS, as prescribed in §536.6. (3) Ensure the training of claims personnel and the continuing inspection of their activities. (4) Provide for implementation of pertinent claims policies. (5) Provide for budgeting in accordance with existing Army regulations and command directives for temporary duty (TDY), long distance phone calls, recording equipment, cameras, and other expenses for investigation and processing of claims. (6) Take action to procure and have available adequate legal publications on local law relating to claims arising within the United States, its territories, and possessions. (g) Commanding General, U.S. Army Health Services Command (CG, HSC). The CG, HSC will, through his SJA, ensure that adequate and qualified medical claims JAs and medical claims investigators are assigned for the investigation and processing of medical malpractice claims arising at Army medical centers under his or her control. In accordance with an agreement between TJAG and the Surgeon General, such personnel will be used primarily in investigating and processing of medical malpractice claims and provided with the necessary funding and research materials to carry out this function. (h) Chief, National Guard Bureau (NGB). The Chief, NGB will_ (1) Ensure that a point of contact for claims matters is designated in each adjutant general office. (2) Provide the name, address, and telephone number of the point of contact to the Commander, USARCS. (3) Designate claims officers to investigate claims generated by ARNG personnel and forward investigations to the active Army area claims office having jurisdiction over the area in which the claims incident occurred. (4) Publish a regulation to carry out these responsibilities. (i) Commanders of major Army commands (MACOMs). Commanders of MACOMs through their SJAs will_ (1) Assist USARCS in monitoring area claims offices and claims processing offices under their respective command control for compliance with responsibilities assigned in paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section. (2) Assist claims personnel in obtaining qualified expert and technical advice from units and organizations under their respective command control on a nonreimbursable basis except that the requesting office may be required to provide TDY funding. (3) Assist TJAG, through the Commander, USARCS, in the implementation of the functions set forth in paragraph (b) of this section. (4) Coordinate with the area claims office within whose jurisdiction a maneuver will occur to ensure the prompt investigation and settlement of claims arising from the maneuver. §536.8 Operations of claims components. (a) Command claims services. A command claims service will be supervised by the SJA of the command. If the command claims service is a separate organization, the command SJA will designate a JA as the chief of the service. Otherwise, the SJA will be the chief of the service. Adequate, qualified claims personnel will be assigned to ensure that claims are promptly investigated and acted upon. With the concurrence of the service may designate area claims offices within its area of operations to carry out claims responsibilities within specified geographic areas. (b) Area claims offices. (1) The area claims office is the principal office for the investigation and adjudication or settlement of claims, and will be staffed with qualified legal personnel under the supervision of the SJA or command JA or Corps of Engineer district or command legal counsel. (2) The full-time responsibility for claims investigations and processing in a portion of the area or for claims related to the activities of a unit or organization within the area may be delegated to another command, unit, or activity by the establishment of a claims processing office at the command, unit or authority. (See §536.7(d)(4) and (e).) Normally, all claims processing offices will operate under the supervision of the area claims office in whose area the claims processing office is located. Where a proposed claims processing office is not under the command of the parent organization of the area claims office, this designation may be effected by a support agreement or memorandum of understanding between the affected commands. (3) Normally, claims that cannot be settled by an engineer area claims office will be forwarded directly to the Commander, USARCS with notice to the Chief Counsel, COE of such referral. However, the Chief Counsel, as part of his or her responsibility for litigation of suits involving civil works and military construction activities, may require that an engineer area claims office forward claims through engineer channels provided that such requirement does not preclude final action by Commander, USARCS within the time limitations set forth in subparts D and H. (c) Claims processing offices. For a subpart K, if the adjudicated amount of a claim is in excess of the monetary jurisdiction of the head of the claims processing authority, the claim will be approved and paid up to the delegated authority of that office and immediately forwarded to the next higher claims authority for additional payment. (See §536.161(e)).
