FR941212-0-00092 FR941212-0-00019 (ii) If the DA is absorbing the cost of the appraisal, payment is made from Appropriations, Operation and Maintenance, Army (AR 37&hyph;108, paragraph 3&hyph;74). (3) If a single appraiser cannot be agreed upon, a joint appraisal can be conducted (that is one in which an appraiser chosen by claimant and an appraiser chosen by the Government both examine the property and submit their respective appraisals). Joint appraisals should be coordinated and monitored by the claims officer. The cost of a single or joint appraisal should be commensurate with the amount of damage allegedly sustained and the fee charged by other appraisers for similar work. (b) Appraisals by other organizations within the DA, the other Armed Services, or other Federal agencies may be used in addition to or in lieu of independent appraisal when obtainable. Other organizations within DA may be called upon to furnish such appraisals; for example, engineer districts will furnish an appraiser, if available, in regard to damage to buildings or diminution in value of real property, provided the requesting office defrays travel expenses for the individual's TDY. §536.27 Independent medical examinations. (a) In claims involving serious personal injuries, for example, cases in which there is an allegation of temporary or permanent disability, the claimant should be examined by an independent physician, or other medical specialist, depending upon the nature and extent of the injuries. The necessity for, and the cost of, the examination should be commensurate with the severity of the injuries allegedly sustained and the fee charged by other examiners for similar work. To preclude duplication of effort and expense, both claimant and the claims officer must agree, in advance, upon the following: (1) The examiner chosen to conduct the examination and the location of the medical facility (whether governmental or civilian). (2) That the examiner's report constitutes the best evidence of the nature and extent of claimant's injuries. (3) The method of paying for the examination. (b) The necessity for conducting the medical examination must be approved by the claims office having monetary jurisdiction over the largest claim or potential claim arising out of the incident. If a medical report is submitted in conjunction with the filing of a claim, such report should be included in the file. (c) Payment of a civilian examiner's fee can be accomplished in either of the following two ways: (1) The claimant can incur the cost of the examination and submit a paid receipt or cancelled check, which constitutes a reimbursable element of damage in evaluating the claim. (2) The DA can absorb the cost of the examination (payment is made from Appropriations, Operation and Maintenance, Army (AR 37&hyph;108, paragraph 3&hyph;74)) by the claims office having responsibility for investigating the claim. (d) As to an examination costing in excess of $750 or when local funds are exhausted, a request for funding may be directed to Commander, USARCS with appropriate justification. (e) If the parties cannot agree upon an independent examiner, and if either the examiner chosen by the claimant or the results of the examination are not acceptable, the Government may demand that the claimant be examined by an examiner acceptable to the Government. (f) Examinations of claimants at Army medical treatment facilities are authorized by AR 40&hyph;3. Such examinations may be used in addition to or in lieu of the foregoing where indicated. §536.28 Effect on award of other payments to claimant. The total award to which the claimant (and subrogees) may be entitled normally will be computed as follows: (a) Determine the total of the loss or damage suffered. (b) Deduct from the total loss or damage suffered any payment, compensation, or benefit the claimant has received from the following sources: (1) The U.S. or ARNG employee/member who caused the damage. (2) The U.S. or ARNG employee's/member's insurer. (3) Any person or agency in a surety relationship with the U.S. employee; or (4) Any joint tortfeasor or insurer, to include Government contractors under contracts or in jurisdictions where it is permissible to obtain contribution or indemnity for the contractor in settlement of claims by contractor employees and third parties. (5) Any advance payment made pursuant to the section entitled ``advance payments'' of this subpart. (6) Any benefit or compensation based directly or indirectly on an employer-employee relationship with the United States or Government contractor and received at the expense of the United States, including but not limited to medical or hospital services, burial expenses, death gratuities, disability payment or pensions. (7) The State (Commonwealth and so forth) whose employee or ARNG member (32 U.S.C. section 101(3)) caused or generated an incident that was a proximate cause of the resulting damages. (8) Value of Federal medical care. (9) Benefits paid by the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) that are intended to compensate the same elements of damage. When the claimant is receiving money benefits from the VA under 38 U.S.C. 351 for a nonservice connected disability or death based on the injury that is the subject of the claim, acceptance of a settlement or an award under the FTCA will discontinue the VA monetary benefits until the amount that would have otherwise been received in VA monetary benefits is equal to the total amount of the agreement or award including attorney fees. While monetary benefits received under 38 U.S.C. 351 must be discontinued as above, medical benefits, that is, VA medical care may continue provided the settlement or award expressly provides for such continuance and the appropriate VA official is informed of such continuance. (10) When the claimant is receiving money benefits under 38 U.S.C. 410(b) for non-service connected death, arising from the injury that is the subject of the claim, acceptance of a settlement or award under the FTCA or under any other tort procedure will discontinue the VA benefits until the amount that would have otherwise been received in VA benefits is equal to the amount of the total settlement or award including attorney fees. The discontinuation of monetary benefits under 38 U.S.C. 410(b) has no effect on the receipt of other VA benefits. The claimant should be informed of the foregoing prior to the conclusion of any settlement and thus afforded an opportunity to make appropriate adjustment in the amount being negotiated. (11) The value of other Federal benefits to which the claimant did not contribute, or at least to the extent they are funded from general revenue appropriations. (12) From collateral sources where permitted by State law (for example, State or Federal workers' compensation, social security, private health, accident, and disability benefits paid as a result of injuries caused by a health care provider). (c) No deduction will be made for any payment the claimant has received by way of voluntary contributions, such as donations of charitable organizations. (d) Where a payment has been made to the claimant by his or her insurers or other surbrogee, or under workmen's compensation insurance coverage if subrogated interests are allowable, the award based on total damages will be apportioned in relation to their separate interests (§536.20). (e) After deduction of permissible collateral and noncollateral sources, also deduct that portion of the loss or damage believed to have been caused by the negligence of the claimant, third parties whose negligence can be imputed to the claimant, or joint tortfeasors who are liable for their share of the negligence (for example, where some form of the Uniform Contribution Among Joint Tortfeasors Act has been passed). §536.29 Claims with more than one potential source of recovery. (a) The Government seeks to avoid multiple recovery (that is, claimants seeking recovery from more than one potential source) and to minimize the award it must make. The claims investigation should therefore identify other parties potentially liable to the claimant and/or their insurance carriers; indicate the status of any claims made or include a statement that none has been made so that it can be assured there is only one recovery and the Government does not pay a disproportionate share. Where no claim has been made by the claimant against others potentially liable, if applicable State law grants the Government the right to indemnity or contribution, and it is felt the Government may be entitled to either under the facts developed by the claims investigation, the claims officer or attorney should formally notify the other parties of their potentially liability, the Government's willingness to share information, and its expectation of shared responsibility for any settlement. Furthermore, the claimant may be receiving or entitled to receive benefits from collateral and non-collateral sources (§536.28), which can be deducted from the total loss or damage. Accordingly, a careful review must be made of applicable State laws regarding joint several liability, indemnity, contribution, comparative negligence, and the collateral source doctrine.
