FR940819-1-00028 FR940819-1-00008 (4) Section 340A of the Act (relating to grants for health services for residents of public housing). (b) Subrecipients. Entities that are subrecipients of grant funds described in paragraph (a) of this section are eligible for coverage only if they provide a full range of health care services on behalf of an eligible grantee and only for those services carried out under the grant funded project. ยง6.4 Covered individuals. (a) Officers and employees of a covered entity are eligible for coverage under this part. (b) Contractors of a covered entity who are physicians or other licensed or certified health care practitioners are eligible for coverage under this part if they meet the requirements of section 224(g)(5) of the Act. (c) An individual physician or other licensed or certified health care practitioner who is an officer, employee, or contractor of a covered entity will not be covered for acts or omissions occurring after receipt by the entity employing such individual of notice of a final determination by the Attorney General that he or she is no longer covered by this part, in accordance with section 224(i) of the Act. ยง6.5 Deeming process for eligible entities. Eligible entities will be covered by this part only on and after the effective date of a determination by the Secretary that they meet the requirements of section 224(h) of the Act. In making such determination, the Secretary will receive such assurances and conduct such investigations as he or she deems necessary. ยง6.6 Covered acts and omissions. (a) Only acts and omissions occurring on and after the effective date of the Secretary's determination under ยง6.5 and before January 1, 1996, are covered by this part. (b) Only claims for damage for personal injury, including death, resulting from the performance of medical, surgical, dental, or related functions are covered by this part. (c) With respect to covered individuals, only acts and omissions within the scope of their employment (or contract for services) are covered. If a covered individual is providing services which are not on behalf of the covered entity, such as on a volunteer basis or on behalf of a third-party (except as described in paragraph (d) of this section), whether for pay or otherwise, acts or omissions which are related to such services are not covered. (d) Only acts and omissions related to the grant-supported activity of entities are covered. Acts and omissions related to services provided to individuals who are not patients of a covered entity will be covered only if the Secretary determines that: (1) the provision of the services to such individuals benefits patients of the entity and general populations that could be served by the entity through community-wide intervention efforts within the communities served by such entity; (2) the provision of the services to such individuals facilitates the provision of services to patients of the entity; or (3) such services are otherwise required to be provided to such individuals under an employment contract or similar arrangement between the entity and the covered individual. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;20361 Filed 8&hyph;18&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4160&hyph;15&hyph;M
