FR940613-0-00055 FR940613-0-00015 MISSISSIPPI COMBINATION: The State commented that a CMV with two cargo units, subject to the freeze requirements of section 4006 of the ISTEA, originally submitted by the State and included in the NPRM, was inadvertently left out of the SNPRM. The vehicle, which is subject to the freeze because the trailing units may each be up to 30 feet long, has been included in appendix C with the operational information listed as supplied by the State. MISSOURI OTHER COMMENTS: The CRASH claimed that an error in available routes had been made in the SNPRM, and that the SNPRM did not include several items that pertain to permitted loads. The CRASH not only questioned the availability of several Interstate routes in the Kansas City metropolitan area, but also the availability of I&hyph;44 in southwest Missouri. It stated that ``the only National Network route from which LCV's can enter Missouri is I&hyph;70 in Kansas.'' Several NN routes in Kansas and Oklahoma come up to the Missouri State Line. LCV's are allowed to operate on I&hyph;44 in Oklahoma, thus making I&hyph;44 available to enter Missouri. In Kansas, LCV's have access to the northeastern end of the Kansas Turnpike, over any route within a 20-mile radius. Within that 20-mile radius in Kansas, several Interstate and other highways, which prior to passage of the ISTEA were designated as Federal-aid Primary highways, come up to the Missouri State Line. LCV's may use any of these routes to reach terminals in Missouri which fall within a 20-mile band of the Kansas State Line. The CRASH indicated that the State indivisible load requirement had been omitted from the SNPRM. In addition, the CRASH contends that several operational requirements were also omitted, including those involving time-of-day restrictions, weather requirements, oversize load signs, speed, tractor unit power, and the need for insurance. The State responded that routine overdimension and overweight special permit issuance in Missouri is made in accordance with State Rule 7 CSR 10&hyph;2.010 (based on Section 304.200, Revised Statutes of Missouri 1992), which provides for a uniform administration of large and heavy loads. Although the rule (7 CSR 10&hyph;2.010) as originally promulgated by the Missouri Highway and Transportation Commission disallows routing reducible loads (except for farm products) under permit, in July 1986 the State's chief engineer, exercising other authority within the rule, authorized travel for multi-unit LCV's carrying reducible loads. To quote Rule 7 CSR 10&hyph;2.010: [T]he chief engineer of the State Department of Highways and Transportation, for good cause shown and when the public safety or public interest so justifies, shall issue special permits for vehicles or equipment exceeding the limitations on width, length, height, and weight herein specified *␣*␣*. It was determined to be in the public interest to allow LCV operation to relieve economic stress and give motor carriers the incentive to retain terminals in Missouri. Missouri would then be more competitive with adjacent western States which allow LCV operations. The operation of LCV's has gone without reported incident, according to annual documented safety assessments made by the Missouri Highway and Transportation Department, the Missouri State Highway Patrol, the Kansas City Public Works Department, and the Kansas City Police Department. In response to other items listed, the State made the point that Missouri Revised Statute §304.200 (1992) gives the chief engineer significant latitude in allowing the operation of LCV's, and that several items including speed and weather restrictions are conditions of the permit issued for the operation of LCV's. MONTANA OPERATIONAL CONDITIONS: PERMIT: The CRASH said that a provision requiring carriers operating vehicles subject to the ISTEA freeze to have ``public liability and property damage insurance for the protection of the traveling public as a whole'' was omitted from appendix C. Appendix C has been changed to reflect the requirement to have insurance coverage; however, the amounts are not included. The amount of insurance coverage is not an item that is directly related to the size and weight of LCV's. OTHER COMMENTS: The CRASH said that Chapter 672 of the Montana Session Laws of 1991, which amended Montana Code Annotated (MCA) section 61&hyph;10&hyph;124, increased the length of Turnpike Doubles from 95 to 100 feet in length effective January 1, 1992, and, therefore, the cargo-carrying length in appendix C should be based on the shorter length. This is incorrect. Before the change, section 61&hyph;10&hyph;124 read as follows: A term permit may be issued for any combination of vehicles that exceeds 95 feet in length but does not exceed 100 feet in length, *␣*␣*. After the 1992 change, it read as follows, with the additional word underlined. A term permit may be issued for any combination of vehicles that exceeds 95 feet in length but does not exceed 100 feet in combination length, *␣*␣*. The amendment clarified but did not substantially change the law; term permits could be issued for ``Turnpike Doubles'' not more than 100 feet long on June 1, 1991.
