FR941116-0-00182 FR941116-0-00022 (5) The number of 5,000 bushel put option contracts purchased; and (6) The price that was paid for each put option contract. (c) Copies of such documentation shall be attached to the CCC&hyph;300 agreement and retained in the county ASCS office. (d) The final date for producers to submit evidence of purchasing a put option contract shall be the later of: (1) 2 weeks after the put option has been purchased; or (2) 2 weeks after the producer is notified of the deadline for submitting such documentation. (e) Late-filed evidence of purchasing a put option may be accepted under meritorious circumstances if approved by the county committee. (f) To receive the incentive payment, eligible producers must provide documentation, such as copies of contracts or bills of sale, to the county committee at least 2 weeks after pricing the grain that shows when the grain was priced. Such documentation must include: (1) Buyer's name and address; (2) Broker's or brokerage firm's name and address, if applicable; (3) Producer's name and address; (4) The commodity for which the put option was purchased; (5) The date the commodity was sold; (6) The number of bushels of the commodity that were priced; and (7) The price that was paid. ยง1415.22 Brokerage accounts, fees and charges. (a) Producers who elect to enroll in the Options Program shall be responsible for establishing a separate brokerage account for purchasing put options for this program. Subaccounts shall not be used by such producer. (b) Producers enrolled in the Options Program shall be responsible for all transaction costs related to purchasing a put option contract. Such costs shall include, but are not limited to: (1) Brokerage fees; (2) Transaction taxes; and (3) Other related costs. (c) Producers shall complete form CCC&hyph;302, Authorization for Release of Information Regarding Options Marketing Contracts, which authorizes individual brokers or brokerage entities to submit copies of statements concerning the producer's options contracts to the county office. Such information shall be reviewed by the county committee before issuance of any payments. ยง1415.23 Other production. Production not enrolled in either the target price or price support levels of the Options Program will be eligible for deficiency payments and to be pledged as collateral for CCC price support loans or tendered to CCC for purchase in accordance with parts 1413 and 1421 of this chapter, respectively.
