FR940429-2-00079 FR940429-2-00062 Mr. Gray's physician described his condition as ``modified radical mastoidectomy of the right ear [with] [a] small pinpoint perforation of the right drum [and] some granular tissue of the anterior aspect of the drum.'' Exhibit 11 to Deposition of Gregory C. Gray. An audiological evaluation found ``[s]peech discrimination in [the right] ear is very good [although] [t]here is conductive loss [of hearing] in the right ear.'' Id. The doctor suggested that Mr. Gray ``is a candidate for middle ear exploration and possible ossicular chain reconstruction for restoration of some of the conductive loss,'' but noted that ``in view of the fact that he is wearing an aid in the right ear, this brings his hearing to essentially normal.'' Id. As the Acting Assistant Secretary pointed out in Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs v. Washington Metro. Area Transit Auth. , Case No. 84&hyph;OFC&hyph;8, Final Dec. and Remand Ord. Mar. 30, 1989, slip op. at 16, applying the ``substantially limited'' clause of the definition of handicapped individual requires fulfilling Congressional intent that the Act be broadly construed without allowing the definition to become so open ended that the Act becomes trivialized. Coverage of individuals with ``temporary'' or ``correctable'' conditions, therefore, requires difficult line drawing. There can be no doubt, for example, that an individual with cancer which is operable or treatable with radiation or chemotherapy nevertheless is covered by the Act. Cf. 45 CFR part 84, appendix A, section A&hyph;3. Similarly, an individual with a condition such as diabetes or epilepsy controllable with medication is a handicapped individual under section 503. See Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs v. PPG Industries, Inc. , Case No. 86&hyph;OFC&hyph;9, Sec'y. Dec. and Remand Order on Remedy Jan. 9, 1989, slip op. at 16. On the other hand, courts have hesitated to extend the Act to simple, temporary conditions or injuries which can reasonably be expected to limit an individual's activities only for a short period of time. See, e.g., Evans v. City of Dallas , 861 F.2d 846, 852&hyph;53 (5th Cir. 1988) (knee injury correctable by surgery not within scope of Act); Peagle v. Department of the Interior , 813 F. Supp. 61, 64 (D.D.C. 1993) (back strain and pain due to Degenerative Disc Syndrome treatable by simple bed rest not covered); Vissaraga v. Garrett , 1992 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 9164, at *13 (N.D. Cal. June 16, 1992) (back strain and sprain not a handicap); Grimard v. Carlson , 567 F.2d 1171, 1174 (5th Cir. 1988) (fractured and dislocated ankle not a handicap). I agree with OFCCP that a Congressional committee report, cited by the ALJ, on a proposed amendment in 1979 to Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 that did not pass, carries little weight in discerning the intent of Congress five years earlier when it amended the Rehabilitation Act to include the current definition of handicapped individual. The legislative history of the recently enacted Americans With Disabilities Act, 42 U.S.C. 12101&hyph;12213 (Supp. II 1991) is more relevant here because Congress explicitly stated that ``[t]he definition of the term `disability' *␣*␣* is comparable to the definition of the term `individual with handicaps' in section 7(8)(B) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973.'' H.R. Rep. No. 485 part 2, 101st Cong., 2d Sess. 50 (1990), reprinted in 1990 U.S.C.C.A.N. 267, 332. 7 7 I recognize that the legislative history of the ADA was not yet in existence when the ALJ issued his recommended decision. Congress used the specific example of an individual like Mr. Gray to illustrate application of the term ``substantially limits'' and to distinguish ``minor, trivial impairments'' from those that restrict ``the conditions, manner, or duration under which [important life activities] can be performed in comparison to most people.'' The report explained further that ``[w]hether a person has a disability should be assessed without regard to the availability of mitigating measures, such as reasonable accommodations or auxiliary aids. For example, a person who is hard of hearing is substantially limited in the major life activity of hearing, even though the loss may be corrected through the use of a hearing aid.'' Id. at 52. In addition, I find no basis in the Act to permit a contractor to require an employee or applicant for employment to undergo a treatment, operation or drug regimen before being considered for employment or being entitled to other terms, conditions or privileges of employment. That decision is a private one to be made by each individual with a handicap in consultation with his or her physician and other health professionals. 8 Indeed, Commonwealth has an obligation under the duty to make reasonable accommodation ``to permit an individual with a disability the opportunity to provide and utilize equipment, aids or services that an employer is not required to provide as a reasonable accommodation.'' 29 CFR part 1630, app., §1630.2(o) Reasonable Accommodation (1992). Of course, handicapped applicants or employees must be qualified, with reasonable accommodation, but a contractor must consider each handicapped individual as he finds him. 8 I note that Dr. Logan reported that Mr. Gray ``is a candidate for middle ear exploration and possible ossicular chain reconstruction for restoration of some of the conductive loss.'' Gray Dep., Exh. 11. (Emphasis added). Mr. Gray would have to weigh the possibility of restoration of some of his hearing against the risks of surgery, a decision which is his alone to make. For the same reason, I reject Commonwealth's contention that the reference in the regulations to the American Medical Association Guides to the Evaluation of Permanent Impairment, 41 CFR 60&hyph;741.7(d) (1990), requires a handicapped individual to undergo any particular treatment or surgical operation. The Guides define permanent impairment as an abnormality or loss after maximum medical rehabilitation has been achieved. But it is implicit that the appropriate rehabilitation regimen has been undertaken voluntarily by the patient with the advice of his physician. The record is clear that Mr. Gray was qualified for the dross handler position for which Commonwealth considered him. He had worked at several laboring jobs and Commonwealth rejected him solely because of his hearing condition. P&hyph;2, 5; R.D. and O. at 4.
