FR941107-2-00231 FR941107-2-00112 Table 3_Categorization of HICPAC Recommendations Category IA. Strongly recommended for all hospitals and strongly supported by well-designed experimental or epidemiologic studies. Category IB. Strongly recommended for all hospitals and viewed as effective by experts in the field and a consensus of HICPAC based on strong rationale and suggestive evidence, even though definitive scientific studies have not been done. Category II. Suggested for implementation in many hospitals. Recommendations may be supported by suggestive clinical or epidemiologic studies, a strong theoretical rationale, or definitive studies applicable to some but not all hospitals. No recommendation; unresolved issue. Practices for which insufficient evidence or consensus regarding efficacy exists. Appendix A._Type and Duration of Precautions Needed for Selected Infections and Conditions 1Infection/Condition 1Precautions 2Type* 2Duration Abscess: Draining, major1 C DI Draining, minor or limited2 S Acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS)3 S Actinomycosis S Adenovirus infection, in infants and young children D, C DI Amebiasis S Anthrox: Cutaneous S Pulmonary S Antibiotic-associated colitis (see Clostridium difficile ): Arthropodborne viral encephalitides (eastern, western, Venezuelan equine encephalomyelitis; St. Louis, California encephalitis) s4 Arthropodborne viral fevers (dengue, yellow fever, Colorado tick fever) S4 Ascariasis S Aspergillosis S Babesiosis S Blastomycosis, North American, cutaneous or pulmonary S Botulism S Bronchiolitis (see respiratory infections in infants and young children): Brucellosis (undulant, Malta, Mediterranean fever) S Campylobacter gastroenteritis (see gastroenteritis) Candidiasis, all forms including mucocutaneous S Cat-scratch fever (benign inoculation lymphoreticulosis) S Cellulitis, uncontrolled drainage C DI Chancroid (soft chancre) S Chickenpox (varicella) A, C F5 Chlamydia trachomatis : Conjunctivitis S Genital S Respiratory S Cholera (see gastroenteritis) Closed-cavity infection: Draining, limited or minor S Not draining S Clostridium: C. botulium S C. difficile C DI C. perfringens Food poisoning S Gas gangrene S Coccidioidomycosis (valley fever): Draining lesions S Pneumonia S Colorado tick fever S Congenital rubella C F6 Conjunctivitis: Acute bacterial S Chlamydia S Gonococcal S Acute viral (acute hemorrhagic) C DI Coxsackie virus disease (see enteroviral infection): Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease S7 Croup (see respiratory infections in infants and young children): Cryptococcosis S Cryptosporidiosis (see gastroenteritis) Cysticercosis S Cytomegalovirus infection, neonatal or immunosuppressed S Decubitus ulcer, infected: Major1 C DI Minor or limited2 S Dengue S4 Diarrhea, acute-infective etiology suspected (see gastroenteritis): Diphtheria: Cutaneous C CN8 Pharyngeal D CN8 Echinococcosis (hydatidosis) S Echovirus (see enteroviral infection) Encephalitis or encephalomyelitis (see specific etiologic agents) Endometritis S Enterobiasis (pinworm disease, oxyuriasis) S Enterococcus species (see multidrug-resistant organisms if epidemiologically significant or vancomycin resistant): Enterocolitis, Clostridium difficile C DH Enteroviral infections: Adults S Infants and children C DI Epiglottitis, due to Haemophilus influenzae D U 24 HRS Epstein-Barr virus infection, including infectious mononucleosis S Erythema infectiosum (also see Parvovirus B19) S Escherichia coli gastroenteritis (see gastroenteritis) Food poisoning: Botulism S Clostridium perfringens or welchii S Staphylococcal S Furunculosis_staphylococcal: Infants and young children C DI Gangrene (Gas gangrene) S Gastroenteritis: Campylobacter species S9 Cholera S9 Clostridium difficile C DI Cryptosporidium species S9 Escherichia coli: Enterohemorrhagic O157:H7 S9 Diapered or incontinent C DI Other species S9 Giardia lamblia S9 Rotavirus S9 Diapered or incontinent C DI Salmonella species (including S. typhi ) S9 Shigella species S9 Diapered or incontinent C DI Vibrio parahamolyticus S9 Viral (if not covered elsewhere) S9 Yersinia enterocolitica S9 German measles (rubella) D DI Giardiasis (see gastroenteritis) Gonococcal ophthalmia neonatorum (gonorrheal ophthalmia, acute conjunctivitis of newborn) S Gonorrhea S Granuloma inguinale (donovaniasis, granuloma venereum) S Guillain-Barre syndrome S Hand, foot, and mouth disease (see enteroviral infection) Hemorrhagic fevers (for example, Lassa fever)10 C DI Hepatitis, viral: Type A S Diapered or incontinent patients C F11 Type B_HBsAg positive S Type C and other unspecified non-A, non-B S Type E S Herpangina (see enteroviral infection) Herpes simplex (Herpesvirus hominis ): Encephalitis S Neonatal12 C DI Mucocutaneous, disseminated or primary, severe C DI Mucocutaneous, recurrent (skin, oral, genital) S Herpes zoster (varicella-zoster): Localized in immunocompromised patient, or disseminated A, C DI Localized in normal patient S Histoplasmosis S Hookworm disease (ancylostomiasis, uncinariasis) S Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection3 S Impetigo C U 24 HRS Infectious mononucleosis S Influenza D13 DI Kawasaki syndrome S Lassa fever10 C DI Legionnaires' disease S Leprosy S Leptospirosis S Listeriosis S Lyme disease S Lymphocytic choriomeningitis S Lymphogranuloma venereum S Malaria S Marburg virus disease10 C DI Measles (rubeola), all presentations A DI Melioidosis, all forms S Meningitis: Aseptic (nonbacterial or viral meningitis) S Bacterial, gram-negative enteric, in neonates S Fungal S Haemophilus influenzae , known or suspected D U 24 HRS Listeria monocytogenes S Neisseria meningitidis (meningococcal) known or suspected D U 24 HRS Pneumococcal S Tuberculosis14 S Other diagnosed bacterial S Meningococcal pneumonia D U 24 HRS Meningococcemia (meningococcal sepsis) D U 24 HRS Molluscum contagiosum S Mucormycosis S Multidrug-resistant organisms, infection or colonization15: Gastrointestinal C CN Respiratory C CN Pneumococcal D CN Skin, wound, or burn C CN Mumps (infectious parotitis) D F16 Mycobacteria, nontuberculosis (atypical): Pulmonary S Wound S Mycoplasma pneumonia D DI Necrotizing enterocolitis S Nacardiosis, draining lesions or other presentations S Norwalk agent gastroenteritis (see viral gastroenteritis) Orf S Parinfluenza virus infection, respiratory in infants and young children C DI Parvovirus B19 D F17 Pediculois C U24 HRS Pertussis (whooping cough) D F18 Pinworm infection S Plague: Bubonic S Pneumonic D U72 HRS Pleurodynia (see entervoviral infection) Pneumonia: Adenovirus D, C DI Bacterial not listed elsewhere (including gram-negative bacterial) S Chlamydia S Fungal S Haemophilus influenzae: Adults S Infants and children (any age) D U24 HRS Legionella S Meningococcal D U24 HRS Multidrug-resistant bacterial (see multidrug-resistant organisms) Mycoplasma (Primary atypical (pneumonia) D DI Pneumococcal S Multidrug-resistant (see multidrug-resistant organisms) Pneumocytis carinii S19 Pseudomonas cepacia in cystic fibrosis (CF) patients, including respiratory tract colonization C20 DH Staphylococcus aureus S Streptococuss, Group A: Adults S Infants and young children D U24 HRS Viral: Adults S Infants and young children (see respiratory infectious disease, acute) Poliomyelitis S Psittacosis (ornithosis S Q fever S Rabies S Rat-bite fever ( Streptobacillus moniliformis disease, spirillum minus disease) S Ralapsing fever S Resistant bacterial infection or colonization (see multidrug-resistant organisms) Respiratory infectious disease, acute (if not covered elsewhere): Adults S Infants and young children3 C DI Respiratory syncytial virus infection, in infants and young children, and immunocompromised adults C DI Reye syndrome S Rheumatic fever S Rickettsial fevers, tickborne (Rocky Mountain spotted fever, tickborne typhus fever) S Rickettsialpox (vesicular rickettsiosis) S Ringworm (dermatophytosis, dermatomycosis, tinea S Ritter's disease (Staphylococcal scalded skin syndrome C21 DI Rocky Mountain spotted fever S Roseola infantum (exanthem subitum) S Rotavirus infection (see gastroenteritis) Rubella (German measles) (also congenital rubella) D F22 Salmonellosis (see gastroenteritis) Scabies C U24 HRS Scalded skin syndrome, staphylococcal (Ritter's diease) C21 DI Schistosomiasis (bilharziasis) S Shigellois (see gastroenteritis) Sporotrichosis S Spirillium minus disease (rat-bite fever) S Staphylococcal disease (S. aureus): Skin, wound, or burn: Major1 C DI Minor or limited2 S Enterocolitis S Multidrug-resistant (see multidrug-reistant organisms) Pneumonia S Scalded skin syndrome C DI Toxic shock syndrome S Streptobacillus moniliformis disease (rat-bite fever) S Streptococcal disease (group A Streptococcus): Skin, wound, or burn: Major1 C U24 HRS Minor or limited2 S Endometritis (puerperal sepsis) S Pharyngitis in infants and young children D U24 HRS Pneumonia in infants and young children D U24 HRS Scarlet fever in infants and young children D U24 HRS Streptococcal disease (group B Streptococcus ), neonatal S Streptococcal disease (not group A or B) unless covered elsewhere S Multidrug-resistant (see multidrug-resistant organisms) Strongyloidiasis S Syphilis: Skin and mucous membrane, including congenital, primary, secondary S Latent (tertiary) and seropositivity without lesions S Tapeworm disease: Hymenolepis nana S Taenia solium (pork) S Other S Tetanus S Tinea (fungus infection dermatophytosis, dermatomycosis, ringworm) S Toxoplasmosis S Toxic shock syndrome (Staphylococcal disease) S Trachoma, acute S Trench mouth (Vincent's angina) S Trichinosis S Trichomoniasis S Trichuriasis (whipworm disease) S Tuberculosis: Extrapulmonary, draining lesion (including scrofula) S Extrapulmonary, meningitis14 S Pulmonary, confirmed or suspected or laryngeal disease A F23 Skin-test positive with no evidence of current pulmonary disease S Tularemia: Draining lesion S Pulmonary S Typhoid ( Salmonella typhi ) fever (see gastroenteritis) Typhus, endemic and epidemic S Urinary tract infection (including pyelonephritis), with or without urinary catheter S Varicella (chickenpox) A, C F5 Vibrio parahaemolyticus (see gastroenteritis) Vincent's angina (trench mouth) S Viral diseases: Respiratory (if not covered elsewhere): Adults S Infants and young children (see respiratory infectious disease, acute) Whooping cough (pertussis) D F18 Wound infections: Major1 C DI Minor or limited2 S Yersinia enterocolitica gastroenteritis (see gastroenteritis) Zoster (varicella-zoster): Localized in immunocompromised patient, disseminated A, C F5 Localized in normal patient S Zygomycosis (phycomycosis, mucormycosis) S 1No dressing or dressing does not adequately contain drainage. 2Dressing covers and adequately contains drainage. 3Also see syndromes or conditions listed in Table 2. 4Install screens in windows and doors in endemic areas. 5Maintain precautions until all lesions are crusted. Use varicella zoster immune globulin (VZIG) when appropriate, and discharge exposed susceptible patients before the 10th day after exposure, if possible. Place remaining exposed susceptible patients on precautions beginning 10 days after exposure and continue until 21 days after last exposure (up to 28 days if VZIG has been given). Susceptible persons should stay out of room of patients on precautions. 6Place infant on precautions during any admission until 1 year of age unless nasopharyngeal and urine cultures are negative for virus after age 3 months. 7Additional special precautions are necessary for handling and decontamination of blood, body fluids and tissues, and contaminated items from patients with confirmed or suspected disease. See latest College of American Pathologists (Northfield, Illinois) guidelines or other references. 8Until two cultures taken at least 24 hours apart are negative. 9Use contact precautions for diapered or incontinent children <6 years of age for duration of illness. 10Call state health department and CDC for advice about management of a suspected case. 11Maintain precautions in infants and children <3 years of age for duration of hospitalization; in children 3&hyph;14 years of age, until 2 weeks after onset of symptoms; and in others, until 1 week after onset of symptoms. 12For infants delivered vaginally or by C-section and if mother has active infection and membranes have been ruptured for more than 4&hyph;6 hours. 13This recommendation is made recognizing the logistic difficulties and physical plant limitations that may face hospitals admitting multiple patients with suspected influenza during community outbreaks. If sufficient private rooms are unavailable, consider cohorting patients, or at the very least, avoid room-sharing with high risk patients. See Guideline for Prevention of Nosocomial Pneumonia 92&hyph;93 For additional prevention and control strategies. 14Patient should be examined for evidence of current (active) pulmonary tuberculosis. If evidence exists, additional precautions are necessary (see tuberculosis). 15Resistant bacteria judged by the infection control program, based on current state, regional, or national recommendations, to be of special clinical and epidemiologic significance. 16For 9 days after onset of swelling. 17Maintain precautions for duration of hospitalization when chronic disease occurs in an immunodeficient patient. For patients with transient aplastic crisis or red cell crisis, maintain precautions for 7 days. 18Maintain precautions until 5 days after patient is placed on effective therapy. 19Avoid placement in the same room with an immunocompromised patient. 20Avoid cohorting or placement in the same room with a CF patient who is not infected or colonized with P. cepacia. 21Blistering is due to the hematogenous dissemination of toxin, not to presence of organisms in the blisters. However, such patients may be heavily colonized with staphylococci because of their skin problems; thus, contact precautions are recommended. 22Until 7 days after onset of rash. 23Discontinue precautions only when TB patient is on effective therapy, is improving clinically, and has 3 consecutive negative sputum smears collected on different days, or TB is ruled out. Also see CDC Guidelines for Preventing the Transmission of Tuberculosis in Health-Care Facilities.23 *Type of Precautions A_Airborne. C_Contact. D_Droplet. S_Standard. When A, C, and D are specified, also use S. Duration of Precautions CN_Until off antibiotics and culture negative. DH_Duration of hospitalization. DI_Duration of illness (with wound lesions, DI means until they stop draining). U_Until time specified in hours (HRS) after initiation of effective therapy. F_See footnote number.
