FR940214-0-00099 FR940214-0-00015 (ii) Was issued not more than 5 years earlier by the State in which the transfer is to take place; and (iii) The law of the State provides that such a permit is to be issued only after an authorized government official has verified that the information available to such official does not indicate that possession of a handgun by the transferee would be in violation of Federal, State, or local law; (3) The law of the State requires that, before any licensed importer, licensed manufacturer, or licensed dealer completes the transfer of a handgun to an individual who is not licensed under this part, an authorized government official verify that the information available to such official does not indicate that possession of a handgun by the transferee would be in violation of law; (4) The handgun is subject to the provisions of the National Firearms Act and has been approved for transfer under 27 CFR part 179; or (5) On application of the licensee, in accordance with the provisions of §178.150, the Director has certified that compliance with paragraph (a) of this section is impracticable. (6) The documents referred to in paragraphs (b) (1) and (2) of this section shall be retained in the records of the licensee in accordance with the provisions of §178.131. (c) Disclosure of information. (1) Any licensed importer, licensed manufacturer, or licensed dealer who, after the transfer of a handgun to a nonlicensee, receives a report from a chief law enforcement officer containing information that receipt or possession of the handgun by the transferee violates Federal, State, or local law shall, within 1 business day (meaning a day on which State offices are open) after receipt of the report, communicate any information the licensee has concerning the transfer and the transferee, including a copy of Form 4473 required by § 178.124, to the chief law enforcement officer of the place of business of the licensee and to the chief law enforcement officer of the place of residence of the transferee. The licensee may also provide this information to the local ATF office. (2) Any licensed importer, licensed manufacturer, or licensed dealer who receives information from a chief law enforcement officer regarding the transfer of a handgun to a nonlicensee, not otherwise available to the public, shall not disclose such information except to the transferee, to law enforcement authorities, or pursuant to the direction of a court of law. (Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 1512&hyph;0520) Par. 9. Section 178.126a is amended by revising the second sentence to read as follows: §178.126a Reporting multiple sales or other disposition of pistols and revolvers. *␣*␣* The report shall be prepared on Form 3310.4, Report of Multiple Sale or Other Disposition of Pistols and Revolvers. Not later than the close of business on the day that the multiple sale or other disposition occurs, the licensee shall forward two copies of Form 3310.4 to the ATF office specified thereon and one copy to the State police or to the local law enforcement agency in which the sale or other disposition took place. Where the State or local law enforcement officials have notified the licensee that a particular official has been designated to receive Forms 3310.4, the licensee shall forward such forms to that designated official. * * * * * Par. 10. Section 178.129(b) and the parenthetical text at the end of the section are revised to read as follows: §178.129 Record retention. * * * * *
