FR940610-1-00003 FR940610-1-00002 FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORPORATION 12 CFR Parts 304 and 327 RIN 3064&hyph;AB45 Assessments; Forms, Instructions, and Reports AGENCY: Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. ACTION: Notice of proposed rulemaking. SUMMARY: The Board of Directors (Board) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) is proposing to amend its regulation on assessments to provide for the quarterly collection of assessments by means of FDIC-originated direct debits through the Automated Clearing House (ACH) network, based on invoices prepared by the FDIC using data reported by insured institutions in their quarterly reports of condition. The FDIC believes that the proposed amendments would result in a more efficient collection process, to the benefit of the deposit insurance funds and insured institutions, and would reduce the regulatory burden on insured institutions. The Board is further proposing to amend the assessments regulation to clarify the obligation of acquiring institutions to pay assessments on deposits assumed from institutions terminating their insured status; to delete from the assessments regulation the existing references to experience factors, which are not available for use after 1994; and to include such amendments to the FDIC's regulation on forms as are necessitated by the proposed changes to the assessments regulation. DATES: Written comments must be received by the FDIC on or before August 9, 1994. ADDRESSES: Written comments shall be addressed to the Office of the Executive Secretary, Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, 550_17th Street, NW., Washington, DC 20429. Comments may be hand-delivered to room F&hyph;400, 1776 F Street, NW., Washington, DC 20429, on business days between 8:30 a.m. and 5 p.m. (FAX number: (202) 898&hyph;3838). Comments will be available for inspection in room 7118, 550_17th Street, NW., Washington, DC, between 9 a.m. and 4:30 p.m. on business days. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Connie Brindle, Chief, Assessment Operations Section, Division of Finance, (703) 516&hyph;5553, or Martha Coulter, Counsel, (202) 898&hyph;7348, regarding the collection improvement proposal; William Farrell, Chief, Assessment Management Section, Division of Finance, (703) 516&hyph;5546, or Jules Bernard, Counsel, (202) 898&hyph;3731, regarding assessment obligations of acquiring institutions; Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, Washington, DC 20429. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: I. Collection Improvement Proposal A. Existing Statutory and Regulatory Provisions Section 7(c) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (FDI Act), 12 U.S.C. 1817(c), requires that each insured depository institution pay a semiannual assessment to the FDIC. Payment of the assessment is to be made in the manner and at the time(s) prescribed by the Board. Each institution is to file a certified statement in such form and containing such information as the FDIC requires. An officer of the institution must certify that the statement is true, correct, and complete, and in accordance with the statute and related regulations. At present, the FDIC's assessment regulations, which are based on a prior version of section 7 of the FDI Act, require the payment of assessments twice a year. The amount of the semiannual payment is computed by the institution. The computation, and the resulting assessment amount, is shown on the certified statement filed by the institution, which is accompanied by a check for the full amount of the assessment. The payment must be postmarked no later than January 31 for the first semiannual period of the year (January through June), and July 31 for the second semiannual period (July through December). B. Purpose of the Proposal The FDIC believes that the existing assessment collection process can be improved substantially by utilizing an electronic payment process, to the benefit of insured depository institutions and the federal deposit insurance funds. Because the existing process is paper-based, it is more time consuming and less efficient_both for insured institutions and for the FDIC_than an improved collection process making fuller use of advanced payment technology. The proposed rule introduces a more efficient collection process using the Automated Clearing House (ACH) network. Funds for assessment payments would be directly debited by the FDIC from accounts designated by insured depository institutions for that purpose. This procedure would substantially improve the efficiency of the collection process, in such ways as eliminating paperwork costs and allowing the FDIC to monitor assessment receipts electronically.
