FR941221-1-00024 FR941221-1-00009 The Foundation holds an annual, nationwide, merit competition to select outstanding undergraduate students as Goldwater Scholars. §2600.3 Eligibility. A student is eligible to be nominated as a Goldwater Scholar if he or she: (a) is a matriculated sophomore or junior pursuing a degree at an accredited institution of higher education during the year in which nominated; (b) is a full-time student majoring in an undergraduate field of study that permits admission to a graduate program leading to a career in mathematics, science or engineering. (c) has a grade point average of at least ``B'' or the equivalent and is in the upper fourth of his or her class; (d) is a United States citizen, a United States National or a resident alien. Resident aliens must include a letter stating the nominee's intention to obtain U.S. citizenship and a photocopy of the Alien Registration Card. §2600.4 Definitions. As used in this part: Academic Year means the period of time in which a full-time student would normally complete two semesters, two trimesters, three quarters or the equivalent. College means an institution of higher education offering only a baccalaureate degree or an undergraduate division of a university in which a student is pursuing a baccalaureate degree. Fee means a typical and usual non-refundable charge levied by an institution of higher education for a service, privilege, or use of property which is required for a student's enrollment and registration. Foundation means the Barry M. Goldwater Scholarship and Excellence in Education Foundation. Full-time Student means that a student is carrying a sufficient number of academic credit hours or their equivalent to secure an undergraduate degree in his or her field of study within the normal time expected by the institution. Institution of higher education has the meaning given in section 1201(a) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1141(a)). Junior means a student who plans one more year of full-time undergraduate study for the academic year following nomination. Matriculated means formally enrolled in an undergraduate degree program at an institution of higher learning. Resident means a person who has legal residence in the state from which he or she is a candidate. This status might be indicated by the parents place of residence. If that criterion of residence is not relevant, the candidates legal residence will be determined by his or her eligibility for in-state tuition rates (where applicable) and place of voter registration. Scholar means a Barry M. Goldwater Scholar. State means the fifty United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and considered as a single entity, Guam and the United States Virgin Islands. Stipend means the amount paid to a Goldwater Scholar to cover approved costs of undergraduate study. University means an institution of higher education that offers post-baccalaureate degrees. Subpart B_Nomination Process §2600.10 Nomination By an Institution of Higher Education. (a) To be considered in the annual scholarship competition, a student must be nominated by the institution of higher education that he or she is attending. The Foundation does not solicit or accept applications directly from candidates, but will advise interested individuals as to the appropriate procedures. (b) The Foundation invites all eligible accredited institutions (or branches of those institutions) listed in the Directory of Postsecondary Institutions (published by the U.S. Department of Education) to nominate students for the annual competition. (c) Two year institutions may nominate up to two current sophomores. Four year institutions may nominate up to four current sophomores or juniors. If an institution chooses to nominate more than one student, these nominees may reside in the same state or they may be from different jurisdictions. §2600.11 The Nominating Official. On an annual basis, each participating institution must appoint or reappoint a faculty representative to serve as liaison between the institution and the Foundation. Goldwater Scholarship Program nomination materials will be distributed only to these faculty representatives. The faculty representative: (a) Publicizes the Goldwater Scholarship Program on campus; (b) Solicits faculty recommendations of outstanding students who demonstrate commitment to pursue a career in mathematics, the natural sciences, or an eligible engineering discipline; (c) Establishes the process to select the best qualified candidates to be nominated; (d) Helps nominees prepare for the competition; (e) Ensures that the institution's nominations are complete and forwarded to the Goldwater Scholarship Review Committee by the stated deadline. §2600.12 Nomination Materials. Foundation nomination materials will be mailed to the institution's faculty representative in mid-September. All nominations must be submitted on the official forms and must include: (a) Institutional Nomination and Eligibility Form, which verifies the nominee's eligibility and formally transmits the nomination to the Review Committee. This document must be completed and signed by the faculty representative or the nomination cannot be considered.
