FR940825-0-00098 FR940825-0-00016 (1) Incur pre-award costs up to 90 calendar days prior to award, or more than 90 calendar days with the prior approval of the HHS awarding agency. However, all pre-award costs are incurred at the recipient's risk: the HHS awarding agency is under no obligation to reimburse such costs if for any reason the applicant does not receive an award or if the award to the recipient is less than anticipated and inadequate to cover such costs. (2) Initiate a one-time extension of the expiration date of the award of up to 12 months unless one or more of the conditions identified at paragraphs (d)(2)(i), (ii), and (iii) of this section apply. For one-time extensions, the recipient must notify the HHS awarding agency in writing, with the supporting reasons and revised expiration date, at least 10 days before the date specified in the award. This one-time extension may not be exercised either by recipients or HHS awarding agencies merely for the purpose of using unobligated balances. Such extensions are not permitted where: (i) The terms and conditions of award prohibit the extension; or (ii) The extension requires additional Federal funds; or (iii) The extension involves any change in the approved objectives or scope of the project. (3) Carry forward unobligated balances to subsequent funding periods. (4) For awards that support performance of research work, unless the HHS awarding agency provides otherwise in the award, or the award is subject to ยง74.14 or subpart E of this Part, the prior approval requirements described in paragraphs (d) (1)&hyph;(3) of this section are automatically waived (i.e., recipients need not obtain such prior approvals). However, extension of award expiration dates must be approved by the HHS awarding agency if one of the conditions in paragraph (d)(2) of this section applies. (e) The HHS awarding agencies may not permit any budget changes in a recipient's award that would cause any Federal appropriation to be used for purposes other then those consistent with the original purpose of the authorization and appropriation under which the award was funded.
