FR940325-2-00139 FR940325-2-00057 VIII Term This Final Judgment shall expire five (5) years from the date of entry. IX Power To Modify Jurisdiction is retained by this Court to enable any of the parties to apply to this Court at any time for such further orders and directions as may be necessary or appropriate to carry out or construe this Final Judgment, to modify or terminate any of its provisions, to enforce compliance, and to punish violations of its provisions. X Public Interest Entry of this Final Judgment is in the public interest. Dated: United States District Judge Competitive Impact Statement Pursuant to section 2(b) of the Antitrust Procedures and Penalties, Act, 15 U.S.C. 16(b)&hyph;(h), the United States submits this Competitive Impact Statement relating to the three proposed Final Judgments submitted for entry in this civil antitrust proceeding. I Nature and Purpose of the Proceeding On March 14, 1994, the United States filed a civil antitrust Complaint alleging that the defendants and co-conspirators unreasonably conspired to restrain wage competition among themselves in violation of section 1 of the Sherman Act, 15 U.S.C. 1. The Complaint alleges that, from at least as early as January, 1984 and continuing through June, 1992, the defendants and co-conspirators conspired to exchange current and prospective, nonpublic registered-nurse entry wage information with the purpose and effect of restraining wage competition for registered nursing services in Salt Lake County, Utah. The conspiracy was effectuated through telephone calls and written surveys between the hospital defendants and co-conspirators, and through meetings of the Utah Society for Healthcare Human Resources Administration (``USHHRA'') and the Utah Hospital Association (``UHA''), both of which consist of human resource directors from the hospital defendants. The hospital defendants agreed to exchange prospective and current compensation information. The conspiracy had the effect of depriving registered nurses in Salt Lake County and elsewhere in Utah of the benefits of free and open competition in the purchase of registered nursing services. In addition, the conspiracy resulted in smaller annual increases in the registered-nurse entry wage than the hospital defendants would have paid absent the conspiracy. The Complaint seeks to prevent the defendants from continuing or renewing the alleged conspiracy, or from engaging in any other conspiracy, or adopting any practice having a similar purpose of effect for a period of 5 years.
