FR940525-0-00044 FR940525-0-00022 FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY 44 CFR Part 62 RIN 3067&hyph;AC25 National Flood Insurance Program; Assistance to Private Sector Property Insurers AGENCY: Federal Insurance Administration, FEMA. ACTION: Interim rule. SUMMARY: This interim rule amends the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) regulations for the ``Write Your Own'' (WYO) Program relating to the marketing of flood insurance policies. This interim rule modifies the Arrangement to encourage increases in the policyholder base and to increase the financial stability of the NFIP. DATES: Effective date: This interim rule and the offer are effective May 25, 1994. The Financial Assistance/Subsidy Arrangement is applicable with respect to flood insurance policies written under the Arrangement with an effective date of October 1, 1994, and later. Comment Date: July 25, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments are requested and should be sent to the Rules Docket Clerk, Office of the General Counsel, Federal Emergency Management Agency, 500 C Street, SW., room 840, Washington, DC 20472, (fax) (202) 646&hyph;4536. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Charles M. Plaxico, Jr., Federal Emergency Management Agency, Federal Insurance Administration, 500 C Street, SW., Washington, DC 20742, (202) 646&hyph;3422. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Write-Your-Own (WYO) Program (established in 1983) was authorized pursuant to Subpart C, part 62 of the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) regulations and section 1345 of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, as amended (Pub. L. 90&hyph;448, 42 U.S.C. 4001, et seq. ). Under the WYO Program, the Standard Flood Insurance Policy (the form and substance of which is approved by the Federal Insurance Administrator (the Administrator)) may be issued in their own names by insurers signatory to Financial Assistance/Subsidy Arrangements. Insurers then are responsible for all aspects of service, including policy issuance to new policyholders and to policyholders insured by them under other lines of property insurance; endorsement and renewal of policies; and the adjustment of claims brought under the policies. The insurers retain a specified amount of the premium for their expenses, including the commissions of agents. Under the Arrangement, the Government provides such additional funds as may be required, over and above the net premium income, for the payment of claims. Once the Arrangement is signed by the authorized official of the private insurer and the Government, it is effective at the beginning of the Government's Fiscal Year on October 1 and runs through the following September 30. Also, in accordance with Article V_Commencement and Termination of the Arrangement, the Federal Insurance Administration (FIA) is required, by June 1 of each year, to publish in the Federal Register the terms for the re-subscription of the Arrangement for the next Arrangement Year. This interim rule amends the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) regulations dealing with the marketing of flood insurance policies, at Article II_Undertakings of the Company, paragraph G. of the Arrangement, by requiring the WYO Company to follow marketing guidelines established by the Federal Insurance Administration (FIA). FIA is currently developing marketing guidelines which will then be established in consultation with representatives of the WYO Companies. As a result of the heavy flood losses which occurred in recent years (i.e., Hurricanes Andrew and Iniki in August and September 1992, the Northeaster storm in December 1992, the blizzard of March 1993, and the Midwest flooding in the summer of 1993), FEMA recently had to exercise its borrowing authority for the first time in eight years. While the Program has been growing modestly, greater increases in the policyholder base are needed to provide additional premium dollars to build up the reserves to meet future catastrophic flooding events. Further, large numbers of the victims of recent flood disasters were not protected by flood insurance. Therefore, FEMA has determined that sufficient cause exists for making this rule effective immediately so the revised Arrangement can be the basis of the Offer required by June 1 and that delaying the effective date until after a comment period would be impracticable and contrary to the public interest. However, comments are requested and will be considered before further regulations are issued. Publication of the Arrangement in this interim rule also constitutes, for the WYO Program Arrangement year of October 1, 1994_September 30, 1995, the Administrator's ``Offer to Assist Insurers in Underwriting Flood Insurance Using the Standard Flood Insurance Policy.'' Method of Acceptance of Offer 1. Acceptance of this offer shall be by mailed notice of acceptance or signed Arrangement to the Administrator `prior to midnight EDT September 30, 1994. The notice may be preceded by facsimile transmission (202) 646&hyph;3445 which must be received by midnight EDT September 30, 1994. 2. The facsimile transmission or mailed notice of acceptance to the Administrator must be authorized by an official of the insurance company who has the authority to enter into such arrangements. 3. A duly signed original copy of the Notice of Acceptance (see No. 6 below) must be on file with the Administrator by November 16, 1994. 4. If 1., 2., or 3. above are not satisfied, the acceptance will be considered by the Administrator as conditional and the commitment of NFIP resources to fulfill the ``Undertaking of the Government'' under Article IV of the Arrangement will take a lower priority than those needed to fulfill the requirement of the other participating insurance companies. 5. Send all acceptances of this offer to: Federal Emergency Management Agency, Attn: Federal Insurance Administrator, WYO Program, Washington, DC 20472. 6. In accepting this offer, use the Notice of Acceptance Form set forth below: Notice of Acceptance Form 1994&hyph;1995; Federal Emergency Management Agency; Federal Insurance Administration; Financial Assistance/Subsidy Arrangement (Arrangement) Whereas, in 1994, there was published a Notice of Offer by the Federal Emergency Management Agency to enter into a Financial Assistance/Subsidy Arrangement (hereafter the Arrangement). Whereas, the above cited Arrangement, as published in and reprinted from the Federal Register , does not provide sufficient space to type in the name of the Company. Whereas, the Arrangement may include several individual companies within a Company Group and the Arrangement as published in and reprinted from the Federal Register does not provide sufficient space to type in a list of companies.
