FR940721-0-00085 FR940721-0-00014 (b) Except as provided in paragraphs (e), (f) and (g) of this section, the label required under paragraph (a) of this section shall read as follows, with the specified information inserted in the places indicated (except that if there are no major sources of foreign parts content, omit the section ``Major Sources of Foreign Parts Content''): PARTS CONTENT INFORMATION For vehicles in this carline: U.S./Canadian Parts Content: (insert number) % Major Sources of Foreign Parts Content: (name of country with highest percentage): (insert number) % (name of country with second highest percentage): (insert number) % For this vehicle: Final Assembly Point: (city, state, country) Country of Origin: Engine Parts: (name of country) Transmission Parts: (name of country) Note: Parts content does not include final assembly, distribution, or other non-parts costs. (c) The percentages required to be provided under paragraph (a) of this section may be rounded by the manufacturer to the nearest 5 percent. (d) The label required by paragraph (a) of this section shall: (1) Be placed in a prominent location on each vehicle where it can be read from the exterior of the vehicle with the doors closed, and may be either part of the Monroney price information label required by 15 U.S.C. 1232, part of the fuel economy label required by 15 U.S.C. 2006, or a separate label. A separate label may include other consumer information. (2)(i) Be printed in letters that have a color that contrasts with the background of the label; and (ii) Have the information required by paragraphs (a)(1) through (5) of this section vertically centered on the label in boldface capital letters and numerals of 12 point size or larger; and (iii) Have the information required by paragraph (a)(6) of this section in type that is two points smaller than the information required by paragraphs (a)(1) through (5) of this section. (3) In the case of a label that is included as part of the Monroney price information label or fuel economy label, or a separate label that includes other consumer information, be separated from all other information on those labels by a solid line that is a minimum of three points in width. (4) The information required by paragraphs (a)(1) through (6) of this section shall be immediately preceded by the words, ``PARTS CONTENT INFORMATION,'' in boldface, capital letters that are 12 point size or larger. (e) Carlines assembled in the U.S./Canada and in one or more other countries. (1) If a carline is assembled in the U.S. and/or Canada, and in one or more other countries, the manufacturer may, at its option, add the following additional information at the end of the explanatory note specified in (a)(6), with the specified information inserted in the places indicated: This carline is assembled in the U.S. and/or Canada, and in [insert name of each other country]. The U.S./Canadian parts content for the portion of the carline assembled in [insert name of country, treating the U.S. and Canada together, i.e., U.S./Canada] is [ XX ]%. (2) A manufacturer selecting this option shall divide the carline for purposes of this additional information into the following portions: the portion assembled in the U.S./Canada and the portions assembled in each other country. (3) A manufacturer selecting this option for a particular carline shall provide the specified additional information on the labels of all vehicles within the carline. (f) A final stage manufacturer of vehicles assembled in multiple stages need not provide the U.S./Canadian Parts Content or Major Foreign Sources items of the label otherwise required under paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section. (g) A manufacturer that produces a total of fewer than 1000 passenger motor vehicles in a model year need not provide the U.S./Canadian Parts Content or Major Foreign Sources items of the label otherwise required under paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section.
