FR940325-1-00026 FR940325-1-00007 (1) Agree, as far as possible, in writing, with the operator of the terminal which responsibilities the terminal will fulfill and which the vessel will; (2) Establish communications with the terminal immediately after mooring; (3) Provide the terminal with a list of passengers and a list of all scheduled deliveries and services to the vessel; and (4) Obtain a copy of the terminal security plan. (c) If the vessel embarks or disembarks passengers where there is no terminal, the operator of the vessel shall fulfill all of the responsibilities in this part. §120.250 Reporting of unlawful acts and related activities. (a) Each member of the crew trained under §120.230 having knowledge of an unlawful act, a suspicious activity, a breach of security, or a threat against the vessel or persons on board shall notify the operator of the vessel, the master or ship security officer of the vessel, or another representative of the operator. If the member cannot notify any of these, the member shall notify the COTP. (b) The operator of the vessel or the operator's representative shall report each breach of security, unlawful act, or threat of an unlawful act against the vessel or persons aboard it that occurs in a place subject to the jurisdiction of the United States to the COTP and to the local office of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI). Also, the operator of each United States flag vessel shall report each such incident that occurs in a place outside the jurisdiction of the United States to the Commandant. (c) Each report required by paragraph (b) of this section must include, to the extent known_ (1) The vessel's name; (2) The vessel's flag; (3) The name of the vessel's master; (4) If the vessel is moored to a passenger terminal, the name of the terminal security officer; (5) An account of the incident; (6) The date, time and place of the incident; (7) The number of alleged offenders; (8) The method used to introduce any prohibited weapon, incendiary, or explosive into or onto the vessel; (9) A description of any weapon, incendiary, or explosive involved; (10) A description of how any weapon, incendiary, or explosive involved was concealed and used; (11) A description of how security was breached; and (12) A statement of what measures have been taken or will be taken to prevent another such incident. (d) Use of the form ``Report on an Unlawful Act'', contained in the ``Measures to Prevent Unlawful Acts Against Passengers and Crews on Board Ships'' published by the International Maritime Organization in 1986, is encouraged. (e) Each report must stay on file with the plan required by §120.300 for a period of two years. All reports shall be used by the person preparing the next survey required by §120.310. Subpart C_Ship Security Plan and Procedures §120.300 Plan: general. (a) Each operator of a vessel subject to this part shall develop and maintain, in writing, a ship security plan that_ (1) Describes the program required by §120.200; (2) Includes the survey required by §120.310, the bill required by §120.330, and the SSOPs required by §120.340; (3) Includes an appendix, for each port in which the vessel embarks or disembarks passengers, that describes port specific security information. (b) The operator shall amend the plan to address any known deficiencies and to satisfy the security requirements of the vessel each time the survey is updated under §120.310(b); and (c) The plan must contain procedures to_ (1) Deter unauthorized access to the vessel and its restricted areas; (2) Deter the introduction of prohibited weapons, incendiaries, or explosives aboard the vessel; (3) Encourage vigilance, as well as general awareness of security aboard the vessel; (4) Provide adequate training to members of the crew for security aboard the vessel; (5) Coordinate responsibilities for security with the operator of each terminal at which the vessel embarks or disembarks passengers; and (6) Provide information to members of the crew and law enforcement personnel, in case of an incident affecting security.
