FR941103-1-00007 FR941103-1-00002 6. Should there be quality assurance checks and measurements for remote afterloading brachytherapy devices, in 10 CFR Part 35, as there are for teletherapy? XX Yes␣␣ XX No If no, why not? 7. Are there existing standards on calibration of brachytherapy sources? XX Yes␣␣ XX No If yes, or yes in part, what are these standards? 8. What types of tests/checks do you perform at source exchange? 9. a. Should there be training and experience criteria established for brachytherapy physicists involved with HDR treatment planning? XX Yes␣␣ XX No b. Should there be training and experience criteria established for brachytherapy physicians performing HDR treatments? XX Yes␣␣ XX No 10. What procedures do you follow to ensure proper placement of brachytherapy implants (e.g., do you use X-ray films for verification)? What is the standard of care with respect to proper placement of brachytherapy implants? Manual Brachytherapy 11. NRC regulations require that the written directive for all brachytherapy, other than high-dose-rate remote afterloading brachytherapy, include: (i) prior to implantation: the radioisotope, number of sources, and source strengths; and (ii) after implantation, but prior to completion of the procedure: the radioisotope, treatment site, and total source strength and exposure time (or equivalently, the total dose). What additional information do you typically include on the written directive and why? Prior to implantation: After implantation: 12. a. Do you order sources in writing? XX Yes␣␣ XX No, ordered by XXX b. Who usually orders sources at your facility? 13. a. Do you verify the activity of sources: XX Upon receipt XX Prior to implantation XX Not at all b. If yes, how is the activity verified? c. Who typically verifies the source activity at your facility? 14. a. What procedures do you follow to ensure proper placement of brachytherapy implants? b. What actions do you take to prevent or minimize the likelihood of brachytherapy sources moving after implantation? 15. Are existing standards and procedures adequate to ensure that the source is positioned and, consequently, the treatment is in accordance with the direction of the authorized user? 16. In your experience, what is the most effective means for accomplishing training of nurses as required in 10 CFR 35.410 and 35.25? 17. Do you believe that all nurses handling brachytherapy patients at your facility have received adequate training? XX Yes␣␣ XX No 18. For permanent prostate implants, what do you consider to be an acceptable percentage of implanted seeds outside the target volume? XX percent What is the current accepted standard of practice? Radiopharmaceutical Therapy 19. NRC regulations require that the written directive, for radiopharmaceutical therapy, include the radiopharmaceutical, dosage, and route of administration. What additional information do you typically include in your written directives, and why? 20. If more than one fraction is to be administered, should the written directive be prepared to include the specifics for the entire course of therapy or should a written directive be prepared for each individual fraction? 21. Do you typically prepare separate written directives for fractionated radiopharmaceutical therapy? XX Yes␣␣ XX No 22. Where would you seek guidance (if needed) on the radiation safety aspects of radiopharmaceutical therapy (use of unsealed sources)? 23. Do you have any additional comments or specific issues regarding NRC's regulation of therapeutic uses of byproduct material? Dated at Rockville, Maryland, this 28th day of October, 1994. For the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. John E. Glenn, Chief, Medical, Academic, and Commercial Use Safety Branch, Division of Industrial and Medical Nuclear Safety, Office of Nuclear Material Safety and Safeguards. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;27250 Filed 11&hyph;2&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 7590&hyph;01&hyph;M
