FR940124-1-00066 FR940124-1-00008 (2) The agency described in paragraph (f)(1) of this section may request that the Secretary reconsider the decision under the provisions of ยง602.15. (g) If the Secretary defers a decision on the accrediting agency's application, the Secretary_ (1) Indicates in writing the reasons for the deferral and the deferral period; and (2) Automatically extends any previously granted recognition period until the Secretary reaches a decision on the renewal application. (h) If the Secretary does not reach a final decision on an accrediting agency's application for renewal of recognition before the expiration of the agency's recognition period, the Secretary automatically extends the previously granted recognition period until the Secretary reaches a decision on the renewal application. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1099b) ยง602.14 Limitation, suspension, or termination of recognition. (a)(1) The Secretary may limit, suspend, or terminate the recognition of an accrediting agency before completion of its previously granted recognition period if the Secretary determines, after notice and opportunity for a hearing, that the agency fails or has failed to satisfy any of the requirements of this part. (2) If the agency requests a hearing_ (i) The hearing is conducted by the Advisory Committee or by a subcommittee of three members of the Advisory Committee, appointed by the Secretary, if the Secretary determines that a more timely hearing is necessary than can be accommodated by the schedule of the full Advisory Committee; and (ii) The designated Department official arranges for a transcript to be made of the hearing. (b) The designated Department official begins a limitation, suspension, or termination proceeding against an accrediting agency by sending the agency a notice that_ (1) Informs the agency of the Secretary's intent to limit, suspend, or terminate its recognition; (2) Identifies the alleged violations of the governing regulations that constitute the basis for the action; (3) Describes the limits to be imposed if the Secretary seeks to limit the accrediting agency; (4) Specifies the effective date of the limitation, suspension, or termination; and (5) Informs the agency that it may_ (i) Submit to the designated Department official a written response to the notice no later than 30 days after it receives the notice; and (ii) Request a hearing, which shall take place in Washington, DC, before the Advisory Committee or subcommittee if the agency submits a hearing request to the designated Department official no later than 30 days after it receives the notice. (c)(1) As part of its response to the limitation, suspension, or termination notice or its hearing request, if any, the accrediting agency shall identify the issues and facts in dispute and its position with regard to those issues and facts. (2) After receipt of the agency's response and hearing request, if any, the designated Department official_ (i) Transmits the limitation, suspension, or termination notice and the agency's response, if any, to that notice to the Advisory Committee or subcommittee; and (ii) Establishes the date and time of any hearing before the Advisory Committee or subcommittee. (d)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, if a hearing is held, the Advisory Committee or subcommittee shall allow the designated Department official, the accrediting agency, and any interested party to make an oral or written presentation. That presentation may include the introduction of written and oral evidence. (2) If the designated Department official and the accrediting agency each agree, the Advisory Committee or subcommittee review shall be based solely on the written materials submitted to it under paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section. (e)(1) After the Advisory Committee or subcommittee reviews the presentations, it shall issue an opinion in which it_ (i) Makes findings of fact based upon the evidence presented; (ii) Recommends whether a limitation, suspension, or termination of the agency's recognition is warranted; and (iii) Provides the reasons for that recommendation.
