FR940802-0-00086 FR940802-0-00018 Several comments questioned the definition of ``Reasonable Rent'' as contained in the rule. As a substitute for rental payment, it was proposed that officers provide specific services equal to the value of the unit. This is not the intent of the rule. Reasonable rent may be a flat amount not related to an officer's income, but it must be consistent with the limited loss of income requirements of this part. Finally, the terminology used in the proposed rule was that the rule implemented a ``waiver'' of the eligibility requirements. This rule implements a statutory waiver, but the term used is ``exemption'' from the eligibility requirements, in order to avoid administrative problems that may result because the Department follows additional processing requirements for actions, also called ``waivers,'' that suspend non-statutory requirements on a case-by-case basis. Other Matters Regulatory Flexibility Act The Secretary, in accordance with the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. 605(b)), has reviewed this rule before publication and by approving it certifies that the rule does not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. The rule is limited to exempting from the public and Indian housing admissibility criteria for certain police and security personnel. By its terms, the rule limits the number of units that would be subject to such exemptions, thereby limiting the economic impact on all PHAs and IHAs, including any that may be small entities. Environmental Review A Finding of No Significant Impact with respect to the environment was made on the proposed rule in accordance with HUD regulations in 24 CFR Part 50 which implements Section 102(2)(C) of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, 42 U.S.C. 4332. That Finding is available for public inspection during regular business hours in the Office of the Rules Docket Clerk, Office of the General Counsel, Department of Housing and Urban Development, Room 10276, 451 Seventh Street SW., Washington, DC 20410. Since the environmental provisions of this final rule are unchanged from those published in the proposed rule, the original Finding of No Significant Impact is still valid. Executive Order 12612, Federalism The General Counsel, as the Designated Official under section 6(a) of Executive order 12612, Federalism, has determined that the policies contained in this rule will not have substantial direct effects on states or their political subdivisions, or the relationship between the federal government and the states, or on the distribution of power and responsibilities among the various levels of government. As a result, the rule is not subject to review under the order. The rule will effect a minor exception to a previously existing scheme of federal assistance to programs run by state and local government, but it will not alter the existing division of responsibility among federal, state and local governments. Executive Order 12606, the Family The General Counsel, as the Designated Official under Executive order 12606, The Family, has determined that this rule does not have potential for significant impact on family formation, maintenance, and general well-being, and thus the rule is not subject to review under the order. No significant change in existing HUD policies or programs will result from promulgation of this rule, as those policies and programs relate to family concerns. Regulatory Agenda This rule was listed as sequence number 1702 in the Department's Semiannual Agenda of Regulations published on April 25, 1994 (59 FR 20424, 20473) in accordance with Executive Order 12866 and the Regulatory Flexibility Act. List of Subjects 24 CFR Part 905 Aged, Grant programs_Indians, Grant programs_housing and community development, Handicapped, Indians, Loan programs_housing and community development, Loan programs_Indians, Low and moderate income housing, Public housing, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. 24 CFR Part 960 Aged, Grant programs_housing and community development, Handicapped, Public housing. Accordingly, the Department amends 24 CFR parts 905 and 960 as follows: PART 905_INDIAN HOUSING PROGRAMS 1. The authority citation for 24 CFR part 905 is revised to read as follows: Authority: 25 U.S.C. 450e(b); 42 U.S.C. 1437a&hyph;1, 1437aa, 1437bb, 1437c, 1437cc, 1437d(c)(4)(D), 1437ee, and 3535(d). 2. 24 CFR part 905 is amended by adding a new ยง905.308 to read as follows: ยง905.308 Exemption from eligibility requirements for police officers and other security personnel. (a) Purpose and scope. The purpose of this section is to permit the admission to Indian housing of police officers and other security personnel, who are not otherwise eligible for such housing under any other admission requirements or procedures, under a plan submitted by an Indian housing authority (HA) and approved by the Department, and to set forth standards and criteria for the approval of such plans. The Department's objective in granting the exemption allowed by this section is to permit long term residence in Indian housing developments by police officers and security personnel, whose visible presence is expected to serve as a deterrent to criminal activity in and around Indian housing. (b) Definitions. For the purposes of this section: Department means the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD). For purposes of plan submission and approval, Department refers to the local HUD Office of Native American Programs. Eligible families means families that are eligible for residence in Indian housing assisted under the United States Housing Act of 1937. Officer means a professional police officer or other professional security provider. Police officers and other security personnel are considered professional if they are employed full time, i.e., not less than 35 hours per week, by a governmental unit or a private employer and compensated expressly for providing police or security services. As used in this section, ``Officer'' may refer to the Officer as so defined or to the Officer and his or her family taken together, depending on the context. Plan means the written plan submitted by an HA to the Department, under which, if approved, the Department will exempt Officers from the normal eligibility requirements for residence in Indian housing developments and allow Officers, who are otherwise not eligible, to reside in Indian housing units. An HA may have only one plan in effect at any one time, which will govern exemptions under this section for all housing developments managed by that HA. (c) Exemption from eligibility requirements; plan submission; plan approval or disapproval. (1) Conditions for exemption. The Department may exempt Officers from the eligibility requirements for admission to Indian housing, provided that: (i) The Officers would not be eligible, under any other admission requirements or procedures, for admission to the Indian housing development without such an exemption; and
