FR940627-0-00079 FR940627-0-00012 24. The added and revised provisions read as follows: §1.414(r)&hyph;7 Determination of the employees of an employer's qualified separate lines of business. (a)␣*␣*␣ * (1) In general. *␣*␣* Paragraph (c) of this section provides methods for allocating residual shared employees among qualified separate lines of business. * * * * * (c)␣*␣*␣* (1) In general. All residual shared employees must be allocated among an employer's qualified separate lines of business under one of the allocation methods provided in paragraphs (c)(2) through (5) of this section. An employer is permitted to select which method of allocation to apply for the testing year to residual shared employees. However, the same allocation method must be used for all of the employer's residual shared employees and for all purposes listed in paragraph (a)(2) of this section with respect to the testing year. (2)␣*␣*␣* (iii) *␣*␣* (A) Determination of percentage. The employee assignment percentage of a qualified separate line of business is the fraction (expressed as a percentage)_ ( 1 ) The numerator of which is the number of substantial-service employees with respect to the qualified separate line of business who are assigned to that line of business under paragraph (b) of this section; and ( 2 ) The denominator of which is the total number of substantial-service employees who are assigned to all qualified separate lines of business of the employer under paragraph (b) of this section. * * * * * (iv) Option to apply reduced percentage. An employer is permitted to determine whether it has a dominant line of business by substituting 25 percent for 50 percent in paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section. This option is available for a testing year only if the qualified separate line of business satisfies one of the following requirements: (A) The qualified separate line of business accounts for at least 60 percent of the employer's gross revenues for the employer's latest fiscal year ending in the testing year. (B) The employee assignment percentage of the qualified separate line of business would be at least 60 percent if collectively bargained employees were taken into account. (C) Each qualified separate line of business of the employer satisfies the statutory safe harbor of §1.414(r)&hyph;5(b), the average benefits safe harbor of §1.414(r)&hyph;5(f), or the minimum or maximum benefits safe harbor of §1.414(r)&hyph;5(g). Whether a qualified separate line of business satisfies one of these safe harbors is determined after the application of this section, including the assignment of all residual shared employees under this paragraph (c)(2). (D) The employee assignment percentage of the qualified separate line of business is at least twice the employee assignment percentages of each of the employer's other qualified separate lines of business. * * * * * (5) Small group method _(i) In general. Under the method of allocation provided for in this paragraph (c)(5), each residual shared employee is allocated to a qualified separate line of business chosen by the employer. This method does not apply unless all of the requirements of paragraphs (c)(5)(ii), (iii), and (iv) of this section are satisfied. (ii) Size of group. The total number of the employer's residual shared employees allocated under this paragraph (c) must not exceed three percent of all of the employer's employees. For this purpose, the employer's employees include only those employees taken into account under paragraph (c)(2)(iii)(B) of this section. (iii) Composition of qualified separate line of business. The qualified separate line of business to which the residual shared employee is allocated must have an employee assignment percentage under paragraph (c)(2)(iii) of this section of at least ten percent. In addition, the qualified separate line of business to which the residual shared employee is allocated must satisfy the statutory safe harbor under §1.414(r)&hyph;5(b) after the employee is so allocated. (iv) Reasonable allocation. The allocation of residual shared employees under the small group method provided for in this paragraph (c)(5) must be reasonable. Reasonable allocations generally include allocations that are based on the level of services that the residual shared employees provide to the employer's qualified separate lines of business, the similar treatment of similarly situated residual shared employees, and other bona fide business criteria; in contrast, an allocation that is designed to maximize benefits for select employees is not considered a reasonable allocation. For example, allocation of all residual shared employees who work in the same department, or at the same location, to the same qualified separate line of business would be an indication of reasonableness. However, allocation of a group of similarly situated residual shared employees to a qualified separate line of business for which they provide minimal services might not be considered reasonable. In addition, the allocation of the professional employees of a department to one qualified separate line of business and the allocation of the support staff of the same department to a different qualified separate line of business would not be reasonable. §1.414(r)&hyph;8 [Amended] Par. 16. Section 1.414(r)&hyph;8 is amended as follows: 1. Paragraph (b)(2)(iii) is revised. 2. In Example 1 and Example 4 of paragraph (b)(4), the reference ``1993'' is removed from each place it appears and ``1994'' is added in its place. 3. Example 2 in paragraph (b)(4) is revised. 4. Example 3 and Example 4 in paragraph (b)(4) are redesignated as Example 5 and Example 6 respectively, and new Example 3 and Example 4 are added. 5. In the fifth sentence of redesignated Example 5 (ii) in paragraph (b)(4), the reference ``§1.410(b)&hyph;7(c)(4)'' is removed and ``§1.410(b)&hyph;7(c)(5)'' is added in its place. 6. In the first and third sentences of redesignated Example 6 in paragraph (b)(4), the reference `` Example 3 '' is removed and `` Example 2 '' is added in its place.
