FR940228-1-00071 FR940228-1-00010 (5) The institution would divide the number determined in item (4) by the total obtained under item (3) of this section. This proposed methodology instructs institutions to subtract from the denominator all students who were enrolled in the program at the end of the award year without regard to any time frame established for the completion of the program. In view of the fact that the Secretary is addressing the effect of the expectation that a student complete a program in a reasonable period of time on the calculation of completion rates in the forthcoming NPRM concerning the Student Right-to-Know provisions in section 485(a) of the HEA, the Secretary particularly invites comment on whether that expectation should also be considered in the calculation under this section. Calculation of Placement Rate (1) An institution would determine the number of students who, during the award year, received the degree, certificate, or other recognized educational credential awarded for successfully completing the program. The Secretary believes it would not be fair or accurate to include in the placement rate calculation those students who have not yet completed the program. (2) The institution would subtract from the number of students described in item (1) the number of those students who were employed by the institution either before or after their receipt of the degree, certificate, or other recognized educational credential. The Secretary believes that excluding employees of the institution will help curb abuse by those schools who may hire their own students in order to increase placement rates. The Secretary specifically requests comment on whether there are methods of distinguishing legitimate hiring by an institution of its graduates or students from hiring simply to improve the results of a placement rate calculation. (3) Of the total obtained under item (2), the institution would determine the number of students who, within 180 days of the day they received their degree, certificate, or other recognized education credential, obtained gainful employment in the recognized occupation for which they were trained or in a related comparable recognized occupation and, on the date of this calculation, are employed or have been employed for at least 13 weeks following receipt of the credential from the institution. The Secretary believes that only students who have been placed within 180 days should be counted in the calculation. The Secretary proposes 180 days because it is consistent with the maximum period of time that a payment on a student's loan under the FFEL loan program may be deferred. These FFEL deferments include provisions for deferments for periods of unemployment. The Secretary considers this time frame to be adequate and reasonable, and provides ample time for an institution to place a student. The proposed regulation allows an institution to include in its placement rate a student who is placed in a recognized occupation which is comparable and related to the occupation for which the student has been trained. For instance, if a student were trained as an auto mechanic, he could be included in the placement rate calculation if he were placed as a boat mechanic. However, if a student completed a retail sales management program, he could not be included in the calculation if he were placed as a counterman at a fast food establishment. To be included in the placement rate, a student must have been employed for at least 13 weeks following graduation from the institution. The Secretary believes that this requirement will help stem abuse by institutions that may arrange to have students hired for short term jobs in order to boost placement rates. The proposed 13-week period is consistent with the period of time a student must be employed to be counted in the calculation of an institution's placement rate under the procedures delineated in current ยง668.15(g) for the appeal of an institution's loss of participation due to an unacceptable cohort default rate. As stated above, for purposes of this calculation, a student has up to 180 days after he or she receives his or her degree, certificate, or other recognized education credential to obtain gainful employment and then must be employed for at least 13 weeks following receipt of the credential from the institution. The Secretary understands that, because of the total length of time allowed for obtaining and maintaining employment, an institution's calculations may not accurately reflect placement results for programs that are offered in the latter half of the award year. The Secretary specifically requests comments on ways to address this issue.
