FR940712-0-00010 FR940712-0-00006 II. Response to Comments A. Introduction This section of the preamble summarizes and discusses the major written comments RSPA received on the proposed rules. Comments related to the draft economic evaluation of costs and benefits are discussed in the Final Regulatory Evaluation, which is in the docket. B. Extent and Nature of Comments The NPRM requested comments by May 3, 1993. RSPA received 13 written comments. The comments came from seven pipeline operators, one pipeline trade association (the American Petroleum Institute (API)), three state pipeline safety agencies, one federal agency (the National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB)), and one public interest organization (the Natural Resources Defense Council (NRDC)). NTSB, two state agencies, and one operator voiced general support for the NPRM. The rest of the commenters directed their remarks to specific issues. Those issues are discussed below. C. Rural Pipelines NRDC and a state agency suggested that RSPA should not continue to except non-HVL low-stress pipelines in rural areas from part 195. These commenters argued that people and the environment in rural areas deserve the same protection as people and the environment in populated areas. They also said that serious accidents have occurred in rural areas, and that low stress is not necessarily an indicator of low risk. Although RSPA appreciates these commenters' concerns, we have decided not to expand the present rulemaking to include the regulation of additional low-stress pipelines in rural areas. However, the need to regulate rural low-stress pipelines not covered by the present rulemaking will be considered in upcoming proceedings. Apart from production lines (which are not subject to the HLPSA), most low-stress pipelines in rural areas probably are gathering lines. Until passage of the PSA, rural gathering lines were not subject to regulation under the HLPSA. However, the PSA enlarged RSPA's regulatory authority under the HLPSA to include, with certain exceptions, those rural gathering lines that warrant regulation based on location and other risk factors. As required by Section 208 of the PSA, RSPA will consider regulation of those lines in a future notice of proposed rulemaking. In addition, we will consider the need to regulate rural low-stress pipelines that are not gathering lines principally on the basis of the risk the low-stress lines pose to the environment. Through response planning in cooperation with other federal and state agencies under the Oil Pollution Act, we are developing a better concept of what constitutes an environmentally-sensitive area for purposes of pipeline environmental regulation. This planning should provide the groundwork both for the future notice of proposed rulemaking on rural gathering lines and for a rulemaking on other rural low-stress pipelines. D. Adequacy of NPRM API commented on the impact of the proposed rules on inter-facility lines and delivery lines. It said the proposed rules would significantly affect non-pipeline companies, such as refineries, petrochemical plants, and terminals. But, according to API, these companies may not have been aware of the NPRM. API advised RSPA to publish a separate NPRM directed at inter-facility and delivery lines, with at least a 6-month comment period. RSPA does not agree that another rulemaking notice is needed.
