FR940810-1-00031 FR940810-1-00006 21. A new section 352.41 is added to read as follows: ยง352.41 What is the advisory committee requirement for a grantee under this program? A Rehabilitation Research and Training Center shall have an advisory committee of which the majority of the members are individuals with disabilities, or the parents, family members, guardians, advocates, or authorized representatives of individuals with disabilities. (Authority: Sec. 204(b)(3)(D)(ii); 29 U.S.C. 762(a)) 22. The title of Part 353 is revised to read as follows: PART 353_DISABILITY AND REHABILITATION RESEARCH: REHABILITATION ENGINEERING RESEARCH CENTERS 23. The authority citation for Part 353 is revised to read as follows: Authority: 29 U.S.C. 762(b)(3), unless otherwise noted. 24. Section 353.1 is revised to read as follows: ยง353.1 What is the Rehabilitation Engineering Research Centers program? Rehabilitation Engineering Research Centers conduct research, demonstration, and training activities regarding rehabilitation technology_including rehabilitation engineering, assistive technology devices, and assistive technology services, in order to enhance the opportunities to better meet the needs of, and address the barriers confronted by, individuals with disabilities in all aspects of their lives. (Authority: Sec. 204(b)(3)(A); 29 U.S.C. 762(b)(3)(A)) 25. Section 353.2 is revised to read as follows: ยง353.2 Who is eligible for assistance under this program? A public or private entity, including an Indian tribe or tribal organization, is eligible to receive an award under this program if the entity demonstrates that the Center will be operated in collaboration with an institution of higher education or a nonprofit organization. (Authority: Sec. 204(b)(3)(A); 29 U.S.C. 762(b)(3)(A)) 26. Section 353.10 is revised to read as follows: ยง353.10 What types of activities are authorized under this program? (a) Rehabilitation Engineering Research Centers shall carry out research and demonstration activities through_ (1) Developing and disseminating innovative methods of applying advanced technology, scientific achievement, and psychological and social knowledge to solve rehabilitation problems and remove environmental barriers through_ (i) Planning and conducting research, including cooperative research with public or private agencies and organizations, designed to produce new scientific knowledge and new or improved methods, equipment, or devices; and (ii) Studying and evaluating the effectiveness and benefits of new or emerging technologies, products, or environments. (2) Demonstrating and disseminating_ (i) Innovative models for the delivery to rural and urban areas of cost-effective rehabilitation technology services that will promote the use of assistive technology services; and (ii) Other scientific research to assist in meeting the employment and independent living needs of individuals with severe disabilities; or (3) Conducting research and demonstration activities to facilitate service change in service delivery systems by demonstrating, evaluating, documenting, and disseminating_ (i) Consumer-responsive and individual-and-family-centered innovative models for the delivery to both rural and urban areas of innovative, cost-effective rehabilitation technology services that promote utilization of rehabilitation devices; and (ii) Other scientific research to assist in meeting the employment and independent living needs of, and addressing the barriers confronted by individuals with disabilities, including individuals with severe disabilities. (b) To the extent consistent with the nature and type of research or demonstration activities described in paragraph (a), the Rehabilitation Engineering Research Centers shall carry out research, training, and information dissemination activities by_ (1) Cooperating with programs established under the Technology-Related Assistance for Individuals with Disabilities Act of 1988 (Pub. L. 100&hyph;407), and other regional and local programs, to provide information on the uses and resources for assistive technology to individuals with disabilities and their parents, family members, guardians, advocates, or authorized representatives;
