FR940804-0-00126 FR940804-0-00024 (xii) Occupational safety and health; (xiii) Racketeering; or (xiv) Money-laundering. (2) The term civil law enforcement proceeding shall not include proceedings related to the enforcement of an administrative subpoena or summons or a civil investigative demand. An action or proceeding shall be considered ``brought by the United States'' only if it involves a claim asserted by the Department of Justice on behalf of the United States, whether the claim is asserted by complaint, counterclaim, cross-claim, or otherwise. (d) Cooperating witness or individual means any person, other than a law enforcement agent, who is acting to assist the government in an undercover or confidential capacity. (e) Employee means any employee, officer, director, partner, member, or trustee. (f) Organization means any corporation, partnership, association, joint-stock company, union, trust, pension fund, unincorporated association, state or local government or political subdivision thereof, or non-profit organization. (g) Person means any individual or organization. (h) Undercover investigation means any investigation undertaken in good faith to fulfill law enforcement objectives, in which a person communicates with a federal, state or local law enforcement agent or a cooperating witness or individual whose identity as an official of the government or a person acting at the behest thereof is concealed or is intended to be concealed. ยง77.3 Represented party; represented person. (a) A person shall be considered a ``represented party'' within the meaning of this part only if all three of the following circumstances exist: (1) The person has retained counsel or accepted counsel by appointment or otherwise; (2) The representation is ongoing and concerns the subject matter in question; (3) The person has been arrested or charged in a federal criminal case or is a defendant in a civil law enforcement proceeding concerning the subject matter of the representation. (b) A person shall be considered a ``represented person'' within the meaning of this part if circumstances set forth in paragraphs (a) (1) and (2) of this section exist, but the circumstance set forth in paragraph (a)(3) does not exist. ยง77.4 Constitutional and other limitations. Notwithstanding any other provision of this part, any communication that is prohibited by the Sixth Amendment right to counsel, by any other provision of the United States Constitution, by any federal statute, by the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure (18 U.S.C. App.) or by the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure (28 U.S.C. App.) shall be likewise prohibited under this part. ยง77.5 General rule for civil and criminal enforcement; represented parties. Except as provided in this part or as otherwise authorized by law, an attorney for the government may not communicate, or cause another to communicate, with a represented party who the attorney for the government knows is represented by an attorney concerning the subject matter of the representation without the consent of the lawyer representing such party. ยง77.6 Exceptions; represented parties. An attorney for the government may communicate, or cause another to communicate, with a represented party without the consent of the lawyer representing such party concerning the subject matter of the representation if one or more of the following circumstances exist: (a) Determination if representation exists . The communication is to determine if the person is in fact represented by counsel concerning the subject matter of the investigation or proceeding. (b) Discovery or judicial or administrative process . The communication is made pursuant to discovery procedures or judicial or administrative process in accordance with the orders or rules of the court or other tribunal where the matter is pending, including, but not limited to testimony before a grand jury, the taking of a deposition, or the service of a grand jury or trial subpoena, summons and complaint, notice of deposition, administrative summons or subpoena or civil investigative demand. (c) Initiation of communication by represented party . The represented party initiates the communication directly with the attorney for the government or through an intermediary and: (1) Prior to the commencement of substantive discussions on the subject matter of the representation and after being advised by the attorney for the government of the client's right to speak through his or her attorney and/or to have the client's attorney present for the communication, manifests that his or her waiver of counsel for the communication is voluntary, knowing and informed and, if willing to do so, signs a written statement to this effect; and (2) A federal district judge, magistrate judge or other court of competent jurisdiction has concluded that the represented party has:
