FR940317-2-00056 FR940317-2-00040 DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES Administration on Aging White House Conference on Aging; Recognition of Activities agency: White House Conference on Aging, AoA, HHS. action: Notice. summary: The 1995 White House Conference on Aging (WHCOA) intends to recognize local and regional activities, events and programs developed by outside organizations during 1994. Recognition implies the WHCOA's acknowledgement of the relevancy of the activity to the goals of the WHCOA. Interested organizations must adhere to the guidelines listed below to have an event officially recognized by the White House Conference on Aging. addresses: Forms should be sent to the WHCOA, 501 School St. SW., 8th Floor, Washington, DC 20024. for further information contact: Judy Satine, White House Conference on Aging, 202&hyph;245&hyph;7826. See address above. supplementary information: A White House Conference on Aging is intended to produce policy recommendations to guide national aging policy over the next decade. In Public Law 102&hyph;375, the Older Americans Act Amendments of 1992, Congress specifically identified six primary purposes for the White House Conference on Aging. They are: (1) To increase public awareness of the interdependence of generations and the essential contributions of older individuals to society for the well-being of all generations; (2) To identify the problems facing older individuals and the commonalities of the problems with problems of younger generations; (3) To examine the well-being of older individuals, including the impact the wellness of older individuals has on our aging society; (4) To develop such specific and comprehensive recommendations for executive and legislative action as may be appropriate for maintaining and improving the well-being of the aging; (5) To develop recommendations for the coordination of Federal policy with State and local needs and the implementation of such recommendations; and (6) To review the status and multigenerational value of recommendations adopted at previous White House Conferences on Aging. It should be noted that particular emphasis should be directed to purposes 1 and 5 listed above. Guidelines In order for the White House Conference on Aging to consider recognizing a local activity, event or program, it must meet the following basic criteria: (A) It must be a policy-oriented event; the focus must be on one or more Federal policy issues affecting the elderly or the near-elderly; (B) It must guarantee the participation of older persons; (C) It must produce a written report within 30&hyph;45 days summarizing major issues discussed and recommendations proposed that can be utilized by the White House Conference on Aging; (D) It must not be a profit-making or fundraising event although it is permissible to charge a fee to recover the costs of the event; and (E) It must be approved by the Executive Director. If the White House Conference on Aging agrees to recognize the event, an official letter will be provided that could be presented at the activity, event or program. In certain limited instances, the White House Conference on Aging may also be able to participate. A White House Conference on Aging recognition allows the activity, event or program to publicize that it has been recognized by the WHCOA and that it will be listed in the final report of the Conference. However, recognition does not imply that the WHCOA endorses the recommendations. Interested organizations should respond to the questions set out in the appended form and send the information to the above address as soon as possible. It will be reviewed and a response sent as expeditiously as possible. Fernando M. Torres-Gil, Assistant Secretary for Aging. Appendix_Form
