FR940325-0-00072 FR940325-0-00016 The court recognized the Department's authority to establish *␣*␣* some class of cases where other considerations_i.e. infeasibility of restoration or grossly disproportionate cost to use value_warrant a [measure of damages other than the costs of restoration, rehabilitation, replacement, and/or acquisition of equivalent resources]. Id. at 459. However, the Department believes that trustee officials will always perform some, albeit occasionally minor, form of restoration, rehabilitation, replacement, and/or acquisition of equivalent resources. Even in situations where natural recovery is the preferred action, trustee officials will nonetheless incur some costs, such as the expense of restricting public access or taking other actions to ensure that natural recovery is not impeded. Therefore, the final rule does not include any exceptions to the basic measure of damages. Moreover, the rule also provides trustee officials with the discretion to add to the basic measure of damages the value of the resource services lost to the public from the date of the discharge or release until restoration, rehabilitation, replacement, and/or acquisition of equivalent resources has been completed. B. Restoration and Compensation Determination Plan To assist trustee officials in developing claims under the new measure of damages, the rule provides for the development of a Restoration and Compensation Determination Plan. The Restoration and Compensation Determination Plan replaces the Restoration Methodology Plan discussed in the original version of the rule. The Restoration and Compensation Determination Plan is designed to focus the scope of Damage Determination. The Restoration and Compensation Determination Plan is part of the overall Assessment Plan and, thus, subject to public review and comment. 1. Selection of a Restoration, Rehabilitation, Replacement, and/or Acquisition Alternative Since damages are based on the costs of restoring, rehabilitating, replacing, and/or acquiring the equivalent of the injured resources, trustee officials need a mechanism for projecting these costs. The rule includes a procedure for selecting a restoration, rehabilitation, replacement, and/or acquisition alternative that can be used in this projection. Under the rule, trustee officials first identify and consider a reasonable number of possible alternatives for restoring, rehabilitating, replacing, and/or acquiring the equivalent of the injured resources. Trustee officials also estimate those services that are likely to be lost to the public pending completion of each alternative under consideration. Trustee officials then select one of the possible alternatives. The rule lists factors that trustee officials must consider during the selection. The relative weight of these factors is left to the discretion of the trustee officials. Trustee officials document their decisions in the Restoration and Compensation Determination Plan. 2. Calculation of the Costs of Restoration, Rehabilitation, Replacement, and/or Acquisition of Equivalent Resources Once the trustee officials select a restoration, rehabilitation, replacement, and/or acquisition alternative, they must choose the methods they intend to use to estimate the costs of implementing that alternative. To do this, trustee officials select among the specific cost estimating methodologies provided in the rule. The rule provides a number of criteria to guide the selection of cost estimating methodologies, including a requirement that the chosen methodologies are reliable for the particular incident and type of damage being measured. Trustee officials include the rationale for their selection in the Restoration and Compensation Determination Plan. 3. Calculation of Compensable Value Under this rule, the costs of restoring, rehabilitating, replacing, and/or acquiring the equivalent of the injured resources are the basic measure of damages; however, these costs are only one component of the damages that trustee officials may assess. Trustee officials also have the discretion to assess the value of the services that the public lost from the date of the release or discharge until completion of restoration, rehabilitation, replacement, and/or acquisition of equivalent resources. The final rule uses the term ``compensable value'' to encompass all of the lost public economic values, including lost use values and lost nonuse values such as existence and bequest values. The Restoration and Compensation Determination Plan includes a description of the valuation methodologies trustee officials intend to use when estimating compensable value during Damage Determination.
