FR941116-0-00030 FR941116-0-00006 Data From Boeing Model 737's One commenter requests that the FAA consider data from Boeing Model 737 airplanes, in conjunction with data from Boeing Model 727 airplanes, when reviewing requests to extend the leak check interval. The FAA points out that, even though the design of the Model 727 and Model 737 are not similar in many aspects, the functioning of the lavatory drain systems on both models may be similar due to the similarity of the hardware used. Therefore, the FAA will consider data from similar drain systems of different airplane models when reviewing requests received to extend leak check intervals; however, in accordance with the data gathering requirements of paragraph (c) of this final rule, any data submitted must reflect which airplanes and which drain valves the data represent. Boeing Specifications vs. Brand Name Valves Several commenters request that the proposed rule be revised so that affected hardware is identified by Boeing Specification number, rather than by vendor part numbers. These commenters are concerned that certain parts may not qualify for longer inspection intervals because they have dash numbers not called out specifically in the proposed rule. They consider that this is not only confusing, but inequitable, since many later hardware configurations will fall into the ``any other type valve'' category that provides for a leak check interval of only 400 flight hours. The commenters consider that requesting ``alternative methods of compliance'' will become the norm, unless the rule is revised to refer to hardware specification numbers. One commenter, a manufacturer of valves, is concerned that it will be unable to market its equipment because the proposed rule provides no performance standards under which its valves can qualify. On the other hand one commenter objects to the FAA's statement in the preamble to the supplemental NPRM that indicated, ``*␣*␣* One of the factors that the FAA will consider in approving alternative valve designs is whether the valve meets Boeing Specification S417T105 or 10&hyph;62213.'' This commenter interprets the phrase to be a requirement for Boeing approval of any alternative valve only to the Boeing specifications. The FAA does not concur with the commenters' requests to call out valves by Boeing specification only. Boeing specifications were not referenced in this final rule because the FAA does not consider it appropriate for Boeing to screen and potentially disapprove, for purposes of this AD, alternative valves that may not qualify to Boeing's specifications. This would have the effect of delegating to Boeing, through its specification qualification procedure, the authority to approve or disapprove alternative methods of compliance with this AD. Approval under a Boeing specification is not a requirement for a valve design under this rule; it is only a factor to be considered. Other factors may be taken into account as well, such as having extensive service history data. Review and approval of alternative valve designs is a function of the FAA through the ``alternative methods of compliance'' procedures provided by paragraph (f) of the final rule. The wording of the NOTE 7 following paragraph (f) of the final rule has been revised to clarify this point. Qualifying For 1,000 Flight Hour Leak Check Interval Several operators request that the proposed rule be revised to include a provision that would allow any service panel drain valve, manufactured by any manufacturer, to become qualified for the 1,000-flight hour leak check interval. These commenters state that, by restricting the 1,000-flight hour interval to only certain brand name valves, the FAA restricts competition that could lead eventually to the development of better valves. The FAA does not agree that the 1,000 flight hour leak check interval should be allowed unequivocally for all service panel drain valves. Current service history data indicate that some valves are more reliable than others; those valves that have demonstrated such reliability in service so far are the valves identified (by brand name) in this rule. The FAA does not consider that a design review and qualification test are sufficient to determine how well a valve will perform in actual service. This has been clearly demonstrated by the history of this specific AD action: the installation of any of several valves was designated previously as terminating action for the required leak check, but those valves were later found to be subject to leakage. However, the FAA does agree that requirements for service history data should not be so rigid as to preclude competition by valve manufacturers with new designs. Therefore, the FAA will consider requests for inclusion in the 1,000-flight hour leak check category any valve for which the design, qualification test, and service history data are provided. The request should include an analysis of known failure modes for the valve and failure modes of similar valves; an explanation should be included as to how the design features of the valve will preclude these failure modes. Also included should be the results of qualification tests, and service history data covering approximately 25,000 flight hours or 25,000 flight cycles (including a winter season), collected in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (c) of the final rule, or a similar program. The final rule has been revised to include a new NOTE 7 to specify the request for this information.
