FR940318-0-00237 FR940318-0-00023 Fire Suppression and Explosion Protection Streaming Agents Substitutes Acceptable Subject to Narrowed Use Limits 1End-use 1Substitute 1Decision 1Conditions 1Comments Halon 1211 Streaming Agents [CFC Blend] Acceptable in nonresidential uses only Use of CFCs are controlled under CAA section 610 which bans use of CFCs in pressurized dispensers, and therefore are not permitted for use in portable fire extinguishers. EPA will list this agent as proposed unacceptable in the next SNAP proposed rulemaking. ␣ l l l Because CFCs are a Class I substance, production will be phased out by January 1, 1996. ␣ l l l See additional comments 1, 2. ␣ HBFC&hyph;22B1 Acceptable in nonresidential uses only Proper procedures regarding the operation of the extinguisher and ventilation following dispensing the extinguishant is recommended. Worker exposure may be a concern in small office areas. ␣ l l l HBFC&hyph;22B1 is considered an interim substitute for Halon 1211. Because the HBFC&hyph;22B1 has an ODP of .74, production will be phased out (except for essential uses) on January 1, 1996. ␣ l l l This agent was submitted to the Agency as a Premanufacture Notice (PMN) and is presently subject to requirements contained in a Toxic Substance Control Act (TSCA) Consent Order. ␣ l l l See additional comments 1, 2. ␣ C 6 F 14 Acceptable for nonresidential uses where other alternatives are not technically feasible due to performance or safety requirements: l Users must observe the limitations on PFC acceptability by making reasonable effort to undertake the following measures: (i) conduct an evaluation of foreseeable conditions of end use; (ii) determine that the physical or chemical properties or other technical constraints of the other available agents preclude their use; and ␣ l a. due to the physical or chemical properties of the agent, or (iii) determine that human exposure to the other alternative extinguishing agents may approach or result in cardiosensitization or other unacceptable toxicity effects under normal operating conditions; Documentation of such measures must be available for review upon request. ␣ l b. where human exposure to the extinguishing agent may approach cardiosensitization levels or result in other unacceptable health effects under normal operating conditions The principal environmental characteristic of concern for PFCs is that they have high GWPs and long atmospheric lifetimes. Actual contributions to global warming depend upon the quantities of PFCs emitted. For additional guidance regarding applications in which PFCs may be appropriate, users should consult the description of potential uses which is included in the preamble to this rulemaking. ␣ l l l See additional comments 1, 2. Additional Comments: 1_Discharge testing and training should be strictly limited only to that which is essential to meet safety or performance requirements. 2_The agent should be recovered from the fire protection system in conjunction with testing or servicing, and recycled for later use or destroyed. Fire Suppression and Explosion Protection Streaming Agents Unacceptable Substitutes 1End-use 1Substitute 1Decision 1Comments Halon 1211 Streaming Agents [CFC&hyph;11] Unacceptable This agent has been suggested for use on large outdoor fires for which non-ozone depleting alternatives are currently used.
