FR940822-0-00049 FR940822-0-00016 Graduate study means the courses of study beyond the baccalaureate level which lead to an advanced degree. Institution of higher education has the meaning given in section 1201(a) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1141(a)). Junior means a student who following completion of the current academic year has one more year of full-time course work to receive a baccalaureate degree. President means the principal official responsible for the overall direction of the operations of an institution of higher education. Public service means employment in: governments at any level, the uniformed services, public interest organizations, non-governmental research and/or educational organizations, and non-profit organizations such as those whose primary purposes are to help needy or disadvantaged persons or to protect the environment. Resident means a person who has legal residence in the State, recognized under State law. If a question arises concerning the State of residence, the Foundation determines, for the purposes of this program of which State the person is a resident, taking into account place of registration to vote, parent's placer of residence, and eligibility for ``in-State'' tuition rates at public institutions of higher education. Scholar means a person who has been selected by the Foundation as a Truman Scholar, has accepted the Scholarship and agreed to the conditions of the award, and is eligible for Scholarship stipend(s). Senior means the academic level recognized by the institution of higher education as being in the last year of study before receiving a baccalaureate degree. Sophomore means the academic level recognized by the institution of higher education has having second year standing. Term means the period which the institution of higher education uses to divide its academic year; Semester, trimester, or quarter. Subpart B_Nominations §1801.10 Nomination by institution of higher education. To be considered in the competition a student must be nominated by the institution of higher education that he or she attends. §1801.11 Annual nomination. (a) Except as provided in §§1801.11(b), 1801.12, and 1801.24, each institution of higher education may nominate up to three students annually. Each nominee may have legal residence in the same State as the institution or in a different State. (b) The Foundation may announce each year in its Bulletin of Information special circumstances under which each institution may nominate one or more additional candidates. (c) To nominate a student for the competition, the President of the institution or the designated Faculty Representative must send the student's application to the Foundation in accordance with §§1801.16 and 1801.17. 1801.12 Institutions with more than one campus. If an institution of higher education has more than one component separately listed in the current edition of the Directory of Postsecondary Institutions published by the U.S. Department of Education, each may nominate up to three students. However, a component that is organized solely for administrative purposes and has no students may not nominate a student. §1801.13 Two-year institutions. If an institution of higher education does not offer education beyond the sophomore level, the institution may nominate only students who have completed their sophomore year and have become full-time juniors at other accredited institutions of higher education. The Faculty Representatives at the two-year institutions must forward the nomination materials to the President or the Faculty Representative of the four-year institution attended by the nominee in sufficient time for certification that the nominee is a full-time student with junior-level academic standing and for transmission of the nominations materials of transfer students to the Foundation by the closing date for receipt of nominations. §1801.15 Faculty representative. (a) Each institution which nominates a student must give the Foundation the name, business address, and business telephone number of a member of the faculty who will serve as liaison between the institution and the Foundation. (b) It is the role of this Faculty Representative to publicize the Truman Scholarship on campus, solicit recommendations of potential nominees from members of the faculty, and insure that the institution's nominations, with all required supporting documents, are forwarded to the Foundation as required by §1801.16 and the current Bulletin of Information. (c) It is the role of the Faculty Representative or the President at a four-year institution to transmit to the Foundation the nomination materials of transfer students for receipt by the stated deadline. The institution may attach letters of endorsement for up to three transfer students. §1801.16 Closing date for receipt of nominations. The Foundation publishes an annual notice in the Federal Register of the date, usually December 2, by which time the Foundation must receive nominations at the address specified in the nominations materials in order to be considered by the Foundation. §1801.17 Contents of application. (a) The Foundation provides a form that must be used as the application. (b) Each application must include the following: (1) A certification of nomination and eligibility signed by the Faculty Representative or the President; (2) A completed Nomination and Supporting Information Form signed by the nominee; (3) An analysis of a public policy issue written by the nominee; (4) A current official college transcript; (5) Four letters of recommendation including one from the Faculty Representative or President; and a (6) Statement that the student is willing to participate in a Truman Scholars Leadership program sponsored by the Foundation and to attend the awards ceremony. Subpart C_The Competition §1801.20 Selection of finalists. (a) The Foundation selects finalists from the students who are nominated. §1801.21 Evaluation criteria. (a) The Foundation selects finalists from the students nominated primarily on the basis of the following criteria: (1) Leadership abilities and potential; (2) Suitability of the nominee's proposed program of study and its appropriateness for a leadership career in public service with substantial impact on public policies; (3) Writing and analytic skills; (4) Academic performance and potential to perform well in graduate school; and (5) Quality and extent of public and community service and government involvement. (b) The Foundation selects finalists solely on the basis of the information required under §1801.17. (c) In the event that the Foundation determines that there are less than two well-qualified candidates from a state, the Foundation may invite all four-year institutions that nominated candidates for this competition to submit additional nominations of candidates from this state or to revise and re-submit nominations of unsuccessful candidates from this state. §1801.22 Interview of finalists with panel.
