FR940429-0-00222 FR940429-0-00015 Changes: The provisions that provided for exceptions to the annual audit requirements for institutions and third-party servicers have been deleted in these final regulations. The proposed audit exceptions in this section have been removed. This section has been revised to require that all institutions have performed an annual compliance audit of the institution's administration of its Title IV, HEA programs; and to require that all third-party servicers have an annual compliance audit performed of every aspect of the servicer's administration of the participation in the Title IV, HEA programs of each institution with which the servicer has a contract. Comments: Many commenters suggested amending ยง668.23(c)(8) to establish deadlines for the submission of audit reports, rather than allowing the Inspector General to specify these deadlines in the audit guides. Several commenters questioned whether the Inspector General has the authority to establish this requirement without regulations. Another commenter suggested that the regulations contain a provision that would require institutions to meet the deadlines specified in the audit guide, but stipulate that under no circumstances would the institution be required to submit its audit report earlier than four months following the expiration of the audit period. Discussion: Upon review of the commenters' concerns, the Secretary agrees that because these regulations require that an audit report must be submitted in a timely manner, the regulations should provide institutions and third-party servicers with the specific dates for submission of audit reports. The Secretary believes that a period of 120 days from the end of the institution's or servicer's fiscal year provides an institution or servicer with a sufficient period of time to have an audit performed and to submit the audit report to the Department. Changes: The regulations have been revised to state that an institution or third-party servicer must submit its audit within 120 days of the end of its fiscal year. An institution or third-party servicer that has an audit performed under the Single Audit Act must submit the audit report in accordance with the deadlines specified in that act. Comments: Many commenters were opposed to the provision that the Secretary could require a third-party servicer to release the results of an audit to cognizant guaranty agencies, eligible lenders under the FFEL programs, State agencies, nationally recognized accrediting agencies, and State Postsecondary Review Entities on the grounds that these entities are not affected by the servicer's actions and release of information in the audit report could unnecessarily damage a third-party servicer's reputation. Discussion: The Secretary disagrees with the commenters that the referenced entities are not affected by a third-party servicer's actions. The Secretary believes that by providing information- sharing among the appropriate authorized entities that the Secretary relies on to help provide oversight of Title IV, HEA program participants, that the Secretary is responding to Congressional intent. A third-party servicer acts as an agent of the institution and is responsible for administering a portion of an institution's participation. As such, the various entities involved in program oversight will have a genuine need for access to records of, or information about, the servicer. The Secretary therefore considers that the audit results of third-party servicers must be included in the information available to the appropriate oversight bodies monitoring institutional compliance with Title IV, HEA requirements. Changes: The Secretary is revising paragraph (c)(4) of this section to include the Secretary of Veteran Affairs in the list of entities that the Secretary may require an institution or third-party servicer to provide the results of an audit to. Comments: One commenter felt that an audit guide specifically developed for third-party servicers was necessary to comply with the requirements of this section. Another commenter was of the opinion that the period covered by a third-party servicer's first audit should not start until after audit guidance is available from the Department of Education. Discussion: The Department of Education's Office of Inspector General is working on developing audit guides applicable for compliance audits performed of institutions and third-party servicers. The Secretary expects that these guides will be available before the initial audit period covered by an audit performed of a third-party servicer begins. Changes: None. Comments: Regarding the requirement for an institution to maintain records on a student's placement if the institution has a placement service used by the student, four commenters were concerned that application of this requirement to all institutions for all types of student employment placement might be overreaching and could result in institutions electing to terminate their student employment service rather than comply with burdensome recordkeeping requirements. Commenters pointed out that at some large institutions, student employment centers often act as clearinghouses for posting jobs and professional career opportunities, but frequently lacked the resources to track actual placement. Most often, employment information is made available to students and that information is simply removed from posting once the employer indicates the position has been filled. Commenters maintained that a formal follow-up process on student employment is not generally systematic and obtaining appropriate documentation would discourage institutions from continuing to provide this service to students. Two commenters recommended removing this requirement from the regulations. Three other commenters suggested that the Department of Education revise this provision of the regulations so that it would apply only to institutions that are otherwise required to track student employment as a condition of Title IV, HEA program eligibility or pertains only to those students for which the institution must otherwise maintain employment records.
