FR940616-2-00120 FR940616-2-00089 Eligible Proposals Eligible proposals will be forwarded to panels of USIA officers for advisory review. All eligible proposals will also be reviewed by the appropriate geographic area office, and the budget and contracts office. Funding decisions are at the discretion of the Associate Director for Educational and Cultural Affairs. Final technical authority for grant awards resides with USIA's grants officer. Review Criteria (All Categories) Technically eligible applications will be competitively reviewed according to the following criteria: a. Quality of Program Plan Academic rigor, thorough conception of project, demonstration of meeting student needs, contributions to understanding the partner country, proposed follow-up, and qualifications of program staff and participants. b. Feasibility of the Program Plan Capacity of the organization to conduct the exchange. Proposals should clearly demonstrate how the institution will meet the program objectives and plan. c. Track Record Revelant Agency and outside assessments of the organization's experience with international exchanges; for organizations that have not worked with USIA before, the demonstrated potential to achieve program goals will be evaluated. d. Multiplier Effect/Impact The impact of the exchange activity on the wider community and on the development of continuing ties, as well as the contribution of the proposed activity in promoting mutual understanding. e. Value of U.S._Partner Country Relations The assessment by USIA's geographic area office of the need, potential impact, and significance of the project with the partner country. f. Cost-Effectiveness Greatest return on each grant dollar. A key measure of cost-effectiveness is the unit cost to the Agency. This is the total request of USIA monies divided by the number of exchangees (people moved). The Agency also reviews the ratio of cost-sharing exhibited. Cost-sharing through other financial support as well as institutional direct and in kind funding contributions is strongly encouraged. g. Diversity and Pluralism (for Student Programs) Preference will be given to proposals that demonstrate efforts to provide for the participation of students with a variety of major disciplines, from diverse regions, and of different socio-economic and ethnic backgrounds, to the extent feasible for the applicant institutions. h. Adherence of Proposed Activities To the criteria and conditions described above. i. Institutional Commitment Demonstrated by financial and other support to the program, including the provision for adequate and appropriate personnel and institutional resources to achieve the program goals. j. Follow-on Activities Proposals should provide a plan for continued follow-on activity (without USIA support) which insures that USIA-supported programs are not isolated events. k. Evaluation Plan Proposals should provide a plan for evaluation by the grantee institution to determine the success of the project.
