FR940105-2-00017 FR940105-2-00006 No ``All Others'' rate will be established for the PRC. Instead, a country-wide rate is applied to all imports of sebacic acid from the PRC for those PRC exporters which were unable to demonstrate that they were entitled to a separate rate. Because we are assigning a country-wide rate in this situation, there is no need to assign an ``All Others'' case deposit rate for PRC entities. Verification As provided in section 776(b) of the Act, we will verify the information used in making our final determination. Suspension of Liquidation In accordance with section 733(d)(1) of the Act, we are directing the Customs Service to suspend liquidation of all entries of sebacic acid from the PRC that are entered, or withdrawn from warehouse, for consumption on or after the date of publication of this notice in the Federal Register . The Customs Service shall require a cash deposit or posting of a bond equal to the estimated amount by which the FMV exceeds the USP as shown below. These suspension of liquidation instructions will remain in effect until further notice. The weighted-average dumping margins are as follows. The PRC country-wide rate applies only to PRC companies not specifically listed below. ␣ 1Manufacturer/Producer/Exporter 1Weighted-average margin percentage Sinochem International Chemicals Company 28.04 Sinochem Jiangsu Import & Export Corporation 39.24 Tianjin Chemicals Import & Export Corporation 20.01 Guangdong Chemicals Import & Export Corporation 40.25 PRC country-wide rate 243.40 ITC Notification In accordance with section 733(f) of the Act, we have notified the ITC of our determination. If our final determination is affirmative, the ITC will determine before the later of 120 days after the date of this preliminary determination or 45 days after our final determination whether these imports are materially injuring, or threaten material injury to, the U.S. industry. Postponement of Final Determination As stated above, in accordance with 19 CFR 353.20(b), respondents, which account for a significant portion of the merchandise covered in this proceeding, have requested in writing that, in the event of an affirmative determination, the Department postpone the final determination an additional 60 days from the publication of the preliminary determination. Accordingly, because we find no compelling reason to deny the request, we are postponing the date of the final determination until not later than 135 days after the date of publication of this notice.
