FR940216-0-00198 FR940216-0-00010 (c) Reid vapor pressure (RVP). Reid Vapor Pressure (RVP) shall be determined using the procedure described in 40 CFR part 80, appendix E, Method 3. (d) Distillation. (1) Distillation parameters shall be determined using ASTM standard method D&hyph;86&hyph;90, entitled ``Standard Test Method for Distillation of Petroleum Products''; except that (2) The figures for repeatability and reproducibility given in degrees Fahrenheit in Table 9 in the ASTM method are incorrect, and shall not be used. (e) Benzene. (1) Benzene content shall be determined using ASTM standard method D&hyph;3606&hyph;92, entitled ``Standard Test Method for Determination of Benzene and Toluene in Finished Motor and Aviation Gasoline by Gas Chromatography''; except that (2) Instrument parameters must be adjusted to ensure complete resolution of the benzene, ethanol and methanol peaks because ethanol and methanol may cause interference with ASTM standard method D&hyph;3606&hyph;92 when present. (f) Aromatics. Aromatics content shall be determined by gas chromatography identifying and quantifying each aromatic compound as set forth in paragraph (f)(1) of this section. (1) (i) Detector. The detector is an atomic mass spectrometer detector (MSD). The detector may be set for either selective ion or scan mode. (ii) Method A. (A) The initial study of this method used a three component internal standard using the following calculations. (B) The calibration points are constructed by calculating an amount ratio and response ratio for each level of a particular peak in the instrument's calibration table. (C) The amount ratio is the amount of the compound divided by the amount of the internal standard for a given level. (D) The response ratio is the response of the compound divided by the response of the internal standard at this level. (E) The equation for the curve through the calibration points is calculated using the type fit and origin handling specified in the instrument's calibration table. In the initial study the fit was a second degree polynomial including a forced zero for the origin. (F) The response of the compound in a sample is divided by the response of the internal standard to provide a response ratio for that compound in the sample. (G) A corrected amount ratio for the unknown is calculated using the curve fit equation determined in paragragh (f)(1)(ii)(E) of this section. (H) The amount of the aromatic compound is equal to the corrected amount ratio times the Amount of Internal Standard. (I) The total aromatics in the sample is the sum of the amounts of the individual aromatic compounds in the sample. (J) An internal standard solution can be made with the following compounds at the listed concentrations in volume percent. Also listed is the Chemical Abstracts Service Registry Number (CAS), atomic mass unit (amu) on which the detector must be set at the corresponding retention time if used in the selective ion mode, retention times in minutes, and boiling point in ○C. (Other, similar, boiling point materials can be used which are not found in gasoline.) Retention times are approximate and apply only to a 60 meter capillary column used in the initial study. Other columns and retention times can be used. (1) 4-methyl-2-pentanone, 50 vol% [108&hyph;10&hyph;1], 43.0 amu, 22.8 min., bp 118;
