FR940208-2-00193 FR940208-2-00093 (b) where the committee issues an order referred to in subrule 46(1)(a), the documents referred to in rules 40 and 42 in accordance with any order of the committee; and (c) where the committee issues an order referred to in subrule 46(1)(b), the documents referred to in rules 40 and 42, in accordance with subrule 46(1)(b)(ii) and any order made by the committee. Part V_Orders and Decisions 62. All orders and decisions of a committee shall be made by a majority of the votes of all members of the committee. 63. (1) Where a Notice of Motion requesting dismissal of an extraordinary challenge proceeding is filed by a participant, the committee may issue an order terminating the proceeding. (2) Where the motion referred to in subrule (1) is consented to by all the participants and an affidavit to that effect is filed, or where all participants file Notices of Motion requesting dismissal, the extraordinary challenge proceeding is terminated. 64. (1) A final decision of a committee shall (a) affirm the decision of the panel; (b) vacate the decision of the panel; or (c) remand the decision of the panel to the panel for action not inconsistent with the final decision of the committee. (2) Every final decision of a committee shall be issued in writing with reasons, together with any dissenting or concurring opinions of the members of the committee. (3) Subrule (2) shall not be construed as prohibiting the oral delivery of the decision of a committee. Part VI_Completion of Extraordinary Challenges 65. Where all participants consent to the termination of the proceeding pursuant to rule 63, the responsible Secretary shall cause to be published in the Canada Gazette and the Federal Register a Notice of Completion of Extraordinary Challenge, effective on the day after the day on which the requirements of rule 63 have been met. 66. Where a committee issues its final decision, the responsible Secretary shall cause to be published in the Canada Gazette and the Federal Register a Notice of Completion of Extraordinary Challenge, effective on the day after the day on which_ (a) the committee affirms the decision of the panel; (b) the committee vacates the decision of the panel; or (c) where the committee remands the decision of the panel, the day the responsible Secretary gives notice to the committee that the panel has given notice that it has taken action not inconsistent with the committee's decision. 67. The members of the committee are discharged from their duties on the day on which a Notice of Completion of Extraordinary Challenge is effective. Schedule_Procedural Forms Forms (1) through (4) follow.
