FR941213-0-00037 FR941213-0-00009 On September 29, 1993, NIH published a notice of proposed rulemaking in the Federal Register announcing our plans to amend the regulations governing the Hazardous Waste Worker Training Program at 42 CFR part 65 by making these changes and invited public comment. We received two comments on the proposed changes. These comments were received from the George Meany Center for Labor Studies and the Chemical Waste Transportation Institute of the National Solid Wastes Management Association. Comment: The George Meany Center for Labor Studies suggested that the inclusion of both planning grants and program grants in part 65 is inconsistent with section 118(c) of the amended HMTA which restricts funding to ``non-profit organizations which previously have demonstrated their expertise in implementing and operating hazmat employee training and education programs.'' Response: While planning grants are an option for NIEHS in the overall training program under the Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act of 1986 (SARA), it would not be an option with the HMTA Hazmat Employee Training Grant Program since the statute is so narrowly drawn. In response to the comment, we have clarified ยง65.1 (c) to indicate that planning grants are available only under SARA. Comment: The Chairman of the Chemical Waste Transportation Institute suggested the title heading of part 65 be expanded to make reference to both types of grants programs. He suggested the heading be altered to read: ``NIEHS Hazardous Waste Worker Training and Hazmat Employee Training Grant Programs.'' Response: NIEHS prefers to retain the original title heading of part 65 which is generically descriptive of the kinds of programs covered, including additions of new programs related to hazardous waste worker training and additions to a program's purview and statutory authority. The public will be notified of the availability of funds for particular programs through the standard process of the issuance by NIH of Requests for Applications (RFA). Hence, there is no need for changing the program's general title with every new statutory or regulatory amendment. Accordingly, no changes have been made in the proposed rule, except for minor editorial changes. Regulatory Impact Statement Executive Order No. 12866 of September 30, 1993, Regulatory Planning and Review, requires us to prepare an analysis for any rule that meets one of the E. O. 12866 criteria for a significant regulatory action; that is, that may_ Have an annual effect on the economy of $100 million or more or adversely affect in a material way the economy, a sector of the economy, productivity, competition, jobs, the environment, public health or safety, or State, local, or tribal, governments, or communities; Create a serious inconsistency or otherwise interfere with an action taken or planned by another agency; Materially alter the budgetary impact of entitlements, grants, user fees, or loan programs or the rights and obligations of recipients thereof; or Raise novel legal or policy issues arising out of legal mandates, the President's priorities, or the principles set forth in E.O. 12866. In addition, we prepare a regulatory flexibility analysis, in accordance with the Regulatory Flexibility Act of 1980 (5 U.S.C. chapter 6), if the rule is expected to have a significant impact on a substantial number of small entities. Because this rule merely makes minor changes in the authority citation, applicability section, and definitions section to incorporate the new Hazmat Employee Training Grant Program authority into part 65, it will have no major consequential effects on the economy or small entities. Therefore, the Secretary has determined that this rule is not significant within the definition of E.O. 12866, and the Secretary certifies that this rule will not have a significant impact on a substantial number of small entities. Paperwork Reduction Act Sections 65.4(a), (b) and (c) of part 65 contain information collection requirements subject to Office of Management and Budget (OMB) review under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980 (44 U.S.C. chapter 35). The information collection language in these sections is currently approved under OMB control number 0925&hyph;0348. Response burden in conjunction with the program is approved under OMB control number 0925&hyph;0001. This rule does not result in any changes in the language currently approved under control number 0925&hyph;0348. Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance The OMB Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance (CFDA) numbered program affected by the subject rule is: 93.142 List of Subjects in 42 CFR Part 65 Education study programs, Grant programs_education, Grant programs_health, Hazardous materials transportation, training programs.
