FR941102-2-00074 FR941102-2-00056 Notice of Inventory Completion for Native American Human Remains From Blossvale, NY, in the Possession of the Rome Historical Society, Rome, NY AGENCY: National Park Service, Interior. ACTION: Notice. Notice is hereby given in accordance with provisions of the Native American Graves Protection and Repatriation Act, 25 U.S.C. 3003(d), of completion of the inventory of human remains from a site near Blossvale, NY, that are presently in the possession of the Rome Historical Society, Rome, NY. A detailed inventory and assessment of these human remains has been made by Historical Society curatorial staff, a contracted specialist in physical anthropology, and representatives of the Oneida Indian Nation (of New York) and the Oneida Tribe of Indians of Wisconsin. In 1958, Mr. Willard Teelin discovered the human remains along with some associated funerary objects following a flash flood in Fish Creek near Blossvale, NY. The director of the Fort Stanwix Museum, operated by the Rome Historical Society, identified the human remains and associated funerary objects as belonging to the Owasco culture. Mr. Teelin donated the human remains to the Rome Historical Society and retained possession of the associated funerary objects. Mr. Teelin's descendants are not aware of the whereabouts of the associated funerary objects. Osteological examination by Dr. Richard G. Wilkinson, Department of Anthropology, State University of New York-Albany, revealed that two individuals are represented by the human remains. The first individual was approximately 35&hyph;40 years old at the time of death. The second individual was approximately 16&hyph;20 years old at the time of death. Both are Native American males from the prehistoric period. Inventory of the human remains and review of the accompanying documentation indicates that no known individuals were identifiable. The Owasco culture is generally recognized in the archeological literature as being ancestral to the five historically known Indian tribes of the Iroquois Confederacy: Mohawk, Oneida, Onondaga, Cayuga, and Seneca. The Blossvale, NY, area in which the human remains were discovered is well within the historical boundaries of lands claimed as Oneida territory. The Oneida Indian Nation (of New York) considers itself to be the descendant of Native Americans who occupied central New York since time immemorial. Oneida Tribe of Indians of Wisconsin has declined to submit a claim for repatriation of these human remains. Based on the above mentioned information, officials of the Rome Historical Society have determined that, pursuant to 25 U.S.C. 3001 (2), there is a relationship of shared group identity which can be reasonably traced between these human remains and associated funerary objects and the Oneida Indian Nation (of New York). This notice has been sent to officials of the Oneida Indian Nation (of New York) and the Oneida Tribe of Indians of Wisconsin. Representatives of any other Indian tribe which believes itself to be culturally affiliated with these human remains should contact Jon Austin, Executive Director, Rome Historical Society, 200 Church Street, Rome, NY 13440, telephone: (315) 336&hyph;5870, before December 2, 1994. Repatriation of these human remains to the Oneida Indian Nation (of New York) may begin after that date if no additional claimants come forward. Dated: October 11, 1994. Francis P. MacManamon, Departmental Consulting Archeologist, Chief, Archeological Assistance Division. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;27079; Filed 11&hyph;1&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4310&hyph;70&hyph;F
