FR940810-2-00117 FR940810-2-00073 Currently, floor trader contra-side participation currently defaults to the account of the specialist if no step is taken to manually add the participation of a ROT. ROTs are eligible for participation when they have established priority or parity at the execution price. 6 Consequently, before contra-side information can be added, the trading crowd has to resolve among itself which floor trader(s) had priority or parity at the execution price. Quite often, several floor traders are on parity, thus requiring keypunch entries for each such trader. The more contra-side participants which must be added to a trade, the more of a delay there is in processing the participant information to the trade and the more the process becomes prone to keypunch errors and additional manual paperwork. 6 Currently, if one or more ROTs have priority or parity, the order will be split as evenly as possible between all such ROTs and the specialist. The Wheel will automatically include eligible ROTs in AUTO&hyph;X executions and specify how such trades will be split among the specialist and ROTs. The specialist and any signed on ROTs will be listed on the Wheel, and contra-side participation of AUTO&hyph;X orders will then be assigned to them in circular rotation with each ten lot or order (whichever is smaller) constituting an assignment. The specialist receives the first trade of the day in each respective option. Thereafter, the Wheel turns to assign trades to ROTs in an order standardized for that day on a random basis. 7 7 The first ROT is selected randomly from all ROTs that sign on prior to 9:30 a.m. All other ROTs are prioritized for receipt of orders based on the badge numbers following sequentially the first ROT's badge number. If other ROTs sign on for the 12:30 p.m. session, the priority list is rerandomized for that session. For example, if specialist S and ROTs R, O, and T are on the Wheel in XYZ option, the first order for 9 contracts is assigned automatically to S. The next order, which is for 25 contracts, is assigned ten each to R and O, and five to T. The third order, for 20 contracts, is assigned ten contracts to S and ten to R. If there are five or more ROTs signed onto the Wheel, the specialist participates in the first trade of the day and thereafter receives every fifth execution. The Exchange believe that the proposed AUTO&hyph;X Wheel and corresponding Advice are intended to facilitate orderly transactions in AUTO&hyph;X, with full trading crowd participation. The sign on/sign off requirements, including the assigned option and Wheel assignment area requirements, are intended to ensure that the ROT is present and actively awaiting AUTO&hyph;X orders in those options in which AUTO&hyph;X executions are to be manually received. 8 8 Currently, the specialist will only add an ROT as a contra-side participant if the ROT is present and has bid at the execution price. The Phlx believes that the proposed rule change is consistent with Section 6 of the Act in general, and in particular, with Section 6(b)(5), 9 in that it is designed to promote just and equitable principles of trade, prevent fraudulent and manipulative acts and practices, as well as to protect investors and the public interest by promoting ROT participation as contra-parties to AUTO&hyph;X trades and reducing opportunities for keypunching errors through increased automation. 9 15 U.S.C. ยง78f(b)(5) (1988). B. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Burden on Competition The Phlx does not believe that the proposed rule change imposes any burden on competition not necessary or appropriate in furtherance of the purposes of the Act. C. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received from Members, Participants, or Others Comments on the proposed rule change have not yet been solicited or received. III. Date of Effectiveness of the Proposed Rule Change and Timing for Commission Action Within thirty days of the date of publication of this notice in the Federal Register or within such longer period (i) as the Commission may designate up to ninety days of such date if it finds such longer period to be appropriate and publishes its reasons for so findings or (ii) as to which the self-regulatory organizations consents, the Commission will: (A) By order approve such proposed rule change, or (B) Institute proceedings to determine whether the proposed rule change should be disapproved. IV. Solicitation of Comments Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views, and arguments concerning the foregoing. Persons making written submissions should file six copies thereof with the Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of the submission, all subsequent amendments, all written statements with respect to the proposed rule change that are filed with the Commission, and all written communications relating to the proposed rule change between the Commission any person, other than those that may be withheld from the public in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. ยง552, will be available for inspection and copying in the Commission's Public Reference Section, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of such filing will also be available for inspection and copying at the principal office of Phlx. All submissions should refer to file number SR&hyph;Phlx&hyph;94&hyph;32 and should be submitted by August 31, 1994. For the Commission by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. 10 10 17 CFR 200.30&hyph;3(a)(12) (1993). Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;19521 Filed 8&hyph;9&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
