FR940317-0-00051 FR940317-0-00022 •Disclosure of the issuer's plans regarding the provision of information to the secondary market; and •Timely delivery of preliminary official statements to underwriters and potential investors. (2) The Commission is renewing its recommendation for legislation to repeal the exemption for corporate obligations underlying certain conduit securities from the registration and reporting requirements of the federal securities laws. (3) Particularly because of their public nature, issuers in the municipal market routinely make public statements and issue reports that can affect the market for their securities; without a mechanism for providing ongoing disclosures to investors, these disclosures may cause the issuer to violate the antifraud provisions. Basic mechanisms to address potential antifraud liability include: •Publication of financial information, including audited financial statements and other financial and operating information, on at least an annual basis; •Timely reporting of material events reflecting upon the creditworthiness of the issuer or the obligor and the terms of its securities, including material defaults, draws on reserves, adverse rating changes and receipt of an adverse tax opinion; and •Submission of such information to an information repository. (4) Underwriters and municipal securities dealers are key players in maintaining the quality of disclosure in the municipal securities markets. The underwriter has a duty to review the issuer's disclosure documents before offering, selling or bidding for the securities and to have a reasonable basis for its belief as to the accuracy and completeness of the representations in the documents. Municipal dealers must have a reasonable basis for recommending the purchase of securities. In a companion release, 1 the Commission is proposing for comment two related rule amendments, the first proposing to prohibit a broker, dealer or municipal securities dealer from underwriting a municipal issue unless the issuer makes a commitment to provide annual and event-related secondary market information to a designated repository; and the second proposing to prohibit a broker, dealer, or municipal securities dealer from recommending purchases of such issues in the secondary market if it does not review such information. 1 Exchange Act Release No. 33742 (March 9, 1994) (``Companion Release'').
