FR940516-1-00108 FR940516-1-00006 Both the Outdoor Power Equipment Institute and the Engine Manufacturers Association have requested that EPA extend the effective date to 1997 for all engines. The Portable Power Equipment Manufacturers Association has requested that EPA extend it to 1997 for engines regulated and sold in California and to 1999 for preempted engines and engines discontinued in California. These industry association requests are available in the docket for this rulemaking. In all cases, these associations have argued that more lead time is needed to apply these standards to nationwide sales. EPA requests comment on the impact of its proposed effective date on both engine and equipment manufacturers. EPA also requests comment on alternative effective dates, including phased effective dates, such as 1996 for nonpreempted engines and 1997 for preempted engines, or a phase-in by engine size where Class I, II, III, IV, and V engines would meet the applicable standards at different times based on environmental impact and lead time constraints. J. Selection of Worst Case Emitter EPA is proposing to use the criteria of highest weighted brake-specific fuel consumption (BSFC) over the appropriate engine test cycle to determine that engine configuration within an engine family which will be selected as the certification test engine. EPA believes that BSFC is an appropriate criterion for selecting a worst case emitter. In particular, EPA believes that an engine configuration with high BSFC will generally emit higher levels of hydrocarbons and carbon monoxide than a second configuration in the same engine family which has a lower BSFC. EPA solicits comments on the appropriateness of weighted BSFC as the criterion to be used for selecting the worst case emitter. EPA considered one alternative method of selecting the worst case emitter. EPA considered leaving the selection of the worst case emitter up to the engine manufacturer with the guideline that the engine manufacturer must test that engine configuration within an engine family which is most likely to exceed any emission standard. EPA solicits comment on the appropriateness of this approach for selecting the worst case emitter. K. Adequacy of Test Cycle The test procedure proposed in this notice is capable of predicting emission reductions at the level of proposed emission standards. The proposed test cycles are based on the Society of Automotive Engineers (SAE) recommended practice # J1088. This is a procedure that measures emissions over a number of steady state operating modes or conditions (speed/load points) and determines average emissions over the entire test cycle by weighting the modes relative to their likely occurrence in actual use. Much of the emission assessment work to date has occurred using the J1088 test procedures. EPA has determined that the types of technology that will be forced by setting standards using the proposed test cycle will result in real emission reductions in actual use. The current feasible technologies are analogue in nature. Thus, when a technology is demonstrated to reduce emissions on six discrete points on the engine speed/load performance curve, EPA expects these technologies will perform in a continuum between those test points. No large emission spikes will occur under operating conditions that were not specifically tested. No time is available to develop a more accurate test cycle. While improvements can be made and must be studied before proposing more stringent emission standards that require more sophisticated technologies, EPA has determined this test cycle is adequate to produce the desired emission reductions expected by the proposed emission standards. As part of the Phase 2 emission regulation process, EPA has identified three test modes of the test cycle that it intends to study. First, EPA wants to evaluate whether the test procedure should be run using the engine's governor to control throttle. Second, EPA wants to evaluate the method by which the load points used in the test cycle are determined. Third, EPA wants to study the sensitivity of emissions to the operating conditions not used in the test cycle to ensure emission benefits are not being overlooked. Operating the engine directly on the governor as opposed to on the throttle is allowed in the current test procedure as proposed. However, it is optional and most manufacturers choose to run the test by directly controlling the throttle. Manufacturers do this to reduce the factors that can add variability to the test. EPA believes that, since engines in use are controlled by the governor, a test cycle that simulates actual operation as closely as possible has the potential to predict real in-use emissions more accurately. Before such a change is adopted, EPA intends to analyze the validity of this hypothesis. The average power generated during the test cycle has a large impact on the emission result. The emission standards are based on the mass emission generated for the amount of work accomplished (g/kWh). Since power is a factor in how much work can be accomplished, it weighs heavily in the final mass emission result. EPA wants to ensure that the test cycle does not reflect how much power (and thus work) the engine is capable of achieving, but is reflective of how much power the equipment actually commands from the engine as it does its work. EPA is concerned that the actual power drawn by equipment in actual use is lower than the average power drawn from the engine during the proposed test procedures. EPA does not have time to adequately verify this hypothesis within the timeline of this rule, but intends to do this during the Phase 2 rulemaking process.
