FR940630-1-00007 FR940630-1-00002 The regulation then goes on to list several different examples, but is not specific as to information regarding turbocharger failures. In addition, FAA-approved Specification for Pilots Operating Handbook (GAMA Specification No. 1), prepared by the General Aviation Manufacturers Association (GAMA), does not specifically address this issue, but, like the regulations, includes a general statement: Emergency procedures and other pertinent information necessary for safe operations shall be provided for emergencies peculiar to a particular airplane design, operating or handling characteristic. In order to adequately make a determination as to what type of action to take (if any), the FAA is issuing this advance notice of proposed rulemaking (ANPRM) to provide an opportunity for the general public to participate in the decision whether to initiate rulemaking. Interested persons are encouraged to provide information that describes what they consider the best action (if any) to be taken to correct the possible problem. In this regard, the FAA is especially interested in comments and viewpoints on the following: 1. If your airplane was to experience turbocharger failure, would you know what precautions and pilot actions to take? Would these be as a result of Airplane Flight Manual/Pilot Operating Handbook (AFM/POH) issues and supplements? Do you believe a safety hazard exists if information related to this subject is not included in the AFM/POH? 2. Does a safety issue exist on turbocharged airplanes that do not have an AFM/POH, and would placarding these airplanes solve this safety problem? 3. Should FAA-approved GAMA Specification No. 1 be revised to include the requirement of AFM/POH information regarding precautions and pilot action in case of a turbocharger failure? 4. Should the FAA change policy to require direct reference to this subject on all new model airplanes equipped with turbocharged engines? 5. Please provide any other information that you feel is pertinent in helping the FAA determine what type of action (if any) needs to be taken. Issued in Kansas City, Missouri, on June 24, 1994. Michael K. Dahl, Acting Manager, Small Airplane Directorate, Aircraft Certification Service. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;15860 Filed 6&hyph;29&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;13&hyph;U
