FR941110-1-00002 FR941110-1-00001 DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE Agricultural Marketing Service 7 CFR Part 929 [FV94&hyph;929&hyph;3PR] Cranberries Grown in States of Massachusetts, Rhode Island, Connecticut, New Jersey, Wisconsin, Michigan, Minnesota, Oregon, Washington, and Long Island in the State of New York; Establishment of Late Payment and Increase in Interest Charges on Delinquent Assessments AGENCY: Agricultural Marketing Service, USDA. ACTION: Proposed rule. SUMMARY: This proposed rule would increase the interest charge from 1 percent to 11/2 percent per month and add a late payment charge of 5 percent on delinquent assessments owed by handlers under Marketing Order No. 929 covering cranberries grown in ten states. This rule would contribute to the efficient operation of the program by ensuring that adequate funds are available to cover budgeted expenses incurred under the marketing order. DATES: Comments must be received by December 12, 1994. ADDRESSES: Interested persons are invited to submit written comments concerning this proposal. Comments must be sent in triplicate to the Docket Clerk, Fruit and Vegetable Division, AMS, USDA, Room 2525&hyph;S, P.O. Box 96456, Washington, D.C. 20090&hyph;6456. All comments should reference the docket number and the date and page number of this issue of the Federal Register and will be made available for public inspection in the Office of the Docket Clerk during regular business hours. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mark Hessel or Patricia Petrella, Marketing Specialists, Marketing Order Administration Branch, F&V, AMS, USDA, Room 2522&hyph;S, P.O. Box 96456, Washington, D.C. 20090&hyph;6456: telephone: (202) 720&hyph;5127. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: This proposal is issued under Marketing Agreement and Order No. 929 (7 CFR Part 929), as amended, regulating the handling of cranberries grown in ten states, hereinafter referred to as the ``order.'' The order is effective under the Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act of 1937, as amended (7 U.S.C. 601&hyph;674), hereinafter referred to as the ``Act.'' The Department of Agriculture (Department) is issuing this rule in conformance with Executive Order 12866. This proposal has been reviewed under Executive Order 12778, Civil Justice Reform. This rule is not intended to have retroactive effect. This proposal will not preempt any state or local laws, regulations, or policies, unless they present an irreconcilable conflict with this rule. The Act provides that administrative proceedings must be exhausted before parties may file suit in court. Under section 608c(15)(A) of the Act, any handler subject to an order may file with the Secretary a petition stating that the order, any provision of the order, or any obligation imposed in connection with the order is not in accordance with law and request a modification of the order or to be exempted therefrom. A handler is afforded the opportunity for a hearing on the petition. After the hearing the Secretary would rule on the petition. The Act provides that the district court of the United States in any district in which the handler is an inhabitant, or has his or her principal place of business, has jurisdiction in equity to review the Secretary's ruling on the petition, provided a bill in equity is filed not later than 20 days after date of the entry of the ruling. Pursuant to requirements set forth in the Regulatory Flexibility Act (RFA), the Administrator of the Agricultural Marketing Service (AMS) has considered the economic impact of this action on small entities. The purpose of the RFA is to fit regulatory actions to the scale of business subject to such actions in order that small businesses will not be unduly or disproportionately burdened. Marketing orders issued pursuant to the Act, and rules issued thereunder, are unique in that they are brought about through group action of essentially small entities acting on their own behalf. Thus, both statutes have small entity orientation and compatibility. There are approximately 30 handlers of cranberries who are subject to regulation under the order and approximately 1,050 producers of cranberries in the regulated area.
