FR940414-2-00160 FR940414-2-00084 3. If the merchandise not delivered to or retained at the CES is restricted or prohibited, and the bond principal or surety proves that an entry summary was filed, estimated duties, taxes and fees were paid and the merchandise was deemed admissible with that entry summary, Customs will cancel the bond claim upon payment of an amount between $100 and $1,000. 4. If the merchandise not delivered to or retained at the CES is restricted or prohibited, and the bond principal or surety does not prove that an entry summary was filed, estimated duties, taxes and fees were paid or provide a showing that the merchandise was deemed admissible, Customs will cancel the bond claim upon payment of an amount equal to the estimated duties, taxes and fees plus an amount between 25 and 50 percent of the value of the merchandise, but not less than $250. 5. If the violation is determined to be intentional in nature, no relief should be afforded. B. Failure to maintain records as required by regulation. 1. If a Centralized Examination Station operator fails to maintain records as required by Customs, claims for liquidated damages not involving merchandise shall result. 2. If the breach resulted from clerical error, the claim may be cancelled without payment. 3. If the breach resulted from negligence, the claim may be cancelled upon payment of an amount between $100 and $250 per default, depending on the presence of aggravating or mitigating factors. 4. If the breach was intentional, no relief shall be granted. 5. Aggravating and mitigating factors shall be those enumerated in Section VII of these Standards. XII. Guidelines for Cancellation of Claims When Petitions for Relief Are Filed Untimely A. Petitions may be accepted at the discretion of the district director at any time prior to commencement of any sanctioning action against a bond principal or the issuance of any notice to show cause against a surety. B. If a petition is received untimely, Customs shall first consider the petition as though it had been filed timely and shall determine the amount of mitigation that would have been afforded in the case had the petition been filed timely. For purposes of these guidelines, this determination shall be known as the base amount. C. Once the base amount has been determined, Customs shall calculate the number of calendar days that the petition is late and charge an additional mitigation amount of 0.1 percent (.001) per day. In no case shall the additional amount be less than $100. D. If the bond principal fails to file a petition during the time period provided by regulation, but then files a petition during the period in which the surety, by regulation, could file a petition, that petition will be considered as a late petition. The number of days late shall be calculated from the end of the 60-day petitioning period afforded to the principal. Note: For purposes of all bond cancellation standards (Sections I&hyph;XII), the term value shall mean value as determined under 19 U.S.C. 1401a. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;9118 Filed 4&hyph;12&hyph;94; 12:28 pm] BILLING CODE 4820&hyph;02&hyph;P
