FR941117-0-00164 FR941117-0-00011 (b) Abutting CGSAs . Licensees of existing systems whose cellular geographic service area (CGSA) abuts a proposed CGSA may each file one application that is mutually exclusive with the applications of other such licensees, even though they share common owners, provided that such licensees do not thereby acquire a simultaneous interest in applications for both channel blocks in any geographical area. (c) Publicly traded corporate applicants . Parties must not have any interest, direct or indirect, in more than one mutually exclusive initial application for which the applicant is a publicly traded corporation, except that ownership interests of less than 5% are not considered. Ownership and other interests in applicants are attributed to their holder and deemed cognizable as set forth below. (1) Passive investors . Investment companies, as defined in 15 U.S.C. 80a&hyph;3, insurance companies and banks holding stock through their trust departments in trust accounts are deemed to have a cognizable interest in a publicly traded cellular applicant only if they hold 10% or more of the stock of the applicant. This provision applies only if an applicant in which such parties hold an interest certifies in its application that no such party has exerted or attempted to exert any influence or control over the officers of the applicant. (2) Multiplier . Attribution of ownership interests in a publicly traded cellular applicant that are held indirectly by any party through one or more intervening corporations will be determined by successive multiplication of the ownership percentages for each link in the vertical ownership chain and application of the relevant attribution benchmark to the resulting product, except that wherever the ownership percentage for any link in the chain exceeds 50 percent, it is not included in the multiplication. ยง22.946 Service commencement and construction periods for cellular systems. This section specifies the service commencement and construction periods and related requirements for cellular systems. (a) Commencement of service . New cellular systems must be at least partially constructed and begin providing cellular service to subscribers within the service commencement periods specified in Table H&hyph;1 of this section. Service commencement periods begin on the date of grant of the initial authorization, and are not extended by the grant of subsequent authorizations for the cellular system (such as for major modifications). Table H&hyph;1._ Commencement of Service 1Type of cellular system 1Required to commence service within The first system authorized on each channel block in markets 1&hyph;90 36 months. The first system authorized on each channel block in all other markets and any subsequent systems authorized pursuant to contracts in partitioned markets 18 months. All other systems 12 months.
