FR941004-1-00085 FR941004-1-00018 Section 1357.15(i)␣Objectives We propose in paragraph (i)(1) that goals must be translated into realistic, specific, and measurable objectives which must be included in the CFSP. The objectives should focus on outcomes for children, youth, and/or families or on elements of service delivery that are linked to outcomes in important ways. Each objective should include interim benchmarks (or due dates) and a long-term timetable, as appropriate. Paragraph (i)(2) incorporates the requirements of section 422(b)(6) of the Act that requires the plan to include objectives directed to covering additional political subdivisions, reaching additional children in need of services, expanding and strengthening existing services, and developing new types of services. The objectives should reflect analysis of information on families and children and on existing child welfare and related social services, assessing where needs have been growing; where there are gaps in services; what needs should be prioritized and what populations and geographic areas should be targeted; where there is a capacity for better integration and accessibility of services for children and families; and what data source(s) will be used to measure the outcomes of services. Well-stated objectives will reflect the work of the State and Indian tribe during the consultation, coordination, and information analysis processes. Objectives also will reflect State and Indian tribal priorities, funding decisions, and strategies for implementing child and family services. The following illustrate how an objective might be drafted. For example, objectives regarding foster care and adoption might be stated: •By (date) , appropriately reduce the length of time spent in out-of-home placement for children in State agency foster care (target population) in the State (geographic area) from (x) days to (y) days or by (x) percentage. (Data source to measure progress: X ) •By (date) , reduce the time between termination of parental rights and finalized adoption by (x) percentage or (y) time period for all children in State agency care. (Data source to measure progress: XX ) A family support objective might read: •By (date) , increase the number and proportion of families with children under age six in high poverty neighborhoods in (geographic areas) that receive family support services from XXXX to XXXX . (Data source to measure progress: XX ) Other objective might read: By (date) , reduce the number of reports of child abuse and neglect involving serious injury in four counties/cities from (x) to (y) . (Data source to measure progress: XXXX ) By (date) , increase the number or proportion of substance abusing parents who receive family preservation, substance abuse treatment, and other needed services and who are reunited with their children. (Date source to measure progress: XXXX ) We encourage States and Indian tribes to share with us additional examples of goals and measurable objectives or approaches to drafting measurable objectives. We are considering developing model plan guidelines for States and would encourage comments on the content and usefulness of such a document. We recommend that family preservation and family support services be targeted on populations and in geographic areas of greatest need. Targeting may include a range of vulnerable populations (children, youth and/or families) in specific geographic regions, counties, cities, communities, census tracts, or neighborhoods. States should also consider targeting services to support community-based strategies which draw on multiple funding streams and which bring a critical mass of resources to bear in high-need communities (e.g., Empowerment Zones/Enterprise Cities, Children's Cabinet initiatives). There is no requirement that services must be statewide, although States are encouraged to move in that direction.
