FR941107-1-00037 FR941107-1-00007 (e) Involvement in certain legal proceedings. (1) Describe any of the actions listed below, not subsequently reversed, suspended, vacated, annulled or otherwise rendered of no effect, taken during the past 10 years that involved any such person(s): (i) Bankruptcy or other insolvency proceedings. The initiation of any federal, state or foreign bankruptcy or insolvency proceeding by or against, or the appointment of a receiver, conservator, fiscal agent or similar officer for the business or assets of any such person, any partnership in which such person was a general partner at or within two years before the time of such initiation or appointment, or any corporation or business association of which such person was an executive officer at or within two years before the time of such initiation or appointment. The foregoing shall be described if material to an investment or voting decision. (ii) Criminal proceedings. The conviction of such person in a federal, state or foreign criminal proceeding (including convictions entered on a plea of nolo contendere), or the naming of any such person as the subject of a pending criminal proceeding (excluding traffic violations and other minor offenses). (iii) Civil and administrative proceedings. The issuance in a federal, state or foreign civil or administrative proceeding of: (A) A finding, order, judgment, decree or sanction to which such person was subject, relating to an alleged violation of: ( 1 ) Any securities or commodities law or regulation, or ( 2 ) Any law or regulation respecting financial institutions, insurance companies, or fiduciary duties owed to a partnership, corporation, business trust or similar business entity, including, but not limited to, a temporary or permanent injunction, order of disgorgement or restitution, civil money penalty or temporary or permanent cease-and-desist order, or removal or prohibition order; or ( 3 ) Any law or regulation prohibiting mail or wire fraud or fraud in connection with any business entity; (B) An order enjoining or otherwise limiting such person from engaging in any type of business practice. (iv) Self-regulatory organization proceedings. The imposition of a sanction against such person by: (A) A self-regulatory organization, as defined in Section 3(a)(26) of the Exchange Act [15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(26)]; (B) A contract market designated pursuant to section 5 of the Commodity Exchange Act [7 U.S.C. 7]; (C) A futures association registered under section 17 of such Act [7 U.S.C. 21]; or (D) Any substantially equivalent foreign authority or organization. Instructions to Paragraph (e) 1. For purposes of computing the 10 year period referred to in this paragraph, the disclosure period applicable to a final conviction, order, judgment, decree or sanction shall begin with its date of entry. The disclosure period applicable to a preliminary order shall commence when the rights of appeal from such order have lapsed. Any conviction, order, judgment, decree or sanction that is appealed shall continue to be disclosed until ultimately reversed, suspended, vacated, annulled or otherwise rendered of no effect, at which time disclosure shall no longer be required. With respect to bankruptcy and insolvency proceedings, the computation date shall be the date of filing for uncontested petitions or the date upon which approval of a contested petition became final. In the case of receiverships and conservatorships, the computation date shall be the date the receiver or conservator was appointed. 2. The person filing this schedule is permitted to explain any mitigating circumstances associated with events reported pursuant to this paragraph. 3. For purposes of this paragraph, the term financial institution includes any bank, bank holding company, savings association, or savings and loan holding company, as defined in Section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act [12 U.S.C. 1813], any federal or state credit union, as defined in Section 101 of the Federal Credit Union Act [12 U.S.C. 1752], or any system institution of the Farm Credit System, as defined in Section 5.35 of the Farm Credit Act of 1971 [12 U.S.C. 2271], or any substantially equivalent foreign institution. 4. While negative answers to Item 2(e) are required in this schedule, they need not be furnished to security holders. * * * * * 13. §240.14a&hyph;101 (Schedule 14A) is amended by revising paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of Item 5 and by amending Item 22 by adding a new paragraph (a)(3)(vi) and revising paragraph (b)(4) to read as follows: §240.14a&hyph;101 Schedule 14A. Information required in proxy statement. * * * * * Item 5. Interest of certain Persons in Matters to be Acted Upon * * * * * (b) Solicitation subject to Rule 14a&hyph;11 (§240.14a&hyph;11 of this chapter). *␣*␣* (1) *␣*␣* (iii) State the information required by Item 401(f) of Regulation S&hyph;K (§229.401(f) of this chapter). * * * * *
