FR940426-1-00028 FR940426-1-00004 The Commission has addressed the international effects of these rules by providing relief in appropriate contexts on an individual and class basis. 118 The Commission has applied the Trading Practices Rules in a manner intended to limit disruption in the home country market but in the context of its duty to protect U.S. investors from manipulative offering practices. Relief has been based on a variety of factors: The depth of the market for a foreign security; the availability of transaction information to the Commission; information sharing arrangements with foreign regulators; comparable foreign regulation; the significance of a particular market for price discovery; disclosure of foreign market practices and transactions; and the characteristics of the market for the security in the United States. In the case of rights offerings, which are quite common in foreign jurisdictions, the lengthy rights exercise periods and the amount of the discount between the rights exercise price and the price of the underlying security also have been viewed as important factors in fashioning relief. 118 See, e.g., SEC, Fifty-Eighth Annual Report 33 (1992). Question 5.1. Should the regulation of offerings distinguish between offerings in the United States of domestic and foreign securities? Commenters should address the effect that the Commission's initiatives concerning multinational offerings have had on U.S. and foreign issuers, broker-dealers, and investors. Question 5.2. In applying the Trading Practices Rules to offerings of foreign securities in the United States, the Commission has considered only the portion of the total offering that is offered in the United States. Because manipulative incentive is related directly to the magnitude of an offering, is the Commission's practice of focusing only on the U.S. portion of a multinational offering appropriate? Question 5.3. Should antimanipulation regulations apply in the ``secondary'' markets for a particular security (i.e., those markets that reasonably can be assumed not to have a price discovery role)? If not, how should those markets be identified? 119 Should the United States ever be considered a secondary market for these purposes? What potential is there for a secondary market to become a price discovery market during the distribution period, and what consequence would that have? 119 In a recent exemption, the Commission disapplied the Trading Practices Rules to markets that account for less than 10% of a foreign security's worldwide reported trading volume. German Offerings Exemptions, supra note 31, 58 FR at 53223&hyph;53225. Question 5.4. What is the role of transaction reporting to foreign regulators and trade publication (i.e., transparency) in this context? Question 5.5. What level of disclosure to U.S. investors regarding foreign trading practices should be required? Question 5.6. What information concerning transactions in foreign countries during a distribution should be available to the Commission? Question 5.7. Should regulation of foreign offerings be based on information sharing agreements between the Commission and foreign regulators? Question 5.8. Should the Commission except transactions occurring in those jurisdictions that have a comparable system of antimanipulation regulation? How should comparability be determined? X. Alternative Approaches In considering the concepts noted above and the issues that they raise, some commenters may believe that a different construct, rather than amendments to the current rules, would provide a more appropriate means of protecting investors from manipulation during securities offerings. In assessing the general proposition of how and whether market activities during distributions should be regulated, commenters are requested to consider the following: Question 6.1. How have changes in the securities markets and securities offering practices affected the need for some form of regulation of trading and similar activities during offerings of securities? What are the costs and benefits of any continued regulation of these activities? If regulation continues to be necessary or appropriate, what form should such regulation take? Additionally, commenters are invited to suggest and describe alternatives to the current system, and may wish to consider the approaches described below. A. Safe Harbor Alternative Under this approach, if certain conditions were satisfied, a ``safe harbor'' from the antimanipulation provisions of sections 9(a)(2) and 10(b) and Rule 10b&hyph;5 thereunder would be available. For example, Rule 10b&hyph;18 under the Exchange Act provides a safe harbor from these provisions for certain bids or purchases made by an issuer or its affiliated purchasers. For that rule's safe harbor to apply, the issuer or its affiliated purchasers must satisfy conditions relating to the time, price, amount, and method of purchasing the issuer's security. Commenters should consider whether it would be appropriate, and practical, to adopt a safe harbor approach in lieu of, or as a supplement to, the Trading Practices Rules. Because transactions within any such safe harbor still could have a manipulative impact, the safe harbor would be unavailable where the transactions were made with manipulative or fraudulent intent.
