FR941206-0-00106 FR941206-0-00015 14. The Commission declines to modify the local ownership rules. It notes that in designing the signal overlap standard, it specifically rejected suggestions that Arbitron data, MSAs (proposed by Duke here) or other narrow geographic designations be employed to count the number of stations in a market. It concludes that there is no evidence to suggest that the rationale underlying the adoption of the contour overlap approach_a more accurate measure of where a station's signal can be adequately received and, therefore, where it can compete for listeners_is any less appropriate for stations in smaller markets under the circumstances presented by NAB and Duke. It notes that a station combination with an aggregate principal community contour overlapped by 15 or more stations can be expected to compete for listeners with those stations, and the audience share cap is applied in such a case as an additional safeguard intended to identify potential concentration problems that may threaten diversity and competition. 15. The Commission states that it declines to, in effect, ignore those stations, such as Class C FM stations, with superior signal coverage. It also declines to redefine the area to which county-by-county audience share calculations apply in the manner suggested by NAB. The Commission believes that the suggested change would unduly dilute the diversity and competition safeguards adopted in its previous orders, and, in any event, would not reflect competitive conditions in the areas in which stations proposed to be combined provide the majority of their service, i.e., within their principal community contours. 16. With respect to NAB's other proposals, the Commission notes that it already expressly rejected a change of the rule applicable to markets of fewer than 15 stations to permit ownership of half of the stations in a small market because it could result in an unwarranted level of consolidation in too many markets. Further, the Commission states that it is not persuaded that the specific changes NAB advocates are warranted as a means of rescuing failing or dark stations. The Commission is concerned that the proposed changes would be applicable without regard to the circumstances of an individual facility or its financial condition, and would have the potential to increase concentration signifcantly. It also believes that cases involving a genuine threat of station failure are best addressed via a waiver process that can appropriately account for the specific factual circumstances at hand. Moreover, the Commission states that because of the variety of circumstances that may be present in any given radio market, requests for waiver of the rule should not be limited to specific criteria. Minority Ownership and Small Business Incentives 17. NABOB/NBMC urge the Commission to reinstate the aspect of the prior rule that permitted minority-owned companies to take a controlling interest in additional stations above the national ownership caps. NABOB/NBMC maintain that the change from the prior rule will decrease the total number of stations that can be controlled by existing minority licensees, and, with the increase of the national ownership limits generally, will lead to further concentration of ownership in the broadcast industry, diluting substantially the opportunities for increased minority ownership. NABOB/NBMC also contend that the First Reconsideration Order did not provide evidence with which to evaluate the effect of the rule changes on minority ownership, and they reiterate their argument that the Commission's appropriations legislation prohibits modification of the minority ownership incentive. Further, NABOB/NBMC reiterate their request, denied in the First Reconsideration Order, that the national ownership limits be returned to 12 stations per service. LULAC, NABOB/NBMC and NAB urge the Commission to repeal the small business incentive established in the First Reconsideration Order. LULAC and NAB argue that adoption of the small business incentive violated the Administrative Procedure Act (APA), 5 U.S.C. 553, because such an incentive was not proposed in the initial Notice of Proposed Rule Making in this proceeding. They also maintain that the small business incentive will dilute or otherwise undermine any incentive for group owners to invest in minority-controlled stations. 18. The Commission states that it continues to believe, as discussed both above and previously in this docket, that further expansion of the national ownership limits would not hinder diversity of viewpoint and could spur competition in the industry. The Commission notes that the arguments raised by petitioners with respect to the increase in the general national ownership limits from 12 to 20 stations per service were fully addressed earlier in this proceeding. 19. The Commission is persuaded by petitioners, however, that permitting minority owners to hold a controlling interest in additional radio stations will serve the goal of increasing minority ownership without posing a significant threat to competition or diversity. It will therefore amend ยง73.3555 of its rules to permit minority owners to own and control additional stations over and above the general national caps. Moreover, based on its belief that further national consolidation is appropriate, it will increase from three to five the number of additional stations per service that may be acquired pursuant to the incentive. The Commission's aim in making these modifications is to permit minorities to own more stations as well as to make the investment incentive aspect of the rule more attractive to large group owners.
