FR941216-2-00069 FR941216-2-00043 Response: EPA concurs that the 1.0 ug/l limit for benzene is more stringent than Florida's water quality standards. The limitation for benzene is based on the best treatment technology available and happens to be more stringent than FAC 17&hyph;302.530(9)[4/25/94], Class I potable water supplies which is 1.18 ug/l. The 1.0 ug/l limitation is also more stringent than Florida Class III water quality standard, which requires an annual average limitation of 71.28 ug/l for benzene. Therefore, since technology has proven capable of consistently maintaining the 1.0 ug/l limitation for benzene and numerous permittees have consistently designed treatment systems that meet the requirements of the NPDES general permit, EPA will retain the benzene limit. In addition, maintaining the 1.0 ug/l benzene limit complies with Section 402(o)(1) of the Water Quality Act of 1987, which states that a permit may not be renewed, reissued, or modified to contain effluent limitations which are less stringent than the comparable effluent limitations in the previous permit except in compliance with Section 303 (d)(4). Comment 13: Exxon Company (EC) mentioned that the acceptable pH for treated effluent under the previous and proposed NPDES general permit is 6.0&hyph;8.5 standard units (SUs), and mentioned that many lakes and streams in Central and North Florida have a pH range of 5.0&hyph;6.0 SUs. EC stated that many influent pH samples for remedial pump and treat systems are also in this range and recommended reducing the allowed lower limit from 6.0 to 5.5 SUs. Response: In response to EC comments, the pH language in the current proposed draft permit does allow some variation for pH depending on natural background of the receiving water. However, this natural background data must be furnished to EPA by the permittee in the initial NOI request; in order to be considered in determining the pH range for the facility during the notification of coverage request. It should be noted that the pH of the receiving stream, not the influent or effluent, influences the pH permit limits. Comment 14: Exxon Company (EC) commented on Part I.A.3 concerning the screen for metals that would indicate contamination from sources other than petroleum fuels. EC mentioned that it is unwarranted to require screening for additional metals that are not ordinarily considered constituents of petroleum fuels as a basis for securing a NPDES general permit for petroleum fuel contamination. EC mentioned that if there is a cause for this additional screening at a particular site, the regulatory processes in place will generate the additional site investigation and testing needed, instead of testing every site whether justified or not and recommended that the screening for other metals be removed as a requirement from the NPDES general permit. EC mentioned that if additional metal testing is required, annual testing is much more appropriate than semi-annual, especially for groundwater remedial systems at underground storage tank cleanup sites. Response: In response to Exxon Company (EC) comments, EPA clarifies the misconception that contaminated petroleum fuel sites must perform the Part I.A.3 testing requirements for metals; these discharges must comply only with the requirements of Part I.A.1 or I.A.2. EPA refers to the general applicability of Part I.A.3, that allows produced water discharges from any noncontaminated site, which could include dewatering for tank removals, construction activity, or aquifer pump tests from water wells. Any point source discharge of pollutants to waters of the U.S. requires an NPDES permit, regardless of whether the site is contaminated or uncontaminated. EPA, in its approach to covering dewatering of produced groundwater associated with any activity, placed the burden for verification on the permittee for determining that the site groundwater has not been contaminated with sources other than petroleum fuels. Requiring all permittees to perform this screening allows facilities performing dewatering activities to be placed under the general permit, assuming that the screening reveals no contamination from sources other than petroleum fuels. Comment 15: Exxon Company (EC) mentioned that the Discharge Monitoring Report forms should be revised and the reporting procedure should be simplified. Also, mentioned that the quality of forms initially received from EPA tend to become illegible when photocopied. EC also requested that EPA retain the current level of bioassay testing instead of increasing the frequency as proposed. Response: EPA will send original Discharge Monitoring Reports to the permittee so that more legible photocopies can be produced. EPA recommends that these originals be maintained by the permittee for copying purposes. In reference to the bioassay requirements, permittees which have previously obtained coverage under this general permit, which effluents have not demonstrated unacceptable toxicity (LC 50 < 100%), may continue to sample 1/year. All sampling procedures and test methods must comply with Part V. It should be noted that the permit limit identified in Part V is applicable to those facilities covered by this general permit under Sections I.A.1 and I.A.2 .
