FR940620-1-00062 FR940620-1-00009 (ii) The intended recipient is a government contractor receiving access to the software for performance of a Government contract that contains the clause at 252.227&hyph;7025, ``Limitations on the Use or Disclosure of Government Furnished Information Marked with Restrictive Legends.'' (5) When computer software marked with government purpose rights legends will be released or disclosed to a government contractor performing a contract that does not include the clause at 252.227&hyph;7025, the contract may be modified, prior to release or disclosure, to include such clause in lieu of requiring the contractor to complete a use and non-disclosure agreement. (6) Contracting activities shall establish procedures to assure that computer software or computer software documentation marked with government purpose rights legends are released or disclosed, including a release or disclosure through a government solicitation, only to persons subject to the use and non-disclosure restrictions. Public announcements in the Commerce Business Daily or other publications must provide notice of the use and non-disclosure requirements. Class use and non-disclosure agreements (e.g., agreements covering all solicitations received by the XYZ company within a reasonable period) are authorized and may be obtained at any time prior to release or disclosure of the government purpose rights software or documentation. Documents transmitting government purpose rights software or documentation to persons under class agreements shall identify the specific software or documentation subject to government purpose rights and the class agreement under which such software or documentation are provided. (c) Restricted rights. (1) The Government obtains restricted rights in noncommercial computer software required to be delivered or otherwise provided to the government under this contract that were developed exclusively at private expense. (2) Contractors are not required to provide the Government additional rights in computer software delivered or otherwise provided to the Government with restricted rights. When the Government has a need for additional rights, the Government must negotiate with the contractor to determine if there are acceptable terms for transferring such rights. List or describe all software in which the contractor has granted the Government additional rights in a license agreement made part of the contract (see 227.503&hyph;5(d)). The license shall enumerate the specific additional rights granted to the Government. (d) Specifically negotiated license rights. Negotiate specific licenses when the parties agree to modify the standard license rights granted to the Government or when the Government wants to obtain rights in computer software in which it does not have rights. When negotiating to obtain, relinquish, or increase the Government's rights in computer software, consider the planned software maintenance philosophy, anticipated time or user sharing requirements, and other factors which may have relevance for a particular procurement. If negotiating to relinquish rights in computer software documentation, consider the administrative burden associated with protecting documentation subject to restrictions from unauthorized release or disclosure. The negotiated license rights must stipulate the rights granted the Government to use, modify, reproduce, release, perform, display, or disclose the software or documentation and the extent to which the Government may authorize others to do so. Identify all negotiated rights in a license agreement made part of the contract. (e) Rights in derivative computer software or computer software documentation. The clause at 252.227&hyph;7014 protects the Government's rights in computer software, computer software documentation, or portions thereof that the contractor subsequently uses to prepare derivative software or subsequently embeds or includes in other software or documentation. The Government retains the rights it obtained under the development contract in the unmodified portions of the derivative software or documentation. ยง227.503&hyph;6 Contract clauses.
