FR940414-0-00012 FR940414-0-00001 (v) The Licensee acknowledges that the Licensed Software program is the property of the Licensor, and shall not do, or cause to be done, anything to activate any of the subsisting nonactivated computer instruction steps therein unless authorized in writing by the Licensor. The Licensor shall have the exclusive right to activate, or authorize the activation of, the subsisting nonactivated program instruction steps in the Licensed Software. In this event Licensee shall pay any additional Right-To-Use Fee(s) agreed to by Licensee and Licensor. (vi) In the event the Licensor develops significant improvements to the Licensed Software, the Licensor may market the improvements as a separate offering requiring payment of an additional Right-to-Use Fee. (vii) The Licensee shall not modify or otherwise change the Licensed Software other than at the direction of the Licensor. This provision shall not apply to: (A) Changes to the Licensed Software which are necessary to preserve or restore service. Licensee shall use all reasonable efforts to contact Licensor before making any such changes. If the Licensor is unable to make the necessary changes promptly to the Licensed Software to preserve or restore service, then the Licensee may make only such changes to the Licensed Software as are necessary to preserve or restore service. In such event, Licensee shall promptly notify Licensor of the changes made by Licensee. (B) Changes made by the Licensee to its own database; and (C) Changes made by the Licensee in connection with the exercise of its rights under section (2)(xi). (viii) Within thirty (30) days after written notice that a program or a release thereof has been discontinued and is no longer required for the operation of the System and the Licensor has furnished the Licensee with a new program that is fully satisfactory to the Licensee, the Licensee agrees to return the original and all copies of the discontinued program and specified related documents. If such return is impossible or impractical, the Licensee shall destroy said program and documents and provide the Licensor with a written notice of such destruction. (ix) The Licensor warrants to the Licensee that any Software licensed under this Software License shall function for a period of five (5) years from the warranty start date defined in the Contract in accordance with the Specifications and any written or printed technical material provided by the Licensor to explain the operation of the Licensed Software and aid in its use. The Licensor shall correct all deficiencies within thirty (30) days from the date of receipt by the Licensor of written notice of such deficiencies from the Licensee. An extension of this thirty (30) day period may be allowed only if agreed upon by the Licensee and REA. It shall be the Licensor's obligation to insert and thoroughly test, at no charge to the Licensee, any software amendment or alteration provided to satisfy the obligations of this section (2)(ix). If a deficiency is detected or a correction made within the final ninety (90) days of the warranty, the warranty shall be extended to a date ninety (90) days after the deficiency has been corrected. (x) The Licensor shall hold harmless and indemnify the Licensee from any and all claims, suits, and proceedings for the infringement of any patent, copyright, trademark, or violation of trade secrets covering any Licensed Software used with the System, except for items of the Licensee's design or selection. If the Licensee's use of the Licensed Software is enjoined, the Licensor shall promptly, at its own expense, place the Licensee in a position where it is able to use the System in accordance with the Specifications, whether by: (A) Modifying the Licensed Software or portion thereof so that it no longer infringes but remains functionally equivalent, (B) Replacing the Licensed Software with noninfringing equivalent software, (C) Obtaining for the Licensee a license or other right to use, or (D) Such other actions as may be required. This shall be in addition to any other rights or claims which the Licensee may have. The Licensor shall, at its own expense, (and the Licensee agrees to permit the Licensor to do so) defend any suits which may be instituted by any party against the Licensee for alleged infringement of patents, copyright, trademark, or violation of trade secrets relative to the Licensor's performance hereunder. Either party shall notify the other promptly of any such claims, and the Licensee shall give to the Licensor full authority and opportunity to settle such claims, and shall reasonably cooperate with the Licensor in obtaining information relative to such claims.
