FR940831-2-00144 FR940831-2-00106 Report to OPM on Living Costs in Alaska and in the Washington, DC, Area 1. Introduction 1.1 Report Objectives This comprehensive report culminates data-gathering and research work undertaken in Winter 1994 as required by Task 2 of contract OPM&hyph;90&hyph;0705 between the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) and Runzheimer International. The report details the results of Runzheimer International's surveys of over 1,000 outlets to obtain more than 6,000 price quotes and the analyses of the data. In 1990, in fulfillment of Task 1 of the contract, Runzheimer worked with OPM to design a model for estimating comparative living costs between the allowance areas and the Washington, D.C., area. Task 2 of the contract required that Runzheimer apply the model by conducting living-cost surveys, analyzing the results, and developing living-cost comparative indexes. On February 26, 1991, OPM published that model and the results of the first surveys conducted under the model in the Federal Register . On December 10, 1992, OPM published in the Federal Register the second report, which covered the summer 1991 and winter 1992 surveys. On August 30, 1993, OPM published in the Federal Register the next report that covered the summer 1992 and winter 1993 surveys; and on May 26, 1994, OPM published the results of the summer 1993 surveys. This report provides only the results of the winter 1994 surveys. This change was made at OPM's request. Separating the summer 1993 and winter 1994 surveys allowed OPM to adjust COLA rates where warranted in a more timely manner. The analyses establish the comparative cost differences between the listed allowance areas and the Washington, D.C., area: 1. Anchorage, Alaska 2. Fairbanks, Alaska 3. Juneau, Alaska 4. Other Areas in Alaska (as represented by Nome, Alaska) By law, Washington, D.C., is the base or ``reference'' area for the nonforeign area COLA program. Task 2 of the OPM contract also required Runzheimer International to calculate comparative living costs in the areas listed below and the Washington, D.C., area for federal civilian employees who have access to military commissaries and post exchanges. 1. Anchorage, AK 2. Fairbanks, AK Under OPM regulations, federal civilian employees who have unlimited access to commissaries and post exchanges due to their employment by the government may receive a different allowance rate than other federal employees. This regulation does not apply to federal employees who have limited access or unlimited access for other reasons_e.g., being married to active or retired military personnel. 1.2 Changes in This Year's Survey Runzheimer and OPM made several changes to the survey and analyses. These changes included: Reporting the results of the summer and winter surveys separately, Using a moving average approach to introduce new federal employment weights, Updating appliance models or replacing one make with another where a previous brand was difficult to find, Employing a new methodology for determining automobile maintenance costs, Surveying only the cash price at branded gas stations unless only non-branded stations are available, and More accurately defining the distinguishing differences between family dining and fine dining. Runzheimer has continued to include catalog sales in its survey. Since the Sears catalogs have been discontinued, Runzheimer has researched hundreds of catalogs to determine which are most appropriate. Runzheimer researchers found that most catalogs have uniform shipping charges. Only catalogs that sell merchandise in the allowance areas and Washington, D.C. area were used. Appendix 3 identifies Goods & Services, Miscellaneous Expense, and Housing Related pricing changes. Current housing data can be found in Appendix 9A and Appendix 9B. Other changes are discussed where applicable in the report. 1.3 Pricing Period Runzheimer collected price data for the Alaska allowance areas (and, again, the Washington, D.C., area) in February 1994. As with the previous surveys, however, our research associates collected price data for items dependent upon the pricing of other items slightly later (i.e., in March and April 1994). To ensure consistent seasonal catalog pricing, Runzheimer used fall/winter catalogs for the Alaska areas. 1.4 Living Cost Components In accordance with federal regulations, expense components Runzheimer costed to develop analyses, comparisons, and the report were: 1. Housing and Housing Related Expenses 2. Transportation 3. Consumption Goods & Services 4. Miscellaneous Expenses Runzheimer factored sales, excise and property taxes into the analysis where applicable. However, in keeping with previous reports, we did not factor federal, state and local income taxes into the analysis. Because income taxes significantly affect living costs, Runzheimer and OPM are researching the issue of including income taxes in future surveys. Educational opportunities vary significantly among locations in terms of availability, quality, and other factors. Runzheimer analysts and OPM officials agree that, without additional information, attempts to measure cost differences in education in the selected areas would be highly subjective and would not add to the integrity of the model. Therefore, education expense is not included in the model or surveys.
