FR940114-1-00052 FR940114-1-00008 Guideline # 9: Identification and Surveillance of Accident Locations, Guideline # 12: Highway design, Construction and maintenance, Guideline # 13: Traffic Engineering Services, Guideline # 14: Pedestrian Safety. A model Roadway Safety program would encompass the following aspects of these four guidelines: Procedures for accurate identification of crash locations on all roads and streets which identify crash experience on specific sections of the road and street system. Methods to produce an inventory of high crash locations experiencing sharp increases as well as design and operational features with which high crash frequencies or severities are associated. Appropriate measures to reduce crashes and evaluate the effectiveness of safety improvements on any specific section of the road or street system. A systematically organized method to ensure continuing surveillance of the roadway network for potentially high crash locations and the development of methods for their correction. Design guidelines relating to safety features such as sight distances, horizontal and vertical curvature, spacing of decision points, width of lanes, etc. for all new construction or reconstruction at least on expressways, major streets and highways, and through streets and highways. Street systems that are designated to provide a safe traffic environment for all roadway users when subdivisions and residential areas are developed or redeveloped. Efforts to ensure that roadway lighting is provided or upgraded on a priority basis at: expressways and other major arteries in urban areas, junctions of major highways in rural areas, locations or sections of streets and highways which have high ratios of night-to-day motor vehicle and/or pedestrian crashes, and tunnels and long underpasses. Guidelines for pavement design and construction with specific provisions for high skid resistance qualities. A program for resurfacing or other surface treatment with emphasis on correction of locations or sections of streets and highways with low skid resistance and high or potentially high crash rates susceptible to reduction by providing improved surfaces. Efforts to ensure that there is guidance, warning and regulation of traffic approaching and traveling over construction or repair sites and detours. A method for systematic identification and tabulation of all rail-highway grade crossings and a program for the elimination of hazards and dangerous crossings. Projects which provide for the safe and efficient movement of traffic, by ensuring that roadways and the roadsides are maintained consistent with the design guidelines which are followed in construction. Identify and correct hazards within the highway right-of-way. Wherever possible for crash prevention and crash survivability, efforts to include at least the following highway design and construction features: Roadsides which are clear of obstacles, with clear distance determined on the basis of traffic volumes, prevailing speeds, and the nature of development along the street or highway; Supports for traffic control devices and lighting that are designed to yield or break away under impact wherever appropriate; Protective devices that afford maximum protection to the occupants of vehicles where fixed objects cannot be reasonably removed or designed to yield; Bridge railings and parapets which are designed to minimize severity of impact, to retain the vehicle, to redirect the vehicle so that it will move parallel to the roadway, and to minimize danger to traffic below; Guardrails, and other design features which protect people from out-of-control vehicles at locations of special hazard such as playgrounds, schoolyards and commercial areas. A post-crash program that includes at least the following: Signs at freeway interchanges directing motorists to hospitals which have emergency care capabilities; Maintenance personnel who are trained in procedures for summoning aid, protecting others from hazards at crash sites, and removing debris; Provisions for access and egress for emergency vehicles to freeway sections where this would significantly reduce travel time without reducing the safety benefits of access control. A comprehensive resource development plan to provide the necessary traffic engineering capability, including: Provisions for supplying traffic engineering assistance to those jurisdictions which are unable to justify a full-time traffic engineering staff; Provisions for upgrading the skills of practicing traffic engineers, and providing basic instruction in traffic engineering techniques to other professionals and technicians.
