FR940830-2-00107 FR940830-2-00057 III. Voidability of Contracts Cash Station expressed concern that the proposed Final Judgment does not make clear that ATM processing and authorization processing contracts between EPS and its members are voidable by the members. Paragraph IV.A of the proposed Final Judgment states in relevant part: Defendent shall not maintain or enforce any *␣*␣* contract *␣*␣* pursuant to which defendant requires any depository institution to obtain ATM processing or authorization processing from defendant; that prohibits or purports to prohibit a depository institution from obtaining ATM processing or authorization processing from any third party processor; or that conditions MAC membership or availability of MAC or any successor branded ATM network access on any depository institution's obtaining ATM processing or authorization processing from defendant or not obtaining ATM processing or authorization processing from a qualified third party processor. This provision makes void any contracts containing such clauses. Paragraph IV.I of the proposed Final Judgment permits EPS to enter into new contracts with any customers, including those whose contracts have become void under the terms of Paragraph IV.A, provided that it supplies a copy of the Final Judgment to those customers and the new contracts conform to the terms of the Final Judgment. Cash Station also expressed concern that unless EPS were required to explicitly notify those customers whose contracts were voided by the proposed Final Judgment it would continue to reap the benefits of these contracts until they expired. Notification is provided for in the proposed Final Judgment, which requires EPS to provide a copy of the Final Judgment to all of its customers. In addition, third party processors and competing regional ATM networks will be highly likely to bring this fact to the attention of potential customers. IV. Gateways MPS suggested that the proposed Final Judgment should require EPS to establish ``gateways'' with other regional ATM networks. 6 The United States considered this issue in the course of its investigation and concluded that ensuring that MAC members would be permitted to use third party processors would be a simpler and more efficient type of injunctive relief to remove the barriers to entry of competing networks, since access to other networks will be offered by these third party processors. 6 A gateway between two regional ATM networks is essentially a short-cut to avoid the use of a national ATM network and its relatively high fees. Often today a cardholder of one network can conduct transactions on the ATMs of another network. In most cases such a transaction would be routed to the cardholder's depository institution over a national ATM network linking the two regional ATM networks. With a gateway, however the transaction is routed directly from the network of the ATM deployer to the network of the card issuer. V. Non-bank ATM Deployers An anonymous comment stated that the proposed Final Judgment did not clearly apply to ATM deployers other than depository institutions. Paragraph II.H clearly states that ``depository institution'' for purposes of the proposed Final Judgment includes all MAC members who deploy ATMs. The proposed Final Judgment therefore applies to all MAC members, whether or not depository institutions. VI. Technical, Financial and Operating Rules Paragraph IV.E of the proposed Final Judgment requires EPS to provide qualified third party processors access to the MAC network. Because a ``qualified'' third party processor is defined in part as one which meets the defendant's existing technical, financial and operating criteria for intercept processors and third party processors, an anonymous comment argued that the United States should undertake a comprehensive review of the existing criteria and each change to the criteria. The terms of the proposed Final Judgment render such a detailed review unnecessary. The paragraph in question makes clear that these criteria are the same for both third party processors and intercept processors. 7 As discussed in the Competitive Impact Statement, the United States has concluded that EPS has a strong incentive to deal fairly with its intercept processors, and requiring equal treatment of third party processors and intercept processors should therefore assure that third party processors are also dealt with fairly. 7 In fact, EPS has represented that it currently has no financial criteria relevant to third party processors. While a subsequent clause allows EPS to establish additional technical criteria for third party processors, the clause states that additional technical criteria may only concern the transaction information to be transmitted and the communication and data format. Moreover, the additional criteria may not discriminate between third party processors and intercept processors.
