FR941230-0-00093 FR941230-0-00018 For the reasons described above, NOAA has determined it is necessary to provide immediately, by emergency regulation, for the issuance of ``A'' permits to the owners of larger replacement vessels in place prior to September 30, 1990. NOAA has determined that immediate issuance is necessary to provide the opportunity to those vessel owners to apply for and receive ``A'' permits and participate in the Pacific groundfish fishery. Vessel owners in this circumstance have demonstrated substantial participation in the Pacific Coast groundfish fishery in the past and their continued participation is consistent with the FMP. In the absence of an emergency regulation, vessel owners would be prohibited from using their larger replacement vessels in the groundfish fishery unless they purchase sufficient additional permits. Under this rule, owners who were denied ``A'' permits for larger replacement vessels, which were in place prior to September 30, 1990, will have 45 days from the date this rule is published in the Federal Register to apply for a permit with an ``A'' endorsement. If qualified under the limited entry regulations, as amended by this rule, applicants will be issued an ``A'' endorsement for the size of the larger replacement vessel. Applicants denied an ``A'' permit under this rule may appeal to the Director, Northwest Region, NMFS (Regional Director), under ยง663.42 of the Pacific Coast groundfish regulations, except that the opportunity to have the appeal heard by the Council's Permit Review Board under ยง663.42(e) will not be available, due to the short length of time this emergency rule will be in effect. In addition, any vessel owner wishing to submit a new application for an ``A'' permit under the provisions of this rule must apply to the Fishery Permits Office of the Northwest Region (see ADDRESSES ). Classification NMFS has determined that this rule is necessary to respond to an emergency situation and is consistent with the Magnuson Act and other applicable law. The Assistant Administrator for Fisheries, NOAA, also finds for good cause that the reasons justifying implementation of this rule on an emergency basis also make it impracticable and contrary to the public interest to provide prior notice and opportunity for public comment under section 553(b) of the Administrative Procedure Act. It is unnecessary to delay for 30 days the effective date of these emergency regulations, under section 553(d) of the Administrative Procedure Act because this rule relieves a restriction. This emergency rule has been determined to be not significant for purposes of E.O. 12866. No environmental assessment was prepared under the provisions of the National Environmental Policy Act because this rule makes a minor change and is within the scope of the Supplemental Environmental Impact Statement prepared for the limited entry plan (Amendment 6 to the FMP). This emergency interim rule is in compliance with the Paperwork Reduction Act. This rule, by broadening eligibility criteria for ``A'' permits, may slightly increase the information collection burden of the existing limited entry permit program. The emergency rule does not alter the types of information required in a limited entry permit application, as approved by the Office of Management and Budget, OMB Control Number 0648&hyph;0203. List of Subjects in 50 CFR Part 663 Fisheries, Fishing, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. Dated: December 23, 1994. Charles Karnella, Acting Program Management Officer, National Marine Fisheries Service. For the reasons set out in the preamble, 50 CFR part 663 is amended as follows:
