FR940114-1-00040 FR940114-1-00008 I. Program Management Each State should have centralized program planning, initiation, and coordination to promote pedestrian and bicycle safety program issues as part of a comprehensive highway safety program. Evaluation is also important for determining progress and ultimate success of pedestrian and bicycle safety programs and for providing those results to revise existing programs and to develop new programs. The State should have program staff trained in pedestrian and bicyclist safety so that this program can: Conduct regular problem identification activities to identify fatality and injury crash trends for pedestrians and bicyclists and to provide guidance in development of countermeasures, Provide leadership, training, and technical assistance to other State agencies and local pedestrian and bicycle safety programs and projects; Convene a pedestrian and bicycle safety advisory task force or coalition to organize, integrate with other involved groups, and generate broad-based support for programs; Integrate pedestrian and bicycle safety programs into Community/Corridor Traffic Safety Programs, injury prevention programs, and transportation plans; and Evaluate the effectiveness of its pedestrian and bicycle safety program. II. Multi-Disciplinary Involvement Pedestrian and bicyclist safety goes beyond the confines of any single State or local agency (enforcement or education) and requires the combined support and coordinated attention of multiple agencies, representing a variety of disciplines, at the State and local level. At a minimum, the following kinds of agencies should be involved: Law Enforcement Education Public Health Driver Education and Licensing Transportation_Engineering, Planning Public Communications III. Legislation and Regulations Each State should enact and enforce pedestrian and bicyclist-related traffic laws and regulations. Specific policies should be developed to encourage coordination with the Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) and other agencies, in the development of regulations and laws to promote pedestrian and bicyclist safety. IV. Law Enforcement Each State should ensure that State and community pedestrian and bicycle programs include a law enforcement component. Each State should strongly emphasize the role played by law enforcement personnel in pedestrian and bicyclist safety. Essential components of that role include: Developing knowledge of pedestrian and bicyclist crash situations; investigating crashes; and maintaining a report system that supports problem identification and evaluation activities; Providing public information and education support; Providing training to law enforcement personnel in matters of pedestrian and bicycle safety; Establishing agency policies; and Coordinating with the supporting education and engineering components. V. Traffic Engineering Traffic engineering is a critical element of any crash reduction program. This is true not only for the development of programs to reduce an existing crash problem, but also to design transportation facilities that provide for the safe movement of pedestrians, bicyclists, and all motor vehicles. Balancing the needs of pedestrians and those of vehicular traffic (including bicycle) must always be considered. Therefore, each State should ensure that State and community pedestrian and bicycle programs include a traffic engineering component. Traffic engineering efforts should be coordinated with enforcement and educational efforts. This effort should improve the protection of pedestrians and bicyclists by application of appropriate traffic engineering measures in design, construction, operation, and maintenance. These measures should include but not be limited to the following: Pedestrians signals, signs, and markings Parking regulations Sidewalk design Pedestrian pathways Bicycle routes and pathways VI. Public Information and Education Each State should ensure that State and community pedestrian and bicycle programs contain a public information and education component. This component should address school-based education programs, coordination with traffic engineering and law enforcement components, public information and awareness campaigns, and other targeted educational programs such as those for the elderly. These programs should address issues such as: Being visible in the traffic system (conspicuity) Use of facilities and accommodations Law enforcement initiatives Proper street crossing behavior The nature and extent of the problem Driver training with regard to pedestrian and bicycle safety Rules of the road
