FR940419-1-00073 FR940419-1-00009 (10) The HA and resident council shall put in writing in the form of a Memorandum of Understanding the elements of their partnership agreement and it shall be updated at least once every three (3) years. (11) The HA, in collaboration with the resident councils, shall assume the lead role for assuring maximum opportunities for skills training for public housing residents. To the extent possible, the training resources should be local to ensure maximum benefit and on-going access. (b) HAs with fewer than 100 units. (1) HAs with fewer than 100 units of public housing have the option of participating in programs under this rule. (2) HAs shall not deny residents the opportunity to organize. If the residents decide to organize and form a resident council, the HA shall comply with the following: (i) A HA shall officially recognize a duly elected resident council as the sole representative of the residents it purports to represent, and support its tenant participation activities. (ii) When requested by residents, a HA shall provide appropriate guidance to residents to assist them in establishing and maintaining a resident council. (iii) A HA shall provide the residents or any resident council with current information concerning the HA's policies on tenant participation in management. (iv) In no event shall HUD or a HA officially recognize a competing resident council once a duly elected resident council has been established. If a duly elected resident council has been formed, any input into changes concerning public housing operations shall be made only through the officially recognized resident council. §964.24 HUD policy on FIC Program. HUD promotes Family Investment Centers which provide better access to educational and employment opportunities for residents living in public housing. HUD encourages resident involvement in the FIC Program and promotes resident-HA partnerships to achieve mutual goals. Subpart B_Tenant Participation §964.100 Role of resident council. The role of a resident council is to improve the quality of life and resident satisfaction and participate in self-help initiatives to enable residents to create a positive living environment for families living in public housing. Resident councils may actively participate through a working partnership with the HA to advise and assist in all aspects of public housing operations. §964.105 Role of the Jurisdiction-Wide Resident Council. (a) Jurisdiction-Wide Resident Council. Resident councils may come together to form an organization which can represent the interest of residents residing in units under a HA's jurisdiction. This can be accomplished by the presidents of duly elected resident councils forming an organization, by resident councils electing a representative to the organization, or through jurisdiction-wide elections. If duly elected resident councils form such an organization, the HA shall recognize it as the voice of authority-wide residents for input into housing authority policy making. (b) Function. The jurisdiction-wide council may advise the Board of Commissioners and executive director in all areas of HA operations, including but not limited to occupancy, general management, maintenance, security, resident training, resident employment, social services and modernization priorities. (c) Cooperation with other groups. There shall be regularly scheduled meetings between the HA and the local duly elected resident council, and the jurisdiction-wide resident council to discuss problems, plan activities and review progress. §964.110 Resident membership on HA Board of Commissioners. HUD encourages to the maximum extent possible resident membership on HA Board of Commissioners, for the purpose of having maximum input into HA policy and decision-making on matters concerning public housing. §964.115 Resident council requirements. A resident council shall consist of residents residing in public housing and must meet each of the following requirements in order to receive official recognition from the HA/HUD, and be eligible to receive funds for resident council activities, and stipends for their related costs for volunteer work in public housing: (a) It may represent residents residing in scattered site buildings, in areas of contiguous row houses; or in one or more contiguous buildings; in a development; or in a combination of these buildings or developments; (b) It must adopt written procedures such as by-laws, or a constitution which provides for the election of residents to the governing board by the voting membership of the residents residing in public housing, described in paragraph (b) of this section, on a regular basis but at least once every three (3) years. The written procedures must provide for the recall of the resident board by approval of at least 51 percent of the voting membership; and (c) It must have a democratically elected governing board that is elected by the voting membership. The voting membership must consist of residents at least 18 years of age and whose name appears on a lease for the unit in the public housing that the resident council represents. §964.117 Resident council partnerships. A resident council may form partnerships with outside organizations, provided that such relationships are complementary to the resident council in its duty to represent the residents, and provided that such outside organizations do not become the governing entity of the resident council.
