FR941110-0-00265 FR941110-0-00016 (ii) The current value of funds (published annually in the Federal Register by the Secretary of the Treasury, subject to quarterly revisions). (3) Medicaid interest. The interest rate for Medicaid is determined by the State. (d) Civil money penalties and corresponding interest collected by HCFA or the State from Medicare and Medicaid facilities must be returned to the Medicare Trust Fund or the State, respectively. (e) Collection from dually participating facilities. Civil money penalties collected from dually participating facilities are returned to the Medicare Trust Fund and the State in proportion commensurate with the relative proportions of Medicare and Medicaid beds at the facility actually in use by residents covered by the respective programs on the date the civil money penalty begins to accrue. (f) Penalties collected by the State. Civil money penalties collected by the State must be applied to the protection of the health or property of residents of facilities that the State or HCFA finds deficient, such as_ (1) Payment for the cost of relocating residents to other facilities; (2) State costs related to the operation of a facility pending correction of deficiencies or closure; and (3) Reimbursement of residents for personal funds or property lost at a facility as a result of actions by the facility or by individuals used by the facility to provide services to residents. ยง488.444 Civil money penalties: Settlement of penalties. (a) HCFA has authority to settle cases at any time prior to a final administrative decision for Medicare-only SNFs, State-operated facilities, or other facilities for which HCFA's enforcement action prevails, in accordance with ยง488.330. (b) The State has the authority to settle cases at any time prior to the evidentiary hearing decision for all cases in which the State's enforcement action prevails. ยง488.450 Continuation of payments to a facility with deficiencies. (a) Criteria. (1) HCFA may continue payments to a facility not in substantial compliance for the periods specified in paragraph (c) of this section if the following criteria are met: (i) The State survey agency finds that it is more appropriate to impose alternative remedies than to terminate the facility; (ii) The State has submitted a plan and timetable for corrective action approved by HCFA; and (iii) The facility, in the case of a Medicare SNF, or the State, in the case of a Medicaid NF, agrees to repay the Federal government payments received under this provision if corrective action is not taken in accordance with the approved plan and timetable for corrective action. (2) HCFA or the State may terminate the SNF or NF agreement before the end of the correction period if the criteria in paragraph (a)(1) of this section are not met. (b) Cessation of payments. If termination is not sought, either by itself or along with another remedy or remedies, or any of the criteria set forth in paragraph (a)(1) if this section are not met or agreed to by either the facility or the State, the facility or State will receive no Medicare or Federal Medicaid payments, as applicable, from the last day of the survey. (c) Period of continued payments. If the conditions in paragraph (a)(1) of this section are met, HCFA may continue payments to a Medicare facility or to the State for a Medicaid facility with noncompliance that does not constitute immediate jeopardy for up to 6 months from the last day of the survey.
