FR940325-0-00025 FR940325-0-00007 Evidence of Boundaries Hames Valley is located in the eastern foothills of the Santa Lucia Range, west of the confluence of the Salinas, San Antonio, and Nacimiento Rivers. The watershed of Hames Creek is the defining feature of the appellation. Hames Valley is located wholly within the larger, previously approved Monterey viticultural area. A portion of the boundaries of the Monterey viticultural area form the northern and western boundaries of Hames Valley. Swain Valley and the Salinas River form part of the eastern boundary. The ridgeline that separates Hames Valley from the San Antonio River forms the balance of the eastern and southern boundaries. Geographical Features Hames Valley is a small east-west oriented valley, west of the generally north-south orientation of the meandering Salinas River. Formed by the watershed of Hames Creek, Hames Valley thrusts its way seven miles into the eastern flank of the Santa Lucia Mountains. Hames Creek empties into the Salinas River approximately two miles downstream from the confluence of the San Antonio and Salinas Rivers. Hames Valley is separated from the San Antonio River by a ridge averaging 1,500 feet in elevation, the highest peak at 1,984 feet. A similar ridgeline forms the northern boundary and separates Hames Valley from the Salinas River. The general topography within the valley consists of gently sloping alluvial fans and associated terraces. Drainages are generally well defined. Soils The petitioner submitted a composite map of the Hames Valley area compiled from the Soil Survey of Monterey County, California, U.S.D.A. Soil Conservation Service, U.S. Forestry Service, University of California Agricultural Experiment Station (1972). According to this map, the principal soils in the area are gravelly sandy loams of the Lockwood series. These comprise approximately 75 percent of the soil types present. Lesser amounts of Chamise shaly loams and Nacimiento silty clay loams are also present. All current viticulture takes place in the Lockwood series soils. Soils in the surrounding areas are also silty and shaly loams, but are located on 30 to 50 percent slopes and are of different compositions. The preponderance of the Lockwood shaly clay loam and the geomorphology (flat, well defined valley floor) set the Hames Valley apart from the surrounding mountainous areas. Climate With regard to climate, the petitioner submitted a study by A.N. Kasimatis, Extension Viticulturist, University of California, Davis (August 7, 1970). The study shows that heat summation for the Hames Valley-Bradley area is generally in the 3200 to 3500 degree-day range. This corresponds to a warm region III, similar to the King City and Paso Robles areas. This differs from the generally cooler climate (region I/II) for the Gonzales, Soledad, and Greenfield area, farther north. Regarding other climatic factors, the petitioner stated that rainfall in the Hames Valley area averages 10 to 12 inches annually. The petitioner further stated that the east-west axis of the Hames Valley relative to the north-south orientation of the Salinas Valley results in a reduced wind stress factor in the Hames Valley area. Windspeed builds up later in the day and at reduced velocities relative to the ``wind-tunnel'' effect in the Gonzales-Soledad-Greenfield area. This results in shorter overall exposure to wind stress, from both a time and wind velocity standpoint. In sum, the following factors differentiate the Hames Valley from the adjacent Salinas Valley: (a) An east-west axis relative to the general north-south orientation of the Salinas Valley. (b) A generally warmer microclimate: Region III vs. region I/II. (c) Higher overall elevation: 500 to 800 feet for Hames Valley, 100 to 500 feet for the Salinas Valley.
