FR940926-0-00037 FR940926-0-00010 However, several commenters disagreed with certain safety factors specified in NGV2. CGA, PST, SCI, and NGV Systems supported a higher safety factor for containers using unproven materials. In particular, they were concerned with containers reinforced with carbon fiber overwrap, for which NGV2 specifies a 2.25 safety factor for all carbon reinforced containers, Types 2, 3, and 4. NGV Systems stated that a safety factor of 2.25 constitutes an ``unacceptable safety risk,'' given the industry's limited experience with carbon fiber and lack of a significant data base demonstrating this materials safety and reliability. Accordingly, NGV Systems supported a safety factor of 3.5 for what it termed unproven designs, which may then be lowered as more experience and data accumulate. CGA recommended safety factors of 2.5 for all Type 2 containers and 3.33 for all Type 3 and 4 containers, stating that these are used on all fiber reinforced compressed gas containers now in commercial use. CGA indicated that unlike other fiber overwrap used in the past for transportation pressure vessels, there is no commercial experience with the safety of carbon fiber reinforced containers for motor vehicle applications to justify a 2.25 safety factor for such containers. CGA stated that NGV2 does not adequately address damage tolerance concerns for carbon reinforced fully wrapped containers with low safety factors. PST recommended 3.33 for carbon fiber Types 3 and 4 containers. That commenter recommended such conservative safety factors until substantial data are accumulated on the use of carbon fiber containers in actual service. SCI provided similar comments, and recommended safety factors of 3.33 for the fully wrapped containers, which are Types 3 and 4. Three commenters stated that a single safety factor was appropriate. CNG Pittsburgh, a consulting firm, stated that a safety factor of 3.50 is conservative but reasonable for CNG fuel containers. AAMA stated that adopting NGV2's approach with various safety factors depending on the material and design involved would limit a manufacturer's choice of container designs and materials. EDO recommended a safety factor of 2.5 for all containers. NHTSA decided to issue an SNPRM proposing to pattern the burst requirement more closely on NGV2, based on its consultation with other Federal agencies, its review of comments to the January 1993 proposal, and other available information. In explaining its reason for issuing the SNPRM, NHTSA stated that there did not appear to be any procedures that could adequately test a container's susceptibility to degradation over time. Therefore, it believed that specifying a single safety factor would not protect in all instances against these problems since the strength of some containers is dependent on the specific material and method of design. Therefore, NHTSA decided to propose a burst test that would link the use of particular designs and materials to compliance with safety factors tailored to those designs and materials. The agency tentatively concluded that such an approach might be necessary to ensure the safe performance of pressure vessels used for fuel containers. The agency further noted that international standards addressing CNG fuel containers, including regulations of Transport Canada and those being drafted by the International Standards Organization (ISO) link the use of particular designs and materials with strength requirements suitable for those designs and materials. In the SNPRM, NHTSA requested comment on the appropriateness of requiring CNG containers to meet design and material requirements, such as those specified in NGV2, and to meet safety factors tailored to those requirements. The agency also asked about the effect of adopting NGV2 on future container technology, since the only way a container manufacturer could comply with the Federal standard would be by producing a container that uses those materials and designs specified in NGV2 if the agency incorporated NGV2's material and design provisions in the FMVSS. As an alternative approach, the agency asked whether it should specify a catch-all high end safety factor for any container whose design and materials are not specified in NGV2. NHTSA received 18 comments to the December 1993 SNPRM about adopting the design and material specific approach of NGV2. Sixteen commenters, including NGVC/AGA, CGA, CNG container manufacturers, public utilities, and two bus manufacturers supported the proposal to incorporate NGV2 into the Federal standard. Eleven commenters supported the safety factors in NGV2. Five others were concerned about the level of some safety factors in NGV2 or the use of relatively new materials, such as carbon fiber. CGA and SCI referenced their earlier comments to the NPRM, again recommending safety factors of 2.5 for all Type 2 containers and 3.33 for all Type 3 and Type 4 containers. AAMA and Ford opposed the design and material specific approach of NGV2. AAMA stated that some of NGV2's requirements limit opportunities for future development of advance container design or materials that may not fit in the specifications in NGV2. No commenter favored having a catch-all high end safety factor. Based on the available information, NHTSA has decided to require CNG containers to meet the safety factors applicable to the design and material requirements specified in NGV2, except for carbon fiber. Specifically, the agency is specifying separate safety factors for containers using various materials (e.g., fiberglass, carbon, steel, aluminum) and different designs (non-composite, hoop wrapped or full wrapped composite containers, and welded). The agency believes that this approach will result in the manufacture of safe containers for CNG powered vehicles. NHTSA has decided to adopt the specific safety factors and related requirements set forth in NGV2, except for those safety factors specified for carbon fiber. While NGV2 currently specifies a safety factor of 2.25 for Type 2, 3, and 4 carbon fiber containers, NHTSA has decided to specify a safety factor of 2.5 for Type 2 carbon fiber containers and 3.33 for the Type 3 and 4 carbon fiber containers. The agency is requiring a higher safety factor for Type 3 and 4 containers since the fibers on those containers carry a greater proportion of the load than on Type 2 containers. NHTSA made this decision after reviewing all of the comments and information obtained in response to both the NPRM and SNPRM; meetings with container manufacturers, CGA and NGVC/AGA; and discussions with other Federal agencies, including RSPA. Comments and information were presented to support safety factors for carbon fiber containers, ranging from 2.25 to 3.5. Brunswick, in particular, submitted substantial test data and other technical information in support of NGV2's 2.25 safety factor for carbon fiber, including testing it performed on such containers which showed favorable results. RSPA recommended a safety factor of not less than 3.0 for carbon fiber, which is consistent with its FRP&hyph;1 and FRP&hyph;2 standards.
