FR940428-0-00013 FR940428-0-00004 Northeast also recommends that the Commission amend the rule to permit an acquisition of up to 10% of the voting securities of a local enterprise. 19 Under Northeast's proposal, a regulated company could become an affiliate or a holding company of a local business, without the need to apply for or receive Commission approval. The Commission declines to follow this recommendation. Rule 40(a)(5) requires that an acquisition not result in an affiliation with the issuer. This requirement is intended to ensure that the rule is not used to circumvent the requirements of sections 9, 10 and 11, consistent with the limited scope of section 9(c)(3). 20 The Commission declines to expand the scope of the rule, as requested by Northeast. 21 19 Rule 40(a)(5) provides in pertinent part that the exemption will not apply where ``by reason of such acquisition, [the local enterprise] will become an affiliate of the company acquiring the securities.'' The Act defines an affiliate to include any company of which 5% or more of the outstanding voting securities are owned by a specified company. 20 Michigan Consol. Gas Co., 44 S.E.C. at 367 (acquisitions under section 9(c)(3) have involved only ``investments in, and have not involved ownership and control of, another business''). 21 The Commission's precedent under section 9(c)(3) is uniform in this regard. See, e.g., Hope Gas, Inc., Holding Co. Act Release No. 25407, 50 SEC Docket 344 (Nov. 8, 1991); East Ohio Gas Co., Holding Co. Act Release No. 25046, 45 SEC Docket 1225 (Feb. 27, 1990) (applicants represented that the registered company would not acquire more than 5% of the securities of the subject industrial development company). The Commission is also amending Form U5S to require disclosure of the aggregate amount of investments in entities operating in the service territory of the registered holding company. D. Rule 41(c): Exemption of Public-Utility Subsidiaries With Respect to Limited Acquisition of Utility Assets Under section 9(a)(1) of the Act, companies in a registered system generally require Commission approval, by order upon application, before acquiring utility assets. Rule 41(c) provides a limited exception to this requirement for the acquisition by a system public-utility company of electric utility assets that are, or immediately following the transaction will be, connected with electric utility assets that the acquiring company already owns and operates, or gas utility assets that are located in, or adjacent to, the service area in which the acquiring company already owns and operates gas utility assets. 22 The existing rule limits the amount of such acquisitions to the lesser of $100,000 or 5% of the acquirer's gross utility revenues in a given calendar year. 22 17 CFR 250.41(c). Compare section 9(b)(1) (a system company can acquire an unlimited amount of utility assets if the acquisitions have been expressly authorized by a state commission). Rule 41(c) was adopted under section 3(d), which authorizes the Commission to make rules exempting companies from the obligations, duties, or liabilities imposed on them as ``subsidiary companies'' or ``affiliates,'' as defined by the Act. The proposed amendment would increase the annual limit to the lesser of $5 million or 5% of the gross annual revenues that the acquiring company derived from its operations as a public-utility company during the preceding calendar year. The commenters uniformly supported this amendment. The Commission is adopting the rule as proposed. 23 23 Item 2 of Form U5S generally requires a registered holding company to disclose any acquisitions of ``utility plant in service or under construction of any electric utility company or retail gas utility company for the production, transmission or distribution of electric energy or distribution of natural or manufactured gas.'' E. Rule 42(b): Acquisition, Retirement and Redemption of Securities by the Issuer Thereof Transactions by which a company in a registered system acquires, retires or redeems a security of which it is the issuer (or which it has assumed or guaranteed) generally require Commission approval by order upon application under sections 9(a), 10 and 12(c), and rules thereunder. At present, rule 42(b) provides a limited exemption to this requirement. 24 The proposed amendment would expand the rule to exempt all transactions in which a system company acquires, retires or redeems a security of which it is the issuer (or which it has assumed or guaranteed). 24 Paragraph (b) of the present rule exempts: (1) the retirement of treasury securities; (2) the acquisition, retirement or redemption of any evidence of indebtedness, at maturity or otherwise, for the consideration specifically designated therein; (3) the acquisition, retirement or redemption of any security pursuant to a conversion privilege; (4) the acquisition, retirement or redemption of any evidence of indebtedness in accordance with any indenture requirement then applicable, or in an aggregate amount estimated not to exceed the amount of any sinking fund or other periodic requirement for the following twelve months; (5) the acquisition, retirement or redemption in any calendar year of not more than two percent of the amount of a given class of securities; and (6) the acquisition, retirement or redemption of any securities, other than common stock, at a cost not exceeding $50,000 in any calendar year. 17 CFR 250.42(b). Under the amendment, system companies could more easily adjust their capital ratios in response to changing economic conditions. Commenters, citing the important role of the capital markets in regulating the capital structures of publicly-held corporations, uniformly support expansion of the exemption. The Commission recognizes that rating agencies, financial institutions and state regulators play important roles in ensuring appropriate capital ratios for public-utility companies. 25 25 In other matters, the Commission has recognized the role of rating agencies in analyzing structured financings. See Exclusion from the Definition of Investment Company for Structured Financings, Investment Company Act Release No. 19105, 57 FR 56248 (Nov. 27, 1992). To forestall potential abuse, the exemption remains unavailable for affiliate transactions. 26 CNG asks the Commission to modify this exclusion to exempt the acquisition of shares of common stock pursuant to the exchange and tax withholding provisions of an employee benefit plan. The commenter states that the modification is necessary because the rule, at present, does not exempt transactions with the officers and directors of system companies, who are affiliates of such companies within the meaning of the Act. 27 The Commission declines to adopt this recommendation. A party may continue to seek Commission approval, by order upon application, for these types of transactions. 26 The legislative history indicates that the regulation of intercompany transactions under section 12 was intended ``to prevent the milking of operating companies for undue advantage to the controlling holding company groups.'' H.R. Rep. No. 1318, 74th Cong., 1st Sess. 17 (1935). The Senate report stated, in regard to section 12: ``Unless appropriate discretion is given to the Commission, new devices will spring up and may result in nullifying the provisions of [the Act].'' S. Rep. No. 621, 74th Cong., 1st Sess. 34 (1935). 27 Section 2(a)(11)(C) of the Act defines ``affiliate'' to include officers and directors of system companies.
