FR941028-2-00187 FR941028-2-00109 5. BCG Vaccination and PPD Skin Testing BCG vaccination may produce a PPD reaction that cannot be distinguished reliably from a reaction caused by infection with M. tuberculosis . For a person who was vaccinated with BCG, the probability that a PPD test reaction results from infection with M. tuberculosis increases (a) as the size of the reaction increases, (b) when the person is a contact of a person with TB, (c) when the person's country of origin has a high prevalence of TB, and (d) as the length of time between vaccination and PPD testing increases. For example, a PPD test reaction of "10 mm probably can be attributed to M. tuberculosis infection in an adult who was vaccinated with BCG as a child and who is from a country with a high prevalence of TB ( 74,75 ). 6. The Booster Phenomenon The ability of persons who have TB infection to react to PPD may gradually wane. For example, if tested with PPD, adults who were infected during their childhood may have a negative reaction. However, the PPD could boost the hypersensitivity, and the size of the reaction could be larger on a subsequent test. This boosted reaction may be misinterpreted as a PPD test conversion from a newly acquired infection. Misinterpretation of a boosted reaction as a new infection could result in unnecessary investigations of laboratory and patient records in an attempt to identify the source case and in unnecessary prescription of preventive therapy for HCWs. Although boosting can occur among persons in any age group, the likelihood of the reaction increases with the age of the person being tested ( 6,76 ). When PPD testing of adults is to be repeated periodically (as in HCW skin-testing programs), two-step testing can be used to reduce the likelihood that a boosted reaction is misinterpreted as a new infection. Two-step testing should be performed on all newly employed HCWs who have an initial negative PPD test result at the time of employment and have not had a documented negative PPD test result during the 12 months preceding the initial test. A second test should be performed 1&hyph;3 weeks after the first test. If the second test result is positive, this is most likely a boosted reaction, and the HCW should be classified as previously infected. If the second test result remains negative, the HCW is classified as uninfected, and a positive reaction to a subsequent test is likely to represent a new infection with M. tuberculosis . B. Chest Radiography Patients who have positive skin-test results or symptoms suggestive of TB should be evaluated with a chest radiograph regardless of PPD test results. Radiographic abnormalities that strongly suggest active TB include upper-lobe infiltration, particularly if cavitation is seen ( 77 ), and patchy or nodular infiltrates in the apical or subapical posterior upper lobes or the superior segment of the lower lobe. If abnormalities are noted, or if the patient has symptoms suggestive of extrapulmonary TB, additional diagnostic tests should be conducted. The radiographic presentation of pulmonary TB in HIV-infected patients may be unusual ( 78 ). Typical apical cavitary disease is less common among such patients. They may have infiltrates in any lung zone, a finding that is often associated with mediastinal and/or hilar adenopathy, or they may have a normal chest radiograph, although this latter finding occurs rarely. C. Bacteriology Smear and culture examination of at least three sputum specimens collected on different days is the main diagnostic procedure for pulmonary TB ( 6 ). Sputum smears that fail to demonstrate AFB do not exclude the diagnosis of TB. In the United States, approximately 60% of patients with positive sputum cultures have positive AFB sputum smears. HIV-infected patients who have pulmonary TB may be less likely than immunocompetent patients to have AFB present on sputum smears, which is consistent with the lower frequency of cavitary pulmonary disease observed among HIV-infected persons ( 39,41 ). Specimens for smear and culture should contain an adequate amount of expectorated sputum but not much saliva. If a diagnosis of TB cannot be established from sputum, a bronchoscopy may be necessary ( 36,37 ). In young children who cannot produce an adequate amount of sputum, gastric aspirates may provide an adequate specimen for diagnosis. A culture of sputum or other clinical specimen that contains M. tuberculosis provides a definitive diagnosis of TB. Conventional laboratory methods may require 4&hyph;8 weeks for species identification; however, the use of radiometric culture techniques and nucleic acid probes facilitates more rapid detection and identification of mycobacteria ( 79,80 ). Mixed mycobacterial infection, either simultaneous or sequential, can obscure the identification of M. tuberculosis during the clinical evaluation and the laboratory analysis ( 42 ). The use of nucleic acid probes for both M. avium complex and M. tuberculosis may be useful for identifying mixed mycobacterial infections in clinical specimens. II. Preventive Therapy for Latent TB Infection and Treatment of Active TB A. Preventive Therapy for Latent TB Infection Determining whether a person with a positive PPD test reaction or conversion is a candidate for preventive therapy must be based on (a) the likelihood that the reaction represents true infection with M. tuberculosis (as determined by the cut-points), (b) the estimated risk for progression from latent infection to active TB, and (c) the risk for hepatitis associated with taking isoniazid (INH) preventive therapy (as determined by age and other factors). HCWs with positive PPD test results should be evaluated for preventive therapy regardless of their ages if they (a) are recent converters, (b) are close contacts of persons who have active TB, (c) have a medical condition that increases the risk for TB, (d) have HIV infection, or (e) use injecting drugs ( 5 ). HCWs with positive PPD test results who do not have these risk factors should be evaluated for preventive therapy if they are <35 years of age. Preventive therapy should be considered for anergic persons who are known contacts of infectious TB patients and for persons from populations in which the prevalence of TB infection is very high (e.g., a prevalence of >10%). Because the risk for INH-associated hepatitis may be increased during the peripartum period, the decision to use preventive therapy during pregnancy should be made on an individual basis and should depend on the patient's estimated risk for progression to active disease. In general, preventive therapy can be delayed until after delivery. However, for pregnant women who were probably infected recently or who have high-risk medical conditions, especially HIV infection, INH preventive therapy should begin when the infection is documented ( 81&hyph;84 ). No evidence suggests that INH poses a carcinogenic risk to humans ( 85&hyph;87 ). The usual preventive therapy regimen is oral INH 300 mg daily for adults and 10 mg/kg/day for children ( 88 ). The recommended duration of therapy is 12 months for persons with HIV infection and 9 months for children. Other persons should receive INH therapy for 6&hyph;12 months. For persons who have silicosis or a chest radiograph demonstrating inactive fibrotic lesions and who have no evidence of active TB, acceptable regimens include (a) 4 months of INH plus rifampin or (b) 12 months of INH, providing that infection with INH-resistant organisms is unlikely ( 33 ). For persons likely to be infected with MDR-TB, alternative multidrug preventive therapy regimens should be considered ( 89 ).
