FR940412-0-00030 FR940412-0-00006 Another detectable warning manufacturer stated that its product has been in use for the past two winters in the Boston area and that there have been no notable difficulties with snow and ice removal. The commenter also mentioned sites in Ontario, Canada where detectable warnings have been installed and have performed well under tough winter conditions. Other commenters who opposed the suspension noted that there were snow and ice removal techniques that could be used with detectable warnings without adversely affecting the efficiency of the overall snow removal operation such as hot-air blowers, stiff brooms, and de-icing materials. A few commenters who supported the suspension objected to the cost of detectable warnings but did not provide any specific data. There are currently a variety of detectable warning products on the market, including ceramic, hard composite, and resilient tiles; cast pavers; pre-cast concrete and concrete stamping systems; stamped metal; rubber mats; and resilient coatings. The costs of these products range from three to twenty dollars per square foot. One commenter mentioned that a university had installed detectable warnings on 25 to 30 new curb ramps on its campus at an added cost of $5,000 for the entire project. Other Issues The Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority (WMATA) submitted comments on the July 9, 1993 NPRM stating that based on a comparison of trackbed falling accidents for the WMATA and BART systems, it believed that the granite edges on its platforms are superior to truncated domes. Based on this analysis, WMATA requested that the ADAAG requirements for detectable warnings be changed from truncated domes to granite edges. The truncated dome pattern was adopted in ADAAG because research has shown that it is highly detectable both by cane and underfoot. WMATA did not submit any information showing that its granite edge is equally detectable both by cane and underfoot. As WMATA noted in its comments, the number of trackbed falling accidents involving blind persons and persons with low vision are relatively small in comparison to the millions of passenger miles traveled annually on our nation's rail systems to do any statistically meaningful analysis. WMATA also recommended that research be conducted on the safety of the truncated dome pattern for other passengers and that the ADAAG requirements for detectable warnings in key stations and in newly constructed and altered rail stations be suspended indefinitely. The truncated dome pattern has been used as a detectable warning on the platform edges of all rail stations in the BART and Metro-Dade Transit Agency systems for over five years and no safety problems have been reported by persons with mobility impairments or other passengers. The Access Board is conducting additional research because questions have been raised whether experience from the rail station environment is transferable to sloped curb ramps and curbless entranceways to retail stores. Additional research on the use of the truncated dome pattern in rail stations is not necessary. The New York Metropolitan Transportation Authority (MTA) and the Southeastern Pennsylvania Transportation Authority (SEPTA) referenced a NPRM published by the Department of Transportation on November 17, 1992 (57 FR 54210) which proposed to extend the deadline for retrofitting key rail stations with detectable warnings until January 26, 1995. MTA and SEPTA stated that they did not believe that the proposed extension provided sufficient time for them to complete testing products and to purchase and install the detectable warnings. MTA and SEPTA requested that the deadline for retrofitting key rail stations with detectable warnings be delayed until the Access Board's research on use of detectable warnings on curb ramps and hazardous vehicular areas is completed. The Department of Transportation published a final rule on November 30, 1993 (58 FR 63092) extending the deadline for retrofitting key rail stations with detectable warnings until July 26, 1994. In the final rule, the Department of Transportation stated that ``[t]he drop-offs at the edges of rail station platforms create a clear, documented, and unacceptable hazard to persons with visual impairments'' and that detectable warnings as specified in ADAAG will mitigate this hazard. The Department of Transportation noted that many rail systems have been working with detectable warning manufacturers to address concerns about durability and maintainability and that the extension provided for in the final rule was adequate to permit an aggressive effort by rail systems to address concerns about installation. The American Public Transit Association (APTA) submitted a comment stating that, if as a result of the additional research conducted by the Access Board on the use of detectable warnings at curb ramps and hazardous vehicular areas, the technical specifications for detectable warnings should be changed, rail systems could be placed in a position of installing material which could be found to be unsafe in other applications, and having to replace the material later. If the research shows that detectable warnings are needed at curb ramps and hazardous vehicular areas, it is possible that some refinements may be made to the scoping provisions and technical specification for detectable warnings (e.g., the location and width of detectable warnings for curb ramps; the types of hazardous vehicular areas where detectable warnings will be required). However, substantial change to the basic pattern of raised truncated domes is not anticipated. The Department of Transportation has indicated in its final rule extending the deadline for retrofitting key rail stations with detectable warnings that if the technical specifications for detectable warnings change in the future, the grandfathering provision in its regulations (49 CFR 37.9) could apply in appropriate situations to avoid making rail systems reinstall detectable warnings meeting the revised specifications.
