FR941006-0-00046 FR941006-0-00012 ยง806.14 Host-tenant relationship. (a) The host base FOIA manager logs, processes, and reports FOIA requests for tenant units. The host base FOIA office refers all recommended denials and ``no records'' appeals to the tenant MAJCOM FOIA manager. (b) This host-tenant relationship does not apply to disclosure authorities for specialized records, such as the Air Force Audit Agency and the Air Force Office of Special Investigations. ยง806.15 Processing FOIA requests. All FOIA offices use the FOIA system to track and manage FOIA requests. AFM 4&hyph;196 is the FOIA System End Users Manual. (a) After receiving a FOIA request, the FOIA manager: (1) Records the date and time of receiving the request, logs the request in the FOIA system and sets a suspense date. For more than 10 FOIA requests, sets up a first-in, first-out system to process the requests in the order received. (2) Considers a request received when the FOIA office responsible for processing the request receives it; and when the requester states a willingness to pay fees set for his or her category (see ยง806.17), has paid past FOIA debts, and has reasonably described the requested records. (3) Determines the fee according to the requester's category, writes to requesters who have not made arrangements to pay for the information and whose fees are more than $15, telling them the category and cost of the request. (4) Answers fee waiver requests before processing. Asks for more justification, if needed to make a good decision. Do not consider this notice a denial. (5) Attaches DD Form 2086, Record of Freedom of Information (FOI) Processing Cost, or DD 2086&hyph;1, Record of Freedom of Information (FOI) Processing Cost for Technical Data, to each request. The OPR must complete and return this form to the FOIA office. These forms give the fees for charging, if any, and processing costs you use to prepare the FOIA annual report. (6) Writes the requester to acknowledge receipt of the request if the date or postmark (whichever is later) is more than 10 workdays ago and informs the requester of any unusual problems. (7) Tells the requester if the record is not sufficiently described and asks for more information. If possible, offers to help the requester identify the requested records and tells what kind of information makes searching for a record easier. (8) Sends the request to the OPR who searches for the record and decides whether to release it. (9) Sends classified records with no OPR or functional equivalent to SAF/AAIS, through the MAJCOM or FOA FOIA office, for HQ USAF/SP review. Telephones SAF/AAIS before sending the records. (10) Tells the requester in a letter sent within 10 workdays after receiving the request of the final decision to release or deny the records. (11) When answering requests for lists of names and duty addresses, tells requesters as early as possible about the mass mailing restrictions outlined in AFI 37&hyph;125, Official Mail, Small Parcel and Distribution Management (formerly AFR 4&hyph;50). (12) Grants 10 additional workdays for one or more of three reasons: (i) All or part of the requested records are not at the installation processing the request. (ii) Fulfilling the request means collecting and reviewing an enormous number of records. (iii) Other Air Fore activities or other agencies need to be involved in deciding whether to release the records. (13) Sends the requester a letter within 10 workdays, giving the reason for the delay and a date (within 20 workdays after receiving the request) when the requester can expect a final decision. (14) Records extensions and reasons for them in the FOIA system. (15) Coordinates with the public affairs office if the requested records are potentially newsworthy or if the news media sent the request. (16) Sends releasable records to requesters with a bill (if appropriate). (17) Sends a request the OPR wants to deny through the MAJCOM or FOA FOIA office to the denial authority for a decision. The package must include: (i) The request.
