FR941216-1-00175 FR941216-1-00015 Projections indicate that there was an emissions decrease in VOCs and NO X in the nonattainment area from the 1993 attainment baseyear to 2005. However, the projections show a temporary increase in NO X emissions of less than 2%. EPA believes this increase to be insignificant, and therefore, EPA believes that these emissions projections demonstrate that the nonattainment area will continue to maintain the O 3 NAAQS. C. Verification of Continued Attainment Continued attainment of the O 3 NAAQS in the nonattainment area depends, in part, on the Commonwealth of Kentucky's efforts toward tracking indicators of continued attainment during the maintenance period. The Cabinet will develop periodic emission inventories every three years beginning in 1996 and will evaluate these periodic inventories to see if they exceed the baseline emission inventory by more than 10%. If a 10% exceedance occurs, the state will evaluate existing control measures to see if any further emission reduction measures should be implemented. The Commonwealth of Kentucky's contingency plan can also be triggered by an air quality exceedance. If an exceedance occurs, the Commonwealth will evaluate existing control measures to see if any further emission reduction measures should be implemented. The Commonwealth of Kentucky contingency plan will be triggered in the event of a monitored violation of the ozone standard. The Commonwealth then commits to adopt within a six months, one or more of the contingency measures listed in the contingency plan. The Commonwealth has also committed to operate the air monitoring network in accordance to 40 CFR 58 with no reductions in the existing network. Refer to the TSD accompanying this notice for a more complete discussion of the indicators the Commonwealth is tracking and the contingency measures. D. Contingency Plan The level of VOC and NO X emissions in the nonattainment area will largely determine its ability to stay in compliance with the O 3 NAAQS in the future. Despite the Commonwealth's best efforts to demonstrate continued compliance with the NAAQS, the ambient air pollutant concentrations may exceed or violate the NAAQS. Therefore, the Commonwealth of Kentucky has provided contingency measures with a schedule for implementation in the event of a future O 3 air quality problem. The plan contains the following possible contingency measures: (1) Petition EPA to opt into reformulated gasoline (RFG), (2) Inspection and maintenance (I/M), and (3) Stage II. In addition to these contingency measures, the Commonwealth will consider other miscellaneous options. A complete description of these contingency measures and their trigger can be found in the TSD accompanying this notice. EPA finds that the contingency measures provided in the Commonwealth of Kentucky's submittal meet the requirements of section 175A(d) of the CAA. E. Subsequent Maintenance Plan Revisions In accordance with section 175A(b) of the CAA, the Commonwealth of Kentucky has agreed to submit a revised maintenance SIP eight years after the nonattainment area redesignates to attainment. Such revised SIP will provide for maintenance for an additional ten years. Proposed Action EPA proposes approval of the Commonwealth of Kentucky's request to redesignate to attainment the Kentucky portion of the Ashland-Huntington moderate O 3 nonattainment area and maintenance plan contingent upon a full and final approval of the outstanding requirements discussed above (emission statement and a source specific SIP revision requiring VOC RACT on a non-CTG major VOC source). EPA also proposes to approve the 1990 baseyear inventory for the Kentucky portion of the Ashland-Huntington nonattainment area. The OMB has exempted these actions from review under Executive Order 12866. Nothing in this action shall be construed as permitting or allowing or establishing a precedent for any future request for a revision to any state implementation plan. Each request for revision to the state implementation plan shall be considered separately in light of specific technical, economic, and environmental factors and in relation to relevant statutory and regulatory requirements. Under the Regulatory Flexibility Act, 5 U.S.C. 600 et seq., EPA must prepare a regulatory flexibility analysis assessing the impact of any proposed or final rule on small entities. 5 U.S.C. 603 and 604. Alternatively, EPA may certify that the rule will not have a significant impact on a substantial number of small entities. Small entities include small businesses, small not-for-profit enterprises, and government entities with jurisdiction over populations of less than 50,000. Redesignation of an area to attainment under section 107(d)(3)(E) of the CAA does not impose any new requirements on small entities. Redesignation is an action that affects the status of a geographical area and does not impose any regulatory requirements on sources. The Administrator certifies that the approval of the redesignation request will not affect a substantial number of small entities. List of Subjects in 40 CFR Part 52 Air pollution control, Carbon monoxide, Hydrocarbons, Incorporation by reference, Intergovernmental relations, Lead, Nitrogen dioxide, Ozone, Particulate matter, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Sulfur oxides. Dated: December 8, 1994. Patrick M. Tobin, Acting Regional Administrator. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;30949 Filed 12&hyph;15&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;P
