FR940317-0-00062 FR940317-0-00022 Since access by market participants to current and reliable information is uneven and inefficient, municipal issuers presently face a risk of misleading investors through public statements that may not be intended to be the basis of investment decisions, but nevertheless may reasonably be expected to reach the securities markets. As market participants have urged, 92 in order to minimize the risk of misleading investors, municipal issuers should establish practices and procedures to identify and timely disclose, in a manner designed to inform the trading market, material information reflecting on the creditworthiness of the issuer and obligor and the terms of the security. 93 92 See GFOA Guidelines at 91&hyph;97; Joint Statement. 93 National Association of Bond Lawyers and Section of Urban, State and Local Government Law, American Bar Association, Disclosure Roles of Counsel in State and Local Government Securities Offerings at 135 (forthcoming 1994) (Pre-publication Draft) (``ABA Disclosure Roles'') (noting that many municipal issuers have concluded that post-issuance disclosure in accordance with GFOA guidelines can be more efficient and expose them to less potential liability than ad hoc disclosures). B. Secondary Market Disclosure There is general recognition of the need for disseminating comprehensive information on an annual basis and, on a more timely basis, information about material events that reflect on the credit quality of the security. 94 94 See GFOA Testimony; Mires, ``An Investor's Framework for Examining Disclosure Issues and Possible Solutions,'' The Bond Buyer (Feb. 7, 1994) at 24; NASACT Blue Ribbon Committee Report at 7. See also PSA Testimony at 6, supporting annual financial statement filing requirements and submission of information regarding any material fact for issuers who borrow $1 million or more annually. 1. Annual Information Investors need updated comprehensive information sufficient to enable them to evaluate the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the issuer or underlying borrower. Although the issuance of comprehensive annual information has not yet become prevailing practice, it is recommended by industry disclosure guidelines, including those published by the GFOA in connection with its Comprehensive Annual Financial Reports (``CAFRs'') award program, NFMA, and the other industry specific guidelines, 95 and is an effective means of providing the market updated information about the issuer and the issue. The GFOA Guidelines for Continuing Disclosure call for, either in an official statement or comprehensive annual report, a description of: 95 See ABA Disclosure Roles at 134&hyph;136; ABA 1991 Guidelines; Association of Local Housing Guidelines; Healthcare Disclosure Principles. The Disclosure Task Force of the National Council of State Housing Agencies is developing standards for the issuance of audited financial and annual reports. •The issuer and its structure, management, assets and operations; •The issuer's debt structure (including changes in indebtedness); •The issuer's finances (including financial condition and results of operations and financial practices of the issuer or the enterprise); •Legal matters affecting the issuer; including litigation and legislation; •Ratings; and •Interests of certain persons. The GFOA Guidelines also specify additional information to be provided by conduit borrowers. The eligibility criteria for a Certificate of Achievement from GFOA include audited financial statements prepared in accordance with GAAP, reported upon by an independent public auditor. The guidelines for CAFRs include both a financial section and a statistical section. 96 96 See GFOA Certificate of Achievement for Excellence in Financial Reporting Program; GFOA Guidelines at 64.
