FR940802-0-00087 FR940802-0-00018 (ii) The exemption is given under a properly submitted plan that satisfies the standards and criteria set forth in ยง905.308(d) of this part and, accordingly, has been approved by the Department. (2) Plan submission. A plan is properly submitted when it is received by the local HUD Office of Native American Programs with jurisdiction over the HA. (3) Notification of plan approval or disapproval. The Department will notify an HA of the approval or disapproval of its plan within thirty days of its submission. Plan approval by the Department constitutes granting of the exemption for the purposes of this section. (d) Plan standards and criteria. (1) Minimum requirements. To be approved, a plan must satisfy the following requirements: (i) The plan must identify the total number of units under management by the HA; the specific housing developments, and the number of units they contain, where the HA intends to place Officers; and the particular units (stating number of bedrooms) within each development that would be allocated to Officers. For each unit identified, the plan must state the amount of rent that the Officer will pay and facts and circumstances (such as, the rent that would ordinarily be charged for the unit, the HA's annual maintenance cost for the unit, the degree of difficulty in attracting Officers to reside in the unit, the extent of the crime problem in the development, and the anticipated benefits of the Officer's presence) that demonstrate the reasonableness of that amount, as required under ยง905.308(e)(i) of this part. (ii) The plan must identify specifically the benefits to the community and to the HA that will result from the presence of Officers in each affected development. (iii) The plan must describe the existing physical and social conditions in and around each affected development, providing specific evidence of criminal activity (such as, frequency of telephone calls to local police, number of arrests and types of offenses involved, and data on drug abuse in the community) in order to permit the Department to make an informed assessment of the level of need for increased security. (iv) The plan must afford the Department a reasonable basis, which necessarily includes the certifications required under ยง905.308(d)(2) of this part, for determining that the use by Officers of the identified dwelling units will: (A) Increase security for other Indian housing residents;
