FR940720-1-00034 FR940720-1-00009 1.7␣Mailing Wrappers A mailing wrapper is an envelope, sleeve, or polywrap used to enclose the mailpiece. Advertising may be printed on the mailing wrapper and is included when measuring advertising percentage. Nothing may be attached to the mailing wrapper except as permitted under 1.8. 1.8␣Attachments The following may be attached to a page, cover, protective cover, or mailing wrapper of a publication, subject to the corresponding standards: a. Stickers of any size and shape. If attached to the cover, protective cover, or mailing wrapper, no portion of the publication's name may be obscured. b. Material that is allowed as a loose enclosure described in 1.3 or 1.4. When nonincidental First- and/or third-class enclosures (see 1.3) are attached, the marking ``First-Class'' or ``Letter Enclosed'' must be on a First-Class attachment; ``Third-Class,'' on a third-class attachment. 1.9␣Printed Additions Only the following may be printed on a copy of a second-class publication after it is printed, or placed on its cover, protective cover, or mailing wrapper: a. The name and address of the intended recipient or of the publisher or sender. b. The printed title of the publication and its place of publication. c. The date the subscription ends. d. Requests for address-correction information from the addressee. e. The words ``Sample Copy'' (on a sample), ``Marked Copy'' (when the copy contains a marked item or article), or ``Return Postage Guaranteed'' (when the copy is to be returned to the sender if undeliverable as addressed). f. The number of copies enclosed (on the outside of a package) or a package count (e.g., ``2 of 4'') (on a package wrapper). g. Corrections of typographical errors or a mark, except by written or printed words, to call attention to a word or passage. h. Printed messages not required to be mailed as First-Class or Express Mail. 1.10␣Label Carriers A label carrier is a single unfolded, uncreased sheet of card or paper stock, securely affixed to the cover of the publication or large enough so that it does not rotate inside the wrapper or cover the publication title (if placed over the front cover), that is used to carry the delivery address for the mailpiece, subject to these conditions: a. It must bear the title of the second-class publication; the second-class imprint or ``Second-Class'' endorsement in the upper right corner of the address side (unless ``Second-Class'' is printed on the address side of the polybag); and the address to which the mailpiece can be returned if undeliverable (if endorsed ``Return Postage Guaranteed''). b. If the address remains clearly visible, the label carrier may also bear a request for address correction from the addressee; information for requesting or subscribing to the publication; or a subscription or request form. c. As applicable, the label carrier may show the endorsement ``First-Class Mail Enclosed'' or ``Third-Class Mail Enclosed'' or the permit imprint used to pay postage for the First- or third-class enclosure if the imprint is below the second-class imprint or the endorsement ``Second-Class.'' d. Other printed information, whether advertising or nonadvertising, is permitted only on the back of the label carrier and is subject to measurement and postage payment accordingly. A single line of text calling attention to information on the reverse may be placed on the front of the label carrier. If any information on the reverse of the label carrier is advertising, the line of text on the front is also treated as advertising. 2.0␣IMPERMISSIBLE COMPONENTS 2.1␣General Standard Regardless of preparation or characteristics, or whether otherwise meeting the standards in 1.0, the materials described in 2.2 through 2.5 are not eligible for second-class rates and may not form, or be included, in a second-class mailpiece. 2.2␣Prohibited Matter
