FR940620-1-00021 FR940620-1-00006 Note: Many cost-effective prepaid type group health plans (for example, health maintenance organizations (HMOs)), impose strict requirements on care and services that are reimbursed under the plan. These requirements may include use of certain providers exclusively and/or prior authorization for the need for care or services. If an enrollee receives services which are not in compliance with plan requirements, and the group health plan consequently refuses reimbursement for services usually covered by the plan, under section 1902(a)(17)(B) of the Act, FFP would not be permitted for any service that is generally available to the recipient without cost. 7. Determination and Redetermination of Eligibility Our rules concerning determination and redetermination of eligibility for the 50 States and the District of Columbia are found in 42 CFR part 435, subpart J. These rules are not affected by this proposed rule. 8. Changes in the Regulations We propose to amend part 435 (Eligibility in States, the District of Columbia, the Northern Mariana Islands, and America Samoa) as follows: (a) Eligibility Requirements •We would revise §435.3, Basis, to add new bases for part 435 resulting from amendments to title XIX of the Act by section 4402 of OBRA '90. Section 1902(e)(11) concerns the 6-month maximum optional enrollment period in a cost- effective group health plan. Section 1903(u)(1) concerns treatment of erroneous payments made in violation of section 1906 of the Act. Section 1905(a) concerns expenditures for Medicare cost-sharing and premiums under Part B. Section 1906 concerns the requirement that Medicaid eligibles enroll in group health plans determined to be cost-effective under guidelines established by the Secretary. •Section 435.10, State plan requirements, would be revised to specify that State plans must require that, as a condition of eligibility, individuals must enroll in group health plans where the State agency determines it is cost- effective to pay for that individual's premiums, deductibles and other cost-sharing obligations, using guidelines established by the Secretary. The plan also must comply with the requirements in a new §435.186, Medicaid payment for recipients enrolled in cost-effective group health plans. In that new section, we would require that the State pay for all premiums, and deductibles, coinsurance and other cost-sharing obligations (other than nominal copayments permitted under section 1916 of the Act) for Medicaid recipients for items and services covered under the State plan. We would require the State to pay premiums only for a non-Medicaid recipient when that person must enroll in a group health plan in order for the Medicaid eligible individual to be enrolled, and only when the State determines it to be cost-effective to do so. We would require the State to treat the group health plan as a third party resource in accordance with third party liability requirements specified in §433.138, except that FFP would be available in expenditures for services provided to recipients who were eligible in the month in which services were provided as provided under §435.1002. •A new §435.611, Limitation of payment for special groups of individuals, would be added to specify the exceptions and conditions of eligibility (of individuals otherwise eligible for Medicaid), for enrollment and payment of premiums, deductibles, coinsurance, and other cost- sharing obligations for items and service in a group health plan. (b) Federal Financial Participation Section 435.1002 would be revised to provide for FFP in expenditures for payment of premiums, deductibles, coinsurance, and other cost-sharing obligations on behalf of a recipient enrolled in a cost-effective group health plan, on behalf of individuals who are no longer eligible but deemed eligible under the 6-month enrollment option and for premiums for individuals who must be enrolled. B. COBRA Continuation Coverage 1. Statutory Provisions The Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1985 (COBRA '85), Public Law 99&hyph;272, requires an employer with 20 or more employees that offers a group health plan to offer employees the opportunity to elect continuation coverage under that plan after certain qualifying events (explained more fully below), that ordinarily result in loss of such coverage. This provision is popularly known as COBRA continuation coverage. Section 4713 of OBRA '90 amended title XIX of the Social Security Act by adding a new section 1902(a)(10)(F) and a new section 1902(u) to specify an additional group of individuals who may be eligible for a limited Medicaid benefit payment of COBRA premiums for insurance coverage. These provisions allow a State Medicaid agency the option to pay the group health insurance premiums for certain individuals who are entitled to elect COBRA continuation coverage. However, this provision, unlike the 20-employee requirement in COBRA '85, only applies to group health plans provided by employers with 75 or more employees.
