FR940706-2-00077 FR940706-2-00044 [Announcement No. 473] Cooperative Agreement for Laboratory Medicine Sentinel Monitoring Network Introduction The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) announces the availability of fiscal year (FY) 1994 funds for up to three cooperative agreements to become part of the Laboratory Medicine Sentinel Monitoring Network. The Public Health Service (PHS) is committed to achieving the health promotion and disease prevention objectives of ``Healthy People 2000,'' a PHS-led national activity to reduce morbidity and mortality and improve the quality of life. This announcement is related to the priority area of Surveillance and Data Systems. (For ordering a copy of ``Healthy People 2000,'' see the section ``WHERE TO OBTAIN ADDITIONAL INFORMATION.'' ) Authority This program is authorized under section 317 (k)(3) [42 U.S.C. 247b(k)(3)] of the Public Health Service Act, as amended. Smoke-Free Workplace The Public Health Service strongly encourages all grant recipients to provide a smoke-free workplace and promote the non-use of all tobacco products. This is consistent with the PHS mission to protect and advance the physical and mental health of the American people. Eligible Applicants Eligibility is limited to nonprofit organizations. Thus, universities, colleges, research institutions, hospitals, other public and private organizations, and State and local health departments or their bona fide agents, are eligible for these cooperative agreements. We are limiting eligibility to non-profit organizations to provide assistance to those organizations and to implement long term laboratory medicine monitoring programs. Availability of Funds Approximately $250,000 will be available in FY 1994 to fund three cooperative agreements. It is expected that the awards will begin on or about September 30, 1994, and will be made for a 12-month budget period within a project period of up to five years. Funding estimates may vary and are subject to change. Continuation awards within the project period will be made on the basis of satisfactory progress and the availability of funds. Purpose The purpose of these cooperative agreements is to develop data collection networks and to provide information about the practice of laboratory medicine in hospital, physician office and independent laboratories. This cooperative agreement will ultimately improve patient care by improving the quality of clinical laboratory medicine and increase the availability of laboratory monitoring networks. Program Requirements In conducting the activities to achieve the purpose of the program, the recipients will be responsible for the activities under A. (Recipient Activities), and CDC will be responsible for those activities under B. (CDC Activities). A. Recipient Activities 1. Solicit laboratories to voluntarily participate in the Monitoring Networks so that sufficient representatives of each laboratory type (hospital, physician office, and independent) participate in the total network by the end of the first year of operation. 2. Provide leadership in the design and evaluation of questionnaires for periodic reporting of laboratory operational characteristics and problems, especially those that impact patient care and on methods that are used by the network participants during the period of the study. Topics investigated by the questionnaires and the time period of monitoring may change during the cooperative agreement by mutual consent of both network participants and CDC. The actual monitoring areas will be decided after the award of the cooperative agreement(s) and may differ for each of the laboratory groups. The questionnaires should also capture information that determines the effectiveness of actions being taken by participants to improve the practice of laboratory medicine. 3. Provide leadership in collecting and sharing raw data both within the network and with CDC. Participant identification information may be omitted from these data sets if the network manager(s) is able to respond to questions concerning the validity of entered data without providing participant identification information.
