FR941207-2-00090 FR941207-2-00063 [Release No. 34&hyph;35032; File No. SR&hyph;CBOE&hyph;94&hyph;42] Self-Regulatory Organizations; Notice of Filing of Proposed Rule Change by the Chicago Board Options Exchange, Inc., Relating to the Listing of Long Term Equity Options (``LEAPS'') With a Duration of up to 60 Months Until Expiration November 30, 1994. Pursuant to Section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act''), 1 and Rule 19b&hyph;4 thereunder, 2 notice is hereby given that on November 8, 1994, the Chicago Board Options Exchange (``CBOE'' or ``Exchange'') filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``Commission'') the proposed rule change as described in Items I, II, and III below, which Items have been prepared by the CBOE. The Commission is publishing this notice to solicit comments on the proposed rule change from interested persons. 1 15 U.S.C. ยง78s(b)(1) (1988). 2 17 CFR 240.19b&hyph;4 (1991). I. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Terms of Substance of the Proposed Rule Change The CBOE proposes to amend Exchange Rule 5.8 to permit the listing of options with a duration of up to 60 months ( i.e. , five years). The text of the proposed rule change is available at the Office of the Secretary, CBOE, and at the Commission. II. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change In its filing with the Commission, the Exchange included statements concerning the purpose of and basis for the proposed rule change and discussed any comments it received on the proposed rule change. The text of these statements may be examined at the places specified in Item IV below. The CBOE has prepared summaries, set forth in Sections (A), (B), and (C) below, of the most significant aspects of such statements. (A) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change The purpose of the proposed rule change is to permit the Exchange to list options with a duration of up to 60 months ( i.e., five years). The Exchange presently has authority to list long-term equity options (``LEAPS'') that expire from 12 to 39 months from the time they are listed. 3 The Exchange represents that there has been increasing member firm and customer interest in longer term instruments. Therefore, the Exchange is proposing to amend Exchange Rule 5.8 to permit the listing of options that expire up to 60 months from the time they are listed. In addition, the Exchange proposes to amend Rule 5.8 to allow up to ten additional expiration months for LEAPS, as opposed to the six additional months currently allowed. 3 See CBOE Rule 5.8. The Exchange believes that the proposed rule change is consistent with Section 6 of the Act, in general, and furthers the objectives of Section 6(b)(5) of the Act, 4 in particular, in that it is designed to prevent fraudulent and manipulative acts and practices, to promote just and equitable principles of trade, to foster cooperation and coordination with persons engaged in facilitating transactions in securities, to remove impediments to and perfect the mechanism of a free and open market and a national market system, and to protect investors and the public interest. 4 15 U.S.C. ยง78f(b)(5) (1988). (B) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Burden on Competition The Exchange does not believe that the proposed rule change will impose any inappropriate burden on competition. (C) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received from Members, Participants, or Others Written comments on the proposed rule change were neither solicited nor received. III. Date of Effectiveness of the Proposed Rule Change and Timing for Commission Action Within 35 days of the date of publication of this notice in the Federal Register or within such longer period (i) as the Commission may designate up to 90 days of such date if it finds such longer period to be appropriate and publishes its reasons for so finding or (ii) as to which the Exchange consents, the Commission will: (a) By order approve such proposed rule change, or (b) Institute proceedings to determine whether the proposed rule change should be disapproved. IV. Solicitation of Comments Interested person are invited to submit written data, views and arguments concerning the foregoing. Persons making written submissions should file six copies thereof with the Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of the submission, all subsequent amendments, all written statements with respect to the proposed rule change that are filed with the Commission, and all written communications relating to the proposed rule change between the Commission and any person, other than those that may be withheld from the public in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552, will be available for inspection and copying in the Commission's Public Reference Section, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC. Copies of such filing will also be available for inspection and copying at the principal office of the CBOE. All submissions should refer to File No. SR&hyph;CBOE&hyph;94&hyph;42 and should be submitted by December 28, 1994. For the Commission, by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. 5 5 17 CFR 200.30&hyph;3(a)(12) (1993). Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;30027 Filed 12&hyph;6&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
