FR940525-2-00120 FR940525-2-00064 Date of amendment request: April 18, 1994. Description of amendment request: The proposed amendment would relocate the fire protection requirements of Technical Specifications (TSs) 3.14 and 4.12, and fire brigade staffing and training requirements of TSs 6.2.2(f) and 6.4.2 from the TSs to administratively-controlled operational specifications. Specifically, the proposed changes would add the NRC standard fire protection license condition to the Operating License, update the Final Safety Analysis Report (FSAR) to include the Fire Protection Program by reference, and relocate the fire protection requirements from the TSs to the Indian Point 3 Operational Specifications Manual. The proposed changes have been developed in accordance with the guidance contained in NRC Generic Letter (GL) 86&hyph;10, ``Implementation of Fire Protection Requirements,'' and GL 88&hyph;12, ``Removal of Fire Protection Requirements from the Technical Specifications.'' Basis for proposed no significant hazards consideration determination: As required by 10 CFR 50.91(a), the licensee has provided its analysis of the issue of no significant hazards consideration, which is presented below: Consistent with the criteria of 10 CFR 50.92, the enclosed application is judged to involve no significant hazards based on the following information: (1) Does the proposed license amendment involve a significant increase in the probability or consequences of any accident previously evaluated? Response This change does not involve a significant increase in the probability or consequences of an accident previously evaluated. This proposed amendment merely relocates the fire protection program elements from the Technical Specifications to the Operational Specifications and the FSAR [Final Safety Analysis Report]. No reduction in content is being made to the Technical Specification requirements that are being relocated. Operating limitations will continue to be imposed, and required surveillances will continue to be performed in accordance with written procedures and instructions auditable by the NRC. Although future proposed changes to the fire protection program elements previously located in the Technical Specifications will no longer be controlled by 10 CFR 50.90, proposed changes to the Fire Protection requirements relocated to the Operational Specifications will be evaluated by plant administrative procedures. Thus, programmatic controls will continue to assure that future proposed fire protection program changes will not create an unreviewed safety question. (2) Does the proposed license amendment create the possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any previously evaluated? Response The possibility of an accident or malfunction of a different type than evaluated previously in the safety analysis report is not created. This proposed amendment merely relocates the fire protection Technical Specification requirements from the Technical Specifications to the Operational Specifications. No reduction to the fire protection Technical Specification requirements is being made and thus the change does not create the possibility of a new or different accident from those previously evaluated. As noted above, future changes to the requirements in the Operational Specifications will be evaluated by plant administrative procedures. (3) Does the proposed amendment involve a significant reduction in a margin of safety? Response: The margin of safety as defined in the bases for any technical specification is not reduced. This proposed amendment does not involve a reduction to the approved fire protection program or Fire Protection Technical Specification requirements. The Technical Specification fire protection requirements are being relocated, with no reduction in content, to the Operational Specifications. Since there is no reduction in the requirements, there is no reduction in the margin of safety. As noted above, proposed changes to the Fire Protection Technical Specification requirements relocated to the Operational Specifications will be evaluated by plant administrative procedures. The NRC staff has reviewed the licensee's analysis and, based on this review, it appears that the three standards of 50.92(c) are satisfied. Therefore, the NRC staff proposes to determine that the amendment request involves no significant hazards consideration. Local Public Document Room location: White Plains Public Library, 100 Martine Avenue, White Plains, New York 10601. Attorney for licensee: Mr. Charles M. Pratt, 10 Columbus Circle, New York, New York 10019. NRC Project Director: Robert A. Capra.
