FR940719-2-00101 FR940719-2-00062 Part A Data Collection Plan Introduction The Moving to Opportunity For Fair Housing (MTO) Demonstration program is an initiative on the part of Congress and the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD or the Department) to explore ways to assist families now living in public housing or project-based Section 8 housing to move out of the high-poverty areas of large central cities. The demonstration will assist families by combining Section 8 rental assistance with intensive housing search and counseling services in order to facilitate relocation to low-poverty neighborhoods. 1 MTO is modeled on court-ordered remedial programs of the past two decades, in which federal courts have required HUD to provide funding for rental assistance and housing counseling services in order to reduce racial segregation in publicly assisted housing. 2 Jurisdictions in which court-ordered programs have been established include Boston, Chicago, Cincinnati, and Dallas. 1 The Section 8 program for existing housing provides housing assistance through rental certificates or housing vouchers. In most places, local public housing agencies (PHAs) administer both the voucher and certificate programs. An applicant is income-eligible for Section 8 housing assistance if his/her household income level is less than 50 percent of the median income for the metropolitan area. Eligible applicants enrolled in the program are given two to four months to find acceptable housing in the private rental market. To qualify as ``acceptable,'' a unit must meet the program's housing quality and occupancy standards, and its owner must agree to participate in the program. Contracts are signed establishing the unit rent and the amounts of the tenant and housing assistance payments. 2 It is not a principal objective of MTO to reduce racial desegregation, but rather to move families living in high-poverty areas to low-poverty areas. It is to be expected, however, that given the characteristics of households living in high-poverty areas at selected demonstration sites, racial deconcentration will be an outcome of the MTO program. The Moving to Opportunity for Fair Housing (MTO) Demonstration was authorized in Section 152 of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1992, which set the following parameters for the program: •Eligible families are very low-income families with children residing in public housing or project-based Section 8-assisted housing located in areas with high concentrations of poverty. •Participating localities are restricted to no more than six very large cities with populations of at least 400,000 in metropolitan areas of at least 1.5 million people. •Local programs are created via contracts between the Secretary of HUD and nonprofit organizations or NPOs (to provide counseling and services in connection with the demonstration) and public housing agencies or PHAs (to administer the Section 8 rental assistance). The NPOs will receive funding to help pay for the costs associated with counseling participating families, assisting them in finding appropriate units, and working with landlords to encourage their participation in the MTO program. Local programs must match federal counseling funds with funds from state or local public or private sources. PHAs will receive administrative funds for the increased number of Section 8 certificates or vouchers made available through the MTO program. •In the short term, the demonstration will compare the costs and service differences between the MTO program and the routine implementation of the Section 8 tenant-based rental assistance program. HUD will report to Congress biennially on the effectiveness of the demonstration, including a report on who is served, the level of counseling and types of services provided, and updates on the employment records of families assisted under the program. •In the long term, the demonstration will assess the housing, educational, and employment outcomes of families assisted through the program. A final report to Congress on program outcomes is due in 2004. Section 8 rental assistance for the MTO demonstration was approved at $50 million for FY 92 and $52.1 million for FY 93. 3 In addition, up to $500,000 was set aside for counseling grants. These funds will assist approximately 1,300 low-income families at five HUD-selected sites: Baltimore, Boston, Chicago, Los Angeles, and New York. 3 The FY 92 funding was carried over to FY 93. Funding for both years was announced through a NOFA issued August 16, 1993. For FY 94, Congress increased the demonstration appropriation by $164.5 million in rental assistance plus $7 million in housing counseling funds. These additional MTO resources will assist another 2,000 or more families, bringing the total to around 3,300. Current plans call for including 1,800 of the 3,300 families in a three-way experimental design which is described later in this document. HUD has contracted with Abt Associates, Inc. (the Contractor) to assist in planning and implementing the MTO demonstration and developing a framework for reporting on the demonstration. Among Abt Associates' responsibilities are: (1) Developing forms and procedures so that standardized information can be collected across sites regarding participants, services and costs; (2) designing and assisting in the implementation of a three-way random assignment mechanism for the demonstration; and, (3) providing data collection assistance, technical assistance, and monitoring to local sites to ensure that the demonstration is implemented in an effective and standardized manner. Under a separate procurement, HUD intends to conduct an evaluation of the demonstration using a three-way experimental design, in order to answer policy questions about the long-term effects of the program on participants. This request for OMB clearance covers two distinct groups of instruments related to start-up and early implementation of the MTO demonstration program. The groups of instruments are based upon the identity of the respondent: •Data collection forms with participant respondents'' Baseline data will be collected through a survey of participants. These data will be used initially to describe the participants served in the demonstration; eventually, they will form the foundation for the long-term evaluation of the program's effects on participants. •Data collection forms with agency respondents'' MTO program operation data will be routinely collected and maintained by PHAs and NPOS and periodically reported to HUD. These data will enable HUD to fulfill its monitoring responsibilities and meet Congressional reporting requirements. The forms proposed for these data collection activities are the Enrollment Form and Participant Baseline Survey (copies of these forms are provided in Appendix A), and the Participant Tracking Logs, Participant Counseling Log, Program Cost forms, and Landlord Outreach Log, (Appendix B).
