FR941012-2-00007 FR941012-2-00002 In accordance with 19 CFR 353.58, we compared Grupo Benilda's U.S. sales to home market sales made at the same level of trade, where possible. For those home market sales above the cost of production, we based FMV on packed, f.o.b. farm prices to unrelated customers. For home market price to purchase price comparisons, pursuant to 19 CFR 353.56(a)(2), we made circumstance-of-sale adjustments, were appropriate, for differences in credit expenses. For home market price to ESP comparisons, we made deductions for the weighted-average home market indirect selling expenses, including, where appropriate, inventory carrying costs, up to the amount of the greater of either indirect selling expenses incurred on U.S. sales or related-party commissions paid on U.S. sales, in accordance with 19 CFR 353.56(b)(1). We also made deductions, for home market credit expenses. For all price-to-price comparisons, we also deducted home market packing costs and added U.S. packing costs, in accordance with section 773(a)(1) of the Act. For CV to purchase price comparisons, we made circumstance of sales adjustments for credit expenses. For CV to ESP comparisons, we made deductions, where appropriate, for credit expenses. We also deducted from CV the weighted-average home market indirect selling expenses, including inventory carrying costs, up to the amount of the greater of either indirect selling expenses incurred on U.S. sales or related-party commissions paid on U.S. sales, in accordance with 19 CFR 353.56(b)(2). Currency Conversion Because certified exchange rates for Colombia were unavailable from the Federal Reserve, we made currency conversions for expenses denominated in Colombian pesos based on the official monthly exchange rates in effect on the dates of the U.S. sales as certified by the International Monetary Fund. Verification As provided in section 776(b) of the Act, we will verify the information used in making our final determination. Suspension of Liquidation In accordance with section 733(d)(2) of the Act, the Department will direct the U.S. Customs Service to continue to require a cash deposit or posting of bond on all entries of subject merchandise from Colombia for Grupo Andes, Grupo Benilda and for the all-others rate at the newly calculated rate, that are entered, or withdrawn from warehouse, for consumption on or after the date of publication of this notice in the Federal Register . The suspension of liquidation will remain in effect until further notice. The weighted-average dumping margins are as follows: ␣ 1Manufacturer/Producer/Exporter 1Margin percent Grupo Andes 7.63 Grupo Benilda 9.89 All Others 22.73
