FR940224-0-00011 FR940224-0-00001 (b) parties of record shall receive a list from the Hearing Clerk of the names and addresses of all parties of record immediately after the close of the comment period. (c) Service; proof of service. (1) Each party of record is responsible for serving on every other party and to the Judge all papers and documents submitted after the comment period. Service shall be made either: (i) by delivering a copy of the document or paper to the individual to be served or to a member of the partnership to be served, or to the president, secretary, or other executive officer or a director of the corporation or association to be served, or to the attorney of record representing such individual, partnership, corporation, organization, or association; or (ii) by leaving a copy of the document or paper at the principal office or place of business or residence of such individual, partnership, corporation, organization, or association, or of the attorney or agent of record and mailing by regular mail another copy to such person at such address; or (iii) by registering or certifying and mailing a copy of the document or paper, addressed to such individual, partnership, corporation, organization, or association, or to the attorney or agent of record, at the last known residence or principal office or place of business of such person: Provided, That if the registered or certified document or paper is returned undelivered because the addressee refused or failed to accept delivery, the document or paper shall be served by remailing it by regular mail; or (iv) by mailing the document or paper by regular mail. (2) Proof of service hereunder shall be made by the certificate of the person who actually made the service: Provided, that if the service is made by mail, as outlined in paragraph (b)(3) of this section, proof of service shall be made by the return post-office receipt, in the case of registered or certified mail, and if that service is made by regular mail, as outlined in paragraphs (b)(3) and (b)(4) of this section, proof of service shall be made by the certificate of the person who mailed the matter by regular mail. The certificate and post-office receipt contemplated herein shall be filed with the Hearing Clerk, and made a part of the record of the proceeding. The Judge and the Hearing Clerk shall follow the procedures outlined in (c) for service of papers or documents signed by the Judge and/or the Hearing Clerk. (d) Effective date of filing. Any document or paper required or authorized under the rules in this part to be filed shall be deemed to be filed at the time when it reaches the Hearing Clerk; or, if authorized to be filed with another officer or employee of the Department it shall be deemed to be filed at the time when it reaches such officer or employee. (e) Computations of time. Saturdays, Sundays and Federal holidays shall be included in computing the time allowed for the filing of any document or paper except as provided in these rules; Provided, that, when such time expires on a Saturday, Sunday, or Federal holiday, such period shall be extended to include the next following business day. ยง1.428 Depositions. (a) Motion for taking deposition. Upon the motion of a party to the proceeding, the Judge may, at any time after the filing of the submission, order the taking of testimony by deposition. The Motion shall be in writing, shall be filed with the Hearing Clerk, and shall set forth: (1) The name and address of the proposed deponent; (2) The name and address of the person (referred to hereafter in this section as the ``officer'') qualified under the regulations in this part to take depositions, before whom the proposed examination is to be made; (3) The proposed time and place of the examination; and (4) The reasons why such deposition should be taken, which shall be solely for the purpose of eliciting testimony which otherwise might not be available at the time of the hearing, for uses as provided in paragraph (g) of this section. (b) Judge's order for taking deposition. (1) If the Judge finds that testimony may not be otherwise available at the hearing, the taking of the deposition may be ordered. The order shall be served upon the parties, and shall state: (i) The time and place of the examination; (ii) The name of the officer before whom the examination is to be made; and (iii) The name of the deponent.
