FR940419-2-00165 FR940419-2-00087 Combined Sewer Overflow (CSO) Control Policy I. Introduction A. Purpose and Principles The main purposes of this Policy are to elaborate on EPA's National Combined Sewer Overflow (CSO) Control Strategy published on September 8, 1989 at 54 FR 37370 (1989 Strategy) and to expedite compliance with the requirements of the Clean Water Act (CWA). While implementation of the 1989 Strategy has resulted in progress toward controlling CSOs, significant water quality risks remain. A combined sewer system (CSS) is a wastewater collection system owned by a State or municipality (as defined by section 502(4) of the CWA) which conveys sanitary wastewaters (domestic, commercial and industrial wastewaters) and storm water through a single-pipe system to a Publicly Owned Treatment Works (POTW) Treatment Plant (as defined in 40 CFR 403.3(p)). A CSO is the discharge from a CSS at a point prior to the POTW Treatment Plant. CSOs are point sources subject to NPDES permit requirements including both technology-based and water quality-based requirements of the CWA. CSOs are not subject to secondary treatment requirements applicable to POTWs. CSOs consist of mixtures of domestic sewage, industrial and commercial wastewaters, and storm water runoff. CSOs often contain high levels of suspended solids, pathogenic microorganisms, toxic pollutants, floatables, nutrients, oxygen-demanding organic compounds, oil and grease, and other pollutants. CSOs can cause exceedances of water quality standards (WQS). Such exceedances may pose risks to human health, threaten aquatic life and its habitat, and impair the use and enjoyment of the Nation's waterways. This Policy is intended to provide guidance to permittees with CSOs, National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permitting authorities, State water quality standards authorities and enforcement authorities. The purpose of the Policy is to coordinate the planning, selection, design and implementation of CSO management practices and controls to meet the requirements of the CWA and to involve the public fully during the decision making process. This Policy reiterates the objectives of the 1989 Strategy: 1. To ensure that if CSOs occur, they are only as a result of wet weather; 2. To bring all wet weather CSO discharge points into compliance with the technology-based and water quality-based requirements of the CWA; and 3. To minimize water quality, aquatic biota, and human health impacts from CSOs. This CSO Control Policy represents a comprehensive national strategy to ensure that municipalities, permitting authorities, water quality standards authorities and the public engage in a comprehensive and coordinated planning effort to achieve cost-effective CSO controls that ultimately meet appropriate health and environmental objectives and requirements. The Policy recognizes the site-specific nature of CSOs and their impacts and provides the necessary flexibility to tailor controls to local situations. Four key principles of the Policy ensure that CSO controls are cost-effective and meet the objectives of the CWA. The key principles are: 1. Providing clear levels of control that would be presumed to meet appropriate health and environmental objectives; 2. Providing sufficient flexibility to municipalities, especially financially disadvantaged communities, to consider the site-specific nature of CSOs and to determine the most cost-effective means of reducing pollutants and meeting CWA objectives and requirements;
