FR940906-2-00112 FR940906-2-00083 b. Materials Shipped by or for DOD or DOE. The LFA is either DOD or DOE depending on which of these agencies has custody of the material at the time of the accident. c. Shipment of Materials Not Licensed or Owned by a Federal Agency or an Agreement State. The EPA is the LFA for an emergency that involves radiological material not licensed or owned by a Federal agency or an Agreement State. 3. Domestic Satellites Containing Radioactive Materials NASA is the LFA for NASA spacecraft missions. DOD is the LFA for DOD spacecraft missions. DOE and EPA provide technical assistance to DOD and NASA. 4. Impact From Foreign or Unknown Source The EPA is the LFA for an emergency that involves radioactive material from a foreign or unknown source that has actual, potential, or perceived radiological consequences in the United States, its Territories, possessions, or territorial waters. The foreign or unknown source may be a reactor (e.g., Chernobyl), a spacecraft containing radioactive material, radioactive fallout from atmospheric testing of nuclear devices, imported radioactively contaminated material, or a shipment of foreign-owned radioactive material. Unknown sources of radioactive material refers to that material whose origin and/or radiological nature is not yet established. These types of sources include contaminated scrap metal or abandoned radioactive material. DOD, DOE, NASA, and NRC provide technical assistance to EPA. In the event of an emergency involving a joint U.S. Government and foreign government spacecraft venture containing radioactive sources and/or classified components, the LFA will be DOD or NASA, as appropriate. A joint U.S./foreign venture is defined as an activity in which the U.S. Government has an ongoing interest in the successful completion of the mission and is intimately involved in mission operations. A joint venture is not created by simply selling or supplying material to a foreign country for use in their spacecraft. DOE and EPA will provide technical support and assistance to the LFA. 5. Other Types of Emergencies In the event of an unforeseen type of emergency not specifically described in this Plan or a situation where conditions exist involving overlapping responsibility that could cause confusion regarding LFA role and responsibilities, DOD, DOE, EPA, NASA, and NRC will confer upon receipt of notification of the emergency to determine which agency is the LFA.
