FR940810-0-00107 FR940810-0-00021 The revised and expanded definitions of the various terms in the Category III definition enhance its clarity. Since Category III includes maintenance, repair, some renovation and other operations which disturb ACM, and PACM, a definition of ``disturb'' is provided. Although ``removal'' activities are designated Category I or II, the incidental cutting away of small amounts of ACM or PACM to access mechanical or structural components for repair or maintenance, is considered Category III. Examples of work which are considered Category III are contained in various studies submitted by participants to prove or disprove how risky asbestos disturbing repair and maintenance work is. OSHA has evaluated the data from a number of sources to estimate the degree of exposure of workers to previously installed asbestos building material during various types of activities. Most studies showed lower levels of exposure than Category I and II work. For example, the Safe Building Alliance submitted a study by its consultant Price (Ex. 151). He compiled sampling data from numerous sources including OSHA compliance data, and obtained questionnaire information from building owners. The questionnaires solicited information on the frequency and duration of specific activities. These activities included, maintenance/repair of boilers, air handling units, heat exchangers, tanks; repair/replacement of pipe insulation including removal of small amounts of ACM; and, valve or gasket replacement, of activities above suspended ceilings such as connections and/or extensions for telecommunication/computer networks; adjustment/repair of HVAC systems; and, testing/cleaning/replacing smoker or heat detectors. The final activities which may result in ACM contact such as repairing/replacing lighting fixtures and replacing ceiling tiles. The data were used to calculate potential exposure hours (PEH) which is the product of the annual frequency of an activity and the duration of that activity in hours. For all activities in all buildings in the data set, Price calculated a PEH of 91 hours per year and a PEH per worker of 19 hours per year per worker. Eight-hour time weighted averages were also reported as presented in Table III. Table III._Asbestos Fiber Levels During Maintenance Activities [Ex. 151] 1Location of activity 18-hour TWA 1Median PEH 1PEH/ worker Above ceilings 0.029 13 5 In utility spaces 0.031 13 2 Other 0.018 6 <1 OSHA data 0.027 _ All activities 74 19 Price concluded that small-scale, short duration activities take up a relatively small proportion of a typical worker's time in that in 80% of the buildings he studied, less than 22% of total time is spent on these activities in a year, and that ``on a per worker basis, in 80 percent of the buildings the number of potential exposure hours total slightly less than 4 percent of a work year'' (Ex. 151, Appendix A, p. 12). OSHA notes that BCTD objected to various aspects of the Price study in its post-hearing brief (Ex. 143) and concluded that the study ``demonstrated that in some buildings exposure hours can be very high *␣*␣*'' (Ex. 143, p. 112). However, OSHA views the study as supporting its view that when properly controlled, most kinds of routine maintenance involving ACM results in low exposure levels. A recent study by Kaselaan and d'Angelo Associates for Real Estate's Environmental Action League in 1991 was reviewed (Ex. 123). The contractors looked at historical data from 5 commercial buildings in which the activities sampled were reported as ``small-scale, short duration.'' The operations were performed ``almost exclusively'' within mini-enclosures and most were performed by ``trained and experienced asbestos abatement workers, who are more used to the larger full-scale asbestos abatement procedures'' and not by building maintenance workers. The data are summarized in Table IV.
