FR940630-2-00041 FR940630-2-00038 ␣ 1AM regulatory fee category 1Regulatory fee 1Payment type code Class A Station License $900 MLAN Class B Station License 500 MNAN Class C Station License 200 MRAN Class D Station License 250 MPAN Broadcast Auxiliary Station License 25 MUBN Construction Permit for New AM Station 100 MTAN Note that an AM station licensee will be assessed $25 for each auxiliary license it holds. Holders of construction permits (CPs) for new AM stations for which a license to cover the CP had not been granted as of October 1, 1993, will be assessed a $100 fee for each permit held, regardless of station class. Filing Procedures for Commercial FM Radio Stations Who Must Pay: Licensees of commercial FM radio stations and holders of construction permits for new stations in the FM service whose license or permit was granted on or before October 1, 1993. FM radio station licensees who also hold auxiliary broadcast service licenses operated in conjunction with the main FM station ( e.g., remote pickup stations, aural broadcast STLs, intercity relay stations and low power auxiliary stations) will also be assessed a regulatory fee for each of these stations. Governments and nonprofit (exempt under section 501 of the Internal Revenue Code) entities are exempt from paying regulatory fees and should not submit payment, but may be asked to submit a current IRS Determination Letter documenting its nonprofit status, or a certification of governmental authority. Fee Requirement: Fees are assessed for commercial FM radio station licensees based upon class of station as shown below. Determination of class is based upon the station's most recent license granted on or before October 1, 1993: ␣ 1AM regulatory fee category 1Regulatory fee 1Payment type code Class C, C1, C2 or B FM License $900 MLFN Class A, B1 or C3 FM License 600 MMFN Broadcast Auxiliary License 25 MUBN Construction Permit for New FM Station 500 MNFN Note that commercial FM station licensees will be assessed $25 for each auxiliary license it holds. Holders of construction permits (CPs) for new FM stations for which a license to cover the CP had not been granted as of October 1, 1993, will be assessed a $500 fee for each permit held, regardless of station class. Filing Procedures for Commercial VHF/UHF TV Stations Who Must Pay: Licensees of commercial VHF and commercial UHF television stations and holders of construction permits for new stations whose license or permit was granted on or before October 1, 1993. Commercial television station licensees who also hold auxiliary broadcast service licenses operated in conjunction with the main TV station ( e.g., remote pickup stations, intercity relay stations) will also be assessed a regulatory fee for each of these stations. Governments and nonprofit (exempt under section 501 of the Internal Revenue Code) entities are exempt from paying regulatory fees and should not submit payment, but may be asked to submit a current IRS Determination Letter documenting its nonprofit status, or a certification of governmental authority. Fee Requirement: Fees are assessed commercial television stations licensees based upon the size of the Arbitron ADI market in which it is listed in the 1994 Edition of the TV & Cable Factbook No. 62 as published by Warren Publishing. Fees will be assessed as follows:
