FR940607-0-00014 FR940607-0-00007 (iv) Reasonable administrative costs. The costs were reasonable administrative costs as defined in ยง301.7430&hyph;4; (v) Prevailing party. The taxpayer is a prevailing party as defined in ยง301.7430&hyph;5; (vi) Not unreasonably protracted. The administrative proceeding was not unreasonably protracted by the taxpayer as discussed in paragraph (d) of this section; and (vii) Procedural requirements. The taxpayer follows the procedures set forth in paragraph (c) of this section. (2) Determination by court. Although the Internal Revenue Service will not grant a request for reasonable administrative costs where the requirements of paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section are not met, a taxpayer may file a claim for reasonable administrative costs with the court with jurisdiction over the judicial proceeding. The court may award the taxpayer reasonable administrative costs under section 7430(a). Under section 7430(c)(4)(B)(ii), where the final determination with respect to the tax, interest, or penalty at issue is made by a court, the court determines whether the taxpayer qualifies as a prevailing party. Thus, where the requirements of paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section are not met, the taxpayer's only possibility of obtaining an award of reasonable administrative costs is to obtain an award of such costs from the court. In the event the court awards reasonable administrative costs, it may also award litigation costs for the reasonable costs of pursuing the claim for reasonable administrative costs, provided the requirements under section 7430 regarding an award of reasonable administrative costs are satisfied with respect to such costs. A claim filed with the court should be made in accordance with the rules of the court. (c) Procedure for recovering reasonable administrative costs _(1) In general. The Internal Revenue Service will not award administrative costs under section 7430 unless the taxpayer files a written request to recover reasonable administrative costs in accordance with the provisions of this section. (2) Where request must be filed. A request required by paragraph (c)(1) of this section must be filed with the Internal Revenue Service personnel who have jurisdiction over the tax matter underlying the claim for the costs. However, if those persons are unknown to the taxpayer making the request, the taxpayer may send the request to the District Director for the district that considered the underlying matter. (3) Contents of request. The request must be in writing and must contain the following statements, affidavits, documentation, and information with regard to the taxpayer's administrative proceeding: (i) Statements. (A) A statement that the underlying substantive issues or the issue of reasonable administrative costs are not, and have never been, before any court of the United States (including the Tax Court or United States Court of Federal Claims) with jurisdiction over those issues; (B) A clear and concise statement of the reasons why the taxpayer alleges that the position of the Internal Revenue Service in the administrative proceeding was not substantially justified; (C) A statement sufficient to demonstrate that the taxpayer has substantially prevailed as to the amount in controversy or with respect to the most significant issue or set of issues presented in the proceeding; (D) A statement that the taxpayer has not unreasonably protracted the portion of the administrative proceeding for which the taxpayer is requesting costs; and (E) A statement supported by a detailed affidavit executed by the taxpayer or the taxpayer's representative that sets forth the nature and amount of each specific item of reasonable administrative costs for which the taxpayer is seeking recovery. (ii) Affidavit or affidavits. (A) An affidavit executed by the taxpayer stating that the taxpayer meets the net worth and size limitations of ยง301.7430&hyph;5(f); (B) An affidavit supporting the statement described in paragraph (c)(3)(i)(E) of this section; and (C) If more than $75 per hour, as adjusted by an increase in the cost of living as set forth in ยง301.7430&hyph;4(b)(3), is claimed for the fees of a representative in connection with the administrative proceeding, then an affidavit that specialized skills and distinctive knowledge as described in that section were necessary in the representation of the taxpayer in the proceeding and that there is a limited availability of representatives possessing such skills and knowledge as described in that section, or an affidavit that another special factor is applicable. (iii) Documentation and information. (A) A copy of the billing records of the representative for the requested fees; and (B) An address at which the taxpayer wishes to receive notice of the determination of the Internal Revenue Service with regard to the request for reasonable administrative costs.
