FR941013-1-00082 FR941013-1-00010 Under the proposed rule, each individual owner or operator would establish on a site-specific basis minimum or maximum operating parameter values, as appropriate for the type of parameter monitored, that the control device must not exceed to remain in compliance with the emission standards. These site-specific operating parameter values could be established through either performance tests, control device design analysis, or manufacturer's recommendations. The established operating parameter values for each control device would be incorporated in the operating permit issued for a facility (or, in the absence of an operating permit, the established levels would be directly enforceable) and would be used to determine a facility's compliance status. Excursions outside the established operating parameter values would be considered violations of the applicable emission standard except when the excursion is caused by a startup, shutdown, or malfunction that meets the criteria specified in the Part 63 general provisions (40 CFR 63 subpart A). The proposed NESHAP does not require monitoring of any of the following boilers or process heaters when used as a control device to comply with the requirements of the rule: (1) Boilers and process heaters with a heat capacity equal to or greater than 44 megawatts (approximately 150 million Btu/hr); (2) boilers or process heaters with a heat capacity less than 44 MW that introduces the vent stream as a primary fuel or mixes it with the primary fuel; or (3) boilers or process heaters with a heat capacity less than 44 MW that introduces the vent stream through the same burner. The EPA concluded that the specific range of temperatures and residence times for these types of combustion units which facility operators must continuously maintain to meet their facility process heat or steam demands will ensure compliance with the control device standards without the need for monitoring. Continuous monitoring is not feasible for those emission points required to comply with certain equipment standards and work practice standards ( e.g. , tanks equipped with only covers, pumps and valves subject to LDAR programs). In such cases, failure to install and maintain the required equipment or properly implement the LDAR program would constitute a violation of the applicable equipment or work practice standard. The EPA request comments on the proposed approach for determination of control device compliance based on continuous operating parameter monitoring. 2. Treatment Processes Under the proposed off-site waste and recovery operations NESHAP, wastes or recoverable materials having VOHAP concentrations of 100 ppmw or more must be treated to remove or destroy organic HAP in accordance with standards specified in the rule before the material can be placed in certain management units. Like the control devices used for organic HAP emission control, the treatment processes used to comply with these standards (i.e., minimum percent HAP reduction, VOHAP concentration limits, required HAP mass removal levels) need to be properly operated and maintained if the standards are to be achieved on a long-term basis. Therefore, the EPA is proposing to require monitoring of operating parameters for the treatment processes used to comply with the rule requirements. Analogous to the monitoring approach that the EPA is proposing for control devices, the EPA would prefer that each owner or operator establish on a site-specific basis minimum or maximum operating parameter values, as appropriate, for the treatment process that the owner or operator must not exceed to remain in compliance with the standards. To implement this approach for treatment processes, monitoring methods are needed that will be sufficiently representative, accurate, precise, reliable, frequent, and timely to determine whether a deviation occurs and therefore to certify whether compliance is continuous or intermittent. The EPA has identified for some types of treatment process, such as steam stripping, operating parameters that can be continuously monitored and recorded which directly relate to the treatment process performance. The EPA requests comments on establishing monitoring requirements for treatment processes that can be used to determine compliance with the proposed standards based on continuous operating parameter monitoring. The EPA further requests comment on establishing an option within the regulation for specific default values for treatment process operating parameters, in the event that owners or operators would rather not establish their own minimum or maximum operating parameter values.
