FR941110-0-00228 FR941110-0-00016 Response: Surveyors do not make the ultimate compliance decision, which is why only a draft of the statement of deficiencies is available to the facility at the time of the exit conference, if at all. The statement of deficiencies is reviewed by the State survey agency which makes the final compliance decision. Scope and Severity Scales In the preamble to the proposed rule, we requested general public comment about how the severity scale levels were described as well as assigned. We specifically asked for comments on the proposed construction of the severity scale whereby deficiencies at a severity of 3 or 4 can result in the same sanctions. All comments received in response to this section have been included and addressed under §488.404 of this preamble. Nurse Aide Training and Competency Evaluation Programs Comment: As mentioned elsewhere in this document, a number of commenters expressed concern that HCFA or the survey agency may decide to conduct an extended survey at any time for any reason. One of the reasons for this concern is that, under regulations at §483.151(b)(2)(iii), which expressly reflect the statutory requirement, when a facility undergoes an extended (or a partial extended) survey, it automatically loses approval of its Nurse Aide Training and Competency Evaluation Program (NATCEP) for 2 years. Response: Our response to that particular comment was stated earlier in this preamble under our discussion of extended surveys. However, there is a closely related policy we would like to address here that goes beyond NATCEP rescission as a result of an extended survey. There are other circumstances described at §483.151(b)(2) that also trigger a 2-year prohibition on NATCEP. It has been our policy that the remainder (if any) of a 2-year prohibition on NATCEPs also applies to a new owner when the provider undergoes a change of ownership as defined in §489.18(a), Change of ownership or leasing: Effect on provider agreement. The implicit basis for this policy has been paragraph (d) of §489.18, which states that an ``assigned agreement is subject to all applicable statutes and regulations and to the terms and conditions under which it was originally issued␣*␣*␣*.'' This policy was explicitly set forth in the Federal Register (56 FR 48894) on September 26, 1991, as well as in State Operations Letter 91&hyph;75. The latter reads in part that, ``a facility subject to the prohibition on [NATCEP] training remains subject for two years after the event triggering the prohibition regardless of the change of ownership.'' While we have been consistent in this policy, we have been reexamining it within the larger context of drafting these regulations. We have been reexamining all of our policies and regulations concerning remedies to ensure that they are consonant with the fundamental purpose of remedies, which is to motivate providers to come quickly into compliance with program requirements. In the proposed rule, we spoke to the purpose of sanctions, saying in part that our intent is to ``deter violations as well as encourage immediate (emphasis added) response and sustained compliance.'' If the new owner of a provider must wait for the expiration of the remainder of a 2-year prohibition of NATCEP that was imposed on a previous owner, regardless of any action he or she may take to correct the deficiencies that triggered the prohibition, the 2-year prohibition on NATCEP would be unlike other remedies. As soon as a new owner corrects the noncompliance that led to the imposition of any other remedy, the remedy can be lifted. The exception to this is that when a facility has had a denial of payment imposed against it for repeated substandard quality of care or has been placed under temporary management, in addition to achieving substantial compliance, it must demonstrate to HCFA's or the State's satisfaction that it will remain in substantial compliance.
