FR940304-0-00027 FR940304-0-00010 DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES Food and Drug Administration 21 CFR Part 886 [Docket No. 91N&hyph;0291] Medical Devices; Reclassification and Codification of the Daily Wear Soft and Daily Wear Nonhydrophilic Plastic Contact Lenses AGENCY: Food and Drug Administration, HHS. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) is codifying the reclassification of daily wear soft and daily wear nonhydrophilic plastic contact lenses from class III (premarket approval) into class II (special controls). Elsewhere in this issue of the Federal Register FDA has issued an order of reclassification as required by the Safe Medical Devices Act of 1990 (the SMDA). This reclassification only applies to daily wear soft and daily wear nonhydrophilic contact lenses. Lenses intended for extended wear will remain in class III, as will contact lens accessories. The SMDA also requires FDA to put into place any regulatory safeguards that are necessary to provide reasonable assurance of the safety and effectiveness of the reclassified lenses. Thus, elsewhere in this issue of the Federal Register , in conjunction with the order reclassifying the devices, FDA is announcing the availability of a guidance document describing those safeguards in the form of evidence needed to demonstrate the substantial equivalence of new daily wear soft and daily wear nonhydrophilic contact lenses to lenses already marketed. DATES: This codification becomes effective April 4, 1994. The reclassification action published elsewhere in this issue of the Federal Register is effective March 4, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: David M. Whipple, Center for Devices and Radiological Health (HFZ&hyph;460), Food and Drug Administration, 1390 Piccard Dr., Rockville, MD 20850, 301&hyph;594&hyph;2205. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Under the Medical Device Amendments of 1976 (Pub. L. 94&hyph;295), Congress classified all transitional devices (i.e., those devices previously regulated as drugs), including daily wear soft and daily wear nonhydrophilic plastic contact lenses, into class III (premarket approval). The SMDA (Pub. L. 101&hyph;629), reflecting congressional concern that many transitional devices were being over regulated in class III, directed FDA to collect certain safety and effectiveness information from the manufacturers of transitional devices and review the classifications of those still remaining in class III to determine if the devices could be down classified into class II (special controls) or class I (general controls). The SMDA made further provision with respect to the reclassification of daily wear soft and daily wear nonhydrophilic plastic contact lenses. Section 4(b)(3)(A) of the SMDA provided that, notwithstanding the provisions for reclassification of other transitional devices, daily wear soft and daily wear nonhydrophilic plastic contact lenses would not be retained in class III unless FDA determined that the devices meet the statutory criteria for a class III device. Further, if FDA did not determine that these contact lenses must remain in class III and publish such determination by November 28, 1993, in the Federal Register , then, under section 4(b)(3)(D) of the SMDA, FDA ``shall issue an order placing the lenses in class II.'' Both the language and legislative history of the SMDA make it clear that the reclassification of daily wear soft and daily wear nonhydrophilic contact lenses would occur as a matter of law unless FDA published a finding that the devices should remain in class III. FDA has not made such a finding: FDA believes that the safety and effectiveness of daily wear soft and daily wear nonhydrophilic plastic contact lenses can be ensured through specified special controls as authorized by the SMDA. As required by section 4(b)(3)(D) of the SMDA, therefore, FDA has issued an order reclassifying the devices from class III (premarket approval) into class II (special controls). This order appears elsewhere in this issue of the Federal Register . In conjunction with the order, FDA is also issuing a guidance document for premarket notifications for the reclassified contact lenses, entitled ``Premarket Notification (510(k)) Guidance Document for Daily Wear Contact Lenses.''
