FR940610-2-00171 FR940610-2-00086 Assurance 9 of the Airport Sponsor Assurances has been rewritten to incorporate the provision of Public Law 102&hyph;581, which requires the sponsor to certify that the airport management board either has voting representation from the communities where the project is located or has advised the communities that they have the right to petition the Secretary concerning a proposed project. Assurance 23 of the Airport Sponsor Assurances has been rewritten to bring this assurance into conformance with section 511(a)(2) of the Airport and Airway Improvement Act of 1982, as amended. Assurance 26 of the Airport Sponsor Assurances has been rewritten to incorporate the provision of Public Law 102&hyph;581, which requires that the airport sponsor assure that a report of the airport budget is available to the public at reasonable times and places. Assurance 31 of the Airport Sponsor Assurances, and Assurance 20 of the Nonairport Sponsor Assurances, titled Disposal of Land, have been rewritten to incorporate the provisions of Public Law 101&hyph;236, which relaxed the requirement that an airport sponsor must dispose of land which was originally acquired with Federal grant funds for airport development purposes but is no longer needed for such purposes. Assurance 36 of the Airport Sponsor Assurances, Assurance 13 of the Planning Agency Sponsor Assurances, and Assurance 22 of the Nonairport Sponsor Assurances have been deleted. The grant applicant's requirements for compliance are set forth in the Drug-Free Workplace Act of 1988_41 U.S.C. 702 through 706 and 49 CFR Part 29_Governmentwide debarment and suspension (non-procurement) and governmentwide requirements for drug-free workplace (grants), which are included in Assurance 1. Therefore a separate assurance detailing these requirements is unnecessary. Issued in Washington, DC on May 13, 1994. Paul L. Galis, Director, Office of Airport Planning and Programming. Airport Improvement Program Grant Assurances 1. The Airport Sponsor Assurances are amended as follows: a. Assurance C.1. is revised as follows: C.1. General Federal Requirements * * * * * Executive Orders Executive Order 12699_Seismic Safety of Federal and Federally Assisted New Building Construction Federal Regulations f. 49 CFR Part 29_Governmentwide debarment and suspension (non-procurement) and governmentwide requirements for drug-free workplace (grants). i. 29 CFR Part 3_Contractors and subcontractors on public building or public work financed in whole or part by loans or grants from the United States. m. 49 CFR Part 41_Seismic safety of Federal and federally assisted or regulated new building construction. n. 49 CFR Part 20_New restrictions on lobbying. b. Assurance 9 is revised to read: 9. Public Hearings. In projects involving the location of an airport, an airport runway, or a major runway extension, it has afforded the opportunity for public hearings for the purpose of considering the economic, social, and environmental effects of the airport or runway location and its consistency with goals and objectives of such planning as has been carried out by the community and it shall, when requested by the Secretary, submit a copy of the transcript of such hearings to the Secretary. Further, for such projects, it has on its management board either voting representation from the communities where the project is located or has advised the communities that they have the right to petition the Secretary concerning a proposed project. c. Assurance 23 is revised to read: 23. Exclusive Rights. It will permit no exclusive right for the use of the airport by any person providing, or intending to provide, aeronautical services to the public.
