FR940916-1-00142 FR940916-1-00016 (6) Brake force application sensors shall be accurate to within # 25 pounds. (7) Wheel heating sensors shall be accurate to within # 25 degrees F. (f) Tread friction brakes shall be designed so that they will not apply at train speeds above 80 mph except for emergency brake application. §232.115 One-way end-of-train device standards. (a) Components. A one-way end-of-train device shall be comprised of a rear-of-train unit (rear unit) located on the last car of a train and a front-of-train unit (front unit) located in the cab of the locomotive controlling the train. (b) Rear unit. The rear unit shall be capable of determining the brake pipe pressure on the rear car and transmitting that information to the front unit for display to the locomotive engineer. The rear unit shall be: (1) Capable of measuring the rear car brake pipe pressure with an accuracy of # 3 psig and brake pipe variations of # 1 psig; (2) Equipped with a ``bleeder valve'' that permits release of any air under pressure from the rear unit or the associated air hoses prior to detaching the rear unit from the brake pipe; (3) Designed so that an internal failure will not cause an undesired emergency brake application; (4) Equipped with either an air gauge or a means of visually displaying the rear unit's brake pipe pressure measurement; and (5) Equipped with a pressure relief safety valve to prevent explosion from a high pressure air leak inside the rear unit. (c) Reporting rate. Multiple data transmissions from the rear unit shall occur immediately after a variation in the rear car brake pipe pressure of # 2 psig and at intervals of not greater than 70 seconds when the rear car brake pipe pressure variation over the 70-second interval is less than # 2 psig. (d) Operating environment. The rear unit shall be designed to meet its performance requirements under the following environmental conditions: (1) At temperatures from ^40 ○F to +140 ○F (^40 ○C to 60 ○C); (2) At a relative humidity of 95 percent noncondensing at 122 ○F (50 ○C); (3) At altitudes of zero to 12,000 feet above mean sea level; (4) During vertical and lateral vibrations of 1 to 15 hertz (Hz.), with 0.5 g. peak to peak, and 15 to 500 Hz., with 5 g. peak to peak; (5) During the longitudinal vibrations of 1 to 15 Hz., with 3 g. peak to peak, and 15 to 500 Hz., with 5 g. peak to peak; and (6) During a shock of 10 g. peak for 0.1 second in any axis. (e) Unique code. (1) Each rear unit shall have a unique and permanent identification code that is transmitted along with the pressure message to the front-of-train unit. (2) A code obtained from the Association of American Railroads, 50 F Street, NW., Washington, DC 20036 shall be deemed to be a unique code for purposes of this section. A unique code also may be obtained from the Office of Safety Enforcement [RRS&hyph;10], Federal Railroad Administration, Washington, DC 20590. (f) Front unit. (1) The front unit shall be designed to receive data messages from the rear unit and shall be capable of displaying the rear car brake pipe pressure in not more than one-pound increments. (2) The display shall be clearly visible and legible in daylight and darkness from the engineer's normal operating position. (3) The front unit shall have a means for entry of the unique identification code of the rear unit being used. The front unit shall be designed so that it will display a message only from the rear unit with the same code as entered into the front unit. (4) The front unit shall be designed to withstand and operate during the following environmental conditions: (i) At temperatures from 32 ○F to +140 ○F (0 ○C to 60 ○C); (ii) During a vertical or lateral shock of 2 g. peak for 0.1 second; and (iii) During a longitudinal shock of 5 g. peak for 0.1 second. (g) Radio equipment. (1) The radio transmitter in the rear unit and the radio receiver in the front unit shall comply with the applicable regulatory requirements of the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) and use a transmission format acceptable to the FCC. (2) If power is supplied by one or more batteries, the operating life shall be a minimum of 36 hours at ^4 ○F (^20 ○C). (h) Inspection and testing. (1) After each installation of either the front or rear unit of an end-of-train device, or both, the railroad shall determine that the identification code entered into the front unit is identical to the unique identification code on the rear-of-train unit. (2) After each installation, the functional capability of the end-of-train device shall be determined at the point of installation, after charging the train, by comparing the quantitative value displayed on the front unit with the quantitative value displayed on the rear unit or on an air gauge. The end-of-train device shall not be used if the difference between the two readings exceeds three psi. (3) The telemetry equipment shall be calibrated for accuracy according to the manufacturer's specifications at least every 365 days. A weather resistant sticker or other durable means to mark the device with the date of the last calibration, the location where the calibration was made, and the name of the person doing the calibration shall be affixed to the outside of both the front unit and the rear unit. §232.117 Two-way end-of-train device standards. In addition to the features of the one-way end-of-train device described in §232.115, except those included in §232.115(b)(3), a two-way end-of-train device shall include the following features: (a) An emergency brake application command from the front unit shall activate the emergency air valve at the rear of the train within one second. (b) The rear unit shall send an acknowledgment message to the front unit immediately upon receipt of a brake application command. The front unit shall listen for this acknowledgment and repeat the brake application command if the acknowledgment is not correctly received.
