FR941107-2-00230 FR941107-2-00112 Table 2._ Clinical Syndromes or Conditions Warranting Additional Empiric Precautions To Prevent Transmission of Epidemiologically Important Pathogens Pending Confirmation of Diagnosis* 1Clinical syndrome or condition 1Potential Pathogens 1Empiric Precautions DIARRHEA: (1) Acute diarrhea with a likely infectious cause in an incontinent or diapered patient Enteric pathogens ¶ Contact. (2) Diarrhea in an adult with a history of broad spectrum or long-term antibiotics Clostridium difficile Contact. MENINGITIS Neisseria meningitidis Droplet. RASH OR EXANTHEMS, GENERALIZED, ETIOLOGY UNKNOWN: (1) Petechial/ecchymotic with fever Neisseria meningitidis Droplet. (2) Vesicular Varicella Airborne and Contact. (3) Maculopapular with coryza and fever Rubeola (measles) Airborne. RESPIRATORY INFECTIONS: (1) Cough/fever/upper lobe pulmonary infiltrate in an HIV-negative patient and a patient at low risk for HIV infection Mycobacterium tuberculosis Airborne. (2) Cough/fever/pulmonary infiltrate in any lung location in a HIV-infected patient and at high risk for HIV infection§23 Mycobacterium tuberculosis Airborne. (3) Paroxysmal or severe persistent cough during periods of pertussis activity Bordetella pertussis Droplet. (4) Respiratory infections, particularly broncholitis and croup, in infants and young children Respiratory syncytial or parainfluenza virus Contact. RISK OF MULTIDRUG-RESISTANT MICROORGANISMS: (1) History of infection or colonization with multidrug-resistant organisms** Resistant bacteria Contact. (2) Skin, wound, or urinary tract infection in a patient with a recent hospital or nursing home stay in a facility where multidrug-resistant organisms are prevalent Resistant bacteria Contact. SKIN OR WOUND INFECTION: Abscess or draining wound that cannot be covered Staphylococcus aureus, Group A streptococcus Contact. *Infection control professionals are encouraged to modify or adapt this table according to local conditions. To ensure that appropriate empiric precautions are always implemented, hospitals must have systems in place to routinely evaluate patients according to these criteria as part of their preadmission and admission care. Patients with the syndromes or conditions listed below may present with atypical signs or symptoms (e.g., pertussis in neonates and adults may not have paroxysmal or severe cough). The clinician's index of suspicion should be guided by the prevalence of specific conditions in the community as well as clinical judgement. §The organisms listed under the column ``Potential Pathogens'' are not intended to represent the complete or even most likely diagnoses, but rather possible etiologic agents that require additional precautions beyond Standard Precautions until they can be ruled out. ¶These pathogens include enterohemorrhagic Escherichia coli O157:H7, Shigella, hepatitis A, and rotavirus. **Resistant bacteria judged by the infection control program, based on current state, regional or national recommendations, to be of special clinical or epidemiological significance.
