FR940511-2-00142 FR940511-2-00092 A. Design and Approach of Project (40 points) Applicant's planned approach for accomplishing the objectives set forth in the Statement of Work. This includes a basic understanding of the initiatives as reflected in the planning, development and implementation of the program(s): The soundness of the plan to accomplish the goals and the objectives and the establishment of measurable outcomes. B. Content, Scope and Quality of Proposed Project (40 points) Consideration will be given to such factors as: organizational structure, program components and activities, staffing and resources and the ability of offer to accomplish the goals and objectives of the Initiatives. C. Demonstrated Capacity to Establish Linkages and Leverage Resources (20 points) The ability of the offerer to complete the objectives set forth in the Statement of Work, to provide necessary linkages with complementary programs, the business community, schools, State and local training agencies and other organizations providing employment and training services. Also evaluated will be the soundness of plans for linking community resources and their active participation in program objectives. D. Costs Costs shall be rated separately. Costs will be analyzed to determine reasonableness. Available resources should be adequate for the services proposed in the application. Please indicate costs separately for each major activity area (School-to-Work, skill standards or Reemployment program). The cost in each areas must be reasonable in view of the anticipated results. Applicants should document their expected costs and justify why they consider these costs reasonable. Applicants must indicate for each major area the principle personnel to be assigned. If the work or most of the work would be performed by a subgrantee, include information on the proposed subgrantee organization and its principle personnel to be assigned to the planned work. Applicants are advised that awards may be made to more than one organization for a given cluster, i.e. Skill Standards, and that awards may be made in all or selected clusters. Awards may not be made in a cluster area in which proposals are rated technically unacceptable. Signed at Washington, DC this 5th day of May. Janice E. Perry, Grant Officer, Division of Acquisition and Assistance. Appendices A. SF&hyph;424, Application for Federal Assistance B. SF&hyph;424A, Budget BILLING CODE 4510&hyph;30&hyph;M E:GRAPHICSEN11MY94.012 E:GRAPHICSEN11MY94.013 E:GRAPHICSEN11MY94.014 [FR Doc. 94&hyph;11456 Filed 5&hyph;10&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4510&hyph;30&hyph;C
