FR940805-1-00081 FR940805-1-00013 (13) Exercise and recreation. The facility shall provide secure outdoor, covered or enclosed exercise areas. Exercise areas shall be adequate in size and type to ensure that each juvenile shall be offered at least one hour of access daily regardless of climatic conditions. (14) Program spaces. The facility shall provide a minimum of one accessible multi-purpose room. (15) Visiting spaces. The facility shall provide a visiting room, which allows staff to observe visiting. (16) Classroom. Classrooms shall be designed in conformity with BIA or state education requirements. (17) Dining. If dining occurs outside the dayroom, the facility shall provide a minimum of fifteen square feet per occupant. (18) Food service spaces. When the facility provides for food preparation, it shall have adequate space for food processing, storage, refrigeration and sanitation. Toilet and wash basin facilities shall be available to food service personnel and juveniles in the vicinity of the food preparation area. The square footage of the kitchen shall be appropriate to the needs of the facility. (19) Janitor closet. The facility shall provide a secure, well-ventilated janitor closet, which includes sink and adequate space for the storage of cleaning implements and supplies. (20) Storage of toxic, flammable and caustic items. The facility shall provide secure storage, outside the secure area, for flammable, toxic and caustic items. (21) Clothing and supply storage. The facility shall provide storage space for juvenile clothing, bedding, mattresses, personal hygiene items and facility supplies. (22) Laundry. The facility shall provide access to laundry services or laundry space and equipment. (23) Admission. The facility shall provide an admission and release area which shall be located inside the security perimeter, but outside juvenile living quarters. The booking area shall include: (i) an admitting work area; (ii) sallyport; (iii) access to operable toilets, wash basins, drinking water and showers; (iv) space for alcohol and drug testing equipment; (v) a secure, well-ventilated storage room for juveniles' personal property; (vi) telephone(s), which can be used by juveniles; (vii) private interview spaces; (viii) temporary holding rooms or waiting spaces with sufficient fixed seating for all juveniles at their rated capacities; and (ix) access to continuously observable protective holding cells for the safe holding of intoxicated individuals. (24) Medical examination room. The facility shall provide a space in which private medical examinations of juveniles can occur. The space shall provide for private examination of patients, hand washing, storage of equipment used in the examination room and a work surface for health care personnel. (25) Staff toilets. The facility shall provide staff toilets that juveniles shall not use. (26) Public spaces. The facility shall provide public restroom(s) and a public lobby with an adequate number of seats to accommodate anticipated visitors outside the secure perimeter. (27) Administration. The facility shall provide adequate space for its administrative functions. (28) Staff. The facility shall provide adequate space for staff assigned to work in the facility. (29) Mechanical. The facility shall provide separate and adequate space for mechanical systems and equipment. ยง10.23 Institutional operations. (a) Security and control_(1) Perimeter access. All security perimeter entrances and control center doors shall be kept locked, except when used for supervised entry or exit of employees, juveniles or visitors and in emergencies. (2) Location of juvenile detention worker posts. Juvenile detention worker posts shall be located in or immediately adjacent to juvenile living areas to permit workers to hear and respond promptly to emergency situations. (3) Supervision of service personnel. Service personnel other than facility staff shall perform work only under direct and continuous supervision of facility staff in those areas permitting contact with juveniles. (4) Full coverage of posts. Staff shall be provided for full, around-the-clock coverage of designated security posts, full supervision of juveniles and performance of other detention functions. (5) Supervision of high security areas. A staff member shall enter a high security area only when another staff member is immediately available to provide assistance. (6) Supervision of coed activities. Facility staff shall supervise male and female juveniles in coed activities and spaces continuously and directly. (7) Male and female staff requirement. When both males and females are housed in the facility, at least one male and female staff member shall be on duty at all times. (8) Prohibited supervision. No juvenile or group of juveniles shall be given control or authority over other juveniles. (9) Room checks. A juvenile detention worker personally shall observe high and medium security juveniles at least every thirty minutes, but on an irregular schedule. The administrator shall require observation every fifteen minutes for juveniles who are mentally disordered or who demonstrate unusual or bizarre behavior and continuous observation of suicidal juveniles. (10) Counts. The facility shall have a system to physically count juveniles that includes strict accountability for juveniles assigned to work and education release and other approved temporary releases. (11) Movement. Detention staff shall regulate all juvenile movement. (12) Transportation of juveniles. The administrator shall govern the safe and secure transportation of juveniles outside the facility. (13) Use of vehicles. The administrator shall govern the use of departmental and personal vehicles for official purposes and shall prohibit the use of personal vehicles for transportation of juveniles.
