FR941110-2-00049 FR941110-2-00016 The Department has previously found this program to confer an export subsidy to the extent that the loans are provided at preferential terms ( See Ceramic Tile From Mexico; Preliminary Results of Countervailing Duty Review (57 FR 5997; February 19, 1992) and Ceramic Tile From Mexico; Final Results of Countervailing Duty Review (57 FR 24247; June 8, 1992)). In this review the Government of Mexico provided no new information or evidence of changed circumstances that would lead the Department to alter that determination. We found that the annual interest rates that BANCOMEXT charged to borrowers for certain loans on which interest payments were due during the review period were lower than commercial rates. The BANCOMEXT dollar-denominated loans under review were granted at annual interest rates ranging from 7.1 percent to 9.8 percent. As discussed in Certain Steel Products from Mexico; Final Countervailing Duty Determination (58 FR 37357; July 9, 1993), because loans are funded by BANCOMEXT through commercial banks in dollars and indexed to dollars for repayment, we used a dollar benchmark. As the benchmark for BANCOMEXT pre-export and export dollar-denominated loans granted in 1992, we used the average of the quarterly weighted-average effective interest rates published in the Federal Reserve Bulletin, which resulted in an annual benchmark of 7.18 percent in 1992. We consider the benefits from short-term loans to occur at the time the interest is paid. Because interest on BANCOMEXT pre-export loans is paid at maturity, we calculated benefits based on loans that matured during the review period; these were obtained between March 1992 and May 1992. Interest on BANCOMEXT export loans is paid in advance; we therefore calculated benefits based on BANCOMEXT loans received during the review period. Two exporters of ceramic tile products used BANCOMEXT pre-export and export financing. Because we found that the exporters were able to tie their BANCOMEXT loans to specific sales, we measured the benefit only from the BANCOMEXT loans tied to sales of the subject merchandise to the United States. To determine the benefit for each exporter, we multiplied the difference between the interest rate charged to exporters for these loans and the benchmark interest rate by the outstanding principal and then multiplied this amount by the term of the loan divided by 365. Because one company's monthly sales figures are indexed to account for inflation, we adjusted that company's benefit amounts to be on the same terms as the sales figures. On this basis, we preliminarily determine the benefit from this program to be 0.01 percent ad valorem for Internacional de Ceramica and zero for all other companies listed in the preliminary results of review section of this notice. (2) PITEX The Program for Temporary Importation of Products used in the Production of Exports (PITEX) was established by a decree published in the Diario Oficial on May 9, 1985, and amended in the Diario Oficial on September 19, 1986, and May 3, 1990. The program is jointly administered by the Ministry of Commerce and Industrial Development (SECOFI) and the Customs Administration. Under PITEX, exporters with a proven export record may receive authorization to temporarily import products to be used in the production of exports for up to five years without having to pay the import duties normally imposed on those imports. PITEX allows for the exemption of import duties for the following categories of merchandise used in export production: raw materials, packing materials, fuels and lubricants, machinery used to manufacture products for export, and spare parts and other machinery. The importer must post a bond or other security to guarantee the reexportation of the temporary imports. Because it is only available to exporters, the Department previously found in Certain Textile Mill Products From Mexico; Final Results of Countervailing Duty Administrative Review (56 FR 50859; October 9, 1991) and Ceramic Tile From Mexico; Final Results of Countervailing Duty Administrative Review (57 FR 24247; June 8, 1992) that PITEX provides countervailable benefits to the extent that it provides duty exemptions on imports of merchandise not physically incorporated into exported products. The Government of Mexico provided no new information or evidence of changed circumstances that would lead the Department to alter that determination. During the review period, Ceramica used the PITEX program for imports of machinery and spare parts which are not physically incorporated into exported products. To calculate the benefit from this program, we calculated the duties that should have been paid on the non-physically incorporated items that were imported under the PITEX program during the review period. We then divided that amount by the company's total exports. On this basis, we preliminarily determine the benefit from this program to be zero for the 32 companies listed in the preliminary results of review section of this notice and 2.55 percent ad valorem for all other companies. (3) Other Programs We also examined the following programs and preliminarily determine that exporters of the subject merchandise did not use them during the review period: (A) Other BANCOMEXT preferential financing; (B) Other Dollar-Denominated Financing Programs; (C) Fiscal Promotion Certificates (CEPROFI); (D) Import duty reductions and exemptions; (E) State tax incentives; (F) Article 15 Loans; (G) NAFINSA FONEI-type financing; and (H) NAFINSA FOGAIN-type financing.
