FR940712-1-00056 FR940712-1-00012 Private Microwave This category includes right-of-way holders that operate FCC-licensed facilities primarily used by pipeline and power companies, railroads, and land resource management companies. Communication services associated with this category may include private mobile service, private two-way dispatch service, private paging, supervisory remote control/sensing, and microwave voice/video/data services. This use is solely in support of the holder's primary business activity. The use is not regulated by the State public utilities commission because the service is not for sale and is used solely for internal purposes. Facility Manager This category includes right-of-way holders that operate a facility primarily owned, operated, and maintained by a holder who may or may not have an FCC license, but does not operate telecommunications equipment. The primary purpose of the facility is to rent or sublease space to a variety of tenants for telecommunication purposes. The building owner generally provides space in the building and/or tower, and utilities, access, security, and backup generator services. Communication services provided by the tenants of a facility manager may include TV or FM radio broadcast, cable television, microwave, cellular telephone, amateur radio operators, and mobile radio. Mobile radio uses include two-way voice and paging services such as community repeaters, trunked radio, and two-way radio dispatch, and Public Switched Network (telephone/data) interconnect service. Tenants hold lease agreements with the facility manager. Microwave facilities used in conjunction with broadcast uses and mobile radio are included in this category. Other Communication Uses This category includes other FCC-licensed private communication uses such as amateur radio, personal/private receive-only antennas, passive reflectors, and natural resource and environmental monitoring equipment. Amateur radio includes equipment used by individuals or groups licensed as amateur radio operators. Personal/private receive-only includes radio and TV receiving antennas, satellite dishes, and other equipment and/or facilities designed for the reception of electronic signals, to serve private homes, including recreation residences. These facilities are personally owned and are not operated for profit. Passive reflectors include devices used to bend or ricochet electronic signals between active relay stations or a relay station and a terminal. Natural resource and environmental monitoring includes the transmission of telemetry data from a remote site to a central receiving station. Uses may include weather stations, streamflow gauges, seismic stations, wildlife monitoring, and snow measurement devices. General Application of Proposed Schedule The proposed rental schedule applies to right-of-way holders who are authorized to operate and maintain communication facilities on public lands. The proposed base rent charged is for the primary use of the building. The primary use is defined as the predominant use of the facility by the holder and authorized under terms of the right-of-way authorization. The use may be classified as television broadcast, FM radio broadcast, rebroadcast devices, cable television, cellular telephone, commercial mobile radio, private mobile radio, private microwave, common carrier microwave, facility manager, or be included under the miscellaneous category. Tenants occupying space in the facility under terms of the authorization will not be required to have a separate BLM authorization. The proposed rental schedules will be applicable to new and existing communication use authorizations requiring annual payment of fair market rental as of the date of publication of the final rule. However, the authorized officer may use other methods including individual appraisals or competitive bidding for new sites, or existing sites where it is shown that the rental schedule does not represent fair market value. Rental payments covering portions of calendar years will be prorated. There are three major categories of use: broadcast, nonbroadcast, and other. Broadcast includes television, FM radio, rebroadcast devices, and cable television. The proposed rent for broadcast categories will be based on the following procedures: 1. The right-of-way holder will provide a 1-millivolt contour map or statement to BLM identifying the principal community (city, cities, metro area, or county) served by the transmitter. Communities served do not include areas served by translators. 2. Rent for television, FM radio, and rebroadcast devices (translators and low power television) will be based on the population of the principal community or communities the transmitter primarily serves. The population of the principal community will be based on the most recent United States census information.
