FR941130-1-00050 FR941130-1-00011 (h) Any change to an approved product from the documentation on file at MSHA that affects the technical requirements of the applicable product approval part shall be submitted to MSHA by the approval holder for an extension of approval prior to implementing the change. The NRTL test and evaluation results addressing the change shall be submitted for consideration with the application for extension of approval. (i)(1) The recognition of an NRTL to perform testing and evaluation to MSHA requirements for product approval may be revoked at any time for cause if an NRTL_ (i) Has failed to continue to substantially satisfy the requirements of the OSHA NRTL recognition program set forth in 29 CFR 1910.7 or Appendix A to 1910.7_''OSHA Recognition Process for Nationally Recognized Testing Laboratories''; (ii) Has not been reasonably performing the NRTL testing requirements encompassed within its letter of recognition to perform testing and evaluation to MSHA requirements for product approval; (iii) Has materially misrepresented itself in its applications or misrepresented the scope or conditions of its recognition to perform testing and evaluation to MSHA requirements for product approval; or (iv) Has failed to comply with any of the requirements for testing and evaluation by independent laboratories set forth in ยง6.10 of this part. (2) In revoking recognition of an NRTL to perform testing and evaluation to MSHA requirements for product approval, the provisions established in ``Appendix A, II. Supplementary Procedures, E. Revocation of Recognition to 29 CFR 1910.7, shall be followed. ยง6.20 Use of equivalent testing and evaluation requirements. (a) After [effective date of the final rule], upon determination by MSHA and notification to the industry that testing and evaluation requirements other than those of parts 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 26, 27, 29, 33, or 35 of this chapter are available or can be enhanced to fulfill the objectives of these parts, the equivalent requirements, as set forth by MSHA, may be used when requested by applicants seeking product approval. (b) Testing and evaluation requirements for product approval are equivalent when MSHA determines that, in their original or enhanced form, they provide the same or a greater degree of protection as those set forth for the product in parts 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 26, 27, 29, 33, or 35 of this chapter. (c) After a determination of equivalency is made by MSHA, interested parties shall be notified through publication of a notice in the Federal Register . The notice shall either indicate that the alternative testing and evaluation requirements are equivalent in their original form, or shall specify the enhancements necessary to make the alternative testing and evaluation requirements equivalent to those required by the applicable MSHA product approval requirements. 2. The authority citation for parts 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 26, 27, 29, 33, 35 continues to read as follows: Authority: 30 U.S.C. 957, 961. PART 18_[AMENDED] 3. Section 18.6 is amended by revising paragraph (a) to read as follows: ยง18.6 Applications. (a)(1) Investigation leading to approval, certification, extension thereof, or acceptance of hose or conveyor belt, will be undertaken by MSHA only pursuant to a written application, in duplicate, accompanied by a check, bank draft, or money order, payable to the U.S. Mine Safety and Health Administration to cover the fees. The application shall be accompanied by all necessary drawings, specifications, descriptions, and related materials, as set out in this part. (2) Where the applicant for approval has used a laboratory recognized by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration as a nationally recognized testing laboratory (NRTL) under part 6 of this chapter to perform the testing and evaluation necessary for approval under this part, the application shall also include the testing and evaluation results and the statement of product compliance from the NRTL. (3) An applicant may request testing and evaluation to other testing and evaluation requirements which have been determined by MSHA to be equivalent under ยง6.20 of this chapter.
