FR941222-1-00074 FR941222-1-00008 The availability of commercial treatment capacity for these wastes determines whether or not a waste is granted a capacity variance under RCRA Section 3004(h). EPA continues to update and monitor changes in available commercial treatment capacity because the commercial hazardous waste management industry is extremely dynamic. For example, national commercial treatment capacity changes as new facilities come on-line, as new units and new technologies are added at existing facilities, and as facilities expand existing units. The available capacity at commercial facilities also changes as facilities change their commercial status ( e.g. , changing from a fully commercial to a limited commercial or captive facility). To determine the availability of capacity for treating these wastes, the Agency needs to consider currently available data, as well as the timing of any future changes in available capacity. For previous land disposal restriction rules, the Agency performed capacity analyses using data from national surveys, including the 1987 National Survey of Hazardous Waste Treatment, Storage, Disposal, and Recycling Facilities (the TSDR Survey) and the 1987 National Survey of Hazardous Waste Generators (the Generator Survey). However, these surveys cannot be used to determine the volumes of dye and pigment wastes requiring treatment since these wastes were not included in the surveys. Additionally, these surveys may not contain adequate information on currently available capacity to treat newly identified wastes because the data reflect 1986 capacity and do not include facility expansions or closures that have occurred since then. Although adjustments have been made to commercially available capacity to account for changes in waste management through 1992, this was not done on a consistent basis across all waste management practices. EPA gathered data on waste generation, characteristics and management practices for the listing determination of dye and pigment wastes in the RCRA Section 3007 Questionnaire of 1991. The Agency has compiled the capacity-related information from the survey responses and is soliciting any updated or additional pertinent information. To perform the necessary capacity analyses in the land disposal restrictions rulemaking, the Agency needs reliable data on current waste generation, waste management practices, available alternative treatment capacity, and planned treatment capacity. The Agency will need the annual generation volumes of waste by each waste code including wastewater and nonwastewater forms, and soil or debris contaminated with these wastes and the quantities stored, treated, recycled, or disposed due to any change of management practices. EPA also requests data from facilities capable of treating these wastes on their current treatment capacity and any plans they may have in the future to expand or reduce existing capacity. Specifically, the Agency requests information on the determining factors involved in making decisions to build new treatment capacity. Waste characteristics such as pH level, BTUs, anionic character, total organic carbon content, constituents concentration, and physical form also may limit the availability of certain treatment technologies. For these reasons, the Agency requests data and comments on waste characteristics that might limit or preclude the use of any treatment technologies. V. Compliance Dates A. Notification Under RCRA Section 3010, any person generating, transporting, or managing a hazardous waste must notify EPA (or an authorized State) of its activities. Section 3010(a) allows EPA to waive, under certain circumstances, the notification requirement under Section 3010 of RCRA. If these hazardous waste listings are promulgated, EPA is proposing to waive the notification requirement as unnecessary for persons already identified within the hazardous waste management universe ( i.e. , persons who have an EPA identification number under 40 CFR 262.12). EPA is not proposing to waive the notification requirement for waste handlers who have neither notified the Agency that they may manage hazardous wastes nor received an EPA identification number. Such individuals will have to provide notification under RCRA Section 3010. B. Interim Status and Permitted Facilities Because HSWA requirements are applicable in authorized States at the same time as in unauthorized States, EPA will regulate EPA Hazardous Wastes Nos. K162 through K166 until States are authorized to regulate these wastes. Thus, once this regulation becomes effective as a final rule, EPA will apply Federal regulations to these wastes and to their management in both authorized and unauthorized States. VI. State Authority A. Applicability of Rule in Authorized States Under Section 3006 of RCRA, EPA may authorize qualified States to administer and enforce the RCRA program within the State. (See 40 CFR part 271 for the standards and requirements for authorization.) Following authorization, EPA retains enforcement authority under Sections 3007, 3008, 3013, and 7003 of RCRA, although authorized States have primary enforcement responsibility. Before the Hazardous and Solid Waste Amendments of 1984 (HSWA) amended RCRA, a State with final authorization administered its hazardous waste program entirely in lieu of the Federal program in that State. The Federal requirements no longer applied in the authorized State, and EPA could not issue permits for any facilities located in the State with permitting authorization. When new, more stringent Federal requirements were promulgated or enacted, the State was obligated to enact equivalent authority within specified time-frames. New Federal requirements did not take effect in an authorized State until the State adopted the requirements as State law.
