FR940110-2-00015 FR940110-2-00011 TCM argues that the Department's consumption tax adjustment is proper and accords with the law, regulations and long-standing practice. Department's Position: On October 7, 1993, the United States Court of International Trade (CIT), in Federal-Mogul Corp. and The Torrington Co. v. United States, Slip Op. 93&hyph;194 (CIT, October 7, 1993), rejected the Department's methodology for calculating an addition to USP under section 772(d)(1)(C) of the Tariff Act to account for taxes that the exporting country would have assessed on the merchandise had it been sold in the home market. The CIT held that the addition to USP under section 772(d)(1)(C) of the Tariff Act should be the result of applying the foreign market tax rate to the price of the United States merchandise at the same point in the chain of commerce that the foreign market tax was applied to foreign market sales. Federal-Mogul, Slip Op. 93&hyph;194 at 12. The Department has changed its methodology in accordance with the Federal-Mogul decisions. The Department will add to USP the result of multiplying the foreign market tax rate by the price of the United States merchandise at the same point in the chain of commerce that the foreign market tax was applied to foreign market sales. The Department will also adjust the USP tax adjustment and the amount of tax included in FMV. These adjustments will deduct the portions of the foreign market tax and the USP tax adjustment that are the result of expenses that are included in the foreign market price used to calculate foreign market tax and are included in the United States merchandise price used to calculate the USP tax adjustment and that are later deducted to calculate FMV and USP. These adjustments to the amount of the foreign market tax and the USP tax adjustment are necessary to prevent our new methodology for calculating the USP tax adjustment from creating antidumping duty margins where no margins would exist if no taxes were levied upon foreign market sales. This margin creation effect is due to the fact that the bases for calculating both the amount of tax included in the price of the foreign market merchandise and the amount of the USP tax adjustment include many expenses that are later deducted when calculating USP and FMV. After these deductions are made, the amount of tax included in FMV and the USP tax adjustment still reflects the amounts of these expenses. Thus, a margin may be created that is not dependent upon a difference between USP and FMV, but is the result of the price of the United States merchandise containing more expenses than the price of the foreign market merchandise. The Department's policy to avoid the margin creation effect is in accordance with the United States Court of Appeals' holding that the application of the USP tax adjustment under section 772(d)(1)(C) of the Tariff Act should not create an antidumping duty margin if pre-tax FMV does not exceed USP. Zenith Electronics Corp. v. United States, 988 F.2d 1573, 1581 (Fed. Cir. 1993). In addition, the CIT has specifically held that an adjustment should be made to mitigate the impact of expenses that are deducted from FMV and USP upon the USP tax adjustment and the amount of tax included in FMV. Daewoo Electronics Co., Ltd. v. United States, 760 F. Supp. 200, 208 (CIT, 1991). However, the mechanics of the Department's adjustments to the USP tax adjustment and the foreign market tax amount as described above are not identical to those suggested in Daewoo . Comments Specific to Toyota Comment 4: Toyota contends that for the final results, the Department should not rely on best information available (BIA) to calculate ocean freight, U.S. coop advertising, certain indirect selling expenses (ISE) incurred in Japan on behalf of U.S. sales, and the offset expense for income and profit from other business ventures included in value-added. Toyota claims that the Department made clear in its supplemental questionnaire that, because it was conducting two administrative reviews simultaneously, Toyota should provide only a narrative description of how reallocations and corrections were to be made, which were then to be the subject of petitioners' comment and Department scrutiny. In its supplemental questionnaire response dated June 7, 1991, Toyota responded as directed, providing only narrative descriptions, and not revised data on computer tape. Once the Department made its decision regarding the accuracy of these reallocations and corrections, it would give Toyota an opportunity to resubmit its data employing the proper reallocations and corrections. Toyota states that it was therefore awaiting the Department's decisions concerning these recalculations for the first administrative review before submitting revised computer tapes for the second review. Toyota claims that at no time prior to the preliminary results, despite numerous contacts, did the Department ask Toyota to submit the reallocations or corrections, instead directing Toyota to await the Department's decision regarding these corrections. Toyota contends that in the preliminary results of this review the Department applied BIA because it mistakenly held that Toyota had failed to comply with the Department's request for data incorporating the reallocations and corrections. Toyota claims that it did not provide such data because the Department never issued any instructions for doing so. Toyota therefore, proposes that the Department use data on the record to make the correct reallocations and corrections for ocean freight, U.S. coop advertising, value-added, and Toyota Automatic Loom Works, Ltd. (TAL) ISE.
