FR940428-2-00025 FR940428-2-00015 The offeror shall describe the merit of the proposed technology in terms of anticipated performance and/or cost savings over existing technologies and how the technology is an improvement, where applicable, in the following areas: •Reducing public and occupational health risks •Reducing environmental impacts •Improving clean-up and waste management/processing operations •Cost reduction •Reducing the time required for remediation and or waste management/processing •Minimizing generated or secondary wastes •Ability to meet regulatory requirements •Feasibility in implementing the technology •Breadth of application c. Personnel Qualifications, Project Organization and Experience The offeror shall describe relevant technical and managerial experience, qualifications, and availability of the proposed project personnel including subcontractors and consultants. Résumés of key project personnel (e.g., project manager, principal investigator) shall be included in an appendix to the proposal. The offeror shall provide a description of the project organization structure and the lines of authority, both technical and administrative, and the relationship to the proposed research effort. The offeror shall discuss any prior experience in managing project that were similar in type, size, and complexity. The offeror shall discuss experience in developing the proposed or similar technologies. d. Facilities and Equipment The offeror shall provide a discussion of the type, quality, availability and appropriateness of the proposed facilities and equipment, including a description of any facilities and/or non-monetary resources requested to be furnished by the Government for use by the offeror in performance of the proposed research. The offeror shall discuss any special existing permits and licenses for handling, treating, storing and disposing of hazardous and radioactive waste at their facilities. 3. Volume III_Cost Proposal: (Original and 3 Copies) a. A fully executed Standard Form (SF) 1411. b. Supporting cost exhibits for the total project, by task, and between go/no-go decision points to include labor hours, rates and costs; equipment and supplies lists and costs; subcontracted costs in the same level of detail; indirect costs and all other costs proposed. The same level of detail shall be provided for shared costs, if proposed. DOE Obligation for Proposal Preparation DOE is under no obligation to reimburse the offeror for any costs associated with the preparation or submission of proposals; however, bid and proposal preparation costs which are a portion of an established indirect cost rate will be paid to successful offerors to the extent that such costs have been reviewed and approved by the appropriate auditing agency. Funding of Proposals DOE reserves the right to fund, in whole or in part (including any options that may be negotiated), any, all, or none of the proposals submitted. Return of Unsuccessful Proposals DOE is not required to, and will not, return to the offeror a proposal which is not selected. Proposal Review and Selection 1. Each proposal will be objectively reviewed on its own merit against the evaluation criteria stated in the ROA. A two-step review process will be employed. The initial evaluation will be performed to determine if the proposal is responsive to this ROA. Proposals passing the initial evaluation will be subject to a comprehensive evaluation using scientific and/or peer reviewers, some of whom may be DOE contractors. Offerors who object to review of their proposal by persons other than Government employees shall so state in Volume I of their proposal. Offerors are cautioned that DOE may be unable to give full consideration to proposals which indicate that only Government evaluation is authorized. 2. Proposals will be reviewed in groups which will be assembled as often as practical considering the number of proposals received and the availability of competent reviewers. 3. Selection of proposal(s) will be made in consideration of the evaluation, the importance of the proposed research to DOE's overall program objectives, and the availability of funds. Proposal Evaluation and Award DOE is not obligated to award a contract to an offeror merely because the offeror's proposal was accepted by DOE for evaluation. Set-aside Information, Standard Industrial Classification, and Qualified Offerors 1. Set Aside Information: A minimum of twenty percent (20%) of the number of awards made as a result of this solicitation are set aside for small businesses. 2. Standard industrial classification: The standard industrial classification (SIC) code for this acquisition is 8731. The small business size standard is 500. The small business size standard for a concern which submits an offer in its own name, other than on a construction or service contract, but which proposes to furnish a product which it did not itself manufacture, is 500 employees. 3. Qualified Offerors: Individuals, educational institutions, large and small businesses, and all other organizations, with the exceptions noted below, may submit proposals under this ROA. Proposals are not solicited from and contracts will not be awarded to any specific entity which operates a Government-owned or Government-controlled research, development, special production, or testing establishment, such as DOE's management and operating contractors facilities, or Federally Funded Research and Development Centers chartered by other agencies. For further information see DEAR 935.016&hyph;2(b)(2). Dated: April 20, 1994. Thomas F. Bechtel, Director, Morgantown Energy Technology Center. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;10154 Filed 4&hyph;26&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6450&hyph;01&hyph;P
