FR940603-1-00200 FR940603-1-00009 Group M. Site preparation. A Construction Unit consists of clearing, grading, drainage work, and surfacing, as specified in the drawings. Group N. Fence. A Construction Unit consists of the complete installation of the fence, gates, etc., as specified in the drawings. Group O. Station grounding. A Construction Unit consists of the complete ground bus including ground rods, grounding mats or platforms, except as otherwise provided in other Groups, with connections to structures, equipment, and fence as specified in the drawings. Group P. Building. A Construction Unit consists of a control building or cabinet, on a foundation of Group L and the facilities and equipment installed therein as specified in the drawings, except as otherwise provided in other Groups. Other Groups. The Engineer shall specify such additional Groups as may be necessary for the completion of the Project. Description of these Groups shall be provided by an addition to this section of the Specifications for Construction. XXXX Station Construction Units Unit No. XXXX Name and Description of Construction Unit XXXX No. of Units XXXX Unit Prices Labor XXXX Materials XXXX Labor and Materials XXXX Extended Price_Labor and Materials XXXX Total Price XXXX Proposal Summary XXXX Substation $ XXXX XXXX Substation XXXX XXXX Substation XXXX XXXX Switching Station XXXX XXXX Switching Station XXXX Total Station Construction $ XXXX Proposal Recapitulation Distribution line construction $ XXXX Transmission line construction XXXX Substation and Switching Station Construction XXXX Total $ XXXX Acceptance The Owner hereby accepts the foregoing Proposal of the Bidder, XXXX for the construction of the following: Distribution Construction Units: Sections: XXXX Transmission Construction Units: Sections: XXXX Substation and Switching Station Construction: Stations (name): XXXX XXXX Owner By XXXX President XXXX Secretary XXXX Date of Contract [End of clause] ยง1726.352 Electric transmission construction contract (labor and materials), REA Form 831. The contract form in this section shall be used when required by this part. This form refers to guide drawings, which do not contain requirements, and, hence, are not included in this part. The guide drawings are included in the printed form available from GPO (See ยง1726.300.). Electric Transmission Construction Contract (Labor and Materials) Notice and Instructions to Bidders 1. Sealed proposals for the construction, including the supply of necessary labor, materials and equipment, of a rural electric project of XXXX (hereinafter called the ``Owner'') to be known as Project will be received by the Owner on or before XXXX o'clock XX M., XXXXX , 19 XX at its office at XXXX at which time and place the proposals will be publicly opened and read. Any proposal received subsequent to the time specified will be promptly returned to the Bidder unopened. 2. Description of Project: The Project will consist of approximately: Transmission Line Construction XXXX miles XXXX kV; XXXX miles XXXX kV XXXX miles XXXX kV underbuild Substations and Other Major Facilities XXXX kVA XXXX Voltage XXXX Name The Project is located in XXXX Counties, in the State of XXXX all as more fully described in the Plans, Specifications, Construction Drawings and Contractor's Proposal therefore hereinafter referred to. 3. Owner furnished materials. The unit prices in the Contractor's Proposal shall include provisions for Owner Furnished Materials since as stated in Article 1, Section 3 of the Contractor's Proposal, the value of the Owner Furnished Materials, if any, will be deducted from payments to the Bidder for completed Construction Units. 4. Obtaining and transferring documents. The Plans, Specifications and Construction Drawings together with all necessary forms and other documents for bidders may be obtained from the Owner, or from the Engineer, XXXX at the latter's office at XXXX upon the payment of ten dollars ($10), which payment will not be subject to refund. The Plans, Specifications and Construction Drawings may be examined at the office of the Owner or at the office of the Engineer. A copy of the Loan Contract (if the Project is to be financed, in whole or in part, pursuant to a loan contract) between the Owner and the United States of America acting through the Administrator of the Rural Electrification Administration (hereinafter called the Administrator) and of the loan contract between the Owner and any other lender may be examined at the office of the Owner. Each set of Plans, Specifications and Construction Drawings will have a serial number, given by the Engineer, and the number of each set with the name of the Purchaser will be recorded by the Engineer. Bids will be accepted only from the original purchaser.
