FR940713-2-00036 FR940713-2-00026 Energy Charge: None. Additional Energy Charge: 7.247 mills per kilowatt-hour. Energy to be Made Available: The Department of Energy shall determine the energy that is available from the projects for declaration in the billing month. To meet the energy requirements of the Department of Energy's customers outside the TVA area (hereinafter called Other Customers), 749,400 megawatt-hours of net energy shall be available annually (including 36,900 megawatt-hours of annual net energy to supplement energy available at Laurel Project) provided, that if additional energy is required to make a marketing arrangement viable for other customers which do not own generating facilities and which are within service areas of Kentucky Utilities Company and Carolina Power & Light Company, Western Division, such additional energy required shall be made available from the Cumberland Projects and shall not exceed 300 kilowatt-hours per kilowatt per year. The energy requirement of the Other Customers shall be available annually, divided monthly such that the maximum available in any month shall not exceed 220 hours per kilowatt of total Other Customers contract demand, and the minimum amount available in any month shall not be less than 60 hours per kilowatt of total Other Customers demand. In the event that any portion of the capacity allocated to Other Customers is not initially delivered to the Other Customers as of the beginning of a full contract year (July through June), the 1500 hours, plus any such additional energy required as discussed above, shall be reduced 1/12 for each month of that year prior to initial delivery of such capacity. The energy scheduled by TVA for use within the TVA System in any billing month shall be the total energy delivered to TVA less (1) an adjustment for fast or slow meters, if any, (2) an adjustment for Barkley-Kentucky Canal of 15,000 megawatt-hours of energy each month which is delivered to TVA under the agreement from the Cumberland Projects without charge to TVA, (3) the energy scheduled by the Department of Energy in said month for the Other Customers plus losses of two (2) percent, and (4) station service energy furnished by TVA. Each kw of capacity received by TVA includes 1500 kwh of energy. Energy received in excess of 1500 kwh will be subject to an additional energy charge identified in the monthly rates section of this rate schedule. Billing Month: The billing month for capacity and energy sold under this schedule shall end at 2400 hours CDT or CST, whichever is currently effective, on the last day of each calendar month. Contract Year: For purposes of this rate schedule, a contract year shall be as in Section 13.1 of the Southeastern Power Administration_Tennessee Valley Authority Contract. Service Interruption: When delivery of capacity to TVA is interrupted or reduced due to conditions on the Department of Energy's system which are beyond its control, the Department of Energy will continue to make available the portion of its declaration of energy that can be generated with the capacity available. For such interruption or reduction (exclusive of any restrictions provided in the agreement) due to conditions on the Department of Energy's system which have not been arranged for and agreed to in advance, the demand charge for scheduled capacity made available to TVA will be reduced as to the kilowatts of such scheduled capacity which have been so interrupted or reduced for each day in accordance with the following formula: ␣ 1␣ 1␣ 1Monthly capacity charge 1␣ 1Agreement capacity Number of kilowatts unavailable for at least 12 hours in any calendar day × Number of days in billing month × 880,000 kilowatts. The agreement capacity related to the 76,000 kilowatts of capacity allocated to the Other Customers in the Carolina Power & Light Company and Kentucky Utilities service areas shall, irrespective of sale to Other Customers, remain in effect in the formula throughout the term of this rate schedule. Power Factor: TVA shall take capacity and energy from the Department of Energy at such power factor as will best serve TVA's system from time to time; provided, that TVA shall not impose a power factor of less than .85 lagging on the Department of Energy's facilities which requires operation contrary to good operating practice or results in overload or impairment of such facilities. Dated: July 1, 1994.
