FR941011-1-00007 FR941011-1-00002 (ii) If the Qualifying Serial is not the Working Reference, then the potency of the Qualifying Serial relative to the Working Reference shall be determined using a parallel line immunoassay that is approved by the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service. To be acceptable, the geometric mean of the relative potency values obtained for the Qualifying Serial in at least 5 independent parallel line immunoassays shall be less than or equal to 1.00. (iii) If the Master Reference is different from either the Working Reference or the Qualifying Serial, or both, the dilution of the Master Reference with a potency equal to that of the Working Reference shall be determined by using a parallel line immunoassay as specified in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section. (2) Dating period for References. References shall have an initial dating period equal to the dating period of the product or as supported by data acceptable to the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service. The dating period begins on the date of initiation of the immunogenicity test or repeat immunogenicity test. The expiration date(s) of References shall be stated in the Outline of Production. (3) Requalifying a Master Reference. (i) To requalify and extend the dating period of a Master Reference, a repeat immunogenicity test shall be conducted using a Qualifying Serial of product as defined in ยง101.5(q)(2). If the Master Reference or Working Reference is a serial of product, the Qualifying Serial becomes the new Master Reference or the new Working Reference. (ii) The protocol and the method of evaluation of the repeat immunogenicity test to requalify a Master Reference must be approved by the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service. The results of the immunogenicity test specified in paragraphs (a)(2) through (a)(5) of this section will be a determining factor in what constitutes an appropriate test to requalify a Master Reference. Different methods of requalifying a Master Reference are: (A) Challenge of neonates born to vaccinated host animals. (B) Challenge of vaccinated animals of another species whose immunological response has been shown to correlate with protection of neonates of the species for which the product is recommended. (C) Serum and colostral antipilus titers of dams, or serum antipilus titers of neonates, or both, when antibody titers show a meaningful correlation to protection in the original immunogenicity test specified in paragraphs (a)(2) through (a)(5) of this section. (iii) Requalifying and extending the dating period of a Master Reference may also be done by monitoring the potency of the Master Reference by in vitro methods over time by procedures approved by the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service and then conducting a repeat immunogenicity test as in paragraphs (b)(3)(i) and (b)(3)(ii) of this section when any decline in potency is detected. (4) An Outline of Production change must be approved by the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service to provide an extension of the expiration date of a Master Reference. (c) Test requirements for release of serials. (1) Each serial and subserial shall meet the applicable requirements prescribed in ยง113.100 and the requirements of this paragraph. Any serial or subserial found unsatisfactory by a prescribed test shall not be released. (2) Potency test. Bulk or final container samples of completed product shall be tested for potency using the parallel line immunoassay and the Working Reference correlated directly to the immunogenicity test described in paragraph (a) or indirectly as described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section. The potency test(s) must be specific for each pilus type for which protection is claimed. The antigen capture antibody and the antigen indicator monoclonal antibody for the in vitro potency test is supplied by the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service. To be satisfactory and eligible for release, each pilus antigen in each serial of product shall have a relative potency greater than or equal to 1.00 when compared to the Working Reference(s). Serials not satisfactory on the initial relative potency test may be retested in accordance with ยง113.8 (c)(1) through (c)(5). Done in Washington, DC, this 4th day of October 1994. Terry L. Medley, Acting Administrator, Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;25056 Filed 10&hyph;7&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3410&hyph;34&hyph;M
