FR940606-0-00021 FR940606-0-00007 42 U.S.C. 7412(d)(3)(B). If an interpretation parallel to the Lower Floor Interpretation were intended, it would have been more natural for this provision to read ``the emission limitation achieved by the 5th best performing source.'' 2. The Legislative History The legislative history lends strong support to the view that, in passing section 112(d)(3)(A), Congress intended the Higher Floor Interpretation. On the House side, the language that would eventually become section 112(d)(3)(A) was offered as a compromise amendment by Rep. Dingell on the House Floor on May 23, 1990. (The language of the amendment was identical to section 112(d)(3)(A) as ultimately enacted into law; only the numbers were different). Rep. Dingell yielded time to Rep. Collins ``for purposes of explaining the amendment.'' Legislative History of 1990 CAA Amendments at 2896. In doing so, Rep. Collins noted that she had originally supported slightly more stringent numbers than those included in the amendment, and that under her original proposal The average of emissions from the 10 percent cleanest sources would be the MACT standard. In cases where there are less than 30 sources in a category or subcategory, the average of the 3 cleanest sources would determine the standard. Id . She went on to explain that under the compromise amendment introduced by Rep. Dingell MACT for existing stationary sources would be the average of the best 15 [percent] of technologies within each category or subcategory. For categories or subcategories where there are less than 30 sources, the standard is based on the average emissions from the best performing 5 sources. Legislative History of 1990 CAA Amendments at 2897. Rep. Collins' formulations are consistent with the Higher Floor Interpretation, not the Lower. The ``average of the 3 cleanest sources'' cannot mean, as the Lower Floor Interpretation would require, the level of control achieved by all three of the ``cleanest sources.'' Nor can the ``average of the best 15 [percent] of technologies'' mean a technology as good as that used by all sources within the top 15 percent. Another discussion of section 112(d)(3) is similar. On October 27, 1990, Sen. Durenberger (a principal supporter of the Clean Air Act Amendments) explained the provision on the Senate floor. His explanation was as follows: The standard may not be less stringent than the average of the emission levels achieved by the best performing 12 percent of the existing sources within the category*␣*␣* The Administrator is to exclude from the calculation of the average of top 12 percent any source which met the following conditions*␣*␣* Legislative History of 1990 CAA Amendments at 870 (Cong. Rec. S16929_Oct. 27, 1990). The second sentence of Sen. Durenberger's statement, in particular, is inconsistent with the Lower Floor Interpretation. Sen. Durenberger makes clear that the ``average'' called for in the statute is of the ``top 12 percent,'' not the emission limitations achieved over time at each individual source. No legislative history was found that supports the Lower Floor Interpretation. The EPA believes that the legislative history indicates that individual legislators_including those central to the drafting of section 112(d)(3)_understood the word ``average'' to mean that once the emission limitations achieved by the best performers in a category had been determined, those results should be averaged. This is the method of the Higher Floor Interpretation, not the Lower. 3. Issues Raised in Public Comment a. Arguments Concerning the Statutory Language. (i) Plain Meaning of the Statute. Several commenters argued that the meaning of the statute was plain on its face and that Congress clearly intended the Higher Floor Interpretation. These commenters argued that when section 112(d)(3)(A) is read as a whole in its most natural way, the Congressional intent in favor of the Higher Floor Interpretation is clear. They argued that if Congress had intended the Lower Floor Interpretation, it would have used different language in the statute. The EPA agrees with these comments. As set forth in greater detail above, EPA believes the plain statutory language strongly favors the Higher Floor Interpretation. (ii) Congress' Failure to Use the Words ``of the''. Several commenters argued that if Congress had meant the Higher Floor Interpretation, it would have added the words ``of the'' to the statute, so that section 112(d)(3)(A) would read ``the average of the emission limitations achieved by the best performing 12 percent.'' These commenters saw the absence of the words ``of the'' in the statute as evidence that Congress intended the Lower Floor Interpretation. The EPA agrees that the statute would be more clear if Congress had used the words ``of the,'' but disagrees with the conclusion drawn by these commenters for two reasons. First, standard English usage often permits dropping the prepositions ``of the'' without changing the meaning of a phrase. (For example, ``the biggest mountain in North America'' has the same meaning as ``the biggest of the mountains in North America.'' ``Best singer in the band'' has the same meaning as ``best of the singers in the band.'') The same cannot be said, however, for the various phrases and concepts that must be read into section 112(d)(3)(A) in order to arrive at the Lower Floor Interpretation. Phrases like ``the worst performing member of...'' or ``averaged over time...'' simply are not dropped as part of standard English. Their absence from section 112(d)(3)(A)_unlike the absence of the words ``of the''_must be considered significant in interpreting the provision. Second, although the words ``of the'' do not appear in section 112(d)(3)(A), they were used by key legislators in summarizing that section prior to passage of the 1990 Clean Air Act Amendments. As noted above, when Sen. Durenberger (a principal supporter of the Clean Air Act Amendments) spoke on the Senate floor on October 27, 1990, he explained section 112(d)(3)(A) as follows: The standard may not be less stringent than the average of the emission levels achieved by the best performing 12 percent of the existing sources within the category*␣*␣* Legislative History of 1990 CAA Amendments at 870 (Cong. Rec. S16929_Oct. 27, 1990) (emphasis added). As also noted above, when Rep. Collins introduced the provision in the House, she described it as follows: The average of emissions from the 10 percent cleanest sources would be the MACT standard. In cases where there are less than 30 sources in a category or subcategory, the average of the 3 cleanest sources would determine the standard. Legislative History of 1990 CAA Amendments at 2896 (emphasis added) (describing a provision with identical language but different numbers than the one ultimately enacted into law). In EPA's view, the fact that Congress did not use the words ``of the'' in section 112(d)(3)(A) is fully consistent with standard English. However, the fact that key legislators did use these words in describing the provision to their colleagues, in combination with the failure of those legislators to use the phrases on which the Lower Floor Interpretation depends, provides a strong indication that Congress intended the Higher Floor Interpretation in enacting section 112(d)(3)(A).
