FR941004-0-00010 FR941004-0-00003 (2) Facts and circumstances test. Except as otherwise provided in this section, whether activities constitute an appropriate economic unit and, therefore, may be treated as a single activity depends upon all the relevant facts and circumstances. A taxpayer may use any reasonable method of applying the relevant facts and circumstances in grouping activities. The factors listed below, not all of which are necessary for a taxpayer to treat more than one activity as a single activity, are given the greatest weight in determining whether activities constitute an appropriate economic unit for the measurement of gain or loss for purposes of section 469_ (i) Similarities and differences in types of trades or businesses; (ii) The extent of common control; (iii) The extent of common ownership; (iv) Geographical location; and (v) Interdependencies between or among the activities (for example, the extent to which the activities purchase or sell goods between or among themselves, involve products or services that are normally provided together, have the same customers, have the same employees, or are accounted for with a single set of books and records). (3) Examples. The following examples illustrate the application of this paragraph (c). Example 1. Taxpayer C has a significant ownership interest in a bakery and a movie theater at a shopping mall in Baltimore and in a bakery and a movie theater in Philadelphia. In this case, after taking into account all the relevant facts and circumstances, there may be more than one reasonable method for grouping C 's activities. For instance, depending on the relevant facts and circumstances, the following groupings may or may not be permissible: a single activity; a movie theater activity and a bakery activity; a Baltimore activity and a Philadelphia activity; or four separate activities. Moreover, once C groups these activities into appropriate economic units, paragraph (e) of this section requires C to continue using that grouping in subsequent taxable years unless a material change in the facts and circumstances makes it clearly inappropriate. Example 2. Taxpayer B , an individual, is a partner in a business that sells non-food items to grocery stores (partnership L ). B also is a partner in a partnership that owns and operates a trucking business (partnership Q ). The two partnerships are under common control. The predominant portion of Q 's business is transporting goods for L , and Q is the only trucking business in which B is involved. Under this section, B appropriately treats L 's wholesale activity and Q 's trucking activity as a single activity. (d) Limitation on grouping certain activities. The grouping of activities under this section is subject to the following limitations: (1) Grouping rental activities with other trade or business activities _(i) Rule. A rental activity may not be grouped with a trade or business activity unless the activities being grouped together constitute an appropriate economic unit under paragraph (c) of this section and_ (A) The rental activity is insubstantial in relation to the trade or business activity; (B) The trade or business activity is insubstantial in relation to the rental activity; or (C) Each owner of the trade or business activity has the same proportionate ownership interest in the rental activity, in which case the portion of the rental activity that involves the rental of items of property for use in the trade or business activity may be grouped with the trade or business activity. (ii) Examples. The following examples illustrate the application of paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section: Example 1. (i) H and W are married and file a joint return. H is the sole shareholder of an S corporation that conducts a grocery store trade or business activity. W is the sole shareholder of an S corporation that owns and rents out a building. Part of the building is rented to H 's grocery store trade or business activity (the grocery store rental). The grocery store rental and the grocery store trade or business are not insubstantial in relation to each other.
