FR940406-0-00038 FR940406-0-00002 (h) Report of findings and recommendations. (1) The administrative judge shall transmit to the Board a report of findings and recommendations on the class complaint, including a recommended decision, systemic relief for the class and any individual relief, where appropriate, with regard to the personnel policy or practice that gave rise to the class complaint. (2) If the administrative judge finds no class relief appropriate, he or she shall determine if a finding of individual discrimination is warranted and, if so, shall recommend appropriate relief. (3) The administrative judge shall notify the Board of the date on which the report of findings and recommendations was forwarded to the Board. (i) Board decision. (1) Within 60 days of receipt of the report of findings and recommendations issued under §268.305(h) of this part, the Board shall issue a final decision pursuant to §268.209 of this part, which shall accept, reject, or modify the findings and recommendations of the administrative judge. (2) The final decision of the Board shall be in writing and shall be transmitted to the agent of the class by certified mail, return receipt requested, along with a copy of the report of findings and recommendations of the administrative judge. (3) When the Board's final decision is to reject or modify the findings and recommendations of the administrative judge, the Board's final decision shall contain specific reasons for the Board's final decision. (4) If the Board has not issued a final decision within 60 days of its receipt of the administrative judge's report of findings and recommendations, those findings and recommendations of the administrative judge shall become the Board's final decision. The Board shall transmit the final decision to the agent of the class within 5 calendar days of the expiration of the 60-day period. (5) The final decision of the Board shall require any relief authorized by law and determined to be necessary or desirable to resolve the issue of discrimination. (6) The final decision of the Board shall, subject to subpart E of this part, be binding on all members of the class and the Board. (7) The final decision shall inform the class agent of the right to seek review by the Commission, or to file a civil action, in accordance with subpart E of this part, and of the applicable time limits. (j) Notification of decision. The Board shall notify class members of the Board's final decision and relief awarded, if any, through the same media employed to give notice of the existence of the class complaint. The notice, where appropriate, shall include information concerning the rights of class members to seek individual relief, and of the procedures to be followed. Notice shall be given by the Board within 10 calendar days of the transmittal of the final decision to the agent of the class. (k) Relief for individual class members. (1) When the Board finds class discrimination, the Board shall eliminate or modify the personnel policy or practice out of which the complaint arose and provide individual relief, including an award of attorney's fees and costs, to the agent of the class in accordance with §268.501(e) of this part. (2) When class-wide discrimination is not found, but it is found that the agent of the class is a victim of discrimination, §268.501 of this part shall apply. The Board shall also, within 60 days of the issuance of its final decision finding no class-wide discrimination, issue the acknowledgement of receipt of an individual complaint as required by §268.205(d) of this part and process in accordance with the provisions of subpart B of this part, each individual complaint that was subsumed into the class complaint. (3) When class-wide discrimination is found in a final decision of the Board, and a class member believes that he or she is entitled to individual relief, the class member may file a written claim with the Board's EEO Programs Director within 30 days of receipt of notification by the Board of its final decision. The claim must include a specific, detailed showing that the claimant is a class member who was affected by a personnel action or matter resulting from the discriminatory personnel policy or practice, and that this discriminatory action took place within the period of time for which the Board found class-wide discrimination in its final decision. The period of time for which the Board finds class-wide discrimination shall begin not more than 45 days prior to the initial contact by the agent of the class with the EEO Counselor and shall end not later than the date when the Board eliminates the personnel policy or practice found to be discriminatory in the Board's final decision. The Board shall issue a final decision on each such claim within 90 days of filing. Such decision must include a notice of the right to file a request for review with the Commission or a civil action in accordance with subpart E of this part and the applicable time limits. A copy of EEOC Form 573, notice of Appeal/Petition, shall be attached to the Board's decision pursuant to §268.209(b)(7) of this part. Subpart D_Review by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission §268.401 Review by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission. (a) An individual complainant may file a request for review with the Commission of a final decision issued by the Board under §268.209 of this part, or a dismissal by the Board of all or a portion of an individual complaint under §268.206 of this part.
