FR940506-2-00117 FR940506-2-00069 6. Copies of specific proposed contracts may be obtained from the appropriate Regional Director or his designated public contact as they become available for review and comment. 7. In the event modifications are made in the form of a proposed contract, the appropriate Regional Director shall determine whether republication of the notice and/or extension of the comment period is necessary. Factors considered in making such a determination shall include, but are not limited to: (i) The significance of the modification, and (ii) the degree of public interest which has been expressed over the course of the negotiations. As a minimum, the Regional Director shall furnish revised contracts to all parties who requested the contract in response to the initial public notice. Acronym Definitions Used Herein (BCP)␣Boulder Canyon Project (CAP)␣Central Arizona Project (CUP)␣Central Utah Project (CVP)␣Central Valley Project (CRSP)␣Colorado River Storage Project (D&MC)␣Drainage and Minor Construction (FR)␣Federal Register (IDD)␣Irrigation and Drainage District (ID)␣Irrigation District (M&I)␣Municipal and Industrial (O&M)␣Operation and Maintenance (P&hyph;SMBP)␣Pick-Sloan Missouri Basin Program (Pub. L.)␣Public Law (R&B)␣Rehabilitation and Betterment (SRPA)␣Small Reclamation Projects Act (WCUA)␣Water Conservation and Utilization Act (WD)␣Water District PACIFIC NORTHWEST REGION: Bureau of Reclamation, 1150 North Curtis Road, Boise, Idaho 83706&hyph;1234, telephone 208&hyph;378&hyph;5342. 1. Cascade Reservoir Water Users, Boise Project, Idaho: Repayment contracts for irrigation and M&I water; 19,201 acre-feet of stored water in Cascade Reservoir. 2. Irrigation, M&I, and Miscellaneous Water Users; Columbia Basin, Crooked River, Minidoka, Rathdrum Prairie, Rogue River Basin, and Umatilla Projects; Idaho, Montana, Oregon, and Washington: Temporary or interim repayment and water service contracts for irrigation or M&I use to provide up to 10,000 acre-feet of water annually for terms up to 5 years; long-term contracts for similar service for up to 1,000 acre-feet of water annually. 3. Rogue River Basin Water Users, Rogue River Project, Oregon: Water service contracts; $5 per acre-foot or $50 minimum per annum for the term of the contract. 4. Willamette basin Water Users, Willamette Basin Project, Oregon: Water service contracts. 5. American Falls Reservoir District Number 2, Burgess Canal Company, Clark and Edwards Canal and Irrigation Company, Craig-Mattson Canal Company, Danskin Ditch Company, Enterprise Canal Company, Ltd., Farmers Friend Irrigation Company, Ltd., Lenroot Canal Company, Liberty Park Canal Company, Long Island Irrigation Company, Parks and Lewisville Irrigation Company, Ltd., Parson Ditch Company, Peoples Canal and Irrigation Company, Poplar ID, Rigby Canal and Irrigation Company, Rudy Irrigation Canal Company, Ltd., Wearyrick Ditch Company, all in the Minidoka Project, Idaho; Juniper Flat ID, Wapinitia Project, Oregon; Roza ID, Yakima Project, Washington: Amendatory repayment and water service contracts; purpose is to conform to the Reclamation Reform Act of 1982 (Pub. L. 97&hyph;293). 6. City of Cle Elum, Yakima Project, Washington: Amendatory or replacement M&I water service contract; 2,200 acre-feet (1,350 gallons per minute) annually for the term of the contract.
