FR941117-0-00219 FR941117-0-00014 The non-rated debt proposal for municipal securities was contained in proposed Rule 15c2&hyph;13. In its comment letter, the MSRB stated that, ``[t]he Board agrees with the Commission that, while the fact that a bond is unrated is not necessarily indicative of problems, disclosure of the fact would be helpful to investors.'' 68 The MSRB also noted that, if the Commission determined that such information was needed by investors in debt securities, it would amend its confirmation rule, Rule G&hyph;15, and require disclosure if a municipal security has not been rated by an NRSRO. 69 Inasmuch as other confirmation requirements for municipal securities are currently set forth in Rule G&hyph;15 of the MSRB, the Commission is willing to defer this portion of the proposal to allow the MSRB to adopt the requirement as part of its rules, and will withdraw it after the MSRB has taken action. 68 Letter from David C. Clapp, Chairman, MSRB, to Jonathan G. Katz, Secretary, SEC (June 15, 1994). 69 Id. D. Disclosure of Mark-Ups and Mark-Downs in Certain NASDAQ and Exchange-Listed Securities As part of the amendments to Rule 10b-10, the Commission proposed requiring the disclosure of mark-up information for principal transactions in certain securities quoted on NASDAQ or listed on regional exchanges. 70 This proposal covered securities that are subject to last sale reporting, but are not technically ``reported securities'' under Rule 11Aa3&hyph;1 of the Exchange Act. 71 As noted in the Proposing Release, the NASD adopted amendments to its confirmation rule requiring the disclosure of mark-up information in principal transactions in securities that are not NASDAQ/NMS securities_ i.e., NASDAQ Small Cap Securities. 72 The purpose of the proposed amendment is to consolidate disclosures already required under NASD rules. Because last sale information is available for regional exchange-listed securities, the Commission proposed to extend the disclosure requirements to those securities, in addition to Small Cap Securities. By adopting this proposal, the confirmation rule will treat all equity securities subject to last sale reporting similarly, irrespective of their trading markets. 70 See Proposing Release, supra note 10, 59 FR 12770. 71 17 CFR 240.11Aa3&hyph;1(a)(4). This provision defines ``reported security'' as any exchange-listed equity security or NASDAQ security for which transaction reports are made available on a real-time basis pursuant to an effective transaction reporting plan. An ``effective transaction reporting plan'' refers to a transaction reporting plan that the Commission has approved pursuant to Rule 11Aa3&hyph;1. 17 CFR 240.11Aa3&hyph;1(a)(3). Reported securities currently include: 1. NASDAQ securities that meet standards set forth in the National Market System Securities Designation Plan (``NASDAQ/NMS securities). 2. Certain securities listed on a national securities exchange that meet standards of the transaction reporting plan known as the Restated Consolidated Tape Association Plan. This would include securities that are registered or admitted to unlisted trading privileges on a national securities exchange, including securities listed on various regional exchanges, and that substantially meet NYSE or American Stock Exchange, Inc. original listing criteria. 72 NASD Schedule to By-Laws, Schedule D, pt. XI, Section 3, NASD Manual (CCH) ¶ 1867D. The two comments that addressed this requirement supported the proposal. 73 Accordingly, under Rule 10b-10, broker-dealers effecting principal transactions in Small-Cap NASDAQ and regional exchange-listed securities that are subject to last-sale reporting will be required to disclose on the confirmation the reported trade price, price to the customer, and the difference, if any, between the two prices. 73 See Letters from Robert F. Price, Chairman/Federal Regulation Committee, SIA (July 15, 1994); and Kurt D. Halvorson, Vice President/Controller, AmeriTrade (May 27, 1994), to Jonathan G. Katz, Secretary, SEC.
