FR940516-2-00060 FR940516-2-00045 To be eligible for fellowship support an individual must be: 1. A United States citizen, noncitizen national, or foreign national who possesses a visa permitting permanent residence in the United States; 2. A certified registered nurse anesthetist with current licensure to practice, and with teaching responsibilities in an accredited nurse anesthetist education program; 3. Enrolled or accepted for enrollment in a formal program of study which leads to a master's or doctoral degree; 4. Proposed for a fellowship in the applicant institution's grant proposal; and 5. A faculty member employed by, or affiliated with, the applicant institution during the period of approved fellowship support. Policy on Payment of Stipends The following policy on payment of stipends was established in fiscal year 1990 after public comment (55 FR 36325, dated September 5, 1990) and is being extended in fiscal year 1994. A faculty member may be paid a stipend for living costs if attending an educational institution as a full-time student; no stipend would be available for a faculty member who is enrolled in part-time study or who is employed on a full-time basis. This policy is designed to target stipend assistance to the individuals who are most in need of such aid. Review Criteria Applications will be reviewed and award amounts will be calculated by staff in the Division of Nursing and in the Grants Management Branch of the Bureau of Health Professions. The review of applications will take into consideration the following criteria: 1. The eligibility of applicants; 2. The eligibility of faculty; and 3. The extent to which an applicant meets the funding preferences. These review criteria were established in 1990 (55 FR 36325, 9/5/90). Different criteria were established for use in FY 1993 to meet the statutory requirement for peer review. The requirement for peer review was deleted by Public Law 103&hyph;43. Other Considerations In addition, the following funding factors may be applied in determining funding of approved applications. A funding preference is defined as the funding of a specific category or group of approved applications ahead of other categories or groups of approved applications. It is not required that applicants request consideration for a funding factor. Applications which do not request consideration for funding factors will be reviewed and given full consideration for funding. Statutory Funding Preference Section 860(e) of the PHS Act, as amended by the Nurse Education and Practice Improvement Amendments of 1992, title II of the Health Professions Education Extension Amendments of 1992, Public Law 102&hyph;408, enacted on October 13, 1992, provides for the following statutory preference for this program of Grants for Nurse Anesthetist Faculty Fellowships, as well as for certain other programs under titles VII and VIII of the PHS Act. Statutory preference will be given to qualified applicants that: (1) Have a high rate for placing graduates in practice settings having the principal focus of serving residents of medically underserved communities; or (2) have achieved, during the 2-year period preceding the fiscal year for which such an award is sought, a significant increase in the rate of placing graduates in such settings. This preference will only be applied to applications that rank above the 20th percentile of applications that have been recommended for approval. Proposed Criteria for Meeting the General Statutory Funding Preference It is proposed that, for Grants for Nurse Anesthetist Faculty Fellowships, qualified applicants will meet the general statutory funding preference if a minimum of 50% of the nurse anesthetist faculty are teaching in medically underserved communities.
