FR940114-1-00085 FR940114-1-00018 In general, participants at the regional meetings and the negotiations recognized that grounds for cancellation of a loan obligation under section 437 of the HEA should include a case where a student was unable to obtain employment after attending the school, and the school had falsely certified that the student had the ability to benefit from the school's training. This kind of falsification is both part of the loan certification process and results in a student being left without needed skills. Therefore, the proposed regulations focus on the school's false representation that the student had the ability to benefit as the grounds for cancellation under this new provision. The statute and regulations have addressed the ability-to-benefit requirement for many years, and the proposed regulations reflect both the legal elements of that requirement and some enforcement perspectives developed in implementing it. For example, the school has always been required to test the ability to benefit only of those applicants who did not have a high school diploma, and the school therefore does not certify anything regarding the ability to benefit of high school graduates. Since 1987, students who had a general education diploma, or obtained one after enrolling, and students who lacked both a GED and a high school diploma but completed an institutionally prescribed remedial education program, have been deemed by Congress to have the ability to benefit, and the rule would incorporate that congressional judgement. The regulations therefore would generally permit relief in the case of a student whom the school was required to test for ability to benefit, but either failed to test at all, or tested in disregard of the requirements for proper use of the test adopted. Schools have a continuing legal obligation to administer tests, subject to criteria developed by the school's accreditor, in compliance with test protocols. These criteria and protocols may include requirements related both to the accuracy of the test results as to the individual tested and to the continuing development and validation of the test mechanism. Non-compliance with testing requirements may warrant administrative sanctions against the school, but a false certification claim under this provision requires the Department to determine a different question. A false certification claim depends not on whether the school met all its obligations with regard to testing, but on whether a test already given lacks credibility as a measure of the student's ability to benefit so that the Department should, in the absence of other evidence, regard the student as lacking that ability. The Secretary expects that practical, specific standards will be needed to help identify those deviations from testing requirements that support an inference that the student lacked ability to benefit. For example, use of photocopied versions of tests by the school or test administrator may violate the requirements of the test publisher, but may have no direct effect on the accuracy of the assessment of the student's ability to benefit. Use of an indefensibly low cutoff score by the school on an ability-to-benefit test does not discredit an assessment of the ability of those students who score above a legitimate cutoff score, such as those now published by the Secretary. Similarly, minor deviations from required time limits may have little effect on the validity of the test results. The Secretary intends to address these practical considerations in the final regulations, and invites public comment on the content of those standards or guidelines. In applying these standards, moreover, the Secretary has consistently recognized that a student may actually have the ability to benefit from the school's training even though the school does not test that student's ability or does so improperly. The proposed regulations therefore recognize that a student who actually obtains employment in the occupation for which the school's program was designed to prepare him or her had the actual ability to benefit from that training without regard to whether the school falsified its test of ability to benefit. A student not properly tested for ability to benefit who nevertheless completes the program of instruction can reasonably be considered to have found the training consistent with his or her aptitude, and the proposed regulations would provide for cancellation only if the a student had unsuccessfully tried to find employment in the occupation for which the program was designed to prepare him or her. Conversely, a student not properly tested who withdraws from the course can be reasonably regarded as having found the training not consistent with his or her aptitude, and the proposed regulations grant relief to this kind of student (or a parent PLUS borrower who borrowed on behalf of the student) unless the student actually obtained employment in that occupation.
