FR940920-1-00006 FR940920-1-00001 2. In §50.36, paragraphs (c) (2) and (3) are revised to read as follows: §50.36 Technical specifications. * * * * * (c) *␣*␣* (2) Limiting conditions for operation. (i) Limiting conditions for operation are the lowest functional capability or performance levels of equipment required for safe operation of the facility. When a limiting condition for operation of a nuclear reactor is not met, the licensee shall shut down the reactor or follow any remedial action permitted by the technical specifications until the condition can be met. When a limiting condition for operation of any process step in the system of a fuel reprocessing plant is not met, the licensee shall shut down that part of the operation or follow any remedial action permitted by the technical specifications until the condition can be met. In the case of a nuclear reactor not licensed under §50.21(b) or §50.22 of this part or fuel reprocessing plant, the licensee shall notify the Commission, review the matter, and record the results of the review, including the cause of the condition and the basis for corrective action taken to preclude recurrence. The licensee shall retain the record of the results of each review until the Commission terminates the license for the nuclear reactor or the fuel reprocessing plant. In the case of nuclear power reactors licensed under §50.21(b) or §50.22, the licensee shall notify the Commission if required by §50.72 and shall submit a Licensee Event Report to the Commission as required by §50.73. In this case, licensees shall retain records associated with preparation of a Licensee Event Report for a period of three years following issuance of the report. For events which do not require a Licensee Event Report, the licensee shall retain each record as required by the technical specifications. (ii) A technical specification limiting condition for operation of a nuclear reactor must be established for each item meeting one or more of the following criteria: (A) Criterion 1. Installed instrumentation that is used to detect, and indicate in the control room, a significant abnormal degradation of the reactor coolant pressure boundary. (B) Criterion 2. A process variable, design feature, or operating restriction that is an initial condition of a design basis accident or transient analysis that either assumes the failure of or presents a challenge to the integrity of a fission product barrier. (C) Criterion 3. A structure, system, or component that is part of the primary success path and which functions or actuates to mitigate a design basis accident or transient that either assumes the failure of or presents a challenge to the integrity of a fission product barrier. (D) Criterion 4. A structure, system, or component which operating experience or probabilistic safety assessment has shown to be significant to public health and safety. (iii) A licensee is not required to modify technical specifications that are included in any license issued before [THE EFFECTIVE DATE OF THE FINAL RULE] to satisfy the criteria in paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section. However, for technical specification amendments a licensee proposes after [THE EFFECTIVE DATE OF THE FINAL RULE], the criteria in paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section provide an acceptable scope for limiting conditions for operation. (3) Surveillance requirements. Surveillance requirements are requirements relating to test, calibration, or inspection to assure that the necessary quality of systems and components is maintained, that facility operation will be within safety limits, and that the limiting conditions for operation will be met. * * * * * Dated at Rockville, Maryland, this 14th day of September, 1994. For the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. John C. Hoyle, Acting Secretary of the Commission. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;23202 Filed 9&hyph;19&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 7590&hyph;01&hyph;P
