FR940328-2-00012 FR940328-2-00008 Proposed MIC Recommendation. Included at this time for Completeness. Also, acronyms used in this package are provided as part of this letter for reference. Memorandum For: W/WR_Thomas D. Potter From: Norman C. Hoffmann, MIC, WSFO San Francisco Subject: Recommendation for Relocation Certification After reviewing the documentation herein, I have determined that, in my professional judgment, relocating the Weather Service Forecast Office (WSFO) for the northern and central California service area from Redwood City to Monterey will not result in any degradation in weather services to this service area. Accordingly, I am recommending that you approve this section in accordance with section 706 of Public Law 102&hyph;567. If you concur, please endorse this recommendation and forward the package for transmittal to Congress. My recommendation is based on my review of the pertinent evidence and application of the modernization criteria for relocation of a field office. In summary: 1. A description of local weather characteristics and weather-related concerns which affect the weather services provided within the northern and central California service area is included as attachment A. As discussed below, I find that providing the services that address these characteristics and concerns from Monterey rather than from Redwood City will not degrade these services. 2. A detailed list of the services currently provided within the northern and central California service area from the Redwood City location and a list of services to be provided from the Monterey location after relocation is included as attachment B. Comparison of these services shows that all services currently provided will continue to be provided after the proposed relocation. As discussed below, I find that there will be no degradation in the quality of these services as a result of the relocation. 3. A description of the recent or expected modernization of National Weather Service operations which will enhance services in the service area is included as attachment C. The new technology listed (ASOS, WSR&hyph;88D, and AWIPS) has or will be installed and will enhance services in the northern and central California service area. 4. A map showing planned NEXRAD coverage at an elevation of 10,000 feet for California is included as attachment D. It identifies a limited area within the State (in the Sierra Nevadas) which will not receive coverage. It should be noted that this area does not have any NWS radar coverage at this time. NWS operational radar coverage for the State and for the specific service area will be increased dramatically. 5. A relocation checklist setting forth all necessary steps to accomplish the proposed relocation without a disruption of services is included as attachment E. In finalizing this checklist, I carefully considered the evidence from already completed office moves and the comments on my draft checklist from the MICs responsible for these completed moves [and from users and/or the public during the comment period.] Thus, the relevant aspects of ``battle plan'' and other planning materials from the successful move from Ann Arbor to White Lake, Michigan are fully incorporated, for example, extra care in ensuring an appropriate moving contractor. (The move from Philadelphia to Mount Holly, New Jersey also suggests adding this particular check point.) I note that several recommendations made by the other MIC's, such as a new phone system and a new demark box are already planned for the Monterey facility. [Final letter may point out any important changes resulting from user/public comment] This checklist includes all of the items required by the modernization relocation criteria. In particular, to satisfy Item 1 requiring ``notification and technical coordination with users,'' I include as attachments F & G, a list of the users in the SWFO San Francisco Bay Area service area that will be notified of the relocation and a draft of the notification letter I plan to send to these users approximately 60 days prior to the relocation. 6. In reaching my conclusion that no degradation in service will result from this relocation, I considered evidence, based upon operational demonstration of modernized National Weather Service operations, of two types: First is the evidence based on existing operations in Redwood City which will remain the same once the office is relocated in Monterey. Staff will continue to receive the same data and information on the same computer terminals and comparable display monitors and will disseminate their products over the same telecommunications network to the media and other users as they did before. In other words, in this case, ``modernized'' operations after the relocation will be the same as existing operations. I am certain there is no reason to anticipate any effect on the quality of services throughout the affected service area simply because they will be provided from a new location.
