FR940228-0-00009 FR940228-0-00002 Comment: One comment indicated concern that the replant provision could be interpreted to mean that a crop that had sustained 1% damage before the final planting date must be replanted. The comment recommended ``damage'' be defined to mean damaged to the extent that the crop will not be further cared for, will not be harvested, or will be abandoned. Response: FCIC agrees that the amount of damage should be clarified. Language has been added clarifying that any acreage damaged to the extent that growers in the area would not further care for the crop must be replanted unless replanting is not practical. The same change has been made to similar provisions for barley and wheat acreage (subparagraphs 7.(a)(2)(ii), 7.(a)(2)(iii), and 7.(a)(2)(iv)). Comment: One comment stated that clarification is needed regarding the definition of ``practical to replant.'' Response: FCIC agrees with the comment and has clarified the definition. The new definition clarifies that it is practical to replant if it is ``our determination, after loss or damage to the insured crop, based on factors, including but not limited to moisture availability, condition of the field, time to crop maturity, etc., that a replanting of the insured crop will attain maturity in the remainder of the crop year.'' Comment: A comment inquired as to the practicality of replanting wheat before the fall planting date. Response: Replanting wheat before the fall final planting date is considered practical if certain conditions are met. Comment: Three comments suggested that coverage limitations applicable to winter wheat also apply to winter barley. One of the comments also inquired if the requirement that a written request be made to insure fall planted wheat in counties with only a spring final planting date would result in extra paperwork. Response: FCIC agrees that the limitations that apply to wheat should also apply to barley. The provisions have been modified accordingly. A written request to insure the fall planted acreage will serve to notify the insurer that a crop inspection is necessary in the spring to determine whether or not an adequate stand exists in the spring. Comment: One comment noted that the provisions of section 7 specifically state that spring wheat damaged prior to the spring final planting date must be reseeded. The comment recommended that specific wording be added to state that damaged fall wheat must be reseeded prior to the fall final planting date and that no replanting payment applies. Response: FCIC agrees that this clarification should be made. The provisions have been modified to state that any acreage damaged prior to the fall final planting date must be replanted to winter wheat unless FCIC agrees it is not practical. Paragraph 9.(a)(4) clearly indicates that a replanting payment for damage occurring prior to the fall final planting date is not allowed. Therefore, language regarding replanting payments was not added. Comment: The following questions regarding winter wheat were submitted: a. When winter wheat is planted in a county that has only a spring final planting date, will the winter wheat be insured using the spring wheat yield or will the RSO set a winter wheat yield on the written agreement? b. Will the winter wheat production be considered spring wheat for APH purposes or must winter wheat APH yield be established?
