FR940303-2-00208 FR940303-2-00099 Guidelines Eligibility Institutions: In the U.S., participation in the program is open to accredited two-year and four-year colleges and universities, including graduate schools. Consortia of universities and/or community colleges, individually or as systems, are also eligible. U.S. colleges and universities or consortia applying under this program may collaborate with U.S. scholarly, professional, or international educational associations and organizations. Proposals from a consortium may be submitted by a single member institution with authority to represent the consortium. Overseas, participation is limited to recognized degree-granting institutions of higher education and internationally recognized and highly regarded independent research institutes. Special Note: The Agency encourages proposals from eligible Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs) and other institutions in the U.S. with significant minority student enrollment. Consortia of colleges/universities including such institutions are also strongly encouraged to apply. Institutional Representatives: Each participant representing a U.S. institution, whose travel costs are covered under UDPBM funding, must be a U.S. citizen. Each participant representing a foreign institution must be a citizen, national, or permanent resident of the eligible foreign country in which the foreign partner institution is located. Grant Activities Grant activities must include placement of U.S. faculty at Central and East European institutions for in-country training of foreign faculty and for development of sustainable programs to educate future foreign business management teachers and business people. An important goal of the program is to create enduring linkages between the designated foreign institutions and U.S. colleges and universities. Targeted program activities may include: Faculty development and enrichment; curriculum design; modernization of the administrative structures within the foreign institution; outreach to the private sector; and direct teaching. U.S. and foreign participants may include post-graduate students on a ``faculty track'' who are currently involved in teaching at participating institutions (not to exceed 25% of all participants). Components for the development of college/university-to-private sector linkages and the development of appropriate materials are encouraged. Orientation, seminar, workshop and semester-long course formats will be acceptable. Visits to partner institutions by staff or consultants to plan joint projects may be funded under this grant but should be a relatively small part of the overall exchange. Preference will be given to proposals in which a U.S. faculty member is placed at the foreign partner institution for at least one academic year. Courses developed may include, but are not limited to: Marketing, production management, economics, industrial relations, finance, accounting, and international business and business communications. Proposals should provide for a two-way exchange. Exchange activities should include establishment of electronic communications between partner institutions and other networks. Ineligibility A proposal will be deemed technically ineligible if: 1. It does not fully adhere to the guidelines established herein and in the application packet, including budgetary requirements. 2. The applicant is not an accredited U.S. two-year or four-year college or university; 3. The project does not constitute a direct partnership with a post-secondary business management program in Albania, Bulgaria, Croatia, Czech Republic, Slovak Republic, Hungary, Macedonia, Poland, Romania or Slovenia; 4. The project involves partnerships in more than one country; 5. The project does not seek to address the faculty, curriculum, and administrative aspects entailed in developing the business management program identified; 6. The project does not provide for in-country presence of U.S. faculty; or 7. The project includes profits or fee. Proposed Budget
