FR941122-0-00014 FR941122-0-00005 (a) Office of the Commissioner. The Attorney General has delegated to the Commissioner, the principal officer of the Immigration and Naturalization Service, authority to administer and enforce the Immigration and Nationality Act and all other laws relating to immigration, naturalization, and nationality as prescribed and limited by 28 CFR 0.105. (1) Office of the General Counsel. Headed by the General Counsel, the office provides legal advice to the Commissioner, the Deputy Commissioner, and staff; prepares legislative reports; assists in litigation; prepares briefs and other legal memoranda when necessary; directs the activities of the regional counsel; oversees the professional activities of all Service attorneys assigned to field offices; and, makes recommendations on all personnel matters involving Service attorneys. (2) Office of Congressional Relations. Headed by the Director of Congressional Relations, the office is responsible for establishing and maintaining effective liaison with the Congress, Department of Justice, and other agencies on such matters as bills, mark-ups, hearings, and Congressional inquiries. (3) Office of Public Affairs. Headed by the Director of Public Affairs, the office is responsible for establishing and maintaining public affairs policy, serving as liaison with various constituent communities (intergovernmental, public, news organization, etc.) to communicate Service initiatives, such as naturalization and employer education, and producing public information products. (4) Office of Internal Audit. Headed by the Director of Internal Audit, the office promotes economy, efficiency, and effectiveness within the Service by managing the Service's systems for resolving alleged mismanagement and misconduct by Service employees; reviewing and evaluating the efficiency and effectiveness of Service operations and programs; collecting and analyzing data to identify patterns of deficiencies or other weaknesses warranting investigative or audit follow-up; making recommendations on disciplinary policies and procedures of the Service; overseeing Service systems to eliminate fraud, waste, and abuse in the workplace; and acting as the Service's liaison with outside audit/inspection agencies. These duties are executed in coordination with other components of the Service and other Department of Justice components. (b) Office of the Deputy Commissioner. Headed by the Deputy Commissioner, the office is authorized to exercise all power and authority of the Commissioner unless any such power or authority is required by law to be exercised by the Commissioner personally. The Deputy Commissioner advises and assists the Commissioner in formulating and implementing Service policies and programs, and provides supervision and direction to all organizational units of the Service. The Deputy Commissioner also performs such other duties as may be assigned from time-to-time by the Commissioner. In addition, the Deputy Commissioner supervises the four Executive Associate Commissioners for Programs, Field Operations, Policy and Planning, and Management. (c) Office of the Executive Associate Commissioner for Programs _(1) General. (i) Headed by the Executive Associate Commissioner for Programs, the office is responsible for policy development and review as well as integration of the Service's enforcement and examinations programs. This office has primary responsibility for the planning, oversight, and advancement of programs engaged in interpretation of the immigration and nationality laws and the development of regulations to assist in activities, including: (A) The granting of benefits and privileges to those qualified to receive them; (B) Withholding of benefits from those ineligible; (C) Control of the borders and prevention of illegal entry into the United States; (D) Detection, apprehension, detention, and removal of illegal aliens; and (E) Enforcement of employer sanctions and other provisions of immigration-related law. (ii) In addition to overseeing enforcement and examination policy matters, the Office of Programs is also responsible for immigration records. The Executive Associate Commissioner for Programs promulgates policy, provides direction and supervises the activities of the Offices of Enforcement and Examinations. (2) Office of Enforcement. Headed by the Associate Commissioner for Enforcement, the office is responsible for the planning, oversight, and advancement of enforcement programs engaged in interpretation of the immigration and nationality laws, and the development of Service policies to assist enforcement activities. The Associate Commissioner for Enforcement directly supervises the Headquarters: (i) Border Patrol Division; (ii) Investigations Division; (iii) Detention and Deportation Division; (iv) Intelligence Division; and (v) Asset Forfeiture Office.
