FR940621-0-00033 FR940621-0-00017 NTSB safety recommendations A&hyph;78&hyph;5 through A&hyph;78&hyph;12, issued in 1978, also addressed ELT problems; they are now classified by the NTSB as ``Closed-Acceptable Action,'' primarily because TSO&hyph;91a was issued. Following the issuance of the new TSO, in 1987 the NTSB issued safety recommendation A&hyph;87&hyph;104, that recommends existing ELT's be replaced with ELT's that comply with TSO&hyph;C921a by 1989. That safety recommendation also urged that ELT's be subject to specific maintenance requirements. In October 1990, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) and the FAA completed a report entitled, ``Current Emergency Locator Transmitter (ELT) Deficiencies and Potential Improvements Utilizing TSO&hyph;C91a ELT's'', hereafter referred to as the FAA/NASA report. This report consolidates and analyzes most of the known data on ELT problems and quantifies the safety problem. General aviation accident and fatality data from the NTSB form the cornerstone of the report. The most significant conclusions derived from the report show: 23 to 58 lives are lost per year due to ELT failures; 15 percent of ELT failures are attributed to poor or no ELT maintenance; and after excluding lives lost attributed to maintenance-related ELT failures, 64 percent or 13 to 31 of the lives lost each year could be saved with a complete transition to TSO&hyph;C91a ELT's. Based on the known unsatisfactory performance of the TSO&hyph;C91 ELT's during the 1970's and 1980's, the FAA issued Notice No. 90&hyph;11 (55 FR 12316, April 2, 1990). This notice proposed that ELT's approved under TSO&hyph;C91a (or later issued TSO's for ELT's) be required for all future installations. The NPRM further proposed that the manufacture of the TSO&hyph;C91 ELT's be simultaneously terminated with issuance of a final rule. The term ``future installations'' applies to newly manufactured airplanes, and to the replacement of existing ELT's as they become unusable or unserviceable. Additionally, the FAA solicited comments on the need for a fleet-wide ELT replacement program and specific maintenance requirements. These issues are addressed below. Sources of Information Referenced Below NTSB Recommendations 1. NTSB safety recommendations A&hyph;78&hyph;5 through A&hyph;78&hyph;12, issued 1978; 2. NTSB safety recommendations A&hyph;87&hyph;104, issued 1987. Reference Material (1) The National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) and the FAA, a report entitled, ``Current Emergency Locator Transmitter (ELT) Deficiencies and Potential Improvements Utilizing TSO&hyph;C91a ELT's'', (FAA/NASA report), October 1990. (2) FAA Action Notice A 8150.3 (July 23, 1990). Related Activity (1) Publication of this document coincides with notice of the FAA's withdrawal of manufacturing authority for ELT's produced under TSO&hyph;C91. (2) The Aviation Rulemaking Advisory Committee (ARAC) has been tasked to make recommendations concerning an ELT retrofit policy. Discussion of Comments The FAA received 51 written comments in response to Notice No. 90&hyph;11 from individuals, manufacturers, equipment users, associations, and government agencies. Twenty-two support the proposed rule or its intent while 20 express concern or nonsupport. Most of the nonsupport commenters, however, address the fleet-wide replacement of automatic ELT's rather than the proposal for new installations. Nine of the comments do not take a position for or against the proposals; however, they offer suggestions and advice. Nineteen of the commenters supporting the rule represent major segments of the aviation search and rescue community such as government agencies and associations. These commenters also agree on the unsatisfactory performance of current TSO&hyph;C91 ELT's. Failure to Activate_Automatic ELT's Eleven of the commenters contributed information supporting the implementation of TSO&hyph;C91a, and stated that it would have a dramatic effect on reducing activation failures and would increase the likelihood of locating airplanes after accidents. Most commenters agreed with the conclusions identified in the FAA/NASA report explaining that failure-to-activate was caused by: _Insufficient impact deceleration to cause the crash sensor (G-switch) to activate the ELT; _Improper installation; _Battery problems; _Fire damage; _Impact damage; _Antenna broken/disconnected; _Water submersion; _Unit not armed; _Internal failure; _Packing device still installed; _Remote switch in off position; and _ELT shielded by wreckage or terrain (although not an initial failure, this was listed as another reason for the ELT not functioning). An ELT manufacturer states that the term ``failure to activate'' encompasses two groups of cases that should not be treated in the same manner. Group 1 situations are those in which the ELT does not operate after a crash because it has a mechanical defect or failure. Group 2 situations are those in which the ELT does not operate because the crash forces are insufficient to activate it. This commenter states that the Group 2 cases should not be classified as ELT failures because the ELT's did what they were supposed to do when they did not activate. The commenter asserts that any ``failure'' associated with the Group 2 cases is a shortcoming of the current TSO&hyph;C91 standard that established the crash sensor sensitivity specifications.
