FR940819-0-00059 FR940819-0-00017 5. Exemption for Pump-out Units From 15-pound Limit for System-Dependent Equipment Section 82.156(c) prohibits the use of system-dependent equipment with appliances normally containing more than 15 pounds of refrigerant. This prohibition was intended to cover small, portable system-dependent equipment, which is not designed for the recovery of large quantities of refrigerant. As noted above, however, some large chillers are equipped with built-in pump-out units that could also be considered ``system-dependent equipment,'' but that are designed to be used for the recovery of large quantities of refrigerant. EPA did not intend to prohibit the use of such pump-out units for recovery. Thus, EPA is revising §82.156(c) to read ``System-dependent equipment shall not be used with appliances normally containing more than 15 pounds of refrigerant, unless the system-dependent equipment is permanently attached to the appliance as a pump-out unit.'' 6. Applicability Solely to Equipment Containing More Than 50 Pounds of Refrigerant of Leak Repair and Associated Recordkeeping Requirements Section 82.156(i), the leak repair requirement, contains two subparagraphs that apply to owners of different types of equipment. The first subparagraph, §82.156(i)(1), applies to ``owners of commercial refrigeration and industrial process refrigeration,'' specifying no lower size limit for covered equipment. The second subparagraph, §82.156(i)(2), applies to ``owners of appliances normally containing more than 50 pounds of refrigerant and not covered by paragraph (i)(1).'' EPA has received numerous inquiries regarding whether or not it intended to include a lower size limit in the first subparagraph. Although EPA did not explicitly restrict the scope of its leak repair requirement for commercial and industrial process refrigeration to equipment containing more than 50 pounds of refrigerant, EPA intended this requirement to cover only equipment containing at least 50 pounds. The definition of commercial refrigeration includes a note that ``[a]ll of the equipment contains large refrigerant charges, typically over 75 pounds,'' and the discussion of industrial process refrigeration that appears in the preamble to the rule includes a note that ``charge sizes can be very large, ranging from 750&hyph;3000 lbs for ice rinks, and rising as high as 20,000 lbs for built-up centrifugal units.'' (No other charge sizes are mentioned.) The preamble also notes: The 50-pound cut-off is intended to exempt smaller equipment where the cost of repairing the leak is an order of magnitude higher than the environmental benefit of repairing the leak (RIA). The 50-pound cut-off is also consistent with guidance found in the ASHRAE Guideline 3&hyph;1990 (58 FR 28680). This rationale applies to commercial and industrial process refrigeration as well as to other large appliances. In order to clarify that only commercial and industrial process refrigeration equipment containing more than 50 pounds is covered by the leak repair requirements, EPA is now specifying this limit in §82.156(i)(1). D. Equipment Certification 1. Measurement of Recovery Rates Section 82.158(b)(6) requires manufacturers of recycling and recovery equipment to have an approved equipment testing organization measure the liquid and vapor recovery rates of equipment as part of the equipment certification process. EPA required measurement and publication of these recovery rates in order to ensure that technicians would not inadvertently purchase equipment whose recovery rates were too low for the intended application; the Agency was concerned that a technician purchasing underpowered equipment would be tempted to interrupt the resulting lengthy recovery process before it was complete. However, some types of equipment do not have inherent liquid and vapor recovery rates. For instance, the recovery rate of system-dependent equipment depends upon the compressor of the individual appliance from which it is recovering refrigerant. EPA intended to exempt this equipment from the requirement to have its liquid and vapor recovery rate measured. First, system-dependent equipment certified pursuant to §82.158(b) typically has a higher recovery rate than self-contained equipment, because appliance compressors are usually larger and therefore faster than recovery equipment compressors. Second, the use of system- dependent equipment is limited to appliances normally containing less than 15 pounds of refrigerant. Thus, low recovery rates are not a concern for such equipment. EPA is therefore amending Section 82.158(b)(6) of the rule to clarify that equipment with no inherent liquid or vapor recovery rates need not have these rates measured. E. Technician Certification 6 6 Additional revisions to §82.161 have been proposed by EPA. (See Federal Register published 8&hyph;15&hyph;94) These proposed changes will more clearly delineate who is required to be certified. Section 82.161(a) requires that technicians be certified. EPA exempted from this requirement technicians that are disposing of small appliances, room air conditioners, and MVACs because these technicians are only recovering the refrigerant prior to the disposal of this equipment. As discussed earlier, persons disposing of this equipment were exempt from the requirement because the nature of this work is straight-forward. As outlined above, EPA is extending this exemption to MVAC-like appliances. Throughout the rule, EPA states that since MVAC appliances and MVAC-like appliances are similar in nature and design, it is appropriate for these technicians to be treated in a similar fashion. In §82.161(a)(5), EPA provides a method for those servicing MVAC-like appliances to be certified by attending a program designed and approved under section 609 for training and certifying MVAC technicians. Therefore, to maintain consistency as discussed in Section A of this rulemaking, EPA will extend the exemption from the certification requirement to technicians that are disposing of MVAC-like appliances. In addition, since ``room air conditioners'' are considered a type of small appliance, and small appliances are already excepted from the certification requirement, EPA will delete ``room air conditioners'' from the list of exceptions.
