FR940607-1-00006 FR940607-1-00001 (c) Briefs. Briefs in support of or in opposition to an appeal shall be filed with the Office of the Immigration Judge or, where the appeal is from a decision of a Service Officer, with the officer of the Service having administrative control over the case. If the alien concerned is not detained, the appellant shall be provided 30 days in which to file a brief unless a shorter period is specified by the Immigration Judge or by the Service Officer from whose decision the appeal is taken. If the alien concerned is detained, the appellant shall be provided 14 days in which to file a brief, unless a shorter period is specified by the Immigration Judge or by the Service Officer from whose decision the appeal is taken. The appellee shall have the same period of time in which to file a reply brief that was initially granted to the appellant to file his or her brief. The time to file a reply brief commences from the date upon which the appellant's brief was due, as originally set or extended by the Board, or the date upon which such brief was filed, whichever is earlier. The Board, upon motion, may extend the period for filing a brief or a reply brief for up to 90 days for good cause shown and may authorize the filing of briefs directly with it. If, in its discretion, the Board determines that the interests of justice would be served thereby, it may consider a brief filed out of time in its adjudication of an appeal. All briefs and motions regarding the filing of briefs shall include proof of service of the brief or motion on the opposing party. 7. Section 3.4 is revised to read as follows: §3.4 Withdrawal of appeal. In any case in which an appeal has been taken, the party taking the appeal may file a written withdrawal thereof with the office at which the notice of appeal was filed. If the record in the case has not been forwarded to the Board on appeal in accordance with §3.5 of this part, the decision made in the case shall be final to the same extent as if no appeal had been taken. If the record has been forwarded on appeal, the withdrawal of the appeal shall be forwarded to the Board and, if no decision in the case has been made on the appeal, the record shall be returned and the initial decision shall be final to the same extent as if no appeal had been taken. If a decision on the appeal shall have been made by the Board in the case, further action shall be taken in accordance therewith. Departure from the United States of a person who is the subject of deportation proceedings subsequent to the taking of an appeal but prior to a decision thereon shall constitute a withdrawal of the appeal and the initial decision in the case shall be final to the same extent as though no appeal had been taken. 8. Section 3.5 is revised to read as follows: §3.5 Forwarding of record on appeal. If an appeal is taken from a decision, as provided in this chapter, the entire record of proceeding shall be forwarded to the Board by the office having administrative jurisdiction over the case upon timely receipt of the briefs of the parties, or upon expiration of the time allowed for the submission of such briefs. After an appeal to the Board has been filed, a district director or regional service center director need not forward such appeal to the Board, but may reopen and reconsider any decision made by the director, if the director's new decision will grant the benefit that has been requested in the appeal, provided that the director's new decision must be served on the appealing party within 45 days of receipt of any briefs or upon expiration of the time allowed for the submission of any briefs. If the director's new decision is not served within these time limits or the appealing party does not agree that the new decision disposes of the matter, the record of proceeding shall be immediately forwarded to the Board. 9. Section 3.6 is revised to read as follows: §3.6 Stay of execution of decision. (a) Except as provided under §242.2(d) of this chapter and paragraph (b) of this section, the decision in any proceeding under this chapter from which an appeal to the Board may be taken shall not be executed during the time allowed for the filing of an appeal unless a waiver of the right to appeal is filed, nor shall such decision be executed while an appeal is pending or while a case is before the Board by way of certification.
