FR940616-0-00011 FR940616-0-00003 This final rule also reinstates the minimum size (weight and diameter) requirements for avocados and the skin color maturity requirements for avocados imported from all foreign countries by lifting the suspended provisions of §944.31. However, this final rule exempts the Hass, Fuerte, Zutano, and Edranol varieties of avocados from such import maturity requirements, because such varieties are not grown in commercial quantities in Florida and regulated under the Florida avocado maturity requirements in §915.332. This final rule obviates the need for exempting avocados imported from the southern hemisphere, since the major varieties imported from the southern hemisphere are the Hass, Fuerte, Zutano, and Edranol varieties. This final rule also adds language to §944.31 to cite the minimum size (weight and diameter) and skin color maturity requirements, and define the term ``diameter''. This final rule also exempts imported avocados under §944.31 from minimum weight, diameter, and color maturity requirements if they are to be used in certain specified outlets. Similar exemptions from grade requirements established for imported avocados under §944.28 were implemented by an interim final rule published in the Federal Register [58 FR 69182, December 30, 1993], with an effective date of January 1, 1994. The avocado import maturity regulation [7 CFR 944.31] is based on the maturity requirements in effect for avocados grown in Florida under the order throughout the year. Under the order, any person may handle avocados without regard to established grade, size, quality, or maturity requirements provided that such avocados are handled for (1) consumption by charitable institutions; (2) distribution by relief agencies; (3) commercial processing into products; (4) seed; or (5) individual shipments of up to 55 pounds. Prior to issuance of this rule, the only exemption allowed under the avocado import regulation was that for individual shipments of up to 55 pounds. Thus, this final rule adds consumption by charitable institutions, distribution by relief agencies, seed, and commercial processing into products to the list of exemptions allowed under the avocado import regulation. To ensure that imported avocados exempt from the maturity requirements are utilized in exempt outlets, this rule states that such avocados be subject to the safeguard procedures for imported fruit established in §944.350 [58 FR 69182, December 30, 1993]. Under these procedures, an importer wishing to import avocados covered herein for uses in other than regulated commercial channels, must complete in triplicate, prior to importation, an ``Importer's Exempt Commodity Form.'' One copy will notify the Marketing Order Administration Branch (MOAB) of the Fruit and Vegetable Division, AMS, and the second copy will notify the U.S. Customs Service of the importer's intent to import a commodity under an exemption. The third copy will accompany the exempt lot to the receiver. The form may be obtained from either the inspection or customs offices serving the port of entry. The form may also be obtained from the MOAB in Washington, DC or from its Marketing Field Offices in Fresno, California; Portland, Oregon; McAllen, Texas; or Winter Haven, Florida. The form must be completed at the time the commodity enters the United States. Copies are to be returned to the U.S. Customs Service at the time the commodity is offered for importation and to MOAB within 15 days after completion of the form. Information called for on the ``Importer's Exempt Commodity Form'' includes: (1) The commodity and the variety (if known) being imported, (2) The date and place of inspection, if applicable, (3) Identifying marks or numbers on the containers, (4) Identifying numbers on the railroad car, truck or other transportation vehicle transporting product to the receiver, (5) The name and address of the importer, (6) The place and date of entry, (7) The quantity imported, (8) the name and address of the intended receiver (eg. processor, feeder, charity, or other exempt receiver), (9) Intended use of the exempt commodity, (10) The U.S. Customs Service entry number and harmonized tariff code number, and (11) Such other information as may be necessary to ensure compliance with this regulation.
