FR941121-0-00043 FR941121-0-00002 Two commenters request that the proposed compliance time of 12 months be extended to accomplish the proposed modification of the shock absorbers. One of these commenters requests that the compliance time be extended to 24 months. The other commenter requests that the compliance time be extended to 60 months, in light of the low probability of duplicating the combination of factors that may result in an accident. This commenter notes that, due to the unavailability of manpower and tooling, the proposed modification would result in a minimum of three days of downtime per airplane. Both commenters state that the manufacturer may be unable to provide an adequate number of MLG pistons to accomplish the modification within the proposed 12-month compliance time. The FAA concurs that the compliance time may be extended somewhat. The FAA acknowledges the low probability of duplicating all of the factors that may result in an accident. However, in the unlikely event that all of the factors should be duplicated, airplanes equipped with dual stage shock absorbers would be able to activate, at an earlier stage of the landing roll, all available braking devices, including the deployment of ground spoilers, application of wheel brakes, and deployment of thrust reversers. Proper activation of braking devices would permit the airplane to land within the distances specified in the FAA-approved AFM. In light of the potential for these airplanes to overrun the end of the runway due to delayed onset of braking, the FAA cannot concur with the one commenter's request to extend the compliance time to 60 months; the FAA considers that such an extension (five times the amount of time proposed) would adversely affect safety. However, it was not the FAA's intent to impose an undue economic burden on operators by requiring them to take airplanes out of service for an extended period of time due to the problem posed by a lack of available parts to accomplish the modification required by this AD. Although the airframe manufacturer has indicated that ample modification parts are currently available, the supplier of those parts has indicated that shipping to operators may take an extended period of time. In light of this, the FAA has determined that an extension of the compliance time to 18 months is appropriate; it will allow sufficient time for operators to obtain the parts necessary to accomplish the modification, while minimizing the economic burden on operators. The FAA finds that this extension of the compliance time will not adversely affect the safety of the fleet. Accordingly, paragraph (a) of the final rule has been revised to extend the compliance time to accomplish the modification of the shock absorber to 18 months. After careful review of the available data, including the comments noted above, the FAA has determined that air safety and the public interest require the adoption of the rule with the change previously described. The FAA has determined that this change will neither increase the economic burden on any operator nor increase the scope of the AD. The FAA estimates that 35 airplanes of U.S. registry will be affected by this AD, that it will take approximately 58 work hours per airplane to accomplish the required actions, and that the average labor rate is $55 per work hour. Required parts will cost approximately $16,000 per airplane. Based on these figures, the total cost impact of the AD on U.S. operators is estimated to be $671,650, or $19,190 per airplane. The total cost impact figure discussed above is based on assumptions that no operator has yet accomplished any of the requirements of this AD action, and that no operator would accomplish those actions in the future if this AD were not adopted. The regulations adopted herein will not have substantial direct effects on the States, on the relationship between the national government and the States, or on the distribution of power and responsibilities among the various levels of government. Therefore, in accordance with Executive Order 12612, it is determined that this final rule does not have sufficient federalism implications to warrant the preparation of a Federalism Assessment. For the reasons discussed above, I certify that this action (1) is not a ``significant regulatory action'' under Executive Order 12866; (2) is not a ``significant rule'' under DOT Regulatory Policies and Procedures (44 FR 11034, February 26, 1979); and (3) will not have a significant economic impact, positive or negative, on a substantial number of small entities under the criteria of the Regulatory Flexibility Act. A final evaluation has been prepared for this action and it is contained in the Rules Docket. A copy of it may be obtained from the Rules Docket at the location provided under the caption ADDRESSES . List of Subjects in 14 CFR Part 39 Air transportation, Aircraft, Aviation safety, Incorporation by reference, Safety. Adoption of the Amendment Accordingly, pursuant to the authority delegated to me by the Administrator, the Federal Aviation Administration amends part 39 of the Federal Aviation Regulations (14 CFR part 39) as follows: PART 39_AIRWORTHINESS DIRECTIVES 1. The authority citation for part 39 continues to read as follows: Authority: 49 U.S.C. App. 1354(a), 1421 and 1423; 49 U.S.C. 106(g); and 14 CFR 11.89. §39.13 [Amended] 2. Section 39.13 is amended by adding the following new airworthiness directive: 94&hyph;23&hyph;06␣Airbus Industrie: Amendment 39&hyph;9068. Docket 93&hyph;NM&hyph;210&hyph;AD. Applicability: Model A320&hyph;111, &hyph;211, and &hyph;231 airplanes, as listed in Airbus Industrie Service Bulletin A320&hyph;32&hyph;1058, Revision 2, dated June 16, 1993, certificated in any category. Compliance: Required as indicated, unless accomplished previously.
