FR940208-2-00165 FR940208-2-00092 75A. In setting the date by which a Determination on Remand shall be due from the investigating authority, the panel shall take into account, among other factors, (a) the date that any Determination on Remand with respect to the same goods is due from the other investigating authority, and (b) the effect the Determination on Remand from the other investigating authority might have on the deliberations of the investigating authority with respect to the making of a final Determination on Remand. Re-examination of Orders and Decisions 76. A clerical error in an order or decision of a panel, or an error in an order or decision of a panel arising from any accidental oversight, inaccuracy or omission, may be corrected by the panel at any time during the panel review. 77. (1) A participant may, within 10 days after a panel issues its decision, file a Notice of Motion requesting that the panel re-examine its decision for the purpose of correcting an accidental oversight, inaccuracy or omission, which shall set out (a) the oversight, inaccuracy or omission with respect to which the request is made; (b) the relief requested; and (c) if ascertainable, a statement as to whether other participants consent to the motion. (2) The grounds for a motion referred to in subrule (1) shall be limited to one or both of the following grounds: (a) that the decision does not accord with the reasons therefor; or (b) that some matter has been accidentally overlooked, stated inaccurately or omitted by the panel. (3) No Notice of Motion referred to in subrule (1) shall set out any argument already made in the panel review. (4) There shall be no oral argument in support of a motion referred to in subrule (1). (5) Except as the panel may otherwise order under subrule (6)(b), no participant shall file a response to a Notice of Motion filed pursuant to subrule (1). (6) Within seven days after the filing of a Notice of Motion under subrule (1), the panel shall (a) issue a decision ruling on the motion; or (b) issue an order identifying further action to be taken concerning the motion. (7) A decision or order under subrule (6) may be made with the concurrence of any three panelists. Delay in Delivery of Decisions 78. Where a panelist becomes unable to fulfil panel duties, is disqualified or dies, panel proceedings and the running of time periods shall be suspended, pending the appointment of a substitute panelist in accordance with the procedures set out in Annex 1901.2 to Chapter Nineteen of the Agreement. 79. Where a panelist becomes unable to fulfil panel duties, is disqualified or dies after the oral argument, the chairperson may order that the matter be reheard, on such terms as are appropriate, after selection of a substitute panelist. Part VIII_Completion of Panel Review 79A. (1) Subject to subrule (2), when a panel issues: (a) an order dismissing a panel review under subrule 61(2) or 73(1), (b) a decision under rule 74 or subrule 75(5) that is the final action in the panel review, or (c) an order under subrule 75(4), the panel shall direct the responsible Secretary to issue a Notice of Final Panel Action (model form provided in the Schedule) on the eleventh day thereafter. (2) Where a motion is filed pursuant to subrule 77(1) regarding a decision referred to in subrule (1)(b), the responsible Secretary shall issue the Notice of Final Panel Action on the day on which the panel (a) issues a ruling finally disposing of the motion; or (b) directs the responsible Secretary to issue the Notice of Final Panel Action, the issuance of which shall constitute a denial of the motion.
