FR940511-0-00074 FR940511-0-00015 (iii) Water generated by routine vessel operations (e.g., cooling water, deck wash down and graywater as defined by Section 312 of the FWPCA) excluding oily wastes from bilge pumping; (iv) Engine exhaust; or (v) dredge spoil in connection with beach nourishment projects related to harbor maintenance activities. (3) Discharging or depositing, from beyond the boundary of the Sanctuary, any material or other matter, except those listed in paragraphs (a)(2) (i) through (v) of this §925.5, that subsequently enters the Sanctuary and injures a Sanctuary resource or quality. (4) Moving, removing or injuring, or attempting to move, remove or injure, a Sanctuary historical resource. This prohibition does not apply to moving, removing or injury resulting incidentally from traditional fishing operations. (5) Drilling into, dredging or otherwise altering the seabed of the Sanctuary; or constructing, placing or abandoning any structure, material or other matter on the seabed of the Sanctuary, except as an incidental result of: (i) Anchoring vessels; (ii) Traditional fishing operations; (iii) Installation of navigation aids; (iv) Harbor maintenance in the areas necessarily associated with Federal projects in existence on the effective date of Sanctuary designation, including dredging of entrance channels and repair, replacement or rehabilitation of breakwaters and jetties; (v) Construction, repair, replacement or rehabilitation of boat launches, docks or piers, and associated breakwaters and jetties; or (vi) Beach nourishment projects related to harbor maintenance activities. (6) Taking any marine mammal, sea turtle or seabird in or above the Sanctuary, except as authorized by the Marine Mammal Protection Act, as amended, (MMPA), 16 U.S.C. 1361 et seq ., the Endangered Species Act, as amended, (ESA), 16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq ., and the Migratory Bird Treaty Act, as amended, (MBTA), 703 et seq ., or pursuant to any treaty with an Indian tribe to which the United States is a party, provided that the treaty right is exercised in accordance with the MMPA, ESA and MBTA, to the extent that they apply. (7) Flying motorized aircraft at less than 2,000 feet both above the Sanctuary within one nautical mile of the Flattery Rocks, Quillayute Needles, or Copalis National Wildlife Refuge, or within one nautical mile seaward from the coastal boundary of the Sanctuary, except for activities related to tribal timber operations conducted on reservation lands, or to transport persons or supplies to or from reservation lands as authorized by a governing body of an Indian tribe. (8) Possessing within the Sanctuary (regardless of where taken, moved or removed from) any historical resource, or any marine mammal, sea turtle, or seabird taken in violation of the MMPA, ESA or MBTA, to the extent that they apply. (9) Interfering with, obstructing, delaying or preventing an investigation, search, seizure or disposition of seized property in connection with enforcement of the Act or any regulation or permit issued under the Act. (b) The regulations in this part apply to foreign persons and foreign vessels in accordance with generally recognized principles of international law, and in accordance with treaties, conventions and other international agreements to which the United States is a party. (c) The prohibitions in paragraphs (a) (2) through (5), (7) and (8) of this §925.5 do not apply to activities necessary to respond to emergencies threatening life, property or the environment. (d) The prohibitions in paragraphs (a) (2) through (5), (7) and (8) of this §925.5 do not apply to activities necessary for valid law enforcement purposes. (e)(1) All Department of Defense military activities shall be carried out in a manner that avoids to the maximum extent practicable any adverse impacts on Sanctuary resources and qualities. Except as provided in paragraph (e)(2) of this §925.5, the prohibitions in paragraphs (a) (2) through (8) of this §925.5 do not apply to the following military activities performed by the Department of Defense in W&hyph;237A, W237&hyph;B, and Military Operating Areas Olympic A and B in the Sanctuary: (i) Hull integrity tests and other deep water tests; (ii) Live firing of guns, missiles, torpedoes, and chaff; (iii) Activities associated with the Quinault Range including the in-water testing of non-explosive torpedoes; and (iv) Anti-submarine warfare operations. New activities may be exempted from the prohibitions in paragraphs (a)(2) through (8) of this §945.5 by the Director or designee after consultation between the Director or designee and the Department of Defense. If it is determined that an activity may be carried out, such activity shall be carried out in a manner that avoids to the maximum extent practicable any adverse impact on Sanctuary resources and qualities. Civil engineering and other civil works projects conducted by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers are excluded from the scope of this paragraph (e)(1). (2) The Department of Defense is prohibited from conducting bombing activities within the Sanctuary.
