FR940429-0-00194 FR940429-0-00015 Discussion: If an institution is aware that a student has enrolled or applied for financial assistance after the application date has passed to receive State grant assistance that year in that State, it must simply inform the student that he or she is not eligible for those funds, and may apply the following year prior to the deadline. Accordingly, the institution will then process the student's aid package with no consideration of State grant funds for that award year. The Secretary does not understand how this requirement could have any adverse affect on an institution. In fact, it is the Secretary's understanding that many institutions already publish State grant application information in their catalogs or disseminate the information through their financial aid offices. Regarding students from other States, institutions are indeed required to inform them of State grant assistance available to them from their own State; however, the institutions are not expected to be experts on this information, but rather to be sources of general information from which students may learn who to contact in their State to apply for assistance. The Secretary does not believe this requirement is unduly burdensome on institutions. Changes: None. Comments: A large group of commenters was concerned that requiring newly participating institutions or institutions that have changed ownership to implement a default management plan equal to Appendix D, for two years, was overly restrictive. Most suggested that institutions be allowed to submit an alternate plan to the Secretary for approval. Many of the commenters recommended that in the case of ownership changes, institutions with default rates under a certain percentage (10% or 20%) should be exempt from the requirement. Discussion: The Secretary's proposal that newly participating institutions and institutions that have changed ownership use Appendix D as a default management plan was made only after careful review by the Department showed that Appendix D is effective in helping reduce student defaults. Moreover, Appendix D is simply a basic default management plan. There is nothing in the statute or regulations that would preclude an institution from adding elements. In fact, the Secretary applauds such creative efforts and believes they may help to further reduce student defaults. The Secretary believes institutions with low default rates should not be exempted because there is no reason to believe under different ownership the rates would remain as low. Changes: None. Comments: Four commenters want to expand the regulations to include Social Security Administration, Immigration and Naturalization Service, Law Enforcement Agencies and Direct Lending Contractors as parties that are authorized to share information pertaining to an institution's Title IV, HEA eligibility or participation, or pertaining to fraud and abuse. Discussion: The Secretary does not have authority to include these organizations in the regulations as they do not appear in the statute. Changes: None. Comments: Many commenters argued that the provisions in this section governing an institution's ability to employ or contract with individuals or organizations to administer any aspect of the Title IV, HEA programs or the receipt of funds under those programs go far beyond the scope of section 487(a)(16) of the HEA. These commenters pointed out that the statute referred only to individuals or organizations that have been convicted, have pled nolo contendere or guilty to a crime, or that have been judicially determined to have committed fraud involving Title IV, HEA program funds and not to administrative determinations, other material violations of law, or misuse of State, local, or Federal government funds (other than Title IV, HEA program funds) with respect to an institution's ability to employ an individual or organization. One commenter supported the Secretary's proposed restrictions. Five commenters were concerned that an institution may be penalized for hiring or contracting with a party convicted of fraud involving government funds or a party that has been terminated from participation under the HEA for an infraction involving government funds, even if they were unaware of the conviction or termination. One commenter was concerned that the institution may be penalized if it hired or contracted with such a party, even if that person's job was to cut grass or collect garbage. Discussion: The Secretary disagrees with those commenters who argued that the provisions in this section restricting an institution's ability to employ or contract with certain individuals or organizations go beyond the authority of the HEA. Section 487(a)(4) expressly requires an institution to agree in its program participation agreement to comply with financial and fiscal responsibility requirements established by the Secretary. These requirements are part of the financial responsibility provisions found in ยง668.15(c). In proposing the additional restrictions in the NPRM, the Secretary provided justification that these additional safeguards were necessary to protect the Title IV, HEA programs and institutions participating in those programs. The Secretary still believes those justifications to be valid. The regulations state in regard to a participating institution's responsibility, it will not ``knowingly'' employ or contract with an individual, agency, organization, etc. which has violated any laws involving any government funds. The Secretary believes the regulations are clear that an institution will not be penalized for information of which it is not aware. Furthermore, in safeguarding Federal funds, the Secretary is concerned with any parties that may have previously violated a law involving government funds, even if these parties now perform janitorial or maintenance duties. By the provision, an employment or contract relationship with such a party is not appropriate, and by ``knowingly'' entering into such a relationship an institution may well jeopardize its continued participation in the Title IV, HEA programs. The Secretary believes the regulations make this clear as well. Changes: None. Comments: Three commenters recommended that the regulations be amended to prohibit contracts with institutions or third-party servicers that have been terminated for any reason, not just for a reason involving government funds. Discussion: The purpose of this provision is to safeguard Federal funds, not to punish institutions or servicers that may have been terminated. For that reason, the Secretary believes the provision is adequate in its present form to satisfy the intent of the statute. Changes: None. Comments: Five commenters advised that requiring institutions to complete surveys conducted as part of the Integrated Postsecondary Education System (IPEDS) in a timely manner and to the satisfaction of the Secretary could be burdensome to institutions, especially if the school did not have a large staff or computer systems capable of collecting information. Three of the five commenters recommended that the Secretary design forms or specify formats to make data collection easier. One of the five commenters suggested that the Secretary accommodate institutions not yet computerized with more time to complete the surveys.
