FR940222-1-00046 FR940222-1-00008 IX. Regulatory Impact Statement and Flexibility Analysis This proposed rule would establish a presumptive limit on payment to HMOs, CMPs, and HCPPs. We anticipate the following savings in Medicare expenditures for the next 5 fiscal years as a result of this proposed policy: Medicare Program Savings [In millions of dollars] 1␣ 1␣ Fiscal year: 1994 14 1995 15 1996 17 1997 19 1998 21 This rule would also require HMOs and CMPs to include in their cost reports the costs of inpatient hospital services and SNF care furnished to their Medicare enrollees, for which payment is made by Medicare intermediaries directly to the providers. We generally prepare a regulatory flexibility analysis that is consistent with the Regulatory Flexibility Act (RFA) (5 U.S.C. 601 through 612) unless the Secretary certifies that a rule would not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. For purposes of the RFA, all HMOs, CMPs, and HCPPs are considered to be small entities. Individuals are not considered small entities under the RFA. Since this proposed rule represents a significant change in the application of cost limits for cost of HMOs, CMPs, and HCPPs, and would also require HMOs and CMPs to make minor changes in the reporting of their per capita costs, we are providing the following voluntary regulatory flexibility analysis. 1. Effect of the Presumptive Limit on Cost HMOs and CMPs and on HCPPs That Provide Inpatient Hospital Services We believe that the costs of services furnished by these prepaid health care organizations should not exceed the costs for services furnished to an actuarially similar group of Medicare beneficiaries whose services are paid for under the Medicare fee-for-service payment systems. Excess cost can often be avoided by reducing unnecessary utilization and by electing effective but less expensive treatment modalities. There are approximately 55 plans (22 HMOs and CMPs, and an estimated 33 HCPPs) that would be subject to the proposed presumptive limit. Program data from 1989, the most recent year for which we have audited cost report data, indicate that, in 1989, 38 percent of these organizations would have exceeded a presumptive limit of 100 percent of the AAPCC, half of them by 0 to 10 percent. These organizations had, at that time, little incentive to monitor costs. This proposed rule makes two changes that should encourage them to pay more attention to costs incurred on behalf of Medicare enrollees: •The imposition of the presumptive limit on all these organizations; and •The elimination of the effective incentives policy that had remained in effect for HCPPs. We believe that many of these organizations would respond promptly to these incentives and reduce expenditures. Consequently, we anticipate that, in the first year of implementation of these proposed rules, only 25 percent of the HMOs, CMPs, and HCPPs would exceed the presumptive limit, that is, for only 25 percent would all the costs incurred on behalf of their Medicare enrollees exceed 100 percent of the AAPCC. In subsequent years, we expect that this percentage would decline, as more of these organizations modify their practices in response to the incentives. There are two basic methods for reducing costs. First, the organizations can implement utilization controls, particularly for inpatient hospital care. Currently these organizations are not reporting inpatient hospital and SNF costs and hence have no reason to opt for lower-cost alternatives. However, the proposed full reporting requirement would change this. HMOs and CMPs would be required to report all services furnished to Medicare beneficiaries. (See section B.3. of this voluntary regulatory flexibility analysis.) Second, the organizations can review claims more aggressively to identify and remove duplicate claims that result in payment both from the organizations and the Medicare carrier to a physician or other supplier for the same service. Although organizations are currently required to identify duplicate claims, they have no incentive to do a thorough job. Although we do not have data on what percentage of total costs is represented by duplicate payments, we believe that the elimination of those payments could, in many cases, bring costs below the presumptive limit. The proposed presumptive limit rules would provide exceptions of two kinds. In the first place, HCFA could exempt small organizations (those with fewer than 500 Medicare enrollees) from the presumptive cost limit for up to two consecutive years. The rationale is that a small enrollment is less likely (than a large enrollment) to be representative of the general Medicare population in the area served by the organization. The small enrollment could be more healthy or less healthy, and if less healthy, could lead to costs in excess of the limit.
