FR940912-0-00031 FR940912-0-00006 To address the concerns raised by the commenters regarding a bank's reporting of consolidated financial data in Systemwide disclosure, the FCA has removed the wording ``bank-only'' from §630.4(c)(1) and clarified that, if a bank is required to prepare consolidated financial statements in accordance with GAAP, it is appropriate that the bank provide consolidated financial data of the bank and its consolidated subsidiaries to the Funding Corporation. Conforming changes were also made to §630.20(m)(3) and Appendix A of the final rule. 3. Section 630.4(d)_Responsibilities of Associations Proposed §630.4(d) provides the banks with access to their related associations' auditors for preparation of the report to investors. The FCC commented that the banks sometimes may need to have access to others, such as legal counsel. To ensure that the banks have the ability to obtain any information necessary to accurately prepare their submission to the Funding Corporation, the FCC suggested that the regulation include a general statement that the banks may have access to any material association information. Under sections 2.2 and 2.12 of the 1971 Act, each association is subject to supervision by its related bank. Each Farm Credit Bank is responsible for preparing the combined financial statements of the bank and related associations for disclosure to shareholders pursuant to part 620 of this chapter. Part 620 of this chapter does not, however, specify how the disclosure responsibilities between banks and related associations are shared. To clarify this issue for purposes of part 630, the FCA has expanded proposed §630.4(d) by adding a general statement in § 630.4(d)(1) of the final rule to require that each association provide its related bank with the information necessary to allow the bank to provide accurate and complete information to the Funding Corporation for preparation of the report to investors. The original text of proposed § 630.4(d) has been redesignated as §630.4(d)(2). D. Section 630.5_Prohibition Against Incomplete, Inaccurate, or Misleading Disclosure The FCC suggested that the FCA clarify that §630.5 concerning prohibition against incomplete, inaccurate, or misleading disclosure would apply only when the defective disclosure is material. Since compliance with the disclosure standards of this part is generally subject to a materiality test in any event, the FCA finds it unnecessary to add the suggested materiality language to §630.5 and has adopted this section as proposed. E. Section 630.6_System Audit Committee and Bank Audit Committees 1. Section 630.6(a)(2) Under §630.6(a)(2), officers or employees of a System institution are prohibited from serving on the System Audit Committee (SAC) because they are not independent of management. The FCBT urged the FCA to prohibit System directors from serving on the SAC due to potential conflicts of interest based on competition between System institutions. The FCA believes that the suggested prohibition would be disruptive to the existing SAC and force the Funding Corporation to recruit SAC members from outside the System. In addition, the FCA views the FCBT's argument as relating less to conflict of interest than to concern regarding preservation of the confidentiality of information reviewed by the SAC. Under section 4.9 of the 1971 Act, directors and management of System institutions are eligible to serve on the board of the Funding Corporation. As a practical matter, any information available to SAC members is equally available to the members of the board of the Funding Corporation. Thus, precluding System directors from serving on the SAC would not necessarily prevent confidential information from being exposed to directors of other System banks. In light of these considerations, the FCA is adopting the rule as proposed but will monitor SAC activities for apparent inappropriate use of information. Finally, the FCA notes that §630.6(a) does not prevent the Funding Corporation board from adopting a policy to disqualify System directors from serving on the SAC. 2. Section 630.6(a)(4)(iii) The FCC commented that the word ``approve'' contained in §630.6(a)(4)(iii) of the proposed rule implies that the SAC has the authority to dictate individual bank accounting policies or that the Funding Corporation has the authority to require banks to uniformly and consistently adopt or change accounting policies. This was not the intent of the proposed rule. The primary duty of the SAC is to ensure the integrity of the report to investors jointly prepared by the Funding Corporation and System banks. The SAC is responsible for overseeing the reporting process and internal controls implemented by the Funding Corporation for preparation of the System's report to investors. To clarify that neither the SAC nor the Funding Corporation is charged with the responsibility for dictating individual banks' accounting polices, the FCA has substituted the word ``review'' for the word ``approve'' as suggested. 3. Section 630.6(a)(4)(iv) Under proposed §630.6(a)(4)(iv), the SAC is required to review each disclosure document containing Systemwide information prescribed in this part, including annual reports, quarterly reports, and press releases, prior to its release. The FCC commented that the SAC's responsibility should pertain only to financial information and disclosures contained in the annual information statements because the SAC generally would not have the expertise to review and evaluate nonfinancial information, such as is found in the description of business and description of debt securities. The FCC also suggested that, to facilitate timely issuance of quarterly information, the requirement for a review of each quarterly report or press release by the SAC prior to its release be eliminated.
