FR940620-2-00041 FR940620-2-00024 (3) Enter into arrangements with one or more public or nonprofit private secondary educational institutions and undergraduate institutions of higher education (feeder schools), for the purpose of carrying out programs regarding: (a) The educational preparation of disadvantaged students, including minority students, to enter the health professions; and (b) The recruitment of disadvantaged students, including minority students, into the health professions; and (4) Establish a mentor program for assisting disadvantaged students, including minority students, regarding the completion of the educational requirements for degrees from the school. This program may include the involvement of students, community health professionals, faculty, alumni, past recipients of Health Career Opportunity Program (HCOP) funds, faculty/staff of feeder schools, etc., in institutionally organized activity ( e.g. , tutoring, counseling, and summer/bridge programs). Each school funded for the first time in FY 1994 will also be required to carry out each of the activities specified above by not later than 12 months from receipt of award. Funds awarded to a school under the SDS program may not be used to carry out any of the above activities which the school must be doing, or must agree to do. In addition, a school will be required to continue to carry out all described activities, and also the student/faculty recruitment and retention activities, for as long as the SDS program is in operation in the school. Evaluation Criteria for Fiscal Year 1994 For FY 1994, applications will be evaluated on the degree to which the schools meet the statutory requirements listed above. Guidance for presenting the information will be provided in the FY 1994 application materials. Student Eligibility: As required by statute, to qualify for the SDS program, a student must: (1) Be a citizen, a U.S. national, an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residency in the U.S., or a citizen of the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, a citizen of the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, a citizen of the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands (consisting of the Republic of Palau) or a citizen of the Republic of the Marshall Islands, the Federated States of Micronesia (both formally part of the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands); (2) Meet the definition of an ``individual from a disadvantaged background'' as defined above; and (3) (a) Be enrolled in or accepted by an eligible school for enrollment as a full-time student; or (b) Be an undergraduate student who has demonstrated a commitment to pursuing a career in health professions, including nursing. Statutory Preference The law requires that in providing SDS scholarships, the school give preference to students who are from disadvantaged backgrounds and for whom the cost of attending an SDS school would constitute a severe financial hardship. Severe financial hardship will be determined by the school in accordance with standard need analysis procedures prescribed by the Department of Education for Its Federal student aid programs. The following Acceptability of Undergraduate Students, Definitions, Methodology for Implementing the Statutory Special Consideration, the Nonstatutory Special Consideration for Baccalaureate Nursing Programs, and the Procedures for Calculating Scholarship Awards were established in FY 1991 after public comment (at 57 FR 49779) on October 1, 1991, and are being extended in FY 1994. Acceptability of Undergraduate Students In the instance of (3)(b) above, it has been established that the undergraduate students eligible for scholarships must be at feeder schools and have signed statements that they are interested in health professions or nursing careers. Definitions Black . means a person having origins in any of the black racial groups of Africa. Hispanic means a person of Mexican, Puerto Rican, Cuban, Central or South American or other Spanish culture or origin, regardless of race. American Indian or Alaskan Native means a person having origins in any of the original peoples of North America, and who maintains cultural identification through tribal affiliation or community recognition. Definitions listed above are contained in Directive No. 15 of Office of Management and Budget Circular No. A&hyph;46, dated May 3, 1974. Native American as defined in Pub. L. 101&hyph;527, means American Indian, Alaskan Native, Aleut, or Native Hawaiian. Minority with respect to faculty, refers to Blacks, Hispanics, Native Americans, Filipinos, Koreans, Pacific Islanders, and Southeast Asians whose percentage among the total supply of practitioners in the applicable health profession is below that group's percentage in the total population.
