FR940620-1-00022 FR940620-1-00006 The term ``qualifying event'' with respect to any covered employee, is defined by section 601 of ERISA, as amended by section 4980B of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, to mean any of the following events which, but for the continuation coverage, results in a loss of coverage of a qualified beneficiary: death of the covered employee; termination for reasons other than an employee's misconduct, or reduction of hours, of the covered employee's employment; divorce or legal separation of the covered employee from the employee's spouse; entitlement of the employee under Medicare (title XVIII of the Act); cessation of a dependent child to meet the applicable ``dependent child'' requirements of the group health plan; or with respect to retirees, a filing by an employer for protection under Title 11 of the United States Bankruptcy Code of 1978, as amended, 11 U.S.C. §101 et seq. Section 1902(a)(10)(F), as added by section 4713 of OBRA '90, provides States with the option of making medical assistance available for COBRA premiums, as defined in section 1902(u)(2), for qualified COBRA continuation beneficiaries (CCBs), as defined in section 1902(u)(1) of the Act. Section 1902(u)(1) defines a CCB as an individual who meets the following requirements: •He or she is entitled to elect COBRA continuation coverage; •He or she has income that does not exceed 100 percent of the official Federal poverty line applicable to a family of the size involved; •He or she has resources which do not exceed twice the maximum amount of resources that an individual may have to be eligible for benefits under the Supplemental Security Income (SSI) program, as determined under section 1613 of the Social Security Act; and •The State has determined that the likely savings in Medicaid expenditures resulting from enrollment in COBRA continuation coverage is expected to exceed the cost of the COBRA premiums. With respect to the cost-effectiveness determination for CCBs, States must determine that likely Medicaid expenditures on individuals would be higher (if the individuals were not enrolled in the COBRA plan) than the cost the State would pay in COBRA continuation premiums. In other words, the State must determine that enrolling the individuals in COBRA continuation coverage results in savings in likely Medicaid expenditures that exceed the cost of paying the COBRA premiums. This requires the State to make a reasonable decision that the individuals (or family members that would be covered by the COBRA coverage) are likely to become eligible for Medicaid during the COBRA continuation period and that enrollment is expected to save money for the Medicaid program. This decision would include an assessment of whether the individuals would be likely to become Medicaid eligible. In contemplating scenarios under which this cost- effectiveness could be satisfied, we have identified a number of situations in which individuals would appear ``likely'' ultimately to generate Medicaid expenditures in the absence of COBRA continuation coverage, even if they were not currently Medicaid eligible. This would be true, for example, of a COBRA-eligible individual who is HIV positive, and accordingly is determined ``likely'' to become Medicaid eligible based upon disability, and to incur Medicaid costs that exceed the cost of COBRA premiums. A COBRA eligible individual who is not eligible for Medicaid may have Medicaid-eligible family members who would be covered by a COBRA continuation plan if COBRA premiums were paid by the State. In this case, savings in Medicaid expenditures would be likely to result from the individual's enrollment even though he or she is not Medicaid eligible, nor expected to become Medicaid eligible. Finally, a COBRA-eligible individual may be eligible for Medicaid as ``medically needy'' upon the satisfaction of some modest ``spend-down'' requirement. In such a case, it may well be reasonable for the State to conclude that ``likely'' Medicaid expenditures would exceed the cost of paying COBRA continuation premiums that would have the effect of precluding the individual from incurring expenses sufficient to make him or her Medicaid eligible. Section 1902(u)(2) defines the term ``COBRA premiums'' as the applicable premium imposed with respect to COBRA continuation coverage. Section 1902(u)(3) defines COBRA continuation coverage as coverage under a group health plan provided by an employer with 75 or more employees provided under title XXII of the Public Health Service Act, section 4980B of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, or title VI of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974.
