FR940105-2-00046 FR940105-2-00019 Order For purposes of this order, the following definitions shall apply: ``Work Opportunity'' means any offer to a person to earn income by producing goods or providing services, where (1) the offeree must pay to the offeror, or a person identified by the offeror, any amount of money, whether in the form of a registration, application or other fee, a payment for initial inventory or supplies, or in any other form, as a condition of participating; and (2) the offeror represents that the offeree will or could be compensated in any manner by the offeror or by a person identified by the offeror. ``Participant'' means any person who pays the offeror of a work opportunity, or a person identified by such offeror, any amount of money, whether in the form of a registration, application or other fee, a payment for initial inventory or supplies, or in any other form, as a condition of participating in a work opportunity. ``Net Earnings or Profits'' means the compensation paid to a participant in a work opportunity, less the costs to a participant of materials, supplies and shipping. I It is ordered that, Respondents New Mexico Custom Designs, Inc., a corporation, its successors and assigns, and its officers, and Anthony L. Ingram, individually and as an officer of New Mexico Custom Designs, Inc., a corporation, and respondents' agents, representatives and employees, directly or through any corporation, subsidiary, division or other device, in connection with the marketing, advertising, promotion, offering, or sale of any work opportunity, in or affecting commerce, as ``commerce'' is defined in the Federal Trade Commission Act, do forthwith cease and desist from: A. Making any material misrepresentation, including but not limited to: 1. Misrepresenting the past, present or potential future earnings or profits of participants in any work opportunity; or 2. Misrepresenting the marketplace demand for any product or service for which respondents are offering a work opportunity. B. Making any earnings-related or profit-related claim which uses the phrase ``up to'' or words of similar import or which states any dollar amount, unless the stated level of earnings or profits constitutes the net earnings or profits which can be achieved by an appreciable number of participants; and further, in any instances where consumers could not reasonably foresee the major factors or conditions affecting the ability to achieve the stated level of earnings or profits, cease and desist from failing to disclose clearly and prominently the class of consumers who can achieve the stated level.
