FR940323-0-00060 FR940323-0-00020 (e) Effect of rejection of State application. If a State's application for a formula-based grant is ultimately rejected by the Corporation pursuant to §2522.320 of this chapter, the State's allotment will be available for redistribution by the Corporation to the States, Territories, and Indian Tribes with approved AmeriCorps applications as the Corporation deems appropriate. (f) The Corporation will make grants for training, technical assistance and other special programs described in part 2524 of this chapter at the Corporation's discretion. (g) Matching funds._ (1) Requirements. (i) The matching requirements for participant benefits are specified in §2522.240(b)(5) of this chapter. (ii) The Corporation share of other AmeriCorps program costs may not exceed 75 percent, whether the assistance is provided directly or as a subgrant from the original recipient of the assistance. (iii) These matching requirements apply only to programs receiving assistance under parts 2521 through 2524 of this chapter. (2) Calculation. In providing for the remaining share of other AmeriCorps program costs, the program_ (i) Must provide for its share through a payment in cash or in kind, fairly evaluated, including facilities, equipment, or services; and (ii) May provide for its share through State sources, local sources, or other Federal sources (other than funds made available by the Corporation). (3) Limitation on cost of health care. A program may not count more than 85 percent of a cash payment for the cost of providing a health care policy toward its 15 percent remaining share under paragraph (g)(2)(i) of this section. (4) Waiver. The Corporation reserves the right to waive, in whole or in part, the requirements of paragraph (g)(1) of this section if the Corporation determines that a waiver would be equitable due to a lack of available financial resources at the local level. (h) Administrative costs. (1) The recipient of a direct grant or transfer of funds from the Corporation may spend no more than five percent of the grant or transferred funds on administrative costs. (2) Rules on use. States or other grantmaking entities that make subgrants to programs may retain no more than one-half of the five percent maximum administrative costs allowed for each Corporation grant. PART 2522_AMERICORPS PARTICIPANTS, PROGRAMS, AND APPLICANTS Subpart A_Minimum Requirements and Program Types Sec. 2522.100␣What are the minimum requirements that every AmeriCorps program, regardless of type, must meet? 2522.110␣What types of programs are eligible to compete for AmeriCorps grants? Subpart B_Participant Eligibility, Requirements, and Benefits 2522.200␣What are the eligibility requirements for AmeriCorps participants? 2522.210␣How are AmeriCorps participants recruited and selected? 2522.220␣What are the required terms of service for AmeriCorps participants, and may they serve for more than one term? 2522.230␣Under what circumstances may AmeriCorps participants be released from completing a term of service, and what are the consequences? 2522.240␣What financial benefits do AmeriCorps participants serving in approved AmeriCorps positions receive? 2522.250␣What other benefits do AmeriCorps participants serving in approved AmeriCorps positions receive? Subpart C_Application Requirements 2522.300␣What are the application requirements for AmeriCorps program grants? 2522.310␣What are the application requirements for AmeriCorps educational awards only? 2522.320␣May an applicant submit more than one application to the Corporation for the same project at the same time? Subpart D_Selection of AmeriCorps Programs 2522.400␣How will the basic selection criteria be applied? 2522.410␣ What are the basic selection criteria for AmeriCorps programs? 2522.420␣Can a State's application for formula funds be rejected? Subpart E_Evaluation Requirements 2522.500␣What are the purposes of an evaluation? 2522.510␣What types of evaluations are States, grant-making entities, and programs required to perform? 2522.520␣What types of internal evaluation activities are required of programs? 2522.530␣What types of activities are required of States or grantmaking entities to evaluate the effectiveness of their subgrantees? 2522.540␣How will the Corporation evaluate individual AmeriCorps programs? 2522.550␣What will the Corporation do to evaluate the overall success of the AmeriCorps programs? 2522.560␣Will information on individual participants be kept confidential? Authority: 42 U.S.C. 12501 et seq. Subpart A_Minimum Requirements and Program Types §2522.100 What are the minimum requirements that every AmeriCorps program, regardless of type, must meet? Although a wide range of programs may be eligible to apply for and receive support from the Corporation, all AmeriCorps programs must meet certain minimum program requirements. These requirements apply regardless of whether a program is supported directly by the Corporation or through a subgrant. All AmeriCorps programs must: (a) Address educational, public safety, human, or environmental needs, and provide a direct and demonstrable benefit that is valued by the community in which the service is performed; (b) Perform projects that are designed, implemented, and evaluated with extensive and broad-based local input, including consultation with representatives from the community served, participants (or potential participants) in the program, community-based agencies with a demonstrated record of experience in providing services, and local labor organizations representing employees of project sponsors (if such entities exist in the area to be served by the program); (c) Obtain, in the case of a program that also proposes to serve as the project sponsor, the written concurrence of any local labor organization representing employees of the project sponsor who are engaged in the same or substantially similar work as that proposed to be carried out by the AmeriCorps participant; (d) Establish and provide outcome objectives, including a strategy for achieving these objectives, upon which self-assessment and Corporation-assessment of progress can rest. Such assessment will be used to help determine the extent to which the program has had a positive impact: (1) On communities and persons served by the projects performed by the program; (2) On participants who take part in the projects; and (3) In such other areas as the program or Corporation may specify; (e) Strengthen communities and encourage mutual respect and cooperation among citizens of different races, ethnicities, socioeconomic backgrounds, educational levels, both men and women and individuals with disabilities; (f) Agree to seek actively to include participants and staff from the communities in which projects are conducted, and agree to seek program staff and participants of different races and ethnicities, socioeconomic backgrounds, educational levels, and genders as well as individuals with disabilities unless a program design requires emphasizing the recruitment of staff and participants who share a specific characteristic or background. In no case may a program violate the nondiscrimination, nonduplication and nondisplacement rules governing participant selection described in part 2540 of this chapter. In addition, programs are encouraged to establish, if consistent with the purposes of the program, an intergenerational component that combines students, out-of-school youths, and older adults as participants;
