FR940912-2-00068 FR940912-2-00055 6. all names and addresses of prescription drug manufacturers and distributors that supply to LEI or have supplied to LEI within the six months preceding the date this Order becomes final; and 7. goodwill, tangible and intangible, utilized in the sale of prescription drugs. H. ``Rite Aid Pharmacy Business'' means Rite Aid's business of selling prescription drugs at any of the retail stores listed in Paragraph I.(J). of this Order, but does not include Rite Aid's business of selling other products in those retail stores. I. ``Rite Aid Pharmacy Assets'' means all assets constituting the Rite Aid Pharmacy Business, excluding those assets pertaining to the Rite Aid trade names, trade dress, trade marks and service marks, and including but not limited to: 1. Leases, at the Acquirer's option; 2. zoning approvals and registrations, at the Acquirer's option; 3. books, records, manuals, and operations reports, relating to the Rite Aid Pharmacy Business, but only if the divestiture is to an Acquirer that does not already operate a pharmacy in any location; 4. inventory instructions, or, at the Acquirer's option, lists of SKUs, i.e. , all forms, package sizes and other units in which prescription drugs are sold and which are used in records of sales and inventories; 5. lists of all prescription drug customers, including but not limited to third party insurers, including all files of names, addresses, and telephone numbers of the individual customer contacts, the unit and dollar amounts of sales, by product, to each customer, and store profit and loss statement(s); 6. all names and addresses of prescription drug manufacturers and distributors that supply to Rite Aid or have supplied to Rite Aid within the six months preceding the date this Order becomes final; and 7. goodwill, tangible and intangible, utilized in the sale of prescription drugs. J. ``Assets To Be Divested'' means either the LEI Pharmacy Assets constituting the LEI Pharmacy Business or the Rite Aid Pharmacy Assets constituting the Rite Aid Pharmacy Business in the following cities or towns: 1. Bucksport, Maine; 2. Lincoln, Maine; and 3. Berlin, New Hampshire. K. ``Competitiveness, viability and marketability'' of the Assets To Be Divested mean that Respondent shall continue the operation of the Assets To Be Divested in the ordinary course of business without material change or alteration that would adversely affect the value or goodwill of the Assets To Be Divested.
