FR940506-1-00062 FR940506-1-00014 32.906 [Amended] 7. Section 32.906 is amended in the first sentence of paragraph (a) by inserting the words ``or designee,'' after the word ``head,''. 8. Section 32.907&hyph;1 is amended in paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) by removing the words ``has been'' and inserting ``was'' in their place; and by revising paragraphs (b), (d), and (g) to read as follows: 32.907&hyph;1 Late invoice payment. * * * * * (b) The interest penalty computation shall not include_ (1) The time taken by the Government to notify the contractor of a defective invoice, unless it exceeds the periods prescribed in 32.905(e); (2) The time taken by the contractor to correct the invoice. If the designated billing office failed to notify the contractor of a defective invoice within the periods prescribed in 32.905(e), the due date on the corrected invoice will be adjusted by subtracting from such date the number of days taken beyond the prescribed notification of defects period. Any interest penalty owed the contractor will be based on this adjusted due date; and (3) The period between the date of an attempted electronic funds transfer and the date the contractor furnishes correct electronic funds transfer data; provided, the Government notifies the contractor of the defective data within 7 days after the Government receives notice that the transfer could not be completed because of defective data. * * * * * (d) The interest penalty shall be at the rate established by the Secretary of the Treasury under section 12 of the Contract Disputes Act of 1978 (41 U.S.C. 611) that is in effect on the day after the due date, except where the interest penalty is prescribed by other governmental authority (e.g., tariffs). The rate in effect on the day after the due date shall remain fixed during the period for which an interest penalty is calculated. This rate is referred to as the ``Renegotiation Board Interest Rate,'' and it is published in the Federal Register semiannually on or about January 1 and July 1. Information concerning this interest rate can be obtained from the Department of the Treasury, Finance Management Branch, Washington, DC 20227, telephone (202) 208&hyph;1515. Interest calculations shall be based upon a 360-day year. The interest penalty will accrue daily on the invoice payment amount approved by the Government and be compounded in 30-day increments inclusive from the first day after the due date through the payment date. That is, interest accrued at the end of any 30-day period will be added to the approved invoice payment amount and be subject to interest penalties if not paid in the succeeding 30-day period. The interest penalty amount, interest rate and the period for which the interest penalty was computed, will be separately stated by the designated payment office on the check, in accompanying remittance advice, or for Electronic Funds Transfer (EFT) by an appropriate electronic or other remittance advice. Adjustments will be made by the designated payment office for errors in calculating interest penalties. * * * * * (g)(1) For contracts awarded on or after October 1, 1989, a penalty amount (calculated in accordance with paragraph (g)(3) of this section) shall be paid, in addition to the interest penalty amount, only if the contractor_ (i) Is owed an interest penalty; (ii) Is not paid the interest penalty within 10 days after the date the invoice amount is paid; and (iii) Makes a written demand to the designated payment office for additional penalty payment in accordance with paragraph (g)(2) of this section, postmarked not later than 40 days after the date the invoice amount is paid. (2)(i) Contractors shall support written demands for additional penalty payments with the following data. No additional data shall be required. Contractors shall_ (A) Specifically assert that late payment interest is due under a specific invoice and request payment of all overdue late payment interest penalty and such additional penalty as may be required; (B) Attach a copy of the invoice on which the unpaid late payment interest was due; and
