FR940106-0-00153 FR940106-0-00022 (iv) Entitlement to UI. The individual must have been entitled to (or would have been entitled to if the individual had applied therefor) UI for a week within the benefit period_ (A) in which the individual's first qualifying separation occurred, or (B) which began (or would have begun) by reason of the filing of a claim for UI by the individual after such first qualifying separation. (v) Exhaustion of UI. The individual must: (A) Have exhausted all rights to any UI to which the individual was entitled (or would have been entitled if the individual had applied therefor); and (B) Not have an unexpired waiting period applicable to the individual for any such UI. (vi) Extended Benefit work test. (A) The individual must_ ( 1 ) Accept any offer of suitable work, as defined in §617.3(kk), and actually apply for any suitable work the individual is referred to by the State agency, and ( 2 ) Actively engage in seeking work and furnish the State agency tangible evidence of such efforts each week, and ( 3 ) Register for work and be referred by the State agency to suitable work, in accordance with those provisions of the applicable State law which apply to claimants for Extended Benefits and which are consistent with part 615 of this chapter. (B) The Extended Benefit work test shall not apply to an individual with respect to claims for TRA for weeks of unemployment beginning prior to the filing of an initial claim for TRA, nor for any week which begins before the individual is notified that the individual is covered by a certification issued under the Act and is fully informed of the Extended Benefit work test requirements of paragraph (a)(2)(vi) of this section and §617.17. Prior to such notification and advice, the individual shall not be subject to the Extended Benefit work test requirements, nor to any State timely filing requirement, but shall be required to be unemployed and able to work and available for work with respect to any such week except as provided in §617.17(b)(2) for workers enrolled in, or participating in, a training program approved under §617.22(a). (vii) Participation in training. (A) The individual must_ ( 1 ) Be enrolled in or participating in a training program approved pursuant to §617.22(a), or ( 2 ) Have completed a training program approved under §617.22(a), after a total or partial separation from adversely affected employment within the certification period of a certification issued under the Act, or ( 3 ) Have received from the State agency a written statement under §617.19 waiving the participation in training requirement for the individual.
