FR940425-2-00012 FR940425-2-00011 COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION Coffee, Sugar & Cocoa Exchange: Proposed Amendment Relating to Delivery Points for the Coffee ``C'' Futures Contract AGENCY: Commodity Futures Trading Commission. ACTION: Notice of proposed contract rule change. SUMMARY: The Coffee, Sugar & Cocoa Exchange (``CSCE'') has submitted a proposed amendment to its coffee ``C'' futures contract that would add Miami, Florida as a delivery point, with futures deliveries at that location being subject to a discount of one and one-quarter cents per pound. In accordance with section 5a(a)(12) of the Commodity Exchange Act and acting pursuant to the authority delegated by Commission Regulation 140.96, the Acting Director of the Division of Economic Analysis (``Division'') of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (``Commission'') has determined, on behalf of the Commission, that the proposed amendment is of major economic significance. On behalf of the Commission, the Division is requesting comment on this proposal. DATES: Comments must be received on or before May 25, 1994. ADDRESSES: Interested persons should submit their views and comments to Jean A. Webb, Secretary, Commodity Futures Trading Commission, 2033 K Street NW., Washington, DC 20581. Reference should be made to the proposed addition of Miami, Florida as a delivery point for the CSCE coffee ``C'' futures contract. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Frederick V. Linse, Division of Economic Analysis, Commodity Futures Trading Commission, 2033 K Street NW., Washington, DC 20581, telephone (202) 254&hyph;7303. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The coffee ``C'' futures contract currently provides for delivery of coffee in CSCE-licensed warehouses located in the Ports of New York, New Orleans and San Francisco. Under the contract's existing terms, coffee is deliverable at par in the Port of New York, at a discount of three-quarters of one cent (75 points) in the Port of San Francisco, and at a discount of one and one-quarter cents per pound in the Port of New Orleans. The proposed amendment would establish the Port of Miami, Florida as an additional coffee ``C'' futures delivery point, with futures deliveries at Miami being subject to a discount of one and one-quarter cents per pound. Under the proposed amendments, the Port of Miami is defined to include both the Port of Miami and Port Everglades. 1 The CSCE proposes to apply the amendment to all currently listed contract months following the last contract month in which there is an open position on the date that the amendment is made effective and to newly listed contract months. 1 Port Everglades is located in Fort Lauderdale, Florida. The CSCE indicates that the proposal to add Miami as a delivery point is justified by the amount of trading activity in the cash market at that location and that the proposal will be beneficial to those CSCE members and others who use the contract for hedging. In this respect, information submitted by the CSCE indicates that, during 1992 and 1993, the Customs District of Miami was the fifth-ranked port of entry in terms of the quantity of coffee imported into the United States and accounted for eight percent of all coffee entering the United States in 1993. The CSCE also indicates that there are adequate delivery warehouse facilities in the Port of Miami. With respect to the proposed one and one-quarter cents per pound discount for futures deliveries at Miami, the CSCE also indicated that the proposed discount falls within the range of prevailing differences between the total costs of shipping coffee to warehouses in Miami and New York from major coffee producing countries in Central and South America. The CSCE indicated that the total costs of shipping the same growths of coffee to warehouses in Miami and New Orleans from the producing countries are essentially the same. The CSCE also indicated that information provided to the Exchange by members of the coffee cash market regarding cash market pricing relationships between Miami and the futures contract's existing delivery points confirms that the proposed discount is appropriate. The Commission is requesting comments specifically in regard to the extent to which the proposed discount of one and one-quarter cents per pound for futures deliveries in Miami reflects cash marketing pricing relationships between Miami and the coffee ``C'' futures contract's existing delivery points. Copies of the proposed amendment will be available for inspection at the Office of the Secretariat, Commodity Futures Trading Commission, 2033 K Street NW., Washington, DC 20581. Copies of the amended terms and conditions can be obtained through the Office of the Secretariat by mail at the above address or by telephone at (202) 254&hyph;6314. The materials submitted by the CSCE in support of the proposed amendment may be available upon request pursuant to the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552) and the Commission's regulations thereunder (17 CFR part 145 (1987)). Requests for copies of such materials should be made to the FOI, Privacy and Sunshine Act Compliance Staff of the Office of the Secretariat at the Commission's headquarters in accordance with CFR 145.7 and 145.8. Any person interested in submitting written data, views or arguments on the proposed amendment should send such comments to Jean A. Webb, Secretary, Commodity Futures Trading Commission, 2033 K Street NW., Washington, DC 20581 by the specified date. Issued in Washington, DC on April 19, 1994. Blake Imel, Acting Director, Division of Economic Analysis. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;9880 Filed 4&hyph;22&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6351&hyph;01&hyph;P
