FR940324-1-00027 FR940324-1-00007 15. Monitoring Implementation of Recordkeeping Guidance for the E-Mail System Agencies are responsible for monitoring the implementation of records management guidance to ensure that E-mail users are accurately identifying records and properly maintaining them. Each agency must ensure that the implementation of directives concerning records on its E-mail system is carried out by reviewing the systems periodically for conformance to established agency procedures. These reviews should consist of auditing or reviewing representative samples of all electronic communications, conducting periodic staff interviews, and internal records management evaluations. The purpose of these reviews is to ensure that E-mail users properly determine record status and that record messages are being properly maintained. These reviews would determine whether permanent and temporary records are segregable and schedules are being implemented properly. Such reviews should be used to correct errors when they are found, and to evaluate, clarify, and update agency recordkeeping directives, disposition schedules, and training for agency staff (36 CFR 1234.10(l)). Reports concerning the results of the reviews should be made available to NARA upon request and when it conducts evaluations of the agency's records management program. 16. Conclusion E-mail systems provide unprecedented communications convenience. However, agencies must take the necessary measures to ensure that there is no diminution of their records resulting from the use of E-mail systems. E-mail systems have become important tools for the transmission of substantive information, and, therefore, they are used to create Federal records. Agencies must take special care that employees understand their responsibilities when using E-mail to ensure the adequate creation and proper maintenance and disposition of Federal records. As specified in 44 U.S.C. 3102, NARA and the agencies shall cooperate in the implementation of NARA standards. Agencies should amend their recordkeeping policies and procedures where necessary to meet these standards. NARA will assist agencies in implementing these standards by reviewing agency directives concerning E-mail and by participating in agency considerations of maintaining permanent E-mail records electronically. NARA and the agencies will work together to ensure that recordkeeping policies and programs for E-mail records serve the needs of the agencies and the needs of future researchers. Dated: March 18, 1994. Trudy Huskamp Peterson, Acting Archivist of the United States. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;6939 Filed 3&hyph;23&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 7515&hyph;01&hyph;P
