FR940412-1-00060 FR940412-1-00011 49 CFR Part 571 [Docket No. 92&hyph;29; Notice 4] RIN 2127&hyph;AA00 Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards; Stability and Control of Medium and Heavy Vehicles During Braking AGENCY: National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA), DOT. ACTION: Supplemental notice of proposed rulemaking (SNPRM). SUMMARY: This notice proposes to modify the implementation schedule for and certain requirements in the agency's September 1993 notice proposing to improve the stability and control of medium and heavy vehicles during braking. In response to the Intermodal Surface Transportation Efficiency Act (ISTEA) of 1991, the agency proposed in the September notice that medium and heavy vehicles be equipped with an antilock brake system (ABS) and be able to comply with a 30 mph braking-in-a-curve test on a low coefficient of friction surface using a full brake application. In this supplemental notice, NHTSA is proposing to amend the implementation schedule for the rule and to require independent wheel control on at least one axle. The agency's decision to issue this notice was prompted by comments on the NPRM favoring such changes. DATES: Comments on this notice must be received on or before May 12, 1994. ADDRESSES: All comments on this notice should refer to the docket and notice number and be submitted to the following: Docket Section, Room 5109, National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, 400 Seventh Street SW., Washington, DC 20590 (Docket hours 9:30 a.m. to 4 p.m.). FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mr. George Soodoo, Office of Crash Avoidance, National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, 400 Seventh Street SW., Washington, DC 20590 (202) 366&hyph;5892. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: On September 28, 1993, NHTSA published a notice of proposed rulemaking (NPRM) in which the agency proposed amending Standard No. 105, Hydraulic Brake Systems and Standard No. 121, Air Brake Systems, to require medium and heavy vehicles 1 to be equipped with an antilock brake system (ABS) to improve the lateral stability and control of these vehicles during braking. (58 FR 50739). The NPRM proposed supplementing the ABS requirement by including a 30 mph braking-in-a-curve test on a low coefficient of friction surface using a full brake application. The agency believed that the proposed requirements would improve heavy vehicle stability and control during braking and thus significantly reduce the deaths and injuries caused when these vehicles jackknife or otherwise lose control. The notice also proposed requiring an in-cab ABS malfunction lamp and, during a transition period of eight years, an external trailer lamp to warn drivers of non-ABS tractors of trailer ABS malfunction. The agency believed that the proposed malfunction indicators would provide valuable information about ABS malfunctioning to the driver and to maintenance and inspection personnel. The proposal was based on comments received in response to an advance notice of proposed rulemaking (ANPRM) published on June 8, 1992 and other available information (57 FR 24212). 1 Such vehicles will be referred to as ``heavy vehicles'' throughout the remainder of this notice. NHTSA received over 50 comments in response to the NPRM. These commenters included heavy vehicle manufacturers, brake manufacturers, safety advocacy groups, heavy vehicle users, trade associations, State entities, and other individuals. The majority of commenters agreed that the agency should take measures to improve the stability and control of heavy vehicles during braking to reduce the number of loss-of-control crashes. Commenters addressed specific issues raised in the NPRM, including the decision proposing to require vehicles to be equipped with ABS, the type of ABS, the braking-in-a-curve test procedure, the implementation schedule for the requirements, the malfunction indicator requirement, the power requirement, and the rulemaking's cost.
