FR940725-2-00055 FR940725-2-00036 The purpose, eligibility, review criteria, and funding factors for each of the six grant programs funded under title VIII are listed below. Nursing Special Projects Purpose: Section 820(a) of the PHS Act authorizes the Secretary to make grants for the purpose of assisting schools in increasing the number of students enrolled in programs of professional nursing. Section 820(b) of the PHS Act authorizes the Secretary to make grants for the establishment or expansion of nursing practice arrangements in noninstitutional settings to demonstrate methods to improve access to primary health care in medically underserved communities. Section 820(c) of the PHS Act authorizes the Secretary to make grants for the purpose of providing continuing education for nurses serving in medically underserved communities. Section 820(d) of the PHS Act authorizes the Secretary to make grants for the purpose of providing fellowships to individuals who are employed by nursing facilities or home health agencies as nursing paraprofessionals. The request for initial support may not exceed five years for applications submitted under sections 820(a) and 820(b). The request for initial support may not exceed three years for applications submitted under sections 820(c) and 820(d). This program is governed by regulations at 42 CFR part 57, subpart T to the extent to which these regulations are not inconsistent with the amended statute. The purposes, eligibility and statutory funding preferences have been changed by the Nurse Practice Improvement Amendments of 1992. Reference to the purposes, eligibility and statutory funding preferences in the regulations are superseded by the law. The current purposes, eligibility and statutory funding preference are identified in this notice. Eligibility: Eligible applicants for projects under section 820(a) are public and nonprofit private schools of nursing with programs of education in professional nursing. To receive support under 820(a) the school must agree to make available non- Federal contributions in an amount that is at least 10 percent of the project costs for the first fiscal year, at least 25 percent of the project costs for the second fiscal year, at least 50 percent of the project costs for the third fiscal year, and at least 75 percent of the project costs for the fourth or fifth fiscal years. Eligible applicants for projects under section 820(b) are public and nonprofit private schools of nursing. To receive support under 820(b) the program proposed must be operated and staffed by the faculty and students of the school and must be designed to provide at least 25 percent of the students of the school with a structured clinical experience in primary health care. Eligible applicants for projects under section 820(c) are public and nonprofit private entities. Eligible applicants for projects under section 820(d) are public and nonprofit private entities that operate accredited programs of education in professional nursing, or State-board approved programs of practical or vocational nursing. To receive support under 820(d), the applicant must agree that, in providing fellowships, preference will be given to eligible individuals who: (A) Are economically disadvantaged individuals, particularly such individuals who are members of a minority group that is underrepresented among registered nurses; or (B) are employed by a nursing facility that will assist in paying the costs or expenses. The applicant must also agree that the fellowships provided will pay all or part of the costs of: (A) The tuition, books, and fees of the program of nursing with respect to which the fellowship is provided; and (B) reasonable living expenses of the individual during the period for which the fellowship is provided. Review Criteria: The review of applications will take into consideration the following criteria: 1. The national or special local need which the particular project proposes to serve; 2. The potential effectiveness of the proposed project in carrying out such purposes; 3. The administrative and managerial capability of the applicant to carry out the proposed project;
