FR940110-1-00083 FR940110-1-00006 Section 960.19(d)(2) of the proposed rule provides that during the term of a temporary suspension approved by the Board, the affected Bank shall provide to the Board such financial reports as the Board shall require to monitor the financial condition of the Bank, and the Board shall continue to monitor the Bank's financial condition. The requirement that the Board shall monitor the Bank's financial condition is added because it is required by the Act. See 12 U.S.C. 1430(j)(6)(D). Section 960.19(d)(3) of the proposed rule provides that if, prior to the conclusion of the temporary suspension period, the Board determines that the Bank has returned to a position of financial stability, the Board may, upon written notice to the Bank, terminate the temporary suspension. 5. Application for Extension of Temporary Suspension Period Section 960.19(e)(1) of the proposed rule provides that if a Bank's board of directors determines that the Bank has not returned to, or is not likely to return to, a position of financial stability at the conclusion of the temporary suspension period, the Bank may apply in writing for an extension of the temporary suspension period, stating the grounds for such extension. Proposed §960.19(e)(2) provides that the Board shall approve or disapprove a Bank's application for an extension of a temporary suspension period within 30 calendar days of receipt of such application. Proposed §960.19(e)(3) provides that the Board's decision on an application for an extension of a temporary suspension period shall be in writing, shall be accompanied by specific findings and reasons for such action, and shall state the effective date and time period if an extension is approved. 6. Notice to Congress Section 960.19(f)(1) of the proposed rule provides that the Board shall notify the Committee on Banking, Finance and Urban Affairs of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs of the Senate not less than 60 calendar days before any temporary suspension (or extension of such suspension) approved pursuant to this section takes effect. Deleted from this provision is the requirement in the Board's existing regulation that a copy of the Board's suspension decision shall be forwarded to the Congress since, as discussed above, the Act only requires that the Board provide notice to Congress of the suspension decision. See 12 CFR 960.11(f); 12 U.S.C. 1430(j)(6)(F). Proposed §960.19(f)(2) provides that a temporary suspension (or extension of such suspension) shall become effective as determined by the Board, unless a joint resolution of Congress is enacted disapproving such suspension (or extension thereof). The proposed rule deletes the provision in the Board's existing regulation that a temporary suspension extension may not take effect until at least 30 days after the Board gives the required notice to Congress, because this is inconsistent with the requirement in the existing regulation that the Board must notify the Congress at least 60 days before such extension takes effect. See 12 CFR 960.11(g). Proposed §960.19(f)(2) also deletes from the Board's existing regulation the requirement that a joint resolution of Congress disapproving a suspension or extension of a suspension must be enacted prior to the Board's determined effective date, in order to track more closely the actual language in the Act. See 12 U.S.C. 1430(j)(6)(F). O. Affordable Housing Reserve Fund Consistent with the Board's existing AHP regulation, §960.20(a) of the proposed rule provides that if a Bank fails to use or commit the full amount of its required annual contribution to the AHP, 90 percent of the amount that has not been used or committed in that year shall be deposited by the Bank in an Affordable Housing Reserve Fund established and administered by the Board. See 12 CFR 960.12. The 10 percent of the unused and uncommitted amount retained by the Bank should be fully used or committed by the Bank during the following year, and any remaining portion must be deposited in the Affordable Housing Reserve Fund. A Bank is deemed to have used or committed its required contribution where amounts are remaining at the end of the year because funding the next highest ranking project would exceed the Bank's required AHP contribution for the year. Such amounts remaining shall be combined with returned AHP funds to fund the next highest scoring AHP project or projects, or carried over by the Bank to the next year's AHP funding cycles. The language allowing these amounts to remain at the end of the year is added in the proposed rule to take into account situations where amounts remain uncommitted at the end of the year because the balance of required AHP contributions remaining is too small to fund the Bank's next highest scoring AHP application. The last sentence in proposed paragraph (a) also is new, making explicit that such amounts remaining and funds returned to the Bank shall fund other AHP projects and need not be transferred to the Affordable Housing Reserve Fund. Section 960.20(b) of the proposed rule provides that by January 15 of each year, each Bank shall provide to the Board a statement indicating the amount of unused and uncommitted funds from the prior year, if any, which will be deposited in the Affordable Housing Reserve Fund.
