FR940617-2-00091 FR940617-2-00052 C. Areas Inside an Ozone Transport Region Section 182(f) of the Clean Air Act provides a different test for exempting areas in an ozone transport region from NO X requirements (see section I.C. of this preamble). In particular, that test requires a demonstration that shows additional NO X reductions would not produce net ozone benefits in the transport region as a whole. Since the requirement for meeting this test is substantially different from that needed to meet the contribute-to-attainment test in section 182(f)(1)(A), and since the language in the conformity rule clearly does not reflect the language of the test provided for areas in an ozone transport region, the determination of how such areas would qualify for an exemption from the rule's NO X requirements merits more consideration before EPA can issue appropriate guidance. Today's guidance therefore applies only to NO X exemptions for areas outside the Ozone Transport Region. As noted previously, requests for conformity NO X exemptions must consider the nonattainment area as a whole. With respect to transportation conformity, NO X exemptions will not be granted for portions of nonattainment areas. Therefore, nonattainment areas with portions both inside and outside the Ozone Transport Region will be treated for purposes of such exemption requests as areas inside the Ozone Transport Region, and for the present time, will not be eligible for an exemption based on monitoring data as described in this notice. EPA will give further consideration to areas in the Ozone Transport Region, and if EPA does propose to exempt some of these areas, they will be addressed in state-specific rulemaking notices unless another general preamble providing guidance for such areas is published first. III. Process for Receiving a NO X Exemption Based on Monitoring Data for Nonclassifiable Areas EPA believes that section 182(f) sets up two separate procedures by which EPA may act on NO X exemption requests. Subsections 182(f) (1) and (2) direct that action on NO X exemption determination requests should take place ``when [EPA] approves a plan or plan revision.'' This language appears to contemplate that exemption requests submitted under these paragraphs are limited to states, since states are the entities authorized under the Act to submit plans or plan revisions. By contrast, subsection 182(f)(3) provides that ``person[s] 2 '' may petition for a NO X determination ``at any time'' after the ozone precursor study required under section 185B of the Act is finalized, 3 and gives EPA a limit of six months after filing to grant or deny such petitions. Although subsection 182(f)(3) references section 182(f)(1), EPA believes that paragraph (f)(3)'s reference to paragraph (f)(1) encompasses only the substantive tests in paragraph (f)(1) (and, by extension, paragraph (f)(2)), not the requirement in paragraph (f)(1) for EPA to grant exemptions only when acting on plan revisions. 2 Section 302(e) of the Act defines the term ``person'' to include states. 3 The final section 185B report was issued July 30, 1993. Accordingly, petitions submitted under subsection 182(f)(3) are not required to be submitted as state implementation plan (SIP) revisions. Consequently, the state is not required under the Act to hold a public hearing in order to petition for an areawide NO X exemption determination under section 182(f)(3) (see Clean Air Act sections 110(a) (1) and (2)). For similar reasons, if the state is submitting an areawide petition under subsection 182(f)(3), it is unnecessary to have the Governor submit the petition. However, because of the need for consistency with the AIRS data and the requirements of 40 CFR part 58, EPA believes that, particularly in cases where the NO X exemption request (including a request for exemption from the NO X requirements of the conformity rules) is based on monitoring data, if such data is contained in a petition submitted by a person other than the state, the petition should be coordinated with the state air agency. Lack of endorsement by the state air agency will require more scrutiny by EPA, and therefore EPA's processing of the petition will likely take more time. EPA will grant or deny a petition for an areawide NO X transportation conformity exemption through a full rulemaking process. This may involve a direct final rule or a notice of proposed rulemaking followed by a final rule. Either process allows opportunity for public comment. For areas which are relying on monitoring data which demonstrates attainment, the notice and comment will provide opportunity for comment on the preliminary interpretations contained in this General Preamble. These rulemakings will also offer opportunity for comment on the appropriateness of using monitoring data which is consistent with the requirements in 40 CFR part 58 and consistent with the data recorded in AIRS as the basis of EPA's approval and rescission of the contingent NO X exemption. If EPA issues a final rulemaking concluding that it will use such air quality monitoring data in making subsequent determination that an area has violated the standard, no further notice and comment will be required in order to rescind the NO X exemption in the event that such data subsequently indicates that a violation has occurred. EPA is preparing a delegation of authority to Regional Administrators to make determinations under section 182(f) for areas which are outside the Ozone Transport Region and which have three years of monitoring data demonstrating attainment. This delegation would allow the rulemaking for 182(f) determinations to be conducted by EPA's regional offices. IV. Effect of a NO X Transportation Conformity Exemption on Transportation Planning
