FR940602-1-00042 FR940602-1-00013 (a) Guy and preventer placement. Each guy or preventer shall be placed so as to prevent it from making contact with any other guy, preventer, or stay. (b) Guys. When alternate positions for securing guys are provided, the guys shall be so placed as to produce a minimum stress without permitting the boom to jackknife. (c) Boom placement. The head of the midship boom shall be spotted no farther outboard of the coaming than is necessary for control of the load. (d) Preventers. (1) Preventers shall be properly secured to suitable fittings, other than those to which the guys are secured, and shall be as nearly parallel to the guys as available fittings permit. (2) Unless the cleat is also a chock and the hauling part is led through the chock opening, the leads of preventers to cleats shall be such that the direction of the line pull of the preventer is as nearly as possible parallel to the plane of the surface on which the cleat is mounted. (3) Guys and associated preventers shall be adjusted so as to share the load as equally as practicable where cargo operations are being conducted by burtoning. Except, that where guys are designed and intended for trimming purposes only, and the preventer is intended to perform the function of the guy, the guy shall be left slack. (e) Cargo falls. Cargo falls under load shall not be permitted to chafe on any standing or other running rigging. Exception: Rigging shall not be construed to mean hatch coamings or other similar structural parts of the vessel. (f) Bull wire. (1) Where a bull wire is taken to a gypsy head for the purpose of lowering or topping a boom, the bull wire shall be secured to the gypsy head by shackle or other equally strong method. Securing by fibre rope fastening will not be acceptable in meeting this requirement. (2) When, in lowering or topping a boom, it is not possible to secure the bullwire to the gypsy head, or when the topping lift itself is taken to the gypsy head, multiple turns, of at least five shall be used. (g) Trimming and deckloads. When deck loads extend above the rail and there is less than 12 inches (30.48 cm) horizontal clearance between the edge of the deck load and the inside of the bulwark or rail, a pendant or other alternate device shall be provided to allow trimming of the gear without going overside. ยง1918.55 Cranes. (See also ยง1918.11). The following requirements shall apply to the use of cranes forming part of a vessel's permanent equipment. (a) Defects. Cranes with a visible or known defect that affects safe operation shall not be used. Defects shall be reported immediately to the officer in charge of the vessel. (b) Operator's station. (1) Good visibility shall be maintained through the cab's glass (or equivalent). Cranes with broken, cracked, or scratched glass (or equivalent) that impair operator visibility shall not be used. (2) Clothing, tools and equipment shall be so stored as to not interfere with access, operation or the operator's view. (c) Cargo operations. (1) Accessible areas within the swing radius of the body of a revolving crane or within the travel of a shipboard gantry crane shall be physically guarded during operations to prevent an employee from being caught between the body of the crane and any fixed structure, or between parts of the crane. (2) Limit switch bypass systems shall be secured during all cargo operations. (3) Under all operating conditions, at least three full turns of rope shall remain on ungrooved drums, and two full turns on grooved drums. (4) Crane brakes shall be monitored for performance. If crane brakes are unable to hold the load, the crane shall not be used. (5) Cranes shall not be used if control levers operate with excessive friction or excessive play. (6) When cranes are equipped with power down capability, there shall be no free fall of the gear when a load is attached. (7) When two or more cranes hoist a load in unison, a designated person shall direct the operation and instruct personnel in positioning, rigging of the gear and movements to be made. (d) Unattended cranes. When cranes are left unattended between work periods, ยง1918.66(b)(4)(i) through (v) shall apply.
