FR940429-0-00103 FR940429-0-00012 ยง667.14 Allowable costs and activities. (a) If included in a State's approved plan, the Secretary pays, by reimbursement, direct costs as described in paragraph (c) of this section and in Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Circular A&hyph;87, and indirect costs as determined in paragraph (b) of this section, of_ (1) Establishing State review standards in consultation with institutions in the State, publicizing the State review standards, and providing initial and continuing training to State and other personnel in the State, including personnel at the institution subject to review; (2) Establishing and implementing, in consultation with institutions in that State, the procedures for receiving and responding to complaints from students, faculty, and others regarding institutions in the State; (3) Reviewing referred institutions; and (4) Developing and maintaining an information system for SPRE review activities. (b) If a State seeks reimbursement for indirect costs, the State shall_ (1) Use the restricted indirect cost rate, computed under 34 CFR 75.564 and approved by the Secretary under 34 CFR 75.561; and (2) Not charge as a direct cost any cost that qualifies as an indirect cost. (c) The direct costs of carrying out the activities described in paragraph (a) of this section include, but are not limited to_ (1) The salary of State employees engaged in allowable activities; (2) Travel costs incurred_ (i) Consulting with institutions in developing standards and complaint procedures; and (ii) Reviewing referred institutions; (3) Training for_ (i) State employees to perform reviews of referred institutions; and (ii) Institutional and other personnel regarding the State review standards; (4) Contracting with private organizations, nationally recognized accrediting agencies, and peer review systems to carry out required activities; (5) Costs incurred by the State for administrative actions and legal proceedings; and (6) Costs incurred by the SPRE in that State in sharing information with other SPREs, the Secretary, other State agencies, nationally recognized accrediting agencies, institutions, private organizations, and others. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1099a&hyph;1099a&hyph;3) ยง667.15 Fiscal procedures and records. (a) A state must account for the funds it receives under this part in accordance with the procedures it uses to account for the expenditure of its own funds and must keep fiscal and accounting records that support, on audit, its expenditure of funds under this part. (b)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the State must keep intact and accessible records relating to its activities under this part for five years after the end of the period for which funds were provided. (2) The State shall keep records on any claim or expenditure questioned on audit until any audit question is resolved. (c) A State must have an audit performed of the SPRE's activities under this part at least once every two years and must submit the report of that audit to the Secretary. An audit conducted under the Single Audit Act satisfies this requirement. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1099a&hyph;1099a&hyph;3) ยง667.16 Supplement, not supplant, requirement. The Secretary reimburses a State for the costs of necessary SPRE activities which supplement, but do not supplant, existing licensing or review functions conducted by the State. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1099a&hyph;2) Subpart C_State Review Standards, SPRE Reviews, and Termination of Institutional Participation
