FR940314-2-00087 FR940314-2-00050 Geological Survey Grants and Cooperative Agreements; Availability, etc.: National Spatial Data Infrastructure Competitive Cooperative Agreements Program (NSDICCAP) for Fiscal Year (FY) 1994 AGENCY: Geological Survey, Interior. ACTION: Notice inviting applications for competitive cooperative agreement awards for fiscal year 1994. SUMMARY: The purpose of the FGDC National Spatial Data Infrastructure Competitive Cooperative Agreements Program (NSDICCAP) is to facilitate and foster partnerships and alliances within and among various public and private entities to assist in building the NSDI. The NSDI consists of policies, standards, agreements, and partnerships among a variety of sectors and disciplines that will promote more cost-effective production, ready availability, and greater use of high quality geospatial data. The NSDICCAP is intended to encourage resource-sharing projects, between and among the public and private sector through the use of technology, networking, and enhanced interagency coordination efforts. Proposals must involve two or more organizations, and participants are expected to cost share in the project. Activities initiated under this program will promote development and maintenance of and access to data sets that are needed for national, regional, State, and local analyses. Authority for this program is contained in the Department of the Interior and Related Agencies Appropriations Act of 1994, Public Law 103&hyph;138. Applications may be submitted by State and local government agencies, educational institutions, private firms, private foundations, and Federally acknowledged or State-recognized Native American tribes or groups. DATES: The program announcement and application forms are expected to be available on or about March 20, 1994. Applications must be received on or before May 10, 1994. ADDRESSES: Copies of Program Announcement 8071 may be obtained by writing to Kathleen Craig, U.S. Geological Survey, Office of Procurement and Contracts, Mail Stop 205A, 12201 Sunrise Valley Drive, Reston, Virginia 22092, (703) 648&hyph;7357. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Jennifer Snyder, FGDC, U.S. Geological Survey, 590 National Center, 12201 Sunrise Valley Drive, Reston, Virginia 22092; telephone number (703) 648&hyph;5514; facsimile (703) 648&hyph;5755. Internet ``gdc@usgs.gov''. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Under this FY 1994 program announcement, proposals are to be directed towards two components of the NSDI. The first component deals with creation of a distributed clearinghouse for finding and accessing geospatial data. The second component involves development and promulgation of the use of standards in data collection, documentation, transfer, and search and query. The following list of efforts is considered within the scope of the two aforementioned activities, and are intended to serve as general parameters for consideration when developing proposals: Component I. Development and implementation of the National Geospatial Data Clearinghouse: Create (inventory, evaluate, catalog data, and establish Internet access) and manage a node on the National Geospatial Data Clearinghouse that provides users with a means for finding, accessing, and sharing data; increase use and awareness of geospatial data available over Internet through development of training programs, information guides and other explanatory materials in support of a National Geospatial Data Clearinghouse; and, establish, develop, or expand programs or projects that improve local, regional, or national access to geospatial data to the government, public and private sector. Component II. Develop and further the implementation of FGDC-endorsed standards: Conduct programs to increase user comprehension and adoption of the FGDC Metadata Standard and the Spatial Data Transfer Standard; test and evaluate existing and proposed geospatial data standards; and, stimulate the development of geospatial data standards for consideration by the FGDC. Dated: March 3, 1994. Jack J. Stassi, Assistant Director for Administration. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;5799 Filed 3&hyph;11&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4310&hyph;31&hyph;M
