FR940224-2-00002 FR940224-2-00001 DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE Forest Service DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR Bureau of Land Management Oil and Gas Leasing; Lewis and Clark National Forest, MT AGENCIES: Forest Service, USDA, and Bureau of Land Management, Interior. ACTION: Notice of Intent to prepare an Environmental Impact Statement. SUMMARY: The Forest Service and the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) will prepare an Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) to disclose the impacts of proposed oil and gas leasing on the Lewis and Clark National Forest. The Forest Service and the BLM will be joint lead agencies for this EIS (40 CFR 1501.5). The EIS will be designed to satisfy the requirements of the Federal Onshore Oil and Gas Leasing Reform Act of 1987 and implementing regulations (36 CFR 228.102). DATES: Initial comments concerning the scope of the analysis should be received in writing no later than March 31, 1994. ADDRESSES: Send written comments to John D. Gorman, Forest Supervisor, Lewis and Clark National Forest, P.O. Box 869, Great Falls, MT 59403. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Robin Strathy, Environmental Analysis Team Leader, Lewis and Clark National Forest, as above, or phone: (406) 791&hyph;7726. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Forest Service proposes to make certain lands within the Lewis and Clark National Forest administratively available for oil and gas leasing, subject to constraints specified in the 1986 Lewis and Clark National Forest Land and Resource Management Plan. The Forest Service also proposes to authorize the BLM to offer those lands for lease, subject to specified stipulations. Both the administratively-available decision, and the leasing decision for specific lands are being made. The BLM will decide whether to offer the specific lands for lease subject to the Forest Service ensuring that correct stipulations will be attached to leases issued by BLM. In cases where the surface resources are not managed by the federal government but the minerals are federally owned (split estate), the BLM will also decide whether or not to offer these mineral rights for lease and what stipulations to apply. Except where stipulations prohibit all surface use, operations and development may be allowed on the leased lands. Such activity is subject to the operator obtaining an approved Surface Use Plan of Operations from the Forest Service in accordance with 36 CFR, subpart E, 228.106 and 228.107. The EIS will examine the effects of the proposal to implement the oil and gas leasing direction in the 1986 Lewis and Clark Forest Plan and additional alternatives. The primary purpose of this analysis is to determine which lands should be available for leasing, what stipulations should be applied to any leases, and which specific lands should be offered for lease at this time. Lands affected are within the boundaries of the Lewis and Clark National Forest. These lands encompass several mountain ranges south and east of Great Falls, Montana (including the Little Belt, Highwood, Castle, north Crazy, Big and Little Snowy Mountains), as well as the eastern Front Range of the Rocky Mountains west of Choteau, Montana. By regulation, several classes of National Forest System lands are considered legally unavailable for leasing at this time, and will be considered unavailable for lease under all alternatives in the analysis. On the Lewis and Clark Forest, these lands include existing wilderness, specifically the Bob Marshall-Scapegoat Wilderness complex. Also unavailable are those lands recommended for wilderness in the Lewis and Clark Forest Plan, which includes about 51,800 acres on the Rocky Mountain Division adjacent to the Bob Marshall and Scapegoat Wildernesses. These lands are described in the Lewis and Clark Forest Plan as the Renshaw, South Fork and West Fork of the Teton, and Silver King-Falls Creek areas. In addition, lands proposed for wilderness study under the Montana Wilderness Study Act (Pub. L. 95&hyph;150) are not available for oil and gas leasing. This includes 92,000 acres in the Middle Fork of the Judith River Wilderness Study Area in the Little Belt Mountains, and 98,000 acres in the Big Snowy Mountain Wilderness Study Area. This analysis is required by the Federal Onshore Oil and Gas Leasing Reform Act of 1987 and implementing regulations promulgated in 1990 (36 CFR 228.102). Potential issues that have been identified to date are the effects of oil and gas activities on: 1. Threatened and endangered species. 2. Sensitive fish, wildlife, and plant species. 3. Big game wildlife species. 4. Water quality. 5. Soil resources.
