FR941020-0-00059 FR941020-0-00020 DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration 50 CFR Part 216 [Docket No. 941088&hyph;4288; I.D. 092394B] RIN 0648&hyph;AG33 Taking and Importing of Marine Mammals AGENCY: National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS), National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), Commerce. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: NMFS issues this final rule to codify Federal District Court orders prohibiting the deployment of any purse-seine net on or the encirclement with any purse seine net of any school of dolphins within a defined area of the eastern tropical Pacific Ocean (ETP) when any offshore spotted dolphin ( Stenella attenuata ) is observed prior to the release of the net skiff. This prohibition will result in reduced mortality of offshore spotted dolphins as a result of purse seine fishing in the ETP. This rule also makes a technical correction to scientific names inadvertently transposed in a previous rule. EFFECTIVE DATE: This final rule is effective October 17, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: ␣␣ LT Dana S. Wilkes, 310&hyph;980&hyph;4015. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: On November 1, 1993, NMFS published a final rule declaring the northeastern stock of offshore spotted dolphin ( Stenella attenuata ) to be depleted (58 FR 58285; November 1, 1993), under section 3(1) of the Marine Mammal Protection Act (16 U.S.C. 1362(1)). On January 27, 1994, the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California in the case of Earth Island Institute v. Brown, No. C 88&hyph;1380 TEH, enjoined NMFS, effective immediately, from permitting any incidental taking of any northeastern offshore spotted dolphin in the ETP. The Court further ordered NMFS to issue regulations to prohibit the encirclement of any school of dolphins where an official U.S. or Inter-American Tropical Tuna Commission (IATTC) observer observes any northeastern offshore spotted dolphin in the school prior to the release of the net skiff. In compliance with the order, NMFS notified the U.S. tuna fleet on January 31, 1994, that sets on schools of dolphins containing any offshore spotted dolphins were prohibited, effective immediately, in the area north of 5 ○ N. lat., and east of 120 ○ W. long. In further compliance with provisions in the Court order to minimize the taking of northeastern offshore spotted dolphins, on February 4, 1994, NMFS extended the prohibition to prohibit the taking of all offshore spotted dolphins in the ETP (59 FR 8417). The Court ordered the parties to devise a means to minimize the taking of dolphins belonging to the northeastern stock along the geographical boundary separating them from other stocks. Because the parties were unable to agree on the size of the geographic area that would be needed to minimize the taking, they resubmitted this issue to the Court and asked that it determine the geographic range where the prohibition would apply. NMFS also requested that the Court provide time for it to publish the regulations implementing the order after resolution of this issue. On August 24, 1994, with a subsequent technical correction on September 19, 1994, the Court amended its order of January 27, and specified that the prohibition applied only in the area from 40 ○ N. lat. to 5 ○ N. lat., and from 120 ○ W. long. to the coastline of Central and South America. This area had been described by experts in documents filed with the Court as the primary region for the northeastern stock of offshore spotted dolphins. The Court also ordered NMFS to issue final regulations within 30 days of the September 19 order, prohibiting the encirclement of any school of dolphins within the boundary region where an official U.S. or IATTC observer observes any offshore spotted dolphin in the school prior to the release of the net skiff. NMFS issues this final rule to codify the Court orders. The orders and rule make it unlawful for any person or vessel subject to the jurisdiction of the United States intentionally to deploy a purse seine net on, or to encircle with a purse seine net, any school of dolphins in the area from 40 ○ N. lat. to 5 ○ N. lat., and from 120 ○ W. long. to the coastline of Central and South America in which any offshore spotted dolphin ( Stenella attenuata ) are observed in the school prior to the release of the net skiff. Consistent with the existing regulatory language prohibiting sets on eastern spinner and coastal spotted dolphins, the rule provides that any observation of any offshore spotted dolphin in a school of dolphins establishes the obligation not to deploy a net on, or to encircle with a net, the school. NMFS considers this prohibition on encircling northeastern offshore spotted dolphins as a U.S. marine mammal program element which a foreign nation must include in its marine mammal protection program in order for that program to be comparable to the U.S. program, as required by section 101(a)(2)(B) of the MMPA.
