FR941207-0-00127 FR941207-0-00022 49. Additionally, there is no indication that in enacting Section 309(j)(4)(D) Congress intended to expand the definition of ``members of minority groups'' to include classes of persons other than racial or ethnic groups, such as those listed in the preceding subsection, Section 309(i). 26 We further observe that in no other Commission context, have we included disabled persons in the categories of groups that comprise our definition of minorities. Making such a change here, without clear statutory and legislative support to do so, would therefore be inconsistent with our traditional application of the definition, which we believe should be uniform in all licensing contexts. 27 26 47 U.S.C. 309(i)(3)(C)(ii). Below, we revise our definition of ``members of minority groups'' to conform to this statutory definition. In interpreting this definition in the past, we have taken a restrictive view of the categories of minorities included in this definition and limited its expansion. See Third Report and Order, Gen. Docket No. 81&hyph;768, 102 FCC 2d 1401 (1985). 27 See In re Petition of Paralyzed Veterans Of America, et. al, to Amend Regulations Facilitating Minority Ownership of Broadcast Facilities to Include the Physically Handicapped, Memorandum Opinion and Order, FCC 85&hyph;651, 59 Rad. Reg. 2d (P&F) 1353 (released Dec. 16, 1985), petition for review dismissed as untimely, California Assoc. of the Physically Handicapped, Inc. v. FCC , 833 F.2d 1333 (9th Cir. 1987). 50. We wish to emphasized also, that it is highly likely that most firms owned by individuals with disabilities will be eligible to bid in the entrepreneurs' block and for an installment payment option if they meet the required gross revenues and total assets test. Such firms may also be eligible for ``enhanced'' installment payments and bidding credits if they qualify as small businesses under our rules. Indeed, absent a substantial record that demonstrates firms owned by persons with disabilities have any more difficulty accessing capital then any other small business, we find that we cannot accommodate the Karl Brothers request. 51. We also note that we have before us a Petition for Rulemaking filed by David J. Lieto (Lieto Petition), which requests that the Commission amend Section 1.2110 of the Commission's rules to provide that disabled individuals are within the minority group categories and are thus entitled to the benefits associated with being a designated entity under the Commission's auction rules. See David J. Lieto Petition for Rulemaking, filed September 21, 1994, at 2&hyph;3. As stated above, we believe that our existing rules provide opportunities for individuals with disabilities to participate in the entrepreneurs' block, and that there is no direct statutory or record support for Lieto's request. Furthermore, Lieto has failed to provide a record comparable to that for women and minorities demonstrating that disabled individuals experience difficulties accessing capital that are unique to their status. Accordingly, we decline to initiate a rulemaking at this time, and hereby dismiss the Lieto Petition. 52. In response to numerous inquiries, 28 however, we revise the definition of ``members of minority groups'' slightly to conform with the definition of minority used in other contexts. 29 Thus, ยง24.720(i) shall read as follows: ``Members of minority groups include Blacks, Hispanics, American Indians, Alaskan Natives, Asians, and Pacific Islanders.'' 30 We have also been asked to clarify the meaning of particular categories in the definition of minority. Again, for consistency, we shall use the same category descriptions the Commission has relied on in other contexts. 31 These categories are as follows: 28 We received several inquiries about the definition of ``members of minority groups'' from participants in the FCC PCS seminars, which provide an overview of the PCS rules and procedures. The seminar series included sessions held in the following locations: Washington, D.C. (Aug. 29 1994); Chicago (Aug. 22, 1994); Denver (Aug. 24, 1994); San Francisco (Aug. 26, 1994). 29 See, e.g. , Broadcast Equal Employment Opportunity Rules and FCC Form 395 , 70 FCC 2d 1466, 1473 (1979); 47 CFR 73.3555(d)(3)(iv), 1.1621(b); see also 47 U.S.C. ยง309(i)(3)(c)(ii); Race and Ethnic Standards for Federal Statistics and Administration Reporting, OMB Statistical Policy Directive No. 15 (1977). 30 In a separate Order , we shall be making the same correction to the definition of minority groups used in the generic auction rules ( see 47 CFR 1.2110(b)(2)) and the narrowband auction rules ( see 47 CFR 24.320(f)). 31 See Broadcast Equal Employment Opportunity Rules and FCC Form 395 ; See also ``Instructions for Completing FCC Forms 395&hyph;A & 395&hyph;M,'' Section V (Race/Ethnic Categories). a. Black . A person having origins in any of the black racial groups of Africa. b. Hispanic. A person of Mexican, Puerto Rican, Cuban, Central or South American or other Spanish Culture or origin, regardless of race. c. American Indian or Alaskan Native. A person having origins in any of the original peoples of North America, and who maintains cultural identification through tribal affiliations or community recognition. d. Asian or Pacific Islander. A person having origins in any of the original peoples of the Far East, Southeast Asia, the Indian subcontinent, or the Pacific Islands. This area includes, for example, China, Indian, Japan, Korea, the Philippine Islands, and Samoa. To address any specific claims or allegations regarding an individual race or origin, we will follow existing Commission precedent. 32 To the extent that prior Commission cases do not provide adequate guidance in specific cases, we may look to cases developed under minority programs in other federal agencies, such as the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) and the SBA. 32 See , e.g. , Lone Cypress Radio Assoc. Inc. , 7 FCC Rcd 4403 (Rev. Bd. 1992), and cases cited therein; See also Storer Broadcasting Co. , 87 FCC 2d 190, 191&hyph;93 (1981). Small Business Consortia 53. In the Fifth Report and Order the Commission allowed a consortium of small businesses to qualify collectively for the preferences available to a small business if each business within the consortium individually satisfies the definition of a small business designated entity. The Commission defined a small business designated entity as any company that, together with attributable investors and affiliates, has average gross revenues for the three preceding years of not in excess of $40 million. We defined ``consortium of small businesses'' as a conglomerate organization formed as a joint venture among mutually-independent business firms, each of which individually satisfies the definition of a small business. See 47 CFR ยง24.720(b)(3). In the Second Report and Order , we concluded that consortia should not always be entitled to qualify for measures designed specifically for designated entities. In the Fifth Report and Order , however, we stated that for the auctioning of broadband PCS, it is especially necessary to allow small businesses to pool their resources in this manner to help them overcome capital formation problems. Thus, our rules provide that if a consortium's members are all small businesses ( i.e. , defined as companies that do not have average yearly gross revenues for the preceding three years in excess of $40 million), the consortium as a whole will qualify for designated entity provisions for small businesses. 54. Omnipoint requests that the Commission allow small businesses to form a single corporate applicant (rather than a joint venture) and get the same treatment as consortia. BET requests that the Commission eliminate the preference available to small business consortia. 55. We believe the current preferences for small business consortia are adequate and necessary to ensure that small businesses have sufficient opportunities to participate in the broadband PCS auctions. Accordingly, we deny BET's request to eliminate the small business consortia preferences. As we observed in the Fifth Report and Order , allowing small businesses to pool their resources in this manner is necessary to help them overcome capital formation problems and ensure their participation in the provision of broadband PCS. We believe that small, rural telephone companies, in particular, are expected to use this mechanism to compete in some of the smaller markets. 56. We also deny Omnipoint's request that small businesses be allowed to form a single corporate applicant that would be afforded the same treatment as consortia. The concept of a consortium is that each small business participant remains a distinct corporate entity independent of other consortium members and that each member has rights and obligations similar, or equal to, those held by participants in other types of joint ventures. Allowing a group of small businesses to apply as one corporate applicant and receive the benefits or our consortia rule would disadvantage small, independent businesses wishing to bid as a group under our rule, but who cannot restructure as a corporate applicant and could tend to dilute each member's influence and insulate their responsibilities in the venture. We believe that such a change would also eviscerate our small business eligibility size requirement. We wish to clarify, however, that we intent to examine the qualifications of each consortium member to ensure that each is a bona fide small business. In this regard, it is assumed that each concern should be an entity ``organized for profit'' and not for the sole purpose of qualifying as part of a small business consortia. This is consistent with SBA's long-standing definition of ``business concern.'' See 43 CFR 121.403(a), Small Business Size Standards , 54 FR 52634 (Dec. 21, 1989). 57. On another issue, BET contends that the $40 million gross revenues standard fails to comply with an SBA requirement that any size standard proposed by a federal agency that varies from SBA's standard be ``proposed after an opportunity for public notice and comment'' and be ``approved by the Administrator [of the SBA].'' 33 We believe we have fully met our notice and comment obligations, both under the Administrative Procedures Act and the Small Business Act, in this proceeding. We solicited comment on a range of size options, and received comment that included SBA's recommendation for a $40 million gross revenues cap (which we ultimately adopted). Indeed, we recently obtained SBA's approval of the $40 million size standard. 34 33 See 15 U.S.C. 632(a)(2)(A) and (C) 34 See Letter to William Kennard, FCC General Counsel from Philip Lader, SBA Administrator, Nov. 9, 1994 (responding to Aug. 19, 1994 request for size approval).
