FR941116-2-00127 FR941116-2-00095 Areas of Research to Be Supported in Fiscal Year 1995 Proposals addressing the following research topics are requested: 1. Development of new risk assessment methods (e.g., monitoring organism escape, measuring biological impacts), and risk assessment procedures (e.g., comparative analysis of ecosystems, models to predict risks) that could be used in risk assessment of genetically modified fungi, bacteria, viruses (including animal vaccines), plants, arthropods, fish, birds, and mammals. Applicants should address the need for, and development of, such new risk assessment methods in the course of addressing a specific and defined risk assessment issue, especially as pertains to genetically modified organisms. 2. Creation of information systems and computer models to support regulatory agency decision-making in regards to potential impacts to the environment over time (e.g., computer models to describe the interaction of environmental and organismal factors especially for establishment and dispersal of the organism). 3. Risk assessment of the environmental fate (e.g., survival, reproduction fitness, genetic stability, horizontal gene transfer) as correlated with effects (e.g., loss of genetic diversity, enhanced competition) of genetically modified fungi, bacteria, viruses, plants, arthropods, fish, birds and mammals introduced into the environment (i.e., not in a contained laboratory, greenhouse or building); and studies or identification of traits which may influence fate and effects. In response to requests to Program Directors and Federal regulatory agencies, as stipulated in the authorizing legislation for the Program, section 1668 of Public Law 101&hyph;624, the following specific areas of risk assessment research have been identified as eligible for competition as research topics for this year. 4. The bidirectional rates, effects of selection pressures, mechanisms and impact of gene transfer between currently genetically transformable crop species and existing North American wild relatives of those crops including studies of methods of mitigation of potential gene exchange. Species specifically identified by the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service include rye, oats, barley, sorghum and turfgrasses. Research could rely on reanalysis of published information and/or laboratory/field studies. 5. The potential for recombination between plant viruses and plant-encoded noncapsid viral genes (e.g., replicase), especially for those viruses in supergroup B (carmovirus, tombusvirus, luteovirus, sobemovirus). Such studies should identify recombination potentials and, if demonstrated, define frequencies and effect on symptom expression. 6. The potential for plants to express nonviral genes using noncoding regulatory sequences (promoters, translational enhancers, termination sequences) derived from plant viruses that naturally infect the plants (e.g., cauliflower mosaic virus and Brassica spp.). The potential for changes in expression of introduced genes or other aspects of host physiology when the transgenic plant becomes infected with plant viruses, especially those from which the noncoding sequence was derived or from related viruses. 7. Changes in viral host ranges or the types of viral vectors as a result of the use of transgenic plants expressing viral genes. 8. The potential for nontarget effects of introduced plant-defense compounds expressed in genetically modified plant-associated microorganisms (e.g., compounds in phyllosphere or rhizosphere-inhabiting bacteria) or in plants (e.g., Bacillus thuringiensis delta-endotoxin), especially in regard to persistence of the organisms and material in the environment. 9. Identification of genes which can confer additional pathogenicity to animal pathogens. Pathogenic organisms specifically identified by the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service as being of interest are Marek's disease virus, laryngo tracheitis virus, bovine leukemia virus, eastern equine encephalomyelitis virus, bovine diarrhea virus, Erysipelothrix rhusiopathiae and Haemophilus somnus.
