FR940720-2-00161 FR940720-2-00090 DEPARTMENT OF STATE [Public Notice 2035] Designation and Determination Pursuant to the authority vested in me by the Foreign Missions Act, 22 U.S.C. §4301 et seq . (``the Act''), and Department of State Delegation of Authority No. 147 of September 13, 1982, I hereby determine that the Palestine Liberation Organization representation in the United States (``PLO Office'') is a ``foreign mission'' within the meaning of Section 202(a)(3) of the Act (22 U.S.C. 4302(a)(3)) and that the provisions of Section 205 of the Act (22 U.S.C. §4305) apply to the acquisition or disposition of real property by or on behalf of the PLO Office. Designation of the PLO Office as a foreign mission is based on the following: _It is an ``agency or entity in the United States.'' _It holds itself out as representing the PLO, and is acknowledged in that capacity by the U.S. Government; it is involved in ``other activities'' on behalf of the PLO. _It is substantially owned and/or effectively controlled by the PLO. _The PLO is ``an organization *␣*␣*␣ representing a territory or political entity which has been granted diplomatic or other official privileges and immunities under the laws of the United States [by virtue of its status as an observer to the United Nations] or which engages in some aspect of the conduct of the international affairs of such territory or political entity.'' ( See Palestine Information Office v. Shultz , 853 F.2d 932, 937 (D.C. Cir. 1988).) Pursuant to Section 4302(a)(1) of the Act, I hereby designate the acquisition by the PLO Office, or its agents or employees acting on its behalf, of the following goods and services from any person or entity subject to the jurisdiction of the United States, as a benefit for the purposes of the Act: Goods (1) Motor vehicles; (2) Construction equipment and materials; (3) Equipment and materials for the maintenance of the mission, including typewriters, telephones and other telecommunications equipment, copying machines and related materials; (4) Computers and automated data processing equipment; and (5) Furnishings for offices. Services (1) Public utilities and services, including telephone, telegraph and other telecommunications services, mail, public transportation and sanitation services; and (2) Personal services of individuals engaged within the United States for whatever purpose, whether on a temporary or regular basis. Such personal services include: (a) Services relating to public relations, information, publishing, printing, advertising, distribution of literature, or mailing; (b) Plumbing, electrical, construction, maintenance, engineering, architectural or related services; (c) Packing, shipping, cartage and related services, including provision of packing materials; and (d) Financial services. In addition, I hereby determine it to be reasonably necessary to accomplish the purposes set forth in section 204(b) of the Act (22 U.S.C. 4304(b)) to require the PLO Office, and its agents or employees acting on its behalf, to comply with the terms and conditions to be specified by the Director of the Office of Foreign Missions as a condition to the execution or performance in the United States of any contract or other agreement, the acquisition, retention, or use of any real property, or the application for or acceptance of any benefit (including any benefit from or authorized by any Federal, State, or municipal governmental authority, or any entity providing public services). Publication of this notice in the Federal Register constitutes notice to persons subject to the jurisdiction of the United States doing business with or providing goods or services to the PLO Office that terms and conditions with respect to benefits as described herein are hereby imposed. Persons wishing clarification as to the applicability of this Designation and Determination may contact the Office of Foreign Missions, U.S. Department of State, Washington, DC 20520 (telephone: (202) 647&hyph;5217)). Dated: June 21, 1994. Richard M. Moose, Under Secretary for Management. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;17637 Filed 7&hyph;19&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4710&hyph;44&hyph;M
