FR940805-1-00063 FR940805-1-00013 (xvi) notation of cash and all property; (xvii) initial classification and special needs; (xviii) an indication that the health and suicide screening was completed; (xix) name of legal representative if any; and (xx) name of booking officer. (11) Conducting research. All research conducted shall comply with federal and tribal regulations pertaining to conducting and disseminating research findings as well as professional and scientific ethics. The administrator, the Agency Superintendent and the Area Director shall approve all research prior to implementation. The administrator shall regulate voluntary inmate participation in research. (f) Citizen involvement and volunteers _(1) Volunteer coordinator. The administrator shall encourage citizen participation in volunteer programs by designating a staff member as volunteer coordinator. (2) Volunteer plan. The volunteer coordinator shall develop and implement a written plan for volunteer services. The volunteer coordinator and administrator shall update the plan as necessary and review it at least annually. The plan shall include: (i) lines of authority; (ii) responsibility and accountability for volunteer services; (iii) procedures for the screening and selection of volunteers; (iv) a volunteer orientation or training program, which is appropriate to the nature of the assignments; (v) a requirement that volunteers shall agree in writing to abide by all facility rules, policies, procedures and practices, particularly those related to security and confidentiality of information; and (vi) a statement that the administrator may discontinue a volunteer activity at any time by written notice. ยง10.12 Physical plant. (a) Code compliance _(1) Building and safety code compliance. If owned by the Bureau, the facility shall comply with 29 CFR Part 1910, Subparts D, E, G and L. If owned by a tribe, the facility shall comply with the National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) Life Safety Code 101 Chapters 2, 4 through 7, and 14 (if new detention occupancy) or 15 (if existing detention occupancy), or comparable tribal regulations. (2) Zoning. The facility shall comply with applicable zoning and land use requirements. (3) Accessibility. The facility shall comply with 25 U.S.C. 794 (the Rehabilitation Act of 1973) as amended, 41 CFR 101&hyph;19.6 (Uniform Federal Accessibility Standards), and 43 CFR Part 17. (4) OSHA compliance. The facility shall comply with 29 CFR Part 1910, Subparts C through E, G, K, L and S (Occupational Health and Safety Standards) or comparable tribal regulations. If other activities governed by sections of 29 CFR Part 1910 not identified in this standard are carried out in the facility, the section(s) of 29 CFR Part 1910 governing that activity or comparable tribal regulations apply. (5) Health and safety inspection. In compliance with 29 CFR Part 1960, Subparts B through D, the facility shall receive at least one inspection each year by a qualified safety and health inspector and Environmental Health Specialist and/or Sanitarian. Any request for inspection shall be directed to the Area Safety Manager or Officer through the Agency Superintendent. (6) Furnishings and equipment code compliance. The administrator shall maintain documentation by an independent, qualified source that the interior furnishing materials in inmate living areas, exit areas and places of public assembly shall be in accordance with NFPA Life Safety Code Section 6&hyph;5 or comparable tribal regulations. (b) Facility organization _(1) Design for supervision. Physical plant design shall facilitate continuous personal contact and interaction between staff and inmates. (2) Separation of adults and juveniles. If the adult facility temporarily holds juveniles for periods of less than twenty-four hours, it shall comply with 42 U.S.C. 223(a)(ii) (the Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention Act of 1974) as amended and 28 CFR Part 31. (3) Separation of classifications. The facility shall be designed and constructed so that inmates can be separated according to the requirements identified in these standards and the facility's classification plan. (4) Separation of males and females. The facility shall provide for sight and sound separation of male and female inmates in their housing areas. (5) Supervision. All general population and special management living areas shall be constructed to facilitate continuous staff observation, excluding electronic surveillance, of cell or room fronts and activity areas, such as dayrooms and recreation spaces. (6) Continuously observable housing. The facility shall provide a minimum of two single occupancy cells that can be continuously observed by staff and which allow inmates to communicate with staff. (7) Rated capacity. The number of inmates shall not exceed the facility's rated capacity with the exception of mass arrests. (8) Location. The facility shall be located conveniently for criminal justice agencies, the health authority, community agencies and inmates' legal representatives, families and friends. (c) Environmental conditions _(1) Artificial light levels. Lighting levels in inmate cells or rooms shall be at least twenty footcandles at the desk and in the personal grooming areas. Lighting levels throughout the facility shall be appropriate to the tasks and activities carried out in its spaces. An independent, qualified source shall document lighting levels. (2) Noise levels. Noise levels shall not exceed seventy decibels in the daytime and forty-five decibels at night. An independent, qualified source shall document noise levels. (3) Indoor air quality. Air circulation shall be at least ten cubic feet of outside or recirculated filtered air per minute per occupant. An independent, qualified source shall document air circulation. (4) Use of tobacco. The administrator shall regulate the use of tobacco in the facility by staff, inmates and the public.
