FR940111-0-00033 FR940111-0-00008 Return Transportation Provision_ยง214.2(h)(4)(iii)(E) and ยง214.2(h)(6)(vi)(E) One commenter suggested that petitioners in H&hyph;1B and H&hyph;2B cases should be required to post a bond in order to prove to the Service that the return transportation requirement will be met. It is the opinion of the Service that the statute and regulations clearly state the requirement that a petitioner in these instances is responsible for the alien beneficiary's return transportation. The filing of the petition is sufficient assurance to the Service that the petitioner will comply with this requirement. Criteria and Documentary Requirements for Physicians_ยง214.2(h)(4)(viii) Prior to the passage of IMMACT, alien graduates of foreign medical schools were excluded from classification as H&hyph;1B nonimmigrants unless they were coming to the United States pursuant to an invitation from a public or nonprofit private educational or research institution or agency to teach or conduct research, or both, at or for such institution or agency. These physicians were not authorized to perform direct patient care unless it was incidental to the teaching or research. This restriction, however, was not contained in IMMACT, thereby allowing graduates of foreign medical schools to perform direct patient care in the United States. Public Law 102&hyph;232 addressed the issue of foreign physicians coming to the United States to perform services in the medical profession. The legislation provided that these aliens could obtain H&hyph;1B classification in either of two ways. First (mirroring the pre-IMMACT statutory language), an alien may be accorded H&hyph;1B classification if the alien is coming to the United States pursuant to an invitation from a public or nonprofit private educational or research institution or agency to teach or conduct research, or both, at or for such institution or agency. Second, an alien may be accorded H&hyph;1B classification if he or she has passed the Federation Licensing Examination (FLEX) or an equivalent examination as determined by the Secretary of Health and Human Services. Eligibility under this criterion also requires a demonstration that the alien has competency in oral and written English or that the alien has graduated from a school of medicine accredited by a body or bodies approved for that purpose by the Secretary of Education. In the preamble to the interim rule, it was stated that there was no distinction between alien physicians educated in the United States and those educated abroad and that both had to pass the Federation Licensing Examination (FLEX) in order to be classified as an H&hyph;1B nonimmigrant in order to perform direct patient care. Three commenters stated that the FLEX requirement should not be applicable to alien graduates of United States medical schools since, over the previous decade, the Service has consistently permitted these aliens to engage in direct patient care under the H&hyph;1B classification. These commenters also noted that graduates of United States medical schools are not normally required to take the FLEX examination as part of their training and licensing requirements. Subsequent to the publication of the interim rule, the Service altered its position on this issue, reaffirming that the FLEX requirement did not apply to aliens educated at United States medical schools. This position now will be codified in the final rule. It should be noted, however, that the FLEX requirement does apply to aliens educated in foreign medical schools, including schools in Canada. The final rule will be amended to reflect the Service's present position. Two commenters noted that aliens of national or international renown in the field of medicine, pursuant to section 101(a)(41) of the Act, are not considered graduates of a medical school and should be exempt for the FLEX requirement. The Service agrees with this comment and the final rule will be amended to indicate that aliens of national or international renown in the field of medicine are exempt from the FLEX requirement as well as the other requirements set forth in section 212(j)(2) of the Act. They are, however, required to meet the licensure requirements for the state of intended employment.
