FR940603-1-00153 FR940603-1-00009 Work included in these sections shall be performed under a schedule of deenergization and operating procedures as set forth by the Owner at the time of release of any Section involving work on existing lines. The Contractor will so plan and perform its work that it will be possible to safely reenergize all lines involved at the expiration of the time limits set up in the schedule to resume service to all consumers being served prior to deenergization. Prior to commencement of work each day on lines to be deenergized, and upon completion of work each day on such lines, the Contractor will notify the Owner thereof in writing or in such other manner as the circumstances permit. Section H_Conversion Assembly Units Conversion assembly units are pole-top assemblies and cover the furnishing of all labor and additional materials for changing an existing assembly unit to a new assembly unit, utilizing certain items of materials of the existing assembly unit on poles to be left in place. Any materials removed from the existing assembly units which are not required in the construction of the conversion assembly unit are to be reused by the Contractor in the construction of other assembly units, or returned to Owner's warehouse, as directed by the Owner. Conversion assembly units are specified by the prefix H with the new construction assembly unit designation shown first and the existing assembly unit designation shown last. For example, an H B1&hyph;A1 signifies the conversion of an existing A1 assembly unit to a B1 assembly unit (as was defined in the description of construction assembly units). In this instance the Contractor utilizes the existing pintype insulator, single upset bolt and neutral spool and furnishes the additional crossarm, crossarm pins, braces, machine bolt, carriage bolts, lag screw, and insulator required for the new unit. The Contractor transports the pole-top pin and two machine bolts to the warehouse or uses them on the Project as directed by the Owner. The Conversion assembly units also include the furnishing of all labor and materials in the transferring, resagging and retying of conductors from one position on the pole to a different position on the pole where such transfers are required. Where replacement of conductor is required, the existing conductor will be removed under Section I and the new conductor installed under Section N. Where replacement of a pole is required, the existing pole and pole-top assembly will be removed under Section I and the new pole and pole-top assembly will be installed according to Section N and no H units will be involved. Conversion assemblies are listed in three subsections for converting pole-top assemblies from single to V phase, single to three phase, and V to three phase. The following descriptions apply to only those conversion units not sufficiently explicit: ␣ 1Unit 1Description ␣ Subsection H (B&hyph;A)␣1 Phase to V Phase
