FR940810-2-00137 FR940810-2-00080 This concern is not relevant here because the vehicles in question contain on-board aiming devices (vehicle headlamp aiming devices). No aiming pads are needed in such advanced technology. Since the lens does not participate in the aiming of the headlamp, aiming cannot be affected by misalignment of the lens during lens replacement in the Mercedes system. 3. Headlamp Beam Formation Not Affected In the same Federal Register notice, NHTSA expressed concern that replacement lenses may alter the headlamp beam formation due to the fluting (prescription) of the lens. Several factors assure photometric compliance with Standard 108 for the Mercedes-Benz unbonded headlamp. First, in the headlamp manufacturing process, the headlamp is designed so that the lens can be clipped onto any housing/reflector assembly and be assured of meeting the photometric performance requirements of Standard 108. *␣*␣* [T]he design permits only a positive and secure attachment. There are no shims or adjustments that could influence the lens mounting. Second, from a design point of view, the physical size of the reflector and lens make the headlamp highly insensitive to minute positioning variations in mounting and/or manufacture. 4. Vehicle Maintenance All affected vehicles are within the time constraints of the warranty period. Thus, within the next 12 months, [Mercedes] will be able to remedy the noncompliance when the subject vehicles are brought in for service. [Mercedes] will direct dealers to bond the headlamps of all noncomplying vehicles brought to authorized dealers for service. 5. Conclusion In view of the fact that the headlamps comply with all performance aspects of Standard 108, that the replacement lenses are no longer available from [Mercedes] or its dealers, and that the vehicles will be remedied shortly through routine warranty maintenance, there is no adverse impact on safety. Therefore, [Mercedes believes that] NHTSA should grant [its] petition for an exemption for an inconsequential noncompliance with Standard 108. One comment was received, from Volkswagen of North America, Inc., which supported granting the petition. NHTSA's principal concerns with headlamp compliance are photometric performance and durability. The agency accepts the petitioner's representation that the accuracy of headlamp aim is not affected by lens replacement. The fact that the petitioner has undertaken to bond the lenses on vehicles that come in for warranty service addresses the agency's concern on durability. NHTSA deems it unlikely that, during the warranty period which is early in the life of the headlamp, the reflector assembly will deteriorate to a point that it affects photometric performance because the lens is clipped rather than bonded. Although 100% of the noncompliant vehicles may not be returned for warranty work, it is the practice of most vehicle owners to have such work done by a factory authorized dealer, and NHTSA deems it likely that most cars will have the noncompliance corrected by the end of the 4-year warranty period. The agency is currently considering a petition from Robert Bosch GmbH, the manufacturer of the noncompliant headlamps, to permit the use of unbonded lenses on replaceable bulb headlamps that are equipped with on-vehicle aiming devices. If NHTSA were to grant the petition and to propose such an amendment, it might be necessary to include enhanced durability requirements that would help to ensure reflector integrity and resistance to contaminants between the time the lens is damaged and the time it is replaced. At this point, the agency does not know how the unbonded Mercedes headlamps would perform under such enhanced requirements that are yet to be fully developed and evaluated. Therefore, the bonding by Mercedes of its vehicle headlamps seems to be a prudent course of action under the circumstances. The petition also covered replacement headlamps and replacement lenses. NHTSA understands that these parts are intended to replace parts on the headlamps covered by the petition, and deems it likely that most of the vehicles equipped with the replacement headlamps or lenses will be inspected and corrected during the warranty period as well. In consideration of the foregoing, it is hereby found that Mercedes-Benz of North America, Inc., has met its burden of persuasion that the noncompliance herein described is inconsequential as it relates to motor vehicle safety and its petition is granted. Authority: 49 U.S.C. 30118, 30120; delegations of authority at 49 CFR 1.50 and 49 CFR 501.8. Issued on August 4, 1994. Barry Felrice, Associate Administrator for Rulemaking. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;19442 Filed 8&hyph;9&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;59&hyph;P
