FR941107-2-00069 FR941107-2-00028 Privacy Act of 1974; Computer Matching Program Between the Department of Labor and the Defense Manpower Data Center of the Department of Defense AGENCY: Defense Manpower Data Center, Defense Logistics Agency, Department of Defense. ACTION: Notice of a computer matching program between the Department of Labor (DOL) and the Department of Defense (DoD) for public comment. SUMMARY: Subsection (e)(12) of the Privacy Act of 1974, as amended, (5 U.S.C. 552a) requires agencies to publish advance notice of any proposed or revised computer matching program by the matching agency for public comment. The DoD, as the matching agency under the Privacy Act is hereby giving constructive notice in lieu of direct notice to the record subjects of a computer matching program between DOL and DoD that their records are being matched by computer. The record subjects are DOL delinquent debtors who may be current or former Federal employees receiving Federal salary or benefit payments and who are delinquent in their repayment of debts owed to the United States Government under programs administered by DOL so as to permit DOL to pursue and collect the debt by voluntary repayment or by administrative or salary offset procedures under the provisions of the Debt Collection Act of 1982. DATES: This proposed action will become effective December 7, 1994, and the computer matching will proceed accordingly without further notice, unless comments are received which would result in a contrary determination or if the Office of Management and Budget or Congress objects thereto. Any public comment must be received before the effective date. ADDRESSES: Any interested party may submit written comments to the Director, Defense Privacy Office, Crystal Mall 4, Room 920, 1941 Jefferson Davis Highway, Arlington, VA 22202&hyph;4502. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mr. Aurelio Nepa, Jr. at telephone (703) 607&hyph;2943. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Pursuant to subsection (o) of the Privacy Act of 1974, as amended, (5 U.S.C. 552a), the DMDC and DOL have concluded an agreement to conduct a computer matching program between the agencies. The purpose of the match is to exchange personal data between the agencies for debt collection. The match will yield the identity and location of the debtors within the Federal government so that DOL can pursue recoupment of the debt by voluntary payment or by administrative or salary offset procedures. Computer matching appeared to be the most efficient and effective manner to accomplish this task with the least amount of intrusion of personal privacy of the individuals concerned. It was therefore concluded and agreed upon that computer matching would be the best and least obtrusive manner and choice for accomplishing this requirement. A copy of the computer matching agreement between DOL and DMDC is available upon request to the public. Requests should be submitted to the address caption above or to the Debt Collection Officer, Department of Labor, Office of the Secretary, Office of Financial Management MS 7258 MIB, Washington, DC 20240. Telephone (202) 208&hyph;4703. Set forth below is the notice of the establishment of a computer matching program required by paragraph 6.c. of the Office of Management and Budget Guidelines on computer matching published in the Federal Register at 54 FR 25818 on June 19, 1989. The matching agreement, as required by 5 U.S.C. 552a(r) of the Privacy Act, and an advance copy of this notice was submitted on October 21, 1994, to the Committee on Government Operations of the House of Representatives, the Committee on Governmental Affairs of the Senate, and the Administrator of the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, Office of Management and Budget pursuant to paragraph 4d of Appendix I to OMB Circular No. A&hyph;130, `Federal Agency Responsibilities for Maintaining Records about Individuals,' dated July 15, 1994 (59 FR 37906, July 25, 1994). The matching program is subject to review by OMB and Congress and shall not become effective until that review period has elapsed. Dated: October 27, 1994. Patricia L. Toppings, Alternate OSD Federal Register Liaison Officer, Department of Defense. Notice of a Computer Matching Program Between the Department of Labor and the Department of Defense for Debt Collection A. Participating agencies: Participants in this computer matching program are the Department of Labor (DOL) and the Defense Manpower Data Center (DMDC) of the Department of Defense (DoD). The DOL is the source agency, i.e., the activity disclosing the records for the purpose of the match. The DMDC is the specific recipient activity or matching agency, i.e., the agency that actually performs the computer matching. B. Purpose of the match: Upon the execution of an agreement, the DOL will provide and disclose debtor records to DMDC to identify and locate any matched Federal personnel, employed or retired, who may owe delinquent debts to the Federal Government under certain programs administered by the DOD. The DOL will use this information to initiate independent collection of those debts under the provisions of the Debt Collection Act of 1982 when voluntary payment is not forthcoming. These collection efforts will include requests by the DOL of any employing Federal agency to apply administrative and/or salary offset procedures until such time as the obligation is paid in full. C. Authority for conducting the match: The legal authority for conducting the matching program is contained in the Debt Collection Act of 1982 (Pub. L. 97&hyph;365), 31 U.S.C. Chapter 37, Subchapter I (General) and Subchapter II (Claims of the United States Government), 31 U.S.C. 3711 Collection and Compromise, 31 U.S.C. 3716 Administrative Offset, 5 U.S.C. 5514 Installment Deduction for Indebtedness (Salary Offset); 10 U.S.C. 136, Assistant Secretaries of Defense, Appointment Powers and Duties; section 206 of Executive Order 11222; 4 CFR Ch. II, Federal Claims Collection Standards (General Accounting Office - Department of Justice); 5 CFR 550.1101 - 550.1108 Collection by Offset from Indebted Government Employees (OPM); 29 CFR 20.74 - 20.90 Salary Offset (Department of Labor). D. Records to be matched: The systems of records maintained by the respective agencies under the Privacy Act of 1974, as amended, 5 U.S.C. 552a, from which records will be disclosed for the purpose of this computer match are as follows: OWCP will use personal data from the record system identified as DOL/GOVT&hyph;1, entitled `Office of Workers' Compensation Programs, Federal Employees' Compensation File,' published in the Federal Register at 58 FR 49548 on September 23, 1993 with amendments published at 59 FR 47361 on September 15, 1994. DMDC will use personal data from the record systems identified as S322.11 DMDC, entitled `Federal Creditor Agency Debt Collection Data Base,' last published in the Federal Register on February 22, 1993, at 58 FR 10875. Sections 5 and 10 of the Debt Collection Act authorize agencies to disclose information about debtors in order to effect salary or administrative offsets. Agencies must publish routine uses pursuant to subsection (b)(3) of the Privacy Act for those systems of records from which they intend to disclose this information. Sections 5 and 10 of the Debt Collection Act will comprise the necessary authority to meet the Privacy Act's `compatibility' condition. The systems of records described above contain an appropriate routine use disclosure between the agencies of the information proposed in the match. The routine use provisions are compatible with the purpose for which the information was collected. E. Description of computer matching program: The DOL, as the source agency, will provide DMDC with a magnetic computer tape which contains the names of delinquent debtors in programs the DOL administers. Upon receipt of the magnetic computer tape file of debtor accounts, DMDC will perform a computer match using all nine digits of the SSN of the DOL file against a DMDC computer database. The DMDC database, established under an interagency agreement between DOD, OPM, OMB, and the Department of the Treasury, consists of employment records of Federal employees and military members, active, and retired. Matching records (`hits'), based on the SSN, will produce the member's name, service or agency, category of employee, and current work or home address. The hits or matches will be furnished to the DOL. The DOL is responsible for verifying and determining that the data on the DMDC reply tape file are consistent with the DOL source file and for resolving any discrepancies or inconsistencies on an individual basis. The DOL will also be responsible for making final determinations as to positive identification, amount of indebtedness and recovery efforts as a result of the match. The magnetic computer tape provided by DOL will contain data elements of the debtor's name, Social Security Number, debtor status and debt balance, internal account numbers and the total amount owed on approximately 1,000 delinquent debtors. The DMDC computer database file contains approximately 10 million records of active duty and retired military members, including the Reserve and Guard, and the OPM government wide Federal civilian records of current and retired Federal employees. DMDC will match the SSN on the DOL magnetic computer tape by computer against the DMDC database. Matching records, hits based on SSN, will produce data elements of the member's name, SSN, service or agency, and current work or home address. F. Inclusive dates of the matching program: This computer matching program is subject to review by the Office of Management and Budget and Congress. If no objections are raised by either, and the mandatory 30 day public notice period for comment has expired for this Federal Register notice with no significant adverse public comments in receipt resulting in a contrary determination, then this computer matching program becomes effective and the respective agencies may begin the exchange of data 30 days after the date of this published notice at a mutually agreeable time and will be repeated annually. Under no circumstances shall the matching program be implemented before the 30 day public notice period for comment has elapsed as this time period cannot be waived. By agreement between DOL and DMDC, the matching program will be in effect and continue for 18 months with an option to renew for 12 additional months unless one of the parties to the agreement advises the other by written request to terminate or modify the agreement. G. Address for receipt of public comments or inquiries: Director, Defense Privacy Office, Crystal Mall 4, Room 920, 1941 Jefferson Davis Highway, Arlington, VA 22202&hyph;4502. Telephone (703) 607&hyph;2943. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;27280 Filed 11&hyph;4&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 5000&hyph;04&hyph;F
