FR940406-1-00030 FR940406-1-00010 INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMMISSION 49 CFR Parts 1312 and 1314 [Ex Parte No. 444] Electronic Filing of Tariffs AGENCY: Interstate Commerce Commission (ICC). ACTION: Notice of proposal to establish a negotiated rulemaking committee. SUMMARY: The ICC is proposing to establish a committee under the Negotiated Rulemaking Act to develop rules for electronic tariff filing (ETF). The agency is inviting applications and nominations for the committee. The ICC has requested approval from the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) to establish the committee. Although no difficulty in obtaining approval is anticipated, no committee will be established until approval is obtained. DATES: Comments are due on May 6, 1994. ADDRESSES: Send comments (an original and 10 copies) referring to Ex Parte No. 444 to: Interstate Commerce Commission, Office of the Secretary, Case Control Branch, Washington, DC 20423. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: James W. Greene (202) 927&hyph;5597 or Charles E. Langyher, III (202) 927&hyph;5160. TDD for hearing impaired: (202) 927&hyph;5721. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: After considering the comments filed in response to our last notice in this proceeding, we have decided to proceed with the planning of a comprehensive ETF system ( i.e ., one that will support EDI and automated analyses). We believe that determining the scope and type of ETF system we should adopt can best be achieved by initially specifying a comprehensive system in the context of an ongoing effort to identify the needs that an ETF system should serve and the technologies (including EDI, tariff imaging, and others) needed to meet them. There is currently no common understanding of what constitutes ETF. As ETF design progresses, the choices among various benefit and cost packages will become clearer. This will help carriers and shippers to determine what type of ETF system to support. We agree with virtually all of the commenters supporting ETF that extensive industry participation is needed to resolve the technical and policy issues involved in ETF. We believe the project can best move forward under procedures authorized by the Negotiated Rulemaking Act of 1990. 1 The ``Reg-Neg'' Act establishes a framework by which Reg-Neg committees may resolve particular questions that would otherwise be resolved under traditional, formal rulemaking proceedings. If the committee reaches a consensus 2 on a proposed rule, it prepares a report to the agency containing the proposal. 3 The agency typically then publishes the proposal in a notice of proposed rulemaking. 1 Public Law 101&hyph;461. 2 The Reg-Neg Act, section 582(2), defines ``consensus'' as ``unanimous concurrence among the interests represented on a negotiated rulemaking committee . . . unless such committee (A) agrees to define such term to mean a general but not unanimous concurrence; or (B) agrees upon another specified definition.'' 3 A committee not reaching consensus may still prepare a report outlining the areas in which consensus was reached. Reports may also contain any other material which the committee deems appropriate. The Reg-Neg approach seems well-suited to the development of ETF. Many ETF issues will be highly technical and complex. A Negotiated Rulemaking Committee will allow a core of experts representing the affected interests to work together on the issues on a continuing basis until consensus is reached. Moreover, a Reg-Neg Committee will be flexible; it could, for example, choose to host one or more industry conferences to allow different groups to present proposals. An agency may establish a negotiated rulemaking committee if the head of the agency determines that the use of the procedure is in the public interest. Reg-Neg Act, section 583(a). In making this determination, the agency must consider whether: (1) There is a need for the rule; (2) There is a limited number of identifiable interests; (3) These interests can be adequately represented by persons willing to negotiate in good faith to reach a consensus; (4) There is a reasonable likelihood that the committee will reach consensus within a fixed period of time; (5) The negotiated rulemaking procedure will not unreasonably delay the notice of proposed rulemaking; (6) The agency has adequate resources and is willing to commit such resources to the process; and (7) The agency is committed to use the result of the negotiation in formulating a proposed rule if at all possible. Id. For the reasons stated in the decision, we believe these criteria can be met for an ETF undertaking. ETF Issues As guidance to the Reg-Neg Committee, we will describe our current views on certain ETF issues and the characteristics of a comprehensive system. We will also instruct the committee, however, not to limit its consideration to this type of system. Rather, the Committee to identify the needs that an ETF system should serve, should review whatever alternative technologies it believes may be preferable, and recommend appropriate rules to the Commission. We will specifically direct the Committee's attention to the electronic tariff imaging system currently being developed by the Commission. The tariff imaging system provides for the retention of tariff page images on optical disks, rather than retaining the printed tariff pages themselves. This system will provide much-improved security for tariff documents, will greatly reduce the space required to store them, and will offer easier access to tariff information. The imaging system can be enhanced to provide for the electronic transmission of tariff pages to the Commission, which will allow carriers to file their tariffs ``electronically'' and avoid the time and expense of processing printed documents. Therefore, unless EDI and automated analysis capabilities are required for tariff data, the tariff imaging system (or some enhancement thereof) might offer a satisfactory and less expensive solution. Our views on specific issues are as follows: Bifurcation Into Separate Rail and Motor Carrier Sub-Dockets We intend to begin with a unified proceeding, but to authorize the Committee to establish separate sub-groups (for example, for rail and non-rail) at a later date if necessary. 4 Some standardization across modes (using American National Standards Institute (ANSI) standards, for example) may be necessary to ensure that one EDI standard can accommodate all tariffs and that one ICC data base structure can handle all tariffs. Ultimately, however, some data coding standards (commodity codes, etc.) may differ for rail and motor carriers. 4 Railroads indicate that they are prepared to move ahead immediately; however, they have had the ability to proceed on their own since the Commission lifted the stay on rail carrier ETF in November of 1989.
