FR940328-2-00092 FR940328-2-00053 [Rel. No. IC&hyph;20150; 812&hyph;8754] Atlas Advisers, Inc., et al.; Notice of Application March 21, 1994. AGENCY: Securities and Exchange Commission (``SEC''). ACTION: Notice of application for exemption under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the ``Act''). APPLICATIONS: Atlas Advisers, Inc. (the ``Adviser''); Atlas Securities, Inc. (the ``Distributor''); and Atlas Assets, Inc. (``Atlas Assets''), on behalf of itself and any other open-end investment company which is or may in the future become a member of the same ``group of investment companies,'' as that phrase is defined by rule 11a&hyph;3(a)(5), and which decides in the future to issue multiple classes of shares on a basis that is the same in all material respects to that described in the application (the ``Funds''). RELEVANT ACT SECTIONS: Order requested pursuant to section 6(c) for exemptions from sections 2(a)(32), 2(a)(35), 18(f)(1), 18(g), 18(i), 22(c), and 22(d) of the Act and rule 22c&hyph;1 thereunder. Summary of Application: Applicants seek an order to permit the Funds to issue and sell multiple classes of shares representing interests in the same portfolios of securities, assess a CDSC on certain redemptions, and waive the CDSC in certain instances. Filing Date: The application was filed on December 30, 1993, and amended on March 2, 1994 and March 18, 1994. Hearing or Notification of Hearing: An order granting the application will be issued unless the SEC orders a hearing. Interested persons may request a hearing by writing to the SEC's Secretary and serving applicants with a copy of the request, personally or by mail. Hearing requests should be received by the SEC by 5:30 p.m. on April 15, 1994, and should be accompanied by proof of service on applicants, in the form of an affidavit or, for lawyers, a certificate of service. Hearing requests should state the nature of the writer's interest, the reason for the request, and the issues contested. Persons who wish to be notified of the date of a hearing may request notification by writing to the SEC's Secretary. Addresses: Secretary, SEC, 450 Fifth Street NW., Washington, DC 20549. Applicants, 1901 Harrison Street, Oakland, California 94612. For Further Information Contact: James E. Anderson, Staff Attorney, at (202) 272&hyph;7027, or C. David Messman, Branch Chief, at (202) 272&hyph;3018 (Division of Investment Management, Office of Investment Company Regulation). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The following is a summary of application. The complete application is available for a fee from the SEC's Public Reference Branch. Applicants' Representations 1. Atlas Assets is an open-end, management investment company organized as a Maryland corporation. Atlas Assets is organized as a series fund, and currently issues shares in twelve series (the ``Portfolios''). Portfolios that are money market funds are referred to herein as ``Money Market Portfolios.'' The Adviser serves as the investment adviser to Atlas Assets. The Distributor serves as the principal underwriter of the shares of Atlas Assets. 2. The Portfolios, other than the Money Market Portfolios, currently offer their shares at net asset value plus a front-end sales charge. The Money Market Portfolios issue their shares at net asset value without the imposition of a front-end sales charge. Atlas Assets is subject to a distribution plan pursuant to rule 12b&hyph;1 under which each Portfolio may reimburse the Distributor up to .25% per year of its average daily net assets for actual expenditures made by the Distributor on behalf of that Portfolio for distribution and shareholder services. 3. Applicants request an order to permit the Funds to issue and sell multiple classes of shares, assess a CDSC on certain redemptions, and waive the CDSC in certain instances. 4. Under applicants' proposal, the Funds initially may offer shares either: (a) Subject to a conventional front-end sales load and a rule 12b&hyph;1 distribution or service fee at an annual rate of up to .25% of the average daily net assets (``Class A shares''); or (b) subject to a CDSC (which applicants expect will range from 3% on redemptions made during the first year following purchase to 1% on redemptions made during the fifth year since purchase), a rule 12b&hyph;1 service fee at an annual rate of up to .25%, and a rule 12b&hyph;1 distribution fee at an annual rate of up to .75%, of average daily net assets (``Class B shares''). Existing shares will become Class A shares upon implementation of the proposed multi-class distribution system. Applicants also may establish one or more additional classes of shares, the terms of which may differ from the classes of shares described herein only as described in condition 1 below. 5. The CDSC will be imposed on the lesser of the aggregate net asset value of the shares being redeemed either at the time of purchase or redemption. No CDSC will be imposed on shares acquired more than a fixed number of years prior to the redemptions or on shares derived from the reinvestment of distributions. No CDSC will be imposed on an amount that represents capital appreciation. 6. Applicants request the ability to waive or reduce the CDSC in the following instances: (a) Redemptions following the death or disability of a shareholder within the meaning of section 72(m)(7) of the Internal Revenue Code, as amended (the ``Code''), if redemption is made within one year of death or disability; (b) redemptions in connection with a lump-sum or other distribution following retirement or, in the case of an IRA or Keogh Plan or a custodial account pursuant to section 403(b)(7) of the Code, after attaining age 591/2; and (c) redemptions that result from a tax-free return of an excess contribution pursuant to section 408(d)(4) or (5) of the Code or from the death or disability of an employee.
