FR941207-2-00099 FR941207-2-00069 DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION Change in Statutory Definition of Public Aircraft AGENCY: Federal Aviation Administration, DOT. ACTION: Notice of statutory change. SUMMARY: This document notifies all persons whose operations may be affected by the change in the statutory definition of public aircraft that they will need to take steps now to ensure that their operations meet all applicable safety regulations when the new law goes into effect, or to obtain an exemption. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Dave Catey, AFS&hyph;220, Federal Aviation Administration, 800 Independence Avenue, SW, Washington, DC 20591, telephone (202) 267&hyph;8094. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: A new statutory definition of public aircraft was signed into law on October 25, 1994. All persons whose operations are affected by the change in the statutory definition of public aircraft are advised that they must take steps to ensure that their operations meet all applicable safety regulations by April 23, 1995, the date the new law becomes effective, unless by that date they obtain an exemption as provided for by the law. An application for exemption will not stay the effective date of the statute. The following is a notice from the Administrator advising all persons whose operations may be affected by the change in the statutory definition of public aircraft. Issued in Washington, D.C. on November 23, 1994. John Walsh, Senior Attorney, General Legal Services Division. Appendix_Notice to all Persons Whose Operations may be Affected by the Change in the Statutory Definition of Public Aircraft On October 9, 1994, Congress passed the Independent Safety Board Act Amendments, which contained a major change in the definition of ``public aircraft.'' Under the previous statutory definition, pubic aircraft were exempt from many types of FAA regulation. Under the new statute, many of those aircraft will not be subject to FAA safety regulations. For example, when the law becomes effective, aircraft used to transport passengers will, in some circumstances, no longer be considered public aircraft. Therefore, the operators of such aircraft will need to meet civil aircraft requirements for certification, maintenance, training, etc., unless they qualify for narrowly described exemptions. Aircraft operated by the Armed Forces and intelligence agencies, however, will retain their public aircraft status unless operated for a commercial purpose. The new law will become effective on April 23, 1995. Attached for your information is a copy of the new law. If you intend to use your aircraft in operations that will no longer be consistent with public aircraft status, then you should start taking steps now to ensure that your operations meet all applicable safety regulations by the time the new law goes into effect, or to request an exemption as described in the new law. Although the FAA Administrator has certain authority to grant exemptions from the civil aircraft safety regulations to ``units of government,'' the agency expects to invoke its exemption authority only when the public interest clearly demands it. To obtain an exemption under the statute, a unit of government must show that granting the exemption is necessary ``to prevent an undue economic burden on the unit of government,'' and that the aviation safety program of the unit of government is ``effective and appropriate to ensure safe operations of the type of aircraft operated by the unit of government.'' Earlier this year, the FAA announced that it would reconsider whether public aircraft status is lost when one government reimburses another for the use of its aircraft. The FAA invited comments from interested parties. See 59 FR 39192 (August 1, 1994). With Congress' passage of the new law, however, this point has been clarified. Now, if there is such reimbursement, the aircraft will be civil aircraft unless the appropriate unit of government certifies ``that the operation was necessary to respond to a significant and imminent threat to life or property,'' and ``that no service by a private operator was reasonably available to meet the threat.'' If you have questions about how the new law might affect your operations, you may contact Dave Catey, AFS&hyph;220, (202) 267&hyph;8094. We would appreciate any assistance you can provide in getting this information to other persons or organizations that may be affected by the change of law. Issued this 3rd day of November, 1994. David R. Hinson, Administrator, Federal Aviation Administration. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;30006 Filed 12&hyph;6&hyph;94; 8:45am] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;13&hyph;M
