FR941019-0-00043 FR941019-0-00004 (iv) Shall be subject to recapture as provided in §1609.8 of this part. (2) Eligible multifamily properties _ (i) May only be sold to qualifying multifamily purchasers; (ii) Shall be subject to the lower-income occupancy requirements applicable to all eligible multifamily property, including the rent limitations, requirements as to continued occupancy of current residents and provision for financial infeasibility, all as set forth at §1609.7(b)(4) of this part; and (iii) Shall be sold in accordance with procedures that would give a preference, among financially acceptable offers, to the offer that would reserve the highest percentage of dwelling units for occupancy or purchase by very low-income families and lower-income families and would retain such affordability for the longest term. (3) Eligible condominium properties shall be offered by the particular State housing finance agency or State or local housing agency as either eligible single family property or eligible multifamily property and shall be subject to the requirements of paragraph (d) (1) or (2) of this section based upon such choice. (e) Affordability. The State housing finance agency or State or local housing agency shall endeavor to make the properties transferred more affordable to lower-income families based upon the extent to which the acquisition price of a property is less than the market value of the property. §1609.12 RTC notice and sale of ineligible residential properties and non-AHDP properties. (a) To the extent practicable, within a reasonable period of time after acquiring title to any non-AHDP property (including an ineligible condominium property or an ineligible single family property) or to an ineligible multifamily property, the RTC shall provide written notice to the clearinghouses. For single family properties, the notice shall contain the same information about the properties that the notice required under §1609.7(a)(1)(ii) of this part contains with respect to eligible single family properties. For multifamily properties, the notice shall contain the same information about the properties that the notice required under §1609.7(b)(1)(ii) of this part contains with respect to eligible multifamily properties. For condominium properties, the notice shall contain the same information about such properties as the notice required under §1609.7(c)(1)(iv) of this part contains with respect to eligible condominium properties. Each notice also shall state that the property is not being sold or marketed through the AHDP. With respect to a non-AHDP property (including an ineligible condominium property or an ineligible single family property), the notice shall state that any purchaser may purchase the property at a sales price above the maximum value set out in §§1609.2(j)(2), 1609.2(k)(2) or §1609.2(m)(2) of this part, as applicable, but only a qualifying purchaser may purchase the property at a sales price below such maximum value. (b) Any person or entity may purchase a non-AHDP property for a sales price above the maximum value set out in §§1609.2(j)(2), 1609.2(k)(2) or §1609.2(m)(2) of this part, as applicable, but only a qualifying purchaser may purchase such a property at a sales price below such maximum value. If the RTC is unable to sell a non-AHDP property in compliance with the requirements of the preceding sentence, then the RTC may dispose of the property in such manner as it determines appropriate. By order of the Chief Executive Officer of Resolution Trust Corporation. Dated at Washington, DC, this 5th day of October 1994. Resolution Trust Corporation. John M. Buckley, Jr., Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;25072 Filed 10&hyph;18&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6714&hyph;01&hyph;M
