FR941003-0-00008 FR941003-0-00002 DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE Bureau of Export Administration 15 CFR Parts 770, 771, and 775 [Docket No. 94083&hyph;4243] RIN 0694&hyph;AB00 Exports to Taiwan: Expansion of Import Certificate/Delivery Verification (IC/DV) Procedure, Shorter Processing Time Frames and General License GCG; and Revision of Romanian IC/DV Authority Address AGENCY: Bureau of Export Administration, Commerce. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: As part of the Department of Commerce initiative to streamline export licensing requirements for exports to countries that are demonstrating increased ability to safeguard reexports of U.S.-origin strategic goods and technology, the Bureau of Export Administration (BXA) is extending to Taiwan export licensing benefits available under the provisions of section 5(k) of the Export Administration Act of 1979, as amended (EAA). This action will lessen the administrative burden on U.S. exporters and their foreign customers. Specifically, BXA is: Providing shorter processing times for license applications for Taiwan; and amending General License GCG to authorize certain shipments of U.S.-origin commodities to Taiwan. This rule also amends the Export Administration Regulations (EAR) to include new requirements based on the implementation of Import Certificate/Delivery Verification (IC/DV) procedures for Taiwan. The address for the authority administering the IC/DV system within Romania is also revised by this rule. DATES: Effective date: This rule is effective October 3, 1994. Grace period: In lieu of the 45 day grace period provided in 15 CFR 775.10(c)(2), a 90 day grace period will apply to the requirement to obtain the Taiwan Import Certificate to support an export license application. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Rodney Joseph, Office of Technology and Policy Analysis, Telephone: (202) 482&hyph;0171. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Grace Period During the 90 day grace period indicated in DATES , applications destined for Taiwan will be accepted if supported by a Taiwan Import Certificate from either the Board of Foreign Trade, Hsinchu Science-based Industrial Park, or the Export Processing Zone Administration, or a Form BXA&hyph;629P (Statement by Ultimate Consignee and Purchaser). Background In April, 1994, Taiwan implemented an island-wide IC/DV system. This system extends the Hsinchu Science-based Industrial Park IC/DV system and makes Taiwan eligible for general license GCG and 15 day/15 day license processing. The Bureau of Export Administration (BXA) requires a foreign importer to file an International Import Certificate (IC) in support of individual validated license applications to export certain commodities controlled for national security reasons to specified destinations. The commodities are identified by the code letter ``A'' following the Export Control Classification Number on the Commerce Control List, which identifies those items subject to Department of Commerce export controls. An IC is an undertaking by the government of the country of ultimate destination to exercise legal control over the disposition of those commodities covered by an IC. BXA also requires a Delivery Verification Certificate (DV) on a selective basis, as described in 15 CFR 775.3(i). A DV is issued by the government of the country of ultimate destination after the exported commodities have either entered the export jurisdiction of that country or are otherwise accounted for by the importer. New documentation practices adopted by Taiwan warrant the inclusion of that country in the IC/DV procedure. This rule amends the EAR by revising Taiwan's entry within the list of countries that issue Import Certificates and by revising the name and address of the Taiwan authorities in the list of foreign offices that administer the IC/DV systems. The main authority for administering the Taiwan IC/DV program is the Board of Foreign Trade, Ministry of Economic Affairs. There are also two satellite offices: the Science-Based Industrial Park Administration and the Export Processing Zone Administration. If the destination of the export is within the Science-Based Industrial Park or the Export Processing Zone, then one should apply for the IC/DV at the appropriate satellite office. This rule also revises the Romanian IC/DV authority address to the ``Authorities Administering Import Certificate/Delivery Verification System in Foreign Countries'' table, Supplement No. 1 to Part 775. Although the Export Administration Act (EAA) expired on August 20, 1994, the President invoked the International Emergency Economic Powers Act and continued in effect, to the extent permitted by law, the provisions of the EAA and the EAR in Executive Order 12924 of August 19, 1994. Rulemaking Requirements 1. This final rule has been determined to be not significant for purposes of Executive Order 12866.
