FR940114-2-00047 FR940114-2-00023 Specifically, Field Services seeks a declaratory order from the Commission finding that: (1) Panhandle's West End gathering systems are facilities used for the gathering of natural gas and therefore exempt from the Commission's jurisdiction pursuant to Section 1(b) of the Natural Gas Act; (2) Field Services would not be a ``natural gas company'' pursuant to Section 2(6) of the Natural Gas Act by virtue of its proposed acquisition, ownership, and operation of such facilities; (3) The gathering services that Field Services seeks to perform as described in the petition would be exempt from the Commission's jurisdiction under section 1(b) of the Natural Gas Act; and (4) Field Services' rates and charges for gathering services would not be subject to the Commission's jurisdiction pursuant to sections 4 and 5 of the Natural Gas Act. In support of its request, Field Services states that the primary function of the facilities is gathering as defined under the modified Farmland test, as set forth in Amerada Hess Corporation, 52 FERC ¶ 61,268 (1990), and as exhibited by the size, pressure, length, configuration, and utilization of each of the gathering systems or groups of gathering systems. It is indicated that each of the 54 gathering systems (1) operates at low-gathering-line pressure, (2) consists of discrete sections of generally small-diameter pipe, (3) is in a typical ``spider-web'' or ``rib-like'' gathering configuration in appearance, (4) has wells along its length, (5) is located behind compression which boosts pressures from low, wellhead pressures so that the gas can enter Panhandle's mainline transmission system, or (6) is located behind a processing plant. Field Services states that it is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Panhandle. Field Services describes the facilities to be transferred as the West End Systems of Panhandle in Colorado, Kansas, Oklahoma, and Texas. Field Services indicates that these facilities are the subject of Panhandle's companion abandonment application filed in Docket No. CP94&hyph;151&hyph;000 and Panhandle's application in Docket No. CP90&hyph;1050&hyph;002 to further amend its pending application in Docket No. CP90&hyph;1050&hyph;000, et al. Comment date: January 27, 1994, in accordance with the first paragraph of Standard Paragraph F at the end of this notice. Standard Paragraphs F. Any person desiring to be heard or to make any protest with reference to said application should, on or before the comment date, file with the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20426, a motion to intervene or a protest in accordance with the requirements of the Commission's Rules of Practice and Procedure (18 CFR 385.214 or 385.211) and the Regulations under the Natural Gas Act (18 CFR 157.10). All protests filed with the Commission will be considered by it in determining the appropriate action to be taken but will not serve to make the protestants parties to the proceeding. Any person wishing to become a party to a proceeding or to participate as a party in any hearing therein must file a motion to intervene in accordance with the Commission's Rules. Take further notice that, pursuant to the authority contained in and subject to the jurisdiction conferred upon the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission by sections 7 and 15 of the Natural Gas Act and the Commission's Rules of Practice and Procedure, a hearing will be held without further notice before the Commission or its designee on this application if no motion to intervene is filed within the time required herein, if the Commission on its own review of the matter finds that a grant of the certificate and/or permission and approval for the proposed abandonment are required by the public convenience and necessity. If a motion for leave to intervene is timely filed, or if the Commission on its own motion believes that a formal hearing is required, further notice of such hearing will be duly given. Under the procedure herein provided for, unless otherwise advised, it will be unnecessary for applicant to appear or be represented at the hearing. Lois D. Cashell, Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;970 Filed 1&hyph;13&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6717&hyph;01&hyph;P
