FR941202-2-00121 FR941202-2-00079 DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY Office of the Assistant Secretary for Economic Policy Survey of Foreign Portfolio Investment in the United States as of December 30, 1994 AGENCY: Departmental Offices, Department of the Treasury. ACTION: Notice of reporting requirements. SUMMARY: By this Notice, the Department of the Treasury is informing the public that it is conducting a mandatory survey of foreign holdings of United States securities as of December 30, 1994. This Notice constitutes legal notification to all United States persons (defined below) who meet the reporting requirements set forth in this Notice that they must respond to, and comply with, this survey. United States persons who meet the reporting requirements but who do not receive a set of the survey forms and instructions should contact the Department of the Treasury at (202) 622&hyph;8064 to obtain a copy. DEFINITION: A U.S. person is any individual, branch, partnership, associated group, association, estate, trust, corporation, or other organization (whether or not organized under the laws of any State), and any government (including a foreign government, the United States Government, a state, provincial, or local government, and any agency, corporation, financial institution, or other entity or instrumentality thereof, including a government-sponsored agency), who resides in the United States or is subject to the jurisdiction of the United States. WHO MUST REPORT: The following U.S. persons must report on this survey: _U.S. persons who manage the safekeeping of U.S. securities (as specified below) for foreign persons. These U.S. persons, who include the affiliates in the United States of foreign entities, and are henceforth referred to as U.S. custodians, must report on this survey if the total market value of the U.S. securities whose safekeeping they manage on behalf of foreigners_aggregated over all accounts and for all branches and affiliates of their firm_is $10 million or more as of December 30, 1994. _U.S. persons who issue securities, if the total market value of their securities owned directly by foreigners_aggregated over all securities issued by all subsidiaries and affiliates of the firm, including investment companies, trusts, and other legal entities created by the firm_is $10 million or more as of December 30, 1994. U.S. issuers should report only foreign holdings of their securities which are directly known to them; i.e., where issuer ownership records reflect a foreign owner directly. Securities held by U.S. nominees, such as bank or broker custody departments, should be considered to be U.S.-held securities as far as the issuer is concerned. WHAT TO REPORT: The survey will measure foreign holdings of all equity securities, all debt securities with an original term-to-maturity in excess of one year, and all options and warrants to purchase or sell equity or long-term debt securities. HOW TO REPORT: Copies of the survey forms and instructions, which contain complete information on reporting procedures, can be obtained by contacting the survey staff at (202) 622&hyph;8064. WHEN TO REPORT: Data should be submitted to the Department of the Treasury by March 31, 1995. Dated: November 17, 1994. Alicia H. Munnell, Assistant Secretary for Economic Policy. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;29699 Filed 12&hyph;1&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4810&hyph;25&hyph;M
