FR941110-0-00152 FR941110-0-00016 Comment: One commenter stated that the authority to implement alternative or additional remedies should rest within the single State agency. Response: The Act gives the States the authority to elect alternative or additional remedies through the use of the Medicaid State plan process. Medicaid regulations at §431.10 specify that a single State agency administer or supervise the administration of the State plan. In most States, the Medicaid agency is the single State agency that implements the current transitional enforcement remedies against Medicaid facilities. In some States, enforcement remedies, such as civil money penalties, are implemented by the survey agency. We believe that States should retain the flexibility to organize their enforcement activity as they deem necessary as long as the organizations meet Medicaid regulations. Comment: One commenter believed that every State should implement the same penalty system. Response: We cannot accept this suggestion because the Act permits the States to elect alternative or additional remedies if they can demonstrate that the alternative or additional remedies are as effective as the remedies specified by the Act. Further, section 1919(h)(2)(A) of the Act provides that the State shall specify criteria, as to when and how each remedy is to be applied, the amount of any fines, and the severity of each of these remedies, to be used in the imposition of such fines. Comment: One commenter suggested that the final rule include a list of remedies other than termination which HCFA finds acceptable. Response: Such a list is provided at §488.406(a) and (b). Section 488.408␣Selection of Remedies The comments we received on this section, as it was proposed, which relate to the factors considered when making remedy determinations, have already been included and addressed in our discussion of §488.404 of this preamble. Comment: Some commenters were uncertain about how the ``determination'' of remedies in §488.404 and the ``choice'' of remedies in §488.408 differ. Response: We are retitling §§488.404 and 488.408 to ``Factors to be considered in selecting remedies'' and to ``Selection of remedies,'' respectively, and are revising the content of both sections as a result of the revision to the criteria for selecting among enforcement options as discussed earlier in this preamble. After the survey team has determined that a deficiency or deficiencies exist, it is required to determine the seriousness of the violations. The factors that HCFA and the States must and may consider in determining the seriousness of a facility's deficiencies can be found at §488.404. The optional process of determining the most appropriate enforcement action is described at §488.408, which correlates the level of noncompliance with a required and/or optional category of remedies. Comment: A few commenters wanted HCFA to include a statement from the preamble of the proposed rule that asserts ``the more pervasive or severe the facility's shortcomings, the more severe the penalty.'' Response: We agree with the commenters, and are providing such a linkage in the revised §488.408. Comment: Some commenters wanted HCFA to explain the purpose of intermediate sanctions. Response: The purpose of an intermediate sanction (or alternative remedy) is to motivate providers to achieve and maintain substantial compliance before termination becomes necessary. Prior to OBRA '87, the term ``intermediate sanction'' was limited to a denial of payment for new admissions. Sections 1819(h) and 1919(h) of the Act specify that remedies for noncompliance are to be imposed in lieu of, or in addition to, the remedy of termination of a facility's participation in the programs. This legislation expanded the range of alternative remedies for the Secretary and the State to use as an incentive for correction and as a way that might avoid termination of the provider agreement. Comment: A few commenters wanted to revise §488.408 to require that HCFA and the State make appropriate remedy selections, but not select a specific remedy solely to punish the facility. Response: Alternative remedies are designed to motivate providers to comply quickly with the requirements of participation. While some providers may view the remedies as punishment, our first responsibility is to protect the health and safety of the residents. We are interested in motivating providers to achieve and maintain compliance with health and safety requirements so that they may continue to provide quality services to the residents. Accordingly, the selection of an enforcement action is based on that which is most likely to elicit a prompt response from the facility to achieve and maintain compliance before termination becomes necessary. We believe the proposed change does not significantly add to the process of selecting remedies; therefore, we are not incorporating it in the final regulation. Comment: A few commenters wanted a definition of ``clusters of deficiencies'' included in §488.408, which deals with the initial assessment of the seriousness of deficiencies. Other commenters wanted instruction on which deficiencies are cited as a cluster versus those deficiencies cited individually. Response: We have removed the reference to clusters in this final rule because we do not want to limit the discretion HCFA and the States have been given by the statute to make enforcement decisions. We believe that the relationship between and among deficiencies is inherent in remedy determinations and should be made on a case-by-case basis. While we do not intend to include instructions in this final rule on which deficiencies would be treated individually and which would be consolidated, we will offer examples in the HCFA Regional Office Manual and the State Operations Manual of how deficiencies could be grouped together. Comment: We received many general comments about how HCFA should be more specific in its guidance on selecting an appropriate remedy. This guidance must help determine the criteria for the selection of remedies and must require the use of specific remedies for particular deficiencies. Some of these commenters suggested a scope and severity scale linked with specific remedies at specific levels.
