FR941216-1-00035 FR941216-1-00010 D. Tax-Exempt Obligations The proposed regulations provide special rules for tax- exempt obligations. The IRS and Treasury believe that, given the limited exclusion provided in section 103, it is generally inappropriate to treat payments on a property right embedded in a tax-exempt obligation as interest on an obligation of a State or political subdivision (i.e., as tax-exempt interest). Therefore, while the noncontingent bond method generally applies to tax- exempt contingent payment obligations, all positive adjustments are treated as taxable gain from the sale or exchange of the obligation rather than as interest. Negative adjustments are treated as reducing tax-exempt interest, and, therefore, are generally not taken into account as deductible losses. If negative adjustments on a tax-exempt obligation exceed the total tax-exempt interest a holder receives or accrues on a tax-exempt obligation, the excess is treated as loss from the sale or exchange of the obligation. This rule is similar to the rule that applies to exchange gains and losses on tax-exempt obligations under §1.988&hyph;3(c)(2). In addition, the proposed regulations provide that the projected yield determined for a tax-exempt obligation may not exceed the greater of the yield on the obligation determined without regard to contingent payments and the tax-exempt AFR that applies to the obligation. If the projected payment schedule results in a higher yield, projected payments must be reduced appropriately. E. Cross Border Transactions The IRS and Treasury are concerned about various issues relating to the treatment of foreign holders of contingent payment debt instruments. For example, the IRS and Treasury are concerned about the possibility for tax avoidance that may arise when a contingent payment debt instrument is structured with payments that approximate the yield on an equity security. The IRS and Treasury invite comments on this issue and other issues concerning the proper taxation of foreign holders of contingent payment debt instruments issued by U.S. persons or U.S. holders of contingent payment debt instruments issued by foreign persons. Section 1.1274&hyph;2␣Imputed Principal Amount In general, the issue price of a debt instrument subject to section 1274 is determined by reference to the instrument's imputed principal amount. The 1992 proposed regulations under section 1274 provided that, in the case of a contingent payment debt instrument, the imputed principal amount of the debt instrument was the present value of the fixed payments plus the fair market value of the contingent payments. A number of commentators objected to the rule, especially because of the difficulty in valuing the contingent payments typically provided for in debt instruments subject to section 1274. Other commentators objected to the rule's effect on the buyer's basis in the property acquired and the seller's amount realized on the sale or exchange. In response to these comments, the final OID regulations reserved on the issue to allow further study and to coordinate the issue with the regulations relating to contingent payment debt instruments. Under the proposed regulations, the imputed principal amount of a contingent payment debt instrument subject to section 1274 is the sum of the present values of the fixed payments and the present values of the projected amounts of any quotable contingent payments. Consistent with the treatment of the fixed payments and any quotable contingent payments as a separate debt instrument under §1.1275&hyph;4 of the proposed regulations, nonquotable contingent payments are not taken into account to determine the stated principal amount or the imputed principal amount of a contingent payment debt instrument. This rule is generally consistent with the 1986 proposed regulations under section 1274. The proposed regulations also provide that the imputed principal amount of a variable rate debt instrument that provides for payments at a single objective rate is determined by assuming that the payments on the debt instrument are the same as the payments on the equivalent fixed rate debt instrument determined under §1.1275&hyph;5(e). The IRS and Treasury request comments on the effect of the proposed regulations on other provisions of the Code, including section 108(e)(11), which measures the amount of discharge of indebtedness income in a debt-for-debt exchange by the issue price of the newly issued debt instrument. Conforming Amendments to Section 483. The proposed regulations provide rules under section 483 for the treatment of contingent payments under a contract for the sale or exchange of property (§1.483&hyph;4). In general, the rules are the same as the rules for a debt instrument subject to section 1274, except that a taxpayer takes interest into account under its own method of accounting. Section 1.1275&hyph;5␣Variable Rate Debt Instruments. In response to comments, the proposed regulations include changes to the final regulations under §1.1275&hyph;5 regarding the treatment of variable rate debt instruments. The proposed regulations redefine an objective rate as a rate (other than a qualified floating rate) that is determined using a single fixed formula and that is based on objective financial or economic information. The rate, however, must not be based on information that is within the control of the issuer (or a related party) or that is, in general, unique to the circumstances of the issuer (or a related party), such as dividends, profits, or the value of the issuer's stock. The new definition of objective rate is broader than the definition in the final regulations and includes, for example, a rate based on changes in a general inflation index. The proposed regulations also make it clear that a variable rate debt instrument may not provide for any contingent payments other than certain variable rates of interest. Finally, the proposed regulations clarify the treatment of a variable rate debt instrument under §1.1275&hyph;5(e)(2). In general, a variable rate debt instrument described in §1.1275&hyph;5(e)(2) is treated like a fixed payment debt instrument for purposes of OID and qualified stated interest accruals. The changes to §1.1275&hyph;5(e)(2) clarify the final OID regulations and, therefore, are proposed to be effective for debt instruments issued on or after April 4, 1994. Because of the special rules for tax-exempt contingent payment obligations in the proposed regulations, the IRS and Treasury request comments on the definition of an objective rate for tax-exempt obligations under §1.1275&hyph;5(c)(5).
