FR940902-2-00103 FR940902-2-00049 As a result of this analysis, the Department has determined the following minimum requirement: A State profiling system must identify all new claimants for regular UI who are permanently laid off (and who are, therefore, likely to exhaust). From the claimants so identified, the State must further identify at least one of the following: (1) Those claimants who are unlikely to return to their previous industry or (2) those claimants who are unlikely to return to their previous occupation. Claimants identified under the minimum required profiling system described above will also be ``eligible dislocated workers'' under Section 303(a)(1)(A) of Title III, JTPA. This section defines the term ``eligible dislocated workers'' to mean individuals who ``have been terminated or laid off or who have received a notice of termination or layoff from employment, are eligible for or have exhausted their entitlement to unemployment compensation, and are unlikely to return to their previous industry or occupation.'' Claimants identified through the minimum profiling system described above are_as are certain ``eligible dislocated workers''_permanently laid off from employment, eligible for UI, and unlikely to return to their previous industry or occupation. Therefore, claimants identified through the minimum required profiling system will also be ``eligible dislocated workers'' for purposes of Title III, JTPA. c. How Claimants are to be Identified (1) Variables. The use of certain types of variables is required to ensure that claimants identified are permanently laid off and unlikely to return to their previous industry or occupation. The use of other variables is optional. In addition, the use of certain variables is prohibited. Under the minimum required profiling system, the following variables must be used: • First Payment for Total or Part-Total Unemployment: Since claimants cannot exhaust UI unless they are first eligible for UI, the use of this variable is required. Claimants receiving first payments for partial claims are not required to be identified for referral since there has been no separation from employment. First payment to some claimants will occur late in their claims series due to appeals, wage investigations or other causes. Since, as noted in item 8.a, ``all new claimants'' for UI must be profiled, claimants receiving late payments must be profiled. However, given that the profiling system's goal of early intervention will not be achieved for these claimants, States have the option of introducing an additional variable to the profiling system which would exclude claimants who receive first payments after a certain period of time (for example, 5 weeks). • Recall Status: Since claimants who are on recall will not need reemployment services and are less likely to exhaust UI, the use of this variable is required. • Hiring Halls: Claimants making exclusive use of a union hiring hall will not need reemployment services since these claimants are expecting to find work in their current occupation. If union hiring halls are used in the State, then the State must use this variable. Claimants remaining after these three variables are applied will be passed through either a statistical modeling or characteristic screening process to determine difficulty in finding reemployment. (See item 8.c.(2) below.) Following are variables which the Department has identified for use in this process: • Education: Educational level is closely associated with reemployment difficulty. Generally, claimants with less education are more likely to exhaust. Use of this variable is a State option. • Job Tenure: This is a measure of a claimant's attachment to a specific employer. Studies show that the longer a worker's specific job attachment, the more difficult it is to find equivalent employment elsewhere. Use of this variable is a State option. • Industry: A claimant's search for employment is affected by the former industry of employment. Claimants who worked in industries that are declining, relative to others in the State, experience greater difficulty in obtaining new employment than claimants who worked in expanding industries. States must use either this variable or ``occupation.'' • Occupation: Workers in low demand occupations experience greater reemployment difficulty than workers in occupations with higher demand. States must use either this variable or ``industry.'' • Uemployment Rate: Dislocation and reemployment difficulty are closely related to economic conditions, as measured by unemployment rates. In areas with high unemployment, unemployed workers will have greater difficulty becoming reemployed than those workers in areas with low unemployment, even if all other conditions are equal. Use of this variable is a State option. To summarize, under the minimum required profiling system, States must use first payment, recall status, hiring halls (if they are used in the State), and either industry or occupation to identify claimants for purposes of referral to reemployment services. Using the above optional variables will decrease the number identified under the profiling system; however, the result will be a greater precision in identification. The Department will notify States if any additional optional variables are identified. Finally, a profiling system may not produce results which discriminate in violation of any Federal or State law or which otherwise unfairly favors some claimants over those similarly situated with respect to their need for reemployment services. To this end, under the authority granted by Section 303(j)(1)(D), SSA, which allows the Secretary to establish other requirements as are determined appropriate, the Department has determined that the following elements may not be used in the profiling system: Age, race, ethnic group, sex, color, national origin, disability, religion, political affiliation and citizenship. (2) Statistical Modeling versus Characteristic Screening. Statistical modeling uses a set of variables in combination simultaneously. Each variable receives a weight (or ``coefficient'') that has been established by a statistical process. The weighted average produces a ranking. Characteristic screening, on the other hand, uses each variable as an exclusion variable. That is, depending on whether the answer is ``yes'' or ``no'' to a given question, claimants will be either included or excluded. Unlike statistical screening, no ranking is produced. Referral to services based on statistical modeling will be based on a numerical score since the higher the score, the more likely the claimant will exhaust and the greater the need for services. If claimants have the same scores, and there are not sufficient opportunities to participate in reemployment services, States must randomly select among those claimants for referral to assure claimants are treated equitably and the profiling system is legally defensible. Since claimants identified through characteristic screening cannot be ranked, States using this system must also randomly select from among the identified claimants for referrals. Under the authority granted by Section 303(j)(1)(D), SSA, which allows the Secretary to establish other requirements as are determined appropriate, the Department has determined that random selection is required for use in profiling systems.
