FR940429-0-00290 FR940429-0-00016 The Secretary also agrees that the loss of federal reinsurance on the loan due to violations of due diligence or other programmatic requirements committed by the lender or the guarantor should not prevent an eligible borrower from receiving a closed school or false certification discharge. In such cases, the Secretary will use his authority pursuant to ยง682.406(b) to waive his right to refuse to make a reinsurance payment on the loan. Thus, (except in the case of a falsely endorsed check, as noted above) a lender may receive a claim payment and a guaranty agency may receive a reinsurance payment on a loan for which an eligible borrower would qualify for a closed school or false certification discharge, even though violations of program requirements committed by the lender or guarantor may have otherwise sufficed to cause federal reinsurance on the loan to have been lost. During the last few years, Congress and the Secretary have taken steps to combat unscrupulous individuals and program participants who have used the FFEL Program to exploit innocent students and taxpayers. The discharge of loans owed by the innocent victims is consistent with those actions. The Department intends to pursue the individuals and organizations who caused this situation so that the taxpayer can be reimbursed, and future students are protected. Change: As will be further discussed in response to comment 48, the Secretary has expanded the definition of what constitutes a school's ``false certification of a student's eligibility to borrow'' to include a loan for which the school signed the name of an innocent victim on the application for the loan or the promissory note. The regulations will also provide relief in cases in which the borrower signed the loan application or promissory note, but the school signed the borrower's name on a loan check or authorization for electronic funds transfer, providing that the student did not receive, directly or indirectly, the benefits of the loan proceeds disbursed by that loan check or by virtue of the authorization for electronic funds transfer signed by the school. 6. Comment: Some commenters believed that information concerning closed school or false certification discharges should be made available to the borrower at the time the loan is made or while the student is in school. The commenters believed that this important information may be easily overlooked by or not reach the borrower after the school has closed or the student has withdrawn. Discussion: This information is made available to the student in the common application/promissory note used by all guaranty agencies. In addition, if a borrower has questions concerning his or her loan obligation, a lender is required under ยง682.208(c)(1) to respond within 30 days after receipt of an inquiry from the borrower or any endorser on a loan. Change: None. Section 682.402(b)(1) 7. Comment: Some commenters believed that the regulations should state that a discharge of a Federal PLUS or Federal Consolidation Loan because of a borrower's death would apply only if both co-makers of the loan died. Discussion: This was stated in ยง682.402(a)(2) of the proposed regulations. Section ยง682.402(b)(1) addresses the loan obligation of an individual borrower who dies. Change: None. 8. Comment: Some commenters recommended that the regulations state that the discharge of a Federal PLUS Loan because of the student's death applies only to student deaths occurring on or after July 23, 1992. Discussion: The Secretary agrees that clarification is needed to reflect the effective date of section 437(d) of the HEA. Change: The final regulations have been revised accordingly. Section 682.402(c)(1) 9. Comment: Some commenters objected to the requirement that a Federal Consolidation Loan borrower must provide the disbursement dates of the underlying loans if the borrower requests a loan discharge for total and permanent disability based on a condition that pre-dated the Consolidation Loan. The commenters believed that this information is present in the borrower's Consolidation Loan file and the borrower should not be required to submit information already in the possession of the lender.
