FR941020-2-00159 FR941020-2-00091 National Highway Traffic Safety Administration [Docket No. 91&hyph;33, Notice No. 02] Functional Capacity Index AGENCY: National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA), Department of Transportation (DOT). ACTION: Availability of final report on proposed Functional Capacity Index. DATES: Comments are requested no later than December 19, 1994. ADDRESSES: Written comments should refer to the docket and notice number of this document and should be submitted, (preferably in ten copies) to: Docket Section, National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, room 5109, Nassif Building, 400 Seventh Street SW., Washington, DC 20590. (Docket hours are 9:30 a.m. to 4:00 p.m.) SUMMARY: The National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) is developing a scale to measure the consequences of injuries received in motor vehicle crashes based on adjusted life-years. The factor used to adjust the injured person's remaining life-years is called the Functional Capacity Index. It combines decrements in each of ten dimensions of functioning into a whole body score. This notice announces the completion of the initial phase of the development, the availability of a final report on this initial phase of the development, and the current plans for further development. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Stephen Luchter, Office of Plans and Policy, National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, 400 7th St. SW., Washington, DC 20590. Telephone 202/366&hyph;1570. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Docket 91&hyph;33 announced interim progress in the development of an index to measure the long term consequences of injuries by estimating the reduction in functional capacity of the injured person, and the agency's intent to use this index for, among other things, resource allocation, regulatory analysis, and in support of state and local programs. Work on this project has continued and a final report is now available on the initial phase of the development. In its present state of development, the Index is applicable to previously healthy adults for their condition one year post-injury. For each injury to the head, face, neck, thorax, abdomen and pelvic contents, spine, upper extremity, and lower extremity body regions listed in the Abbreviated Injury Scale published by the Association for the Advancement of Automotive Medicine, an expert panel has determined the appropriate level of each of the ten attributes. In addition, relative weights for each attribute/severity level combination have been developed based on the value judgments of a diverse set of sub-populations, and an algorithm for combining these into a whole body score has been developed. This results in a whole body numerical index for each of the injuries. A clinical evaluation of the index in order to establish validity and reliability will begin in FY 1995 (59 FR 36829&hyph;36832). Current plans, subject to revision as the program progresses and future budget allocations become available, include development of a separate index for pediatric injuries, as the attributes of normal healthy children are not described by the present definitions and development of a separate index for geriatric injuries, as the same level of trauma has a greater effect on older people and there is some evidence that the value judgments of the effect of reduced capacity are different for older people.
