FR940725-1-00036 FR940725-1-00009 OJJDP's original policy on collocated facilities was designed to accommodate a small number of existing juvenile detention facilities. However, several States have used the policy and regulation to create a network of collocated juvenile detention facilities in rural areas as county or regional detention facilities in lieu of establishing dedicated county or regional juvenile detention facilities. Consequently, and because OJJDP does not believe either that building or establishing collocated facilities in urban areas can be justified or that States should rely upon collocated facilities as a primary or long-term strategy for achieving and maintaining compliance with the jail and lockup removal mandate in rural areas, OJJDP proposes to limit future approval of collocated facilities to those that are outside a Standard Metropolitan Statistical Area (SMSA), are operational or planned such that a determination of compliance with the criteria can be made, and have been determined by the State (with subsequent OJJDP concurrence) to meet each of the four criteria, by December 31, 1994. Criteria for Compliance With DSO, Adult Jail and Lockup Removal, Separation, and Minority Overrepresentation The proposed regulation deletes the ``substantial compliance criteria'' from §31.303(c)(3) and (e)(4) of the regulation. Pursuant to the 1992 Amendments, all eligible States and territories are required to be in full compliance with the DSO and Jail and Lockup Removal requirements in order to be eligible for FY 1994 Formula Grant funds. Also, States must demonstrate compliance with the enhanced Separation and Disproportionate Minority Confinement mandates in order to be eligible for 1994 funds. Therefore, the regulatory provision recognizing ``progress'' toward compliance with the Separation mandate is being deleted. Also, enhanced criteria and specific timelines would be established for the Disproportionate Minority Confinement Mandate. OJJDP would use these criteria and timelines to determine if States have demonstrated compliance with the Minority Overrepresentation Mandate. Deinstitutionalization of Status Offenders Revisions are proposed to the valid court order exception and monitoring report requirements related to the deinstituionalization of status offenders and nonoffenders requirement (DSO) [section 223(a)(12)(A)]. These changes are designed to bring the DSO requirement in line with the section 223(a)(14) Jail and Lockup Removal requirement. Currently, the regulatory DSO exceptions for valid court order violations [28 CFR 31.303(f)(3)] and the 24-hour monitoring report exception for detention of status and nonoffender juveniles [28 CFR 31.303(f)(5)] do not prohibit the use of adult jails and lockups for status offenders who violate a valid court order or for status or nonoffender juveniles held in secure custody pursuant to the 24-hour monitoring exception. This anomaly, which resulted from the separate years in which these requirements became law (1974 and 1980, respectively), is being addressed to reflect OJJDP's determination that there are no longer any circumstances in which the secure custody of noncriminal juveniles in adult jails and lockups can be justified or sanctioned. To the extent that inadvertent or isolated violations occur, or where violations result from emergency situations, the de minimis criteria for full compliance should continue to provide sufficient latitude to permit States to maintain full compliance with the DSO requirement. Monitoring information to reflect these changes must be included in the State Monitoring Report due by December 31, 1995, and subsequent monitoring reports. Waiver of Termination_Criteria and Number The criteria for a waiver of termination when a State has failed to achieve full compliance, or full compliance with de minimis exceptions with the jail and lockup removal requirement, were established by regulation in §31.303(f)(6) in 1989. Section 223(c)(3) of the JJDP Act provided that a State's failure to achieve compliance with the jail and lockup removal requirement ``*␣*␣* shall terminate any State's eligibility for funding unless the Administrator waives the termination of the State's eligibility on the condition that the State agrees to expend all of the funds to be received under this part by the State, [with specific exceptions] only to achieve compliance with subsection (a)(14).'' OJJDP established seven regulatory criteria to be satisfied by a State requesting a waiver. OJJDP's premise, based on Congressional guidance, was that
