FR940610-1-00017 FR940610-1-00002 6. Newly designated §327.5 is amended by revising the section heading, removing paragraph (a), redesignating paragraphs (b) and (c) as new paragraphs (a) and (b), respectively, revising newly designated paragraph (a) introductory text, revising newly designated paragraphs (b)(1) introductory text and (b)(1)(ii), removing newly designated paragraphs (b)(1)(iii) and (b)(1)(iv), and adding a new paragraph (c), to read as follows: §327.5 Assessment base. (a) Computation of assessment base. Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, the assessment base of an insured depository institution for any date on which the institution is required to file a quarterly report of condition shall be computed by: * * * * * (b) Methods of reporting unposted credits and unposted debits _(1) Unposted credits. Each insured depository institution shall report unposted credits in quarterly reports of condition for addition to the assessment base in the following manner: * * * * * (ii) If the institution's records show the total actual amount of unposted credits but do not segregate the amount as stated in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section, the institution must report the total actual amount of the unposted credits for addition to time and savings deposits. * * * * * (c) Newly insured institutions. In the case of a newly insured institution, the assessment base for the last date for which insured depository institutions are required to file quarterly reports of condition within the semiannual period in which the newly insured institution became an insured institution shall be deemed to be its assessment base for that semiannual period. If the institution has not filed such a report by the due date for such reports from insured depository institutions, it shall promptly provide to the Corporation such information as the Corporation may require to prepare the certified statement form for the institution for the current semiannual period. 7. Section 327.6 is amended by revising the section heading and paragraph (a) to read as follows: §327.6 Termination of insurance: Assessments, certified statements, and notices to depositors. (a) Deposit transfers _(1) Assessment base computation. If a deposit-transfer transaction occurs at any time in the second quarter of the transfer period_ (i) Each acquiring institution's assessment base for the first quarter of the transfer period (as computed pursuant to §327.5) shall be increased by an amount equal to such institution's pro rata share of the transferring institution's assessment base for such first quarter; and (ii) The transferring institution's assessment base for such first quarter shall be reduced by an amount equal to the following product: the transferring institution's assessment base for that quarter; multiplied by the sum of the pro rata shares of all acquiring institutions participating in deposit-transfer transactions occurring during the second quarter of the transfer period. (2) For purposes of paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the phrase ``pro rata share'' means a fraction the numerator of which is the deposits assumed by an acquiring institution from the transferring institution during the second quarter of the transfer period, and the denominator of which is the total deposits of the transferring institution as required to be reported in the quarterly report of condition for the first quarter of the transfer period. (3) Other assessment-base adjustments _(i) In general. The Corporation may in its discretion make such adjustments to the assessment base of an institution participating in a deposit-transfer transaction, or in a related transaction, as may be necessary properly to reflect the likely amount of the loss presented by the institution to its insurance fund. (ii) Limitation on adjustments. The total amount by which the Corporation may increase the assessment bases of acquiring or other institutions under paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section shall not exceed, in the aggregate, the transferring institution's assessment base as reported in its quarterly report of condition for the first quarter of the transfer period. * * * * * 8. Section 327.7 is amended by revising the section heading and paragraph (a), to read as follows: §327.7 Payment of interest on assessment underpayments and overpayments.
