FR941117-0-00136 FR941117-0-00011 (e) Blocking probability. Applications for authority to operate basic exchange telephone radio systems (BETRS) that request more than two channel pairs must include an exhibit containing calculations showing that the number of channels requested is the minimum necessary to achieve the required grade of service (in terms of blocking probability), and that there will be adequate spectrum available in the area to meet realistic estimates of current and future demand for paging, two-way mobile and rural radiotelephone services (see §22.719(c)). Applications for authority to operate new conventional rural radiotelephone systems that request more than two channel pairs must include a statement explaining why BETRS technology is not being proposed. §22.711 Provision of information to applicants. Licensees in the Rural Radio Service must, upon request by a bona-fide prospective applicant, provide to such applicant the information required by §22.709 regarding the portion of the licensee's operations that potentially could affect, or be affected by, the prospective applicant's proposed station, if such information is not already on file with the FCC. This information must be provided to the bona-fide prospective applicant no later than 30 days after receipt of the information request. §22.713 Construction period for rural radiotelephone stations. The construction period for stations in the Rural Radiotelephone Service is 12 months. §22.715 Technical channel assignment criteria for rural radiotelephone stations. Channels are assigned in the Rural Radiotelephone Service using the procedures in §22.567. §22.717 Procedure for mutually exclusive applications in the Rural Radiotelephone Service. Mutually exclusive applications in the Rural Radiotelephone Service, including those that are mutually exclusive with applications in the Paging and Radiotelephone Service, are processed in accordance with the rules in this section. (a) Filing groups. Pending mutually exclusive applications are processed in filing groups. Mutually exclusive applications in a filing group are given concurrent consideration. The FCC may dismiss as defective (pursuant to §22.128) any mutually exclusive application(s) whose filing date is outside of the date range for inclusion in the filing group. The types of filing groups used in day-to-day application processing are specified in paragraph (b)(3) of this section. A filing group is one of the following types: (1) Renewal filing group. A renewal filing group comprises a timely-filed application for renewal of an authorization and all timely-filed mutually exclusive competing applications. (2) Same-day filing group. A same-day filing group comprises all mutually exclusive applications whose filing date is the same day, which is normally the filing date of the first-filed application(s). (3) Thirty-day notice and cut-off filing group. A thirty-day notice and cut-off filing group comprises mutually exclusive applications whose filing date is no later than 30 days after the date of the Public Notice listing the first-filed application(s) (according to the filing dates) as acceptable for filing. (4) Window filing group. A window filing group comprises mutually exclusive applications whose filing date is within an announced filing window. An announced filing window is a period of time between and including two specific dates, which are the first and last dates on which applications (or amendments) for a particular purpose may be accepted for filing. In the case of a one-day filing window, the two dates are the same. The dates are made known to the public in advance. (b) Procedures. Generally, the FCC may grant one application in a filing group of mutually exclusive applications and dismiss other application(s) in the filing group that are excluded by that grant, pursuant to §22.128. (1) Selection methods. In selecting the application to grant, the FCC may use comparative hearings. (2) Dismissal of applications. The FCC may dismiss any application in a filing group that is defective or otherwise subject to dismissal under §22.128, either before or after employing selection procedures. (3) Type of filing group used. Except as otherwise provided in this part, the type of filing group used in processing of two or more mutually exclusive applications depends on the purpose(s) of the applications. (i) If one of the mutually exclusive applications is a timely-filed application for renewal of an authorization, a renewal filing group is used. (ii) If any mutually exclusive application filed on the earliest filing date is an application for modification and none of the mutually exclusive applications is a timely-filed application for renewal, a same-day filing group is used. (iii) If all of the mutually exclusive applications filed on the earliest filing date are applications for initial authorization, a thirty-day notice and cut-off filing group is used. (4) Disposition. If there is only one application in any type of filing group, the FCC may grant that application and dismiss without prejudice any applications excluded by that grant (i.e. not in the filing group). If there is more than one mutually exclusive application in a filing group, the FCC disposes of these applications as follows: (i) Applications in a renewal filing group. All mutually exclusive applications in a renewal filing group are designated for comparative consideration in a hearing.
