FR940627-2-00047 FR940627-2-00026 The Abandoned Infants Program is covered under Executive Order 12372, Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs, and 45 CFR Part 100, Intergovernmental Review of Department of Health and Human Services Program and Activities. Under the Order, States may design their own processes for reviewing and commenting on proposed Federal assistance under covered programs. All States and territories, except Alabama, Alaska, Connecticut, Hawaii, Idaho, Kansas, Louisiana, Minnesota, Montana, Nebraska, Oklahoma, Oregon, Pennsylvania, South Dakota, Virginia, Washington, American Samoa and Palau, have elected to participate in the Executive Order process and have established State Single Point of Contact (SPOCs). Applicants from these 18 jurisdictions need take no action regarding E.O. 12372. Applicants for projects to be administered by Federally-recognized Indian Tribes are also exempt from the requirements of E.O. 12372. Otherwise, applicants should contact their SPOCs as soon as possible to alert them of the prospective applications and receive any necessary instructions. Applicants must submit any required material to the SPOCs as soon as possible so that the program office can obtain and review SPOC comments as part of the award process. It is imperative that the applicant submit all required materials, if any, to the SPOC and indicate the date of this submittal (or the date of contact if no submittal is required) on the Standard Form 424, item 16a. Under 45 CFR 100.8(a)(2), a SPOC has 60 days from the application deadline to comment on proposed new or competing continuation awards. For this particular announcement a waiver of the 60 day period has been approved and SPOC's are asked to provide comments within 30 days of the application deadline. The 30 day SPOC comment period provides all potential applicants with a full 60 days for application preparation and submission. This will allow for the greatest number of applicants, and also not give an advantage to applicants who have received similar awards in the past. The 30 day SPOC comment period ensures that all applications can be thoroughly developed and reviewed, and that awards can be made in FY 1994. SPOCs are encouraged to eliminate the submission of routine endorsements as official recommendations. Additionally, SPOCs are requested to clearly differentiate between mere advisory comments and those official State process recommendations which may trigger the accommodate or explain rule. When comments are submitted directly to ACF, they should be addressed to: Department of Health and Human Services, Administration for Children and Families, Division of Discretionary Grants, 370 L'Enfant Promenade SW. 6th Floor East, OFM/DDG, Washington, D.C. 20047. A list of the Single Points of Contact for each State and Territory is included as Appendix B of this announcement. B. Deadline for Submission of Applications Deadline: Applications shall be considered as meeting the announced deadline if they are: Submitted on or before the deadline date and received by the granting agency in time for the independent review under DHHS GAM Chapter 1&hyph;62. (Applicants are cautioned to request a legibly dated U.S. Postal Service postmark or to obtain a legibly dated receipt from a commercial carrier or U.S. Postal Service. Private Metered postmarks shall not be acceptable as proof of timely mailing.) Applications may be mailed to: Department of Health and Human Services, Administration for Children and Families, Division of Discretionary Grants, 370 L'Enfant Promenade SW., 6th Floor East, OFM/DDG, Washington, D.C. 20047. Hand delivered applications are accepted during the normal working hours of 8:00 a.m. to 4:30 p.m., Monday through Friday, on or prior to the established closing date at: Administration for Children and Families, Division of Discretionary Grants, 6th Floor East, OFM/DDG, 901 D Street SW., Washington, D.C. 20047. Late Applications: Applications which do not meet the criteria stated above are considered late applications. Each late applicant will be notified that its application will not be considered in the current competition.
