FR941221-0-00061 FR941221-0-00018 The Congress could have required the minimum number to be ``not less than the greater of'' as opposed to ``not less than the lesser of,'' which would have ensured a minimum of 10 percent of the number of units in a covered project to be reserved for non-elderly disabled families. Alternatively, the Congress could have drafted the statute to provide that in the event the number of units occupied by disabled families on the two dates in paragraph (b)(1) [cited above] equaled zero, the minimum percentage of units to be reserved for non-elderly disabled families would be 10 percent or such other percentage as the Congress may have desired to impose. The Congress took neither of these courses of action, and without these or similar provisions, there is no question that the calculation in paragraph (b) could result in zero reservation of units. However, as stated in the preamble to the May 3, 1994 interim rule, HUD believes that few, if any, covered section 8 housing projects will fall into the category of having no disabled families occupying units in the project on the date of enactment of the HCD Act of 1992 or January 1, 1992. Comment. One commenter stated that the replacement of the term ``mobility impaired'' with the term ``tenants needing the accessibility features of the unit'' represents a significant change. The commenter stated that this term departs from the language of section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 and HUD's regulations in 24 CFR part 8 which use the term ``individuals with physical handicaps.'' The commenter stated that this substitution of terms will make accessible units available to any disabled person who can establish a need for the accessible features of a unit regardless of whether or not the individual has a physical disability. Response. As an initial matter, HUD points out that the term ``tenants needing the accessibility features of the unit'' is not used in the subtitle D rule, but was used in the preamble to the May 3, 1994 interim rule. (See 59 FR 22920). Secondly, HUD notes that while the term ``mobility impaired'' does appear in HUD's part 8 regulations (see 24 CFR 8.22(b)) issued in June 1988, it is now recognized that this term does not adequately reflect the broad range of disabilities which may cause an individual with a disability to need a unit with accessible features. The term ``mobility impaired'' was too often perceived as synonymous with the term ``persons in wheelchairs'' and did not appropriately reflect persons with other types of disabilities who may need accessible features of a unit. The term ``tenants needing the accessibility features of the unit'' used in the May 3, 1994 interim rule is not inconsistent with the language in HUD's section 504 regulations in 24 CFR part 8. The part 8 regulations also use the term ``applicant or occupant having [disabilities] requiring the accessibility features of a unit.'' (See, e.g., 24 CFR 8.27). However, to have been more clear as to the types of tenants who may need the accessibility features of a unit, the preamble to the May 3, 1994 interim rule should have used the term ``tenants with a disability that makes the accessibility features of the unit necessary.'' With respect to the commenter's concern that a project owner may indiscriminately assign accessible units to tenants, HUD notes that its section 504 regulations require owners to take reasonable nondiscriminatory steps to maximize the utilization of such units by eligible individuals whose disability requires the accessibility features of the particular unit. Additionally, as stated earlier in this preamble, where an accessible unit is not available to a person with disabilities who needs an accessible unit, the housing provider is to accommodate the person either by (1) making the unit accessible (so long as doing so would not result in a fundamental alteration in the nature of the program or activity or undue financial and administrative burdens), or (2) by transferring a tenant who is living in an accessible unit but does not need an accessible unit to the inaccessible unit, and offering the accessible unit to the disabled family. Given these requirements, it is unlikely that owners will not make every effort to maximize the utilization of accessible units by families who need the accessibility features of the unit. Comment. One commenter stated that the interim rule failed to acknowledge that subtitle D requires owners who elect an elderly preference to open admissions to all section 8 eligible families without regard to age or disability when there are vacant units in the project and an insufficient number of elderly families to fill those vacant units. Another commenter made a similar comment in stating that the final rule must clarify that an owner who does not elect to provide a secondary preference may admit any other eligible person if there is an insufficient number of applicants on the waiting list to fill either the elderly units or the units reserved for non-elderly disabled families. Response. HUD acknowledges that although the May 3, 1994 interim rule touches upon this issue, the language of the rule is not as clear on this point as it could or should be. The May 3, 1994 interim rule provides: ``If the owner of an elderly project who has elected to adopt the secondary preferences in paragraph (d) of this section determines, in accordance with paragraph (f) of this section, that there are an insufficient number of families for whom the preference, including secondary preference, in occupancy has been given, to fill all the vacant units in the elderly project, the owner shall make the vacant units generally available to otherwise eligible families who apply for housing, without regard to the preferences and reservation of units provided in this section.'' (Emphasis added.) (See ยง880.612a(e) and comparable sections in other parts covered by this rule.) HUD recognizes that this paragraph indicates that the open admission requirement when there are vacant units is only applicable to owners who elected to adopt the secondary preferences.
