FR940811-2-00077 FR940811-2-00048 (1) Cannot be reasonably accomplished unless the record is provided in individually identifiable form; (2) Is of sufficient importance to warrant the effect and/or risk on the privacy of the individual that additional exposure of the record might bring; and (3) There is reasonable probability that the objective for the use would be accomplished. (c) Requires the information recipient to: (1) Establish reasonable administrative, technical, and physical safeguards to prevent unauthorized use or disclosure of the record, and guards to prevent unauthorized use or disclosure of the record, and (2) Remove or destroy the information that allows the individual to be identified at the earliest time at which removal or destruction can be accomplished consistent with the purpose of the project unless the recipient presents an adequate justification of a research or health nature for retaining such information, and (3) Make no further use or disclosure of the record except: a. In emergency circumstances affecting the health or safety of any individual; b. For use in another research project, under these same conditions, and with written authorization of HCFA; c. For disclosure to a properly identified person for the purpose of an audit related to the research project, if information that would enable research subjects to be identified is removed or destroyed at the earliest opportunity consistent with the purpose of the audit; or d. When required by law. (d) Secures a written statement attesting to the information recipient's understanding of and willingness to abide by these provisions. 5. To employees of a State government for the purposes of investigating potential fraud, abuse, or waste related to the Medicaid program, for research relating to the Medicaid program, or for management and/or administration of the Medicaid program. 6. To another Federal agency; (1) to contribute to the accuracy of HCFA's proper payment of Medicaid health benefits, and/or (2) to enable such agency to administer a Federal health benefits program, or as necessary to enable such agency to fulfill a requirement of a Federal statute or regulation, if HCFA: (a) Determines that the use or disclosure does not violate legal limitations under which the data were provided, collected, or obtained; (b) Determines that the purpose for which the disclosure is to be made cannot reasonably be accomplished unless the data are provided in individually identifiable form; (c) Requires the recipient to: (1) Establish reasonable administrative, technical, and physical safeguards to prevent unauthorized use or disclosure of the record; (2) Make no further use or disclosure of the record except: (a.) In emergency circumstances affecting the health or safety of any individual; (b.) For use on another project under the same conditions, and with written authorization from HCFA; and (c.) When required by law; (3) Secure a written statement attesting to the recipient's understanding of, and willingness to abide by the following provisions: (a.) Not to use the data for purposes that are not related to the subject project; (b.) Not to publish or otherwise disclose the data in a form raising unacceptable possibilities that persons could be identified (i.e., the data to be published must not be person-specific and must be aggregated to a level where no data cells have 10 or fewer persons); and (c.) Not to publish any aggregation of the data without HCFA's approval.
