FR941116-0-00088 FR941116-0-00018 Regulatory Impact Statement Executive Order 12866 of September 30, 1993, Regulatory Planning and Review, requires the Department to prepare an analysis for any rule that meets one of the E. O. 12866 criteria for a significant regulatory action; that is, that may_ Have an annual effect on the economy of $100 million or more or adversely affect in a material way the economy, a sector of the economy, productivity, competition, jobs, the environment, public health or safety, or State, local, or tribal, governments or communities; Create a serious inconsistency or otherwise interfere with an action taken or planned by another agency; Materially alter the budgetary impact of entitlements, grants, user fees, or loan programs or the rights and obligations of recipients thereof; or Raise novel legal or policy issues arising out of legal mandates, the President's priorities, or the principles set forth in E.O. 12866. In addition, the Department prepares a regulatory flexibility analysis, in accordance with the Regulatory Flexibility Act of 1980 (5 U.S.C. chapter 6), if the rule is expected to have a significant impact on a substantial number of small entities. For the reasons outlined below, we do not believe this rule is economically significant nor do we believe that it will have a significant impact on a substantial number of small entities. In addition, this proposed rule is not inconsistent with the actions of any other agency. This rule merely codifies the maximum award amount established by law for NLM grants awarded under part 59a, subpart A, thereby conforming the regulations governing the grants to the NIH Revitalization Act of 1993. The grant program does not have a significant economic or policy impact on a broad cross-section of the public. Furthermore, this rule would only affect those institutions, organizations, or agencies authorized or qualified to carry on the functions of a medical library that are interested in participating in the program, subject to the normal accountability requirements for program participation. No institution, organization, or agency is obligated to participate in the program. For these same reasons, the Secretary certifies this proposed rule will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities, and that a Regulatory Flexibility Analysis, as defined under the Regulatory Flexibility Act of 1980, is not required. Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980 This final rule does not contain any information collection, recordkeeping, or disclosure requirements subject to Office of management and Budget (OMB) review and approval under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980 (44 U.S.C. chapter 35). Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance The Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance (CDFA) numbered program affected by this final rule is: 93.879 Medical Library Assistance. List of Subjects in 42 CFR Part 59a Grant programs-Health; Libraries; Medical research.
