FR940114-2-00023 FR940114-2-00015 Department of the Army Corps of Engineers Intent To Prepare a Draft Environment Impact Statement for the Proposed Coast Rock Products Mining and Reclamation Plan In and Along the Sisquoc and Santa Maria Rivers in Santa Barbara and San Luis Obispo Counties, CA AGENCY: U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, DOD. ACTION: Notice of intent. SUMMARY: The proposed action is to mine construction-grade aggregate deposits from a seventeen-mile stretch of the Santa Maria and Sisquoc Rivers, both waters of the United States. The California Division of Mines and Geology has determined that the most significant concentration of construction-grade aggregate in the region occurs in and just adjacent to the rivers. This deposit contains material that is important to two counties for the construction, maintenance and rehabilitation of public and private facilities. The proposed action is intended to help satisfy the long-term demand for commercially-useable aggregate material in the region. Because the action will require a permit under section 404 of the Clean Water Act (as amended) and adverse impacts to the aquatic ecosystem may result, the Corps has determined that the proposed action warrants an Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) pursuant to the National Environmental Policy Act. A Joint Review Panel (JRP) consisting of the primary permitting agencies for the project has been formed to coordinate multi-agency review. The JRP includes representatives of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, California Division of Mines and Geology, County of Santa Barbara and San Luis Obispo will serve as co-lead agencies under the California Environmental Quality Act (CEQA). The environmental document will therefore be circulated as a joint Environmental Impact Statement/Environmental Impact Report (EIS/EIR). DATES: The scoping comment period will expire February 28, 1994. ADDRESSES: U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, ATTN: Regulatory Branch, 2151 Alessandro Drive, suite 100, Ventura, California 93001. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION: Mr. Michael Jewell, (805) 641&hyph;0301. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: 1. Proposed Action Coast Rock Products, Inc. (Coast Rock), has applied to the Corps of Engineers for a section 404 individual permit to remove sand and gravel material from a seventeen-mile stretch of the Santa Maria and Sisquoc Rivers over the course of the next 25 years. In 1989, the California Division of Mines and Geology (CDMG) reported that currently permitted sources of construction-grade aggregate (classified as MRZ&hyph;2 by CDMG) are theoretically sufficient to supply only 65 percent of the projected aggregate demand in San Luis Obispo and Santa Barbara Counties (the service area) over the next 50 years. CDMG further found that the largest concentration of construction-grade material in the service area extends along these rivers from a narrow canyon in the Sisquoc Ranch to the ancient floodplain underlying the City of Santa Maria. Because much of this material is no longer accessible due to surface improvements or established land use, the most viable long-term sources have been identified to occur within and adjacent to the rivers. Thus, the overall purpose of the proposed action is to mine high-quality, construction-grade aggregate (MRZ&hyph;2 classified) deposits from within the service area for the long-term utilization of the resource (at least the next 25 years) and reclaim mined lands in accordance with the requirements of the California State Surface Mining and Reclamation Act (SMARA). In addition to mining sand and gravel, Coast Rock proposes several secondary objectives to the overall project purpose. These include providing flood protection, enhancing groundwater recharge, reclaiming farm land lost to erosion and past mining, and establishing wildlife habitat. 2. Alternatives At least the following alternatives will be considered: (1) No action; (2) applicant's preferred project; (3) off-site (outside the 100-year floodplain) mining; (4) mining in the river (within the 100-year floodplain) but not within section 404 jurisdiction; (5) a reduced-scale project; and (6) alternative landuse/reclamation scenarios. 3. Scoping Process a. Federal, State and local agencies and other interested private citizens and organizations are encouraged to send their written comments to Mr. Michael Jewell at the address provided. This scoping comments period will expire 45 days from the date of this notice appearing in the Federal Register . b. Significant issues to be analyzed in depth in the draft Environmental Impact Statement (DEIS) include hydrology/hydraulics, biological resources, water quality, cultural resources, air quality, transportation, groundwater recharge, noise, aesthetics, and socioeconomic. c. Coordination will be undertaken with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, California Department of Fish and Game, State Historic Preservation Office, and California Regional Water Quality Control Board. d. As noted above, the project will also undergo review under the California Environmental Quality Act. A draft EIS/EIR will be published which will discuss both NEPA and CEQA issues. 4. Scoping Meeting A scoping meeting will be held on Thursday, January 27, 1994 from 1:30 to 4:30 and then again from 6:30 to 8:00 to assess preliminary issues relative to the Coast Rock Mining and Reclamation Plan. The scoping meeting will be held at the County Government Center, Board of Supervisors Hearing Room, 511 East Lakeside Parkway, City of Santa Maria, County of Santa Barbara, California. Participation in the scoping meeting by Federal, State and local agencies, and other interested private citizens and organizations is encouraged. 5. DEIS Schedule The current schedule estimates that the DEIS will be available for public review and comment in May 1994. Kenneth L. Denton, Army Federal Register Liaison Officer. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;1093 Filed 1&hyph;13&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3710&hyph;08&hyph;M
