FR940505-1-00128 FR940505-1-00012 (d) Regulatory Scheme. Phase 1 This rule is expected to propose the following regulatory scheme: •Designation of product lines into groups of engines with similar emissions, and manufacturer emission testing of selected engines with a specified test; •Labeling of engines, and alternatively, equipment labeling; •Submission of an application for certification for each engine family; •Inclusion of various certification requirements such as the prohibition of defeat devices; •Issuance of an emission certificate of conformity for each engine family; •Prohibition against sale of engines in the U.S. not certified by EPA; •Requirement that equipment manufacturers use the appropriate handheld or nonhandheld certified engine in their equipment; •Recordkeeping and reporting requirements; •Design warranty provisions and prohibition on tampering; •Inclusion of all farm and construction engines preempted under the CAA from state regulation; •Development of an engine manufacturer's program to evaluate in-use emission deterioration; •Requirement that, if catalysts are used in an engine family, catalyst durability must be confirmed by means of the evaluation procedure that is specified in this NPRM; •Defect reporting; •Importation provisions; and •Production line Selective Enforcement Auditing (SEA). Phase 2 The regulatory scheme for Phase 2 will be negotiated through the regulatory negotiation process. 3. Federal Requirements for SI Marine Engines The EPA is currently in the process of developing a Federal rulemaking to control emissions from SI marine engines. The proposed standards will be expected to result in a 70&hyph;80 percent reduction in HC emissions from two-stroke outboard engines which comprise over half of the engines in this category. On average there will be a 50&hyph;60 percent reduction in emissions from the fleet of SI marine engines. However, as a result of controlling HC emissions, NO X emissions are expected to increase by a factor of 2&hyph;4 (baseline NO X for these engines, on average, is about 2 g/kWh). This Federal program will apply to FIP areas. EPA is under court ordered deadline for this regulation; the schedule is for the NPRM to be signed by the Administrator by September 30, 1994 and final rule signed by November 24, 1995. The general provisions that the Agency anticipates will be included in the proposal for regulation of SI marine engines are briefly described in the following section. Today, EPA is also proposing a system of emission based fees for use of SI marine pleasure craft in the FIP areas. If the Agency finds that the Federal program for controlling emissions from SI marine engines does not achieve the anticipated reduction, adjustments will be made to the stringency of the fees or the standards to compensate for any loss in benefit from the Federal program. (a) Overview of Requirements for SI Marine Engines EPA will propose to regulate the emission of hydrocarbons from SI marine engines. Included under this regulation will be emission standards for SI marine propulsion engines which include the following engine types: outboard, sterndrive (inboard/outboard), inboard, and personal watercraft (e.g., Jet Ski). A compliance program involving pre-sale certification and in-use enforcement is also expected to be proposed for marine engines. The proposed program will be similar to the current on-highway engine program. EPA expects to include the following provisions: •Designation of product line into groups of engines with similar emission characteristics (such groups are called engine families); •Manufacturer emission testing of selected engines with the specified test procedure to demonstrate compliance with emission standards; •Labeling of engines from each engine family; •Submission of application for certification for each engine family by model year;
