FR940505-2-00109 FR940505-2-00079 The reanalyses results show a slight dose decrease to the thyroid at the EAB and a slight dose increase to the thyroid at the LPZ. The whole-body doses are increased by approximately 3.5 times at the EAB and LPZ. The 10 CFR part 100 limits are 300 rem to the thyroid and 25 rem to the whole body at both the EAB and LPZ. The increase doses to the whole body are approximately 40% at the EAB and 10% at the LPZ of the 25 rem limit provided in 10 CFR part 100. The results of the reanalysis are similar to the licensing basis evaluation contained in the Commission's Safety Evaluation Report (SER) dated August 28, 1972. The SER results are 110 rem to the thyroid and 4 rem to the whole body at the EAB and 80 rem to the thyroid and 3.0 rem to the whole body, at the LPZ with no containment venting or purging assumed. It should be noted that the dose estimates in the reanalysis represent an extreme upper bound because the release from the containment was assumed to contain fission products derived from a uniform mixing in the containment atmosphere of the iodines and noble gases specified in TID&hyph;14844. Even though the percentage increase in offsite doses is not small, the actual total doses are a fraction of the limits of 10 CFR part 100, as noted above. In evaluating the impact of the increased doses, it is important to view these results in light of the low probability of the accident. This change does not significantly affect the risk of any dominant accident scenario and the effect on overall risk of accident at this facility is insignificant. With regard to normal environmental releases when venting during power operation with the orifice plates removed, the release limits are controlled by the previously approved TS for each of the Calvert Cliffs units. Therefore, the removal of the orifice plates and reestablishing full flow through the vent lines will result in no additional environmental impact for non-accident releases. Alternatives to the Proposed Action The principal alternative to approving the removal of the orifice plates allowing full flow for venting or purging would be to deny the request and retain the limited flow capability. However, this alternative would not significantly enhance the protection of the environment. As noted above, the total doses based on the reanalysis are similar to those in the initial licensing basis SE dated August 28, 1972. The doses represent an extreme upper bound, and the doses are a fraction of the 10 CFR part 100 limits. In addition, the removal of the orifice plates would reduce the required time to vent from 28 hours to 4 hours and the probability of an accident occurring during venting decreases with a decreased vent time. Alternate Use of Resources This action does not involve the use of any resources not previously considered in the April 1973 Final Environmental Statement for the Calvert Cliffs Nuclear Power Plant, Unit Nos. 1 and 2. Agencies and Persons Consulted The NRC staff contacted the State of Maryland, Department of Natural Resources, regarding the environmental impact of this proposed action. Finding of No Significant Impact Based upon the foregoing environmental assessment, the NRC staff concludes that the proposed action will not have a significant effect on the quality of the human environment and has determined, therefore, not to prepare an environmental impact statement for the proposed action. For further details with respect to this action, see the application dated November 4, 1993, which is available for public inspection at the Commission's Public Document Room, The Gelman Building, 2120 L Street, NW., Washington, DC 20555, and at the local public document room located at Calvert County Library, Prince Frederick, Maryland 20678. Dated at Rockville, Maryland, this 26th day of April 1994. For the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. Robert A. Capra, Director, Project Directorate I&hyph;1, Division of Reactor Projects_I/II, Office of Nuclear Reactor Regulation. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;10827 Filed 5&hyph;4&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 7590&hyph;01&hyph;M
