FR940907-2-00013 FR940907-2-00002 Northwest Emergency Assistance Plan Proposed Program and State Funding Targets Within States [Dollars in millions] 1␣ 1Permit buyout 1Habitat restoration 1Data collection 1State total WA 4.0 1.6 1.0 6.6 CA 0.0 2.2 0.5 2.7 OR 0.0 2.2 0.5 2.7 n,s Total 4.0 6.0 2.0 12.0 NMFS emphasizes that these are ``target'' distributions, not fixed percentages, and are flexible; redistributions could be made, if increased total benefits can be achieved. The final distribution would depend on the needs of the commercial fishermen. For example, should other governmental entities besides Washington State want to participate in the proposed buyout program, a portion of the buyout funds currently proposed to be distributed to Washington would have to be redistributed. In the project selection phase of the habitat restoration program, it may be recognized that total benefits will be greater by shifting more of the projects toward one state than another. However, there is a need to distribute initially a sufficient amount of funds to operate the programs effectively in each state. Program distributions are largely based on the following considerations: Habitat needs are found in all three states, and habitat restoration is critical to increase the long-term sustainability of salmon resources; only Washington State has indicated a willingness to participate in a permit buyout program; and fishermen have voiced desires to participate in programs to collect needed habitat, conservation, and management information. Because additional listings of West Coast salmon stocks under the Endangered Species Act are expected, and closures of salmon fisheries are likely to continue as a result, a phase-down of the fishing industry via a buyout program is needed. A phase-down of the industry needs to be initiated to increase the long-term economic health of the industry, as suggested by the Snake River Recovery Team (Snake River Salmon Recovery Team: Final Recommendations to the National Marine Fisheries Service, May 1994). Information on landings, commercial revenues, recreational expenditures, and estimates of jobs associated with the various sectors of the industry were reviewed. Recognizing various uncertainties, this information was reviewed in the context of: The definition of commercial fisherman, as defined by the IFA; the realization that coho and chinook are the prime species associated with the fishery resource disaster; and the availability of alternative opportunities to commercial fishermen. Because of the large Puget Sound and tribal fisheries, available data and information imply that fishermen in Washington State should have the greatest share of the funds, given the State's share of the industry. Providing equal shares to California and Oregon is partially based on economic analyses developed for the Pacific Fishery Management Council. Trends in estimated community/local personal income impacts of the California and Oregon fisheries were compared. Comparing 1986&hyph;90 averages to 1993 levels indicates that Oregon has had a greater loss (approximately $50 million) compared to California (approximately $42 million). So, while California has a larger fishery, Oregon appears to have had a greater loss on a percentage basis. In addition, commercial fishermen in Oregon may have fewer alternative fishing opportunities than those who reside in California and Washington. Northern California commercial fishermen can fish on salmon stocks for which fishing has not been prohibited, while many Washington vessels have permits to fish off Alaska. The state targets do not necessarily reflect the ultimate distribution of benefits. For example, should only Washington State vessel permit holders participate in the buyout program, commercial fishermen from all three states would benefit, because there would be fewer commercial fishermen competing for shared salmon resources. In addition, the results of the proposed jobs program in each state are expected to provide coastwide benefits. Classification This action has been determined to be not significant for purposes of E.O. 12866. This action proposes a financial assistance program that would contain collection-of-information requirements subject to the Paperwork Reduction Act. The necessary information collection forms and specific reporting requirements have not been identified at this time, and will need to be developed in conjunction with the intermediaries administering the program. When the requirements have been established, NMFS will submit them to OMB for approval prior to their implementation. Dated: September 2, 1994. Gary Matlock, Program Management Officer, National Marine Fisheries Service. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;22078 Filed 9&hyph;2&hyph;94; 1:03 pm] BILLING CODE 3510&hyph;22&hyph;P
