FR940610-1-00081 FR940610-1-00008 Regulatory Cost/Benefit Assessment 1. Title: National School Lunch and School Breakfast Program: Nutrition Objectives for School Meals. 2. Background: This rule proposes to amend the regulations outlining the nutrition standards for the National School Lunch and School Breakfast Programs. Specifically, this proposal would update the current nutrition standards to incorporate the Dietary Guidelines for Americans, which reflect medical and scientific consensus on proper nutrition as a vital element in disease prevention and long term health promotion. 1 This proposal would also adopt meal planning based on analysis of key nutrients (Nutrient Standard Menu Planning or Assisted Nutrient Standard Menu Planning) in lieu of the current meal pattern. These changes would be implemented no later than July 1, 1998. In recognition of the importance of reinventing and streamlining government programs, this proposal would also reduce various burdens associated with the school meal programs and would modify the review requirements for the National School Lunch Program to ensure adequate oversight of the proposed updated nutrition standards. *Footnotes appear at end of docket. 3. Statutory Authority: National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1751&hyph;1760, 1779) and Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 1773, 1779). 4. Cost/Benefit Assessment of Economic and Other Effects: a. Costs To Produce a Meal: A nationally representative sample included in the School Lunch and Breakfast Cost Study found an average food cost of $0.72 for school meals prepared under the current meal pattern, rounded to the nearest whole cent. Cost data from this study were used to estimate the cost of two weeks of sample menus developed under the requirements for Nutrient Standard Menu Planning in the proposed rule. The analysis found an average food cost of $0.72 per meal when rounded to the nearest whole cent 2 . These sample menus were developed for elementary and high school students using foods and recipes common to the National School Lunch Program (NSLP). When planning the sample menus, milk was constrained to provide eight fluid ounces with each meal, to include milks of various fat levels and a mix of flavored and unflavored milk. Additional weeks of menus could have been developed at similar cost, but analysis of two weeks of sample menus was deemed sufficient to demonstrate that nutrient targets could be met at current food cost. It would also have been possible to have further reduced the cost of the sample menus, for example by substituting lower cost items or using smaller portions of relatively expensive items such as yogurt and fish sticks. The lower end of the cost range of sample menus was about 28 percent below the two week average food cost. The sample menus were developed using foods and recipes already in common use in NSLP, such as those from ``Quantity Recipes for School Food Service'' 3 . They did not reflect the potential savings which may be realized when market forces stimulate development of new lower fat foods and recipes. Increased demand for foods lower in fat, saturated fat, sodium and cholesterol are expected to increase availability of these foods in the future. Such new foods and recipes should provide greater flexibility to NSLP menu planners, and may facilitate further moderation of meal cost and food components such as sodium and cholesterol where appropriate. The sample menus include ingredients that are fresh and those that are processed into more convenient, labor saving forms, such as frozen. Examples of processed foods used in the sample menus include popular food items, pizza and chicken nuggets. Although these items were used less often than currently offered, by using foods and recipes common to the NSLP, the sample menus look similar to meals currently offered to students. By their preexisting use in NSLP, school food service personnel have already demonstrated that these food items can be prepared in the time available to prepare current school lunches, and similarly indicate that the staff with the skills needed to prepare these foods are already available. In addition, the equipment needed for food storage and preparation is either already available, or schools operating under the present rules have demonstrated that such equipment can be obtained within the existing reimbursement rates. Therefore, even though the costs of labor, equipment, and administration were not specifically analyzed, the manner in which the sample menus were developed provides confidence that non-food costs of the NSMP sample menus are expected to be similar to those already experienced in NSLP operation. FNS will continue to explore cost impacts. The evaluation of the Nutrient Standard Menu Planning Demonstration will examine the reported costs of school food service operations associated with implementing NSMP. This evaluation will examine total meal production costs and will analyze separate components (food, labor, other costs).
