FR941006-1-00063 FR941006-1-00013 FHWA's Determination Statistical studies mentioned above support the proposition that accident-free performance coupled with low numbers of traffic violations over a three-year period is a reliable predictor of continued safe performance over a similar period in the future. As a condition of admission into the waiver program, each applicant had to demonstrate a three-year period of safe driving performance prior to being admitted into the study group. The performance data obtained from the waived drivers since the study began confirms the FHWA's determination that the continued operation of the waived group, as provided for in this notice, will not diminish safety. The data also show that this class of drivers performed and is performing more safely than the pool of drivers from which its replacements would have to be drawn, that is, the general driving population. Accordingly, the FHWA has determined that to revalidate waivers, as stated in this notice, for drivers in the class of drivers defined by the study and operating under the conditions of the study is consistent with the safe operation of CMVs. This evidence, examined in conjunction with the previously available medical and scientific evidence, and detailed driving records provided prior to acceptance into the waiver program and periodically thereafter by each individual participating in the waiver group, clearly indicates that the continued operation of CMVs by the group of drivers currently participating in the waiver program will not adversely affect CMV safety. The FHWA has also determined that to conduct the waiver study program under the conditions prescribed herein is consistent with the public interest of assuring the physical condition of operators of CMVs is adequate to enable them to operate the vehicles safely and of providing opportunities for drivers with real or perceived visual disabilities to demonstrate their ability to drive safely and continue in their chosen field of occupation. Finally, the FHWA believes that the information contained in this notice provides a sufficient degree of empirical evidence to satisfy the safety requirement mandated by both the MCSA and the D.C. Circuit Court. Revalidation of Waivers and Request for Comments In view of the above, the agency is revalidating the vision waivers possessed by drivers as of September 30, 1994, for thirty days from the date of this notice. The FHWA is also proposing that this evidence is sufficient to allow those drivers currently participating in the vision waiver study (2,411 as of September 30, 1994) to continue operating CMVs with waivers, subject to the same standards and conditions applicable to the original waivers, for the duration of the study, which shall conclude not later than March 31, 1996. By that date, approximately 93 percent of the drivers presently participating in the study will have completed at least three years driving in the study program. The FHWA is requesting comments on this proposal. A short comment period is necessitated by the precarious position in which the drivers participating in the study, as well as the FHWA, are placed by virtue of the Court's decision. If this determination is delayed, individuals who have received a waiver from the application of certain regulations will immediately be subject to irreparable harm in the form of job loss and financial hardship. Moreover, if the agency allows the waiver program to continue without presenting a reasoned analysis and justification, it could be found to be acting contrary to the order of the Court. Finally, this additional period of 15 days for comments will allow for the submission of persuasive reasons why the FHWA should not complete its study by revalidating waivers to the study participants subject to the same standards or conditions. Public Hearing on the Vision Standard and Waiver Program Due to the strong public interest surrounding this matter, the FHWA will conduct a public hearing within six months of the date of this notice of determination to explore the remaining issues surrounding the vision standard and the vision waiver program. Examples of issues to be addressed at the public hearing include: (1) The relationship of visual capacity to the commercial driving task; (2) Identification of research and data helpful in defining the vision standard;
