FR940727-0-00050 FR940727-0-00024 DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration 50 CFR Parts 672 and 675 [Docket No. 940413&hyph;4199; I.D. 032394C] RIN 0648&hyph;AG59 Groundfish of the Gulf of Alaska; Groundfish Fishery of the Bering Sea and Aleutian Islands Area AGENCY: National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS), National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), Commerce. ACTION: Final rule; final 1994 specification of Pacific halibut bycatch allowances. SUMMARY: NMFS implements regulations for several management measures to prevent certain Gulf of Alaska (GOA) trawl fisheries from taking an unnecessarily large share of the GOA halibut bycatch limit; amend the directed fishing standards to prohibit using retained amounts of arrowtooth flounder, or groundfish species that are closed to directed fishing, as a basis for calculating retainable amounts of other, more valuable groundfish species that are closed to directed fishing; change the opening date of the yellowfin sole and ``other flatfish'' fisheries in the Bering Sea and Aleutian Islands management area (BSAI) from May 1 to January 1; and implement changes pertaining to the annual specification and management of GOA halibut prohibited species catch (PSC) limits. This action is necessary to reduce the likelihood that one sector of the Alaska trawl fleet will preempt others for a share of the Pacific halibut bycatch limit established for vessels using trawl gear in the GOA, and provide greater opportunity to harvest available groundfish under halibut bycatch restrictions in both the GOA and BSAI fisheries. This action is intended to further the objectives of the fishery management plans for the groundfish fisheries off Alaska. EFFECTIVE DATE: August 9, 1994. ADDRESSES: Individual copies of the environmental assessment/regulatory impact review (EA/RIR) prepared for this action may be obtained from the Fisheries Management Division, Alaska Region, NMFS, P.O. Box 21668, Juneau, AK 99802&hyph;1668. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Kaja Brix, 907&hyph;586&hyph;7228. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background The domestic groundfish fisheries in the exclusive economic zone (EEZ) of the GOA and the BSAI are managed by the Secretary of Commerce in accordance with the Fishery Management Plan (FMP) for Groundfish of the GOA and the FMP for the Groundfish Fishery of the BSAI. The FMPs were prepared by the North Pacific Fishery Management Council (Council) under the Magnuson Fishery Conservation and Management Act (Magnuson Act). Regulations authorized under the FMP that pertain to the U.S. groundfish fisheries appear at 50 CFR parts 672 and 675. Existing regulations provide a framework process for the annual specification of GOA halibut PSC limits for trawl and fixed gear fisheries and for apportioning these limits by season. Although these regulations limit the bycatch of Pacific halibut in the GOA groundfish trawl fisheries, they have resulted in conflict among and preemption of groundfish trawling operations in the GOA as different trawl fishery components compete for shares of the available halibut PSC limit. This results in the attainment of the halibut bycatch cap before some groundfish Total Allowable Catch (TAC) limits have been taken, causing a closure of trawling operations in the GOA, even though the full groundfish harvest amount has not been taken in some fisheries. This rule implements the following three measures to address the preemption of one trawl fishery sector by another. 1. Establish two GOA trawl fishery categories for the purpose of apportioning the GOA halibut bycatch limit already established for the trawl gear fisheries (ยง672.20 (f)). These two categories are the following: (1) The shallow-water fishery complex (pollock, Pacific cod, Atka mackerel, shallow-water flatfish, flathead sole, and ``other species''); and (2) the deep-water fishery complex (the deep-water flatfish, rex sole, arrowtooth flounder, sablefish, and rockfish). 2. Revise the method for calculating retainable amounts of groundfish species under directed fishing standards (ยง672.20(h) and ยง675.20(i)). Revised methods prohibit using retained amounts of arrowtooth flounder, or groundfish species that are closed to directed fishing, as a basis for calculating retainable amounts of other, more valuable groundfish species that are closed to directed fishing. 3. Adjust the opening date for the BSAI yellowfin sole and ``other flatfish'' fisheries from May 1 to January 1. As a result of this season adjustment, directed fishing standards governing retainable amounts of flatfish species at ยง675.20(h)(2) also are revised. This final rule also implements editorial changes to regulatory language pertaining to the annual specification and management of GOA halibut PSC limits. In addition, NMFS apportions the 1994 GOA halibut trawl PSC limit among fisheries and seasons as set out below:
