FR940722-0-00101 FR940722-0-00019 43. PacTel also suggests, in the context of simultaneous auctions, that the Commission should vary the bid increment, reducing it as the number of active bidders declines. 17 Similarly, PacBell suggests that the bid increment depend on the stage of the auction, with a 5 percent increment in stage I, 2 percent in stage II, and 1 percent in stage III. 18 This would move the auction quickly at the beginning, when prices have limited informational content and there is little benefit to either bidders or the Commission of refined price movements, while allowing bidders to express small differences in valuations as the auction nears a close, increasing both efficiency and auction revenues. Small bid increments also reduce the chances of ties. Where a tie does occur, the high bidder will be determined by the order in which the bids were received by the Commission. 19 17 See comments of PacTel, Exhibit by R. Preston McAfee, Auction Design for Personal Communications Services, at 18. 18 See reply comments of PacBell, Appendix to Exhibit by Paul Milgrom and Robert Wilson, auction Rules and Procedures, at 8&hyph;9. For a discussion of auction stages in simultaneous multiple round auctions see the section on activity rules infra. 19 See Second Report and Order at ¶125. 44. Accordingly, we will start the auction with large bid increments, and reduce the increments as bidding activity falls. The minimum bid increment in stage I of the auction will be 5 percent of the high bid in the previous round or $.02 per MHz per pop, whichever is greater. 20 We will reduce the minimum bid increment as we move through the auction stages, with a minimum bid increment of the greater of 2 percent or $.01 per MHz per pop in stage II, and the greater of 1 percent or $.005 per MHz per pop in stage III. 21 The Commission, however, retains the discretion in broadband PCS auctions to set and, by announcement before or during the auction, vary the minimum bid increments for individual licenses or groups of licenses over the course of an auction if the auction is not moving at an appropriate pace. 20 $0.02 per MHz per pop would represent almost 6 percent of the value of a license based on an extrapolation from the $10.6 billion estimated value of the 120 MHz of broadband PCS spectrum to be licensed. See Second Report and Order at ¶177. 21 In oral or electronic sequential auctions the auctioneer may within his or her sole discretion establish and vary the amount of the minimum bid increment in each round of bidding. 45. In addition, the Commission will establish a suggested minimum bid on each license. Bids below the suggested minimum bid will count as activity under the activity rule (see infra ) only if no bids at or above the suggested minimum bid are received. Initial bids must be above the minimum bid increment of $.02 per MHz per pop, but may be below the suggested minimum bid. Once a bid has been received on a license, the suggested minimum bid is no longer applicable in subsequent rounds. The amount of the suggested minimum bid may vary by market size, with a larger minimum bid in larger markets, and will be announced by public notice prior to each auction. We will establish suggested minimum bids at no less than $.05 per MHz per pop and not more than $.20 per MHz per pop. The suggested minimum bid provides bidders an incentive to start bidding at a substantial fraction of the final prices of licenses, thus ensuring a rapid conclusion of the auction, while still allowing for bidding on licenses whose market values are below the suggested minimum bids. 22 22 If the Commission were to preclude bidding below a starting minimum bid, a bidder who is interested in only a single license for which the minimum bid is set above the market value would be forced to use an activity rule waiver or drop out of the auction under the activity rules adopted infra. 3. Stopping Rules for Multiple Round Auctions 46. We also noted in the Second Report and Order that with multiple round auctions a stopping rule must be established for determining when the auction is over. 23 In simultaneous multiple round auctions, bidding may close separately on individual licenses, simultaneously on all licenses, or a hybrid approach may be used. Under an individual, license-by-license approach, bidding closes on each license after one round passes in which no new acceptable bids are submitted for that particular license. With a simultaneous stopping rule, bidding remains open on all licenses until there is no new acceptable bid on any license. This approach has the advantage of providing bidders full flexibility to bid for any license as more information becomes available during the course of the auction, but it may lead to very long auctions, unless an activity rule ( see discussion infra ) is imposed. A hybrid approach combines the first two stopping rules. For example, we may use a simultaneous stopping rule (along with an activity rule designed to expedite closure for licenses subject to the simultaneous stopping rule) for the higher value licenses. For lower value licenses, where the loss from eliminating some back-up strategies is less, we may use simpler license-by-license closings. In the Second Report and Order we recognize that such a hybrid approach might simplify and speed up the auction process without significantly sacrificing efficiency or expected revenue. Id. 23 See Second Report and Order at ¶127. Commenters agreed on the importance of the appropriate stopping rule. PacTel proposes that bidding on an individual license close if there are no new bids on that license within a given round, or if there are fewer than two bids greater than a ``suggested minimum bid.'' Comments of PacTel, Attachment of R. Preston McAfee at 16&hyph;18. Pacific Bell recommends simultaneous closing of bidding on all licenses when there are no new acceptable bids on any license. Comments of PacBell, Attachment of Paul Milgrom and Robert Wilson at 19; reply comments of PacBell, Attachment of Paul Milgrom and Robert Wilson, Appendix at 5. Bell Atlantic Personal Communications, on the other hand, asserts that in simultaneous auctions, no stopping rule can prevent strategic delays. They provide no evidence for this, however, and do not discuss any closing rule in detail. In discussing the Milgrom-Wilson closing rule they fail to account for the Milgrom-Wilson activity rule, which will reduce the likelihood of delay, and the fail-safe closing mechanism proposed by Milgrom and Wilson. Reply comments of Bell Atlantic Personal Communications, Inc., Attachment of Barry J. Nalebuff and Jeremy I. Bulow at 12. 47. For broadband PCS we believe that a simultaneous stopping rule is preferable for all MTA licenses. MTA licenses are expected to have relatively high values and are fewer in number than BTA licenses, which will reduce the complexity of implementing a simultaneous stopping rule. Since we intend to impose an activity rule (as discussed below), we believe that allowing simultaneous closing for all licenses will afford bidders flexibility to pursue back-up strategies without running the risk that bidders will hold back their bidding until the final rounds. We also intend to use a simultaneous stopping rule for BTA licenses. However, because of the large number of BTA licenses, we retain the discretion either to use a hybrid stopping rule or to allow bidding to close individually for these licenses if as we gain experience with auctions we determine that simultaneous stopping rules are too complex to implement for very large numbers of licenses. The specific stopping rule for ending bidding on BTA licenses will be announced by Public Notice prior to auction.
