FR941011-2-00133 FR941011-2-00086 DTC believes the proposed rule change is consistent with the requirements of Section 17A of the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder applicable to DTC because the proposed rule change will promote efficiencies in the clearance and settlement of prime broker trades. The proposed rule change will be implemented consistently with the safeguarding of securities and funds in DTC's custody or control or for which it is responsible because the proposed rule change will be implemented as an option in DTC's ID system. (B) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Burden on Competition DTC perceives no impact on competition by reason of the proposed rule change. (C) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received From Members, Participants or Others The proposed rule change has been discussed with the Prime Brokerage Committee. Written comments from DTC Participants or others have not been solicited or received on the proposed rule change. III. Date of Effectiveness of the Proposed Rule Change and Timing for Commission Action Section 17A(a)(1)(C) of the Act sets forth Congress findings that new data processing and communications techniques create the opportunity for more efficient, effective, and safe procedures for clearance and settlement. 9 Section 17A(a)(2)(A)(ii) of the Act directs the Commission to facilitate the establishment of linked or coordinated facilities for the clearance and settlement of securities transactions. 10 The Commission believes the proposed rule change will further these goals by facilitating the confirmation and affirmation of prime broker transactions through DTC's ID system and by facilitating the settlement of prime broker trades through either DTC or NSCC. Section 17A(b)(3)(F) of the Act requires that rules of a clearing agency promote the prompt and accurate clearance and settlement of securities transactions and assure the safeguarding of securities and funds which are in the custody or control of the clearing agency or for which it is responsible. 11 The Commission believes that the proposal is consistent with DTC's responsibilities under Section 17A of the Act because the proposal will facilitate the option of having prime broker trades settled in NSCC's CNS system, which should promote efficiency by having those trades netted with the prime brokers' and executing brokers' other positions in the same security. The Commission further believes that the proposal is consistent with DTC's responsibility to safeguard securities and funds because utilizing the ID system for confirming, affirming, and disaffirming prime broker trades should help provide standardized procedures by which the respective parties can perform their duties in settling prime broker transactions. 9 15 U.S.C. 78q&hyph;1(a)(1)(C). 10 15 U.S.C. 78q&hyph;1(a)(2)(ii). 11 15 U.S.C. 78q&hyph;1(b)(3)(F). DTC has requested that the Commission find good cause for approving the proposed rule changes prior to the thirtieth day after the date of publication of notice of the filing. The Commission finds good cause for so approving the proposed rule because accelerated approval will enable prime brokers and executing brokers to confirm and affirm prime broker transactions through the ID system and to have the option to settle these trades in CNS as soon as possible. Furthermore, accelerated approval will allow the effective date of the temporary approval of DTC's prime broker option to coincide with the effective date of the prime broker letter issued by the Division. 12 In addition, the Commission previously published notice of a similar DTC proposal 13 that sought to establish the same prime broker option as is the subject of this current filing; the earlier proposed rule change did not generate any comment letters, and none are expected on DTC's current proposal. 12 Letter from Michael A. Macchiaroli, Associate Director, Division, Commission to Jeffrey C. Bernstein, Prime Broker Committee, and to Seth J. Gersch, Committee of Executing Brokers (July 18, 1994). 13 Securities Exchange Act Release No. 28048 (May 18, 1994), 55 FR 22121 [File No. SR&hyph;DTC&hyph;90&hyph;05] (notice of proposed rule change). On April 20, 1994, DTC withdrew File No. SR&hyph;DTC&hyph;90&hyph;05 from consideration so that DTC could reevaluate the prime broker option in light of the Division's letter dated January 25, 1994. Supra note 3. Letter from Carl H. Urist, Deputy General Counsel, DTC to Jerry W. Carpenter, Branch Chief, Division, Commission (April 20, 1994).
