FR941006-1-00018 FR941006-1-00006 IV. Initial Regulatory Flexibility Analysis The Commission has prepared an Initial Regulatory Flexibility Analysis (``IRFA'') in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 603 regarding proposed Rule 15c5&hyph;1. The IRFA uses certain definitions of small entities adopted by the Commission for purposes of the Regulatory Flexibility Act. The IRFA indicates that regulatory action is required in order to ensure that market makers in NASDAQ/NMS securities adhere to certain minimum standards of fair treatment of customers. Specifically, by prohibiting a market maker from trading ahead of a customer limit order that it holds, the rule would improve the quality of executions for customers and the price discovery process in the market for these securities. In 1993, there were 492 active NASDAQ market makers. 30 Data on the number of market makers meeting the definition of small entity that make markets in NASDAQ/NMS securities and execute customer limit orders is unavailable. The Commission is unable to quantify reasonably the impact that the proposed rule would have on small market makers or small issuers. The Commission does not believe it would be practicable to exempt small market makers from the proposed rule because to do so would be inconsistent with the Commission's statutory mandate to protect investors. 30 See supra note 29. A copy of the Initial Regulatory Flexibility Analysis may be obtained by contacting Scott C. Kursman, Attorney, Office of Market Supervision, Division of Market Regulation, Securities and Exchange Commission, Washington, D.C. 20549 (202) 942&hyph;3197. V. Effects on Competition Section 23(a)(2) of the Exchange Act 31 requires the Commission, in adopting rules under the Act, to consider any anti-competitive effects of such rules and to balance these effects against the regulatory benefits gained in furthering the purposes of the Act. As previously noted, comment letters received prior to the adoption of the NASD Interpretation suggested that such a rule would deny market makers an opportunity to earn a profit in some situations. If true, this may result in less market maker commitment in the NASDAQ/NMS market which may in turn effect competition in this market. The Commission is soliciting comment on the effect the rule may have on market maker capital commitment and small issuers. 31 15 U.S.C. 78w(a)(2). The Commission preliminarily views Rule 15c5&hyph;1 as causing no burden on competition unnecessary or inappropriate in furtherance of the purposes of the Exchange Act. The Commission believes that the principles of customer protection that Congress envisioned and that would be advanced by this rule justify the burdens that the rule will impose on market makers. The Commission, however, requests comment on any competitive burdens that might result from adoption of the proposed rule described in this release.
