FR941122-1-00044 FR941122-1-00010 40 CFR Part 70 [AD-FRL&hyph;5107&hyph;2] Clean Air Act Proposed Interim Approval of Title V Operating Permits Program; Ventura County Air Pollution Control District, California AGENCY: Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). ACTION: Proposed rule. SUMMARY: The EPA proposes interim approval of the Operating Permits Program submitted by the Ventura County Air Pollution Control District (APCD) for the purpose of complying with Federal requirements that mandate that states develop, and submit to EPA, programs for issuing operating permits to all major stationary sources, and to certain other sources. DATES: Comments on this proposed action must be received in writing by December 22, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments should be addressed to Ginger Vagenas at the Region 9 address. Copies of Ventura County APCD's submittal and other supporting information used in developing this proposed interim approval are available for inspection during normal business hours at the following location: USEPA, Region 9, 75 Hawthorne Street, San Francisco, CA. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Ginger Vagenas, USEPA A&hyph;5&hyph;2; 75 Hawthorne Street, San Francisco, CA 94105; (415) 744&hyph;1252. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: I. Background and Purpose As required under title V of the Clean Air Act (``the Act'') as amended (1990), EPA has promulgated rules that define the minimum elements of an approvable state operating permits program and the corresponding standards and procedures by which the EPA will approve, oversee, and withdraw approval of state operating permits programs (see 57 FR 32250 (July 21, 1992)). These rules are codified at 40 CFR part 70. Title V requires states to develop and submit to EPA, by November 15, 1993, programs for issuing these operating permits to all major stationary sources and to certain other sources. The Act requires that EPA act to approve or disapprove each program within 1 year after receiving the submittal. The EPA's program review occurs pursuant to section 502 of the Act, which outlines criteria for approval or disapproval. Where a program substantially, but not fully, meets the requirements of part 70, EPA may grant the program interim approval for a period of up to 2 years. If EPA has not fully approved a program by 2 years after the November 15, 1993 date, or by the end of an interim program, it must establish and implement a Federal program. II. Proposed Action and Implications A. Analysis of State Submission The analysis contained in this notice focuses on specific elements of Ventura's title V operating permits program that must be corrected to meet the minimum requirements of 40 CFR part 70. The full program submittal, the Technical Support Document (TSD), which contains a detailed analysis of the submittal, and other relevant materials are available for inspection as part of the public docket. The docket may be viewed during regular business hours at the address listed above. 1. Title V Program Support Materials Ventura's title V program was submitted by the California Air Resources Board (CARB) on November 16, 1993. Additional material was submitted on December 6, 1993. The submittal was found to be administratively complete on February 4, 1994. The Governor's letter requesting source category-limited interim approval, California enabling legislation, and Attorney General's legal opinion were submitted by CARB for all districts in California and therefore were not included separately in Ventura's submittal. The Ventura submission does contain a complete program description, District implementing and supporting regulations, and all other program documentation required by §70.4. An implementation agreement is currently being developed between Ventura and EPA. 2. Title V Operating Permit Regulations and Program Implementation Ventura's regulations that implement part 70 include Rule 8, Access to Facilities; Rule 15, Standards for Permit Issuance; Rule 15.1, Sampling and Testing Facilities; Rule 23, Exemption from Permit; Rule 26.1, New Source Review (definitions of ``modified emissions unit,'' ``new emissions unit,'' and ``stationary source'' only); Rule 29, Conditions on Permits (paragraph C only); Rule 33, Part 70 Permits; and Rule 42, Permit Fees. These rules, in conjunction with authorities granted under California State law, substantially meet the requirements of 40 CFR part 70, sections 70.2 and 70.3 for applicability; sections 70.4, 70.5, and 70.6 for permit content, including operational flexibility; section 70.7 for public participation and minor permit modifications; section 70.5 for complete application forms; and section 70.11 for enforcement authority. Although the regulations substantially meet part 70 requirements, there are several program deficiencies that are outlined under section II.B. below as interim approval issues and further described in the Technical Support Document. Variances. Ventura County APCD has the authority to issue a variance from requirements (except the requirement to obtain a permit to construct or operate)imposed by state and local law. See California HSC sections 42350&hyph;42364 and Ventura Regulation VII. In the opinion submitted with California operating permit programs, California's Attorney General states that ``[t]he variance process is not part of the Title V permitting process and does not affect Federal enforcement for violations of the requirements set forth in a Title V permit.'' (Emphasis in original.) The EPA regards the State and District variance provisions as wholly external to the program submitted for approval under part 70 and consequently is proposing to take no action on these provisions of state and local law. The EPA has no authority to approve provisions of state law that are inconsistent with the CAA. The EPA does not recognize the ability of a permitting authority to grant relief from the duty to comply with a federally enforceable part 70 permit, except where such relief is granted through procedures allowed by part 70. A part 70 permit may be issued or revised (consistent with part 70 permitting procedures), to incorporate those terms of a variance that are consistent with applicable requirements. A part 70 permit may also incorporate, via part 70 permit issuance or revision procedures, the schedule of compliance set forth in a variance. However, EPA reserves the right to pursue enforcement of applicable requirements notwithstanding the existence of a compliance schedule in a permit to operate. This is consistent with 40 CFR 70.5(c)(8)(iii)(C), which states that a schedule of compliance ``shall be supplemental to, and shall not sanction noncompliance with, the applicable requirements on which it is based.'' Permit content. EPA is specifically approving the General part 70 Permit Conditions that were submitted as part of Ventura's part 70 program. Any modifications to these general conditions must be approved by EPA. Failure to include these conditions in part 70 permits will be cause for EPA to object to a District operating permit. See §70.8(c)(1). Ventura's permit content rule (Rule 33.3) does not include the level of detail regarding periodic monitoring found in §70.6(a)(3)(i)(B). Paragraphs A.1. and A.3. of Rule 33 more generally address the requirements for periodic monitoring. These paragraphs provide that operating permits issued pursuant to this rule will assure compliance with all applicable requirements and will include conditions establishing all applicable emissions monitoring and analysis procedures etc., required under all applicable requirements. Although the rule does not explicitly state that the periodic monitoring or testing will be ``sufficient to yield reliable data from the relevant time period that are representative of the source's compliance period␣*␣*␣*,'' the more general language cited above is consistent with this requirement. Should Ventura draft a permit that does not meet the requirements of §70.6(a)(3)(i)(B), EPA will exercise its authority under §70.8(c)(1) and will object to the permit. Insignificant activities. Section 70.4(b)(2) requires states to include in their part 70 programs any criteria used to determine insignificant activities or emission levels for the purposes of determining complete applications. Section 70.5(c) states that an application for a part 70 permit may not omit information needed to determine the applicability of, or to impose, any applicable requirement, or to evaluate appropriate fee amounts. Section 70.5(c) also states that EPA may approve, as part of a state program, a list of insignificant activities and emissions levels which need not be included in permit applications. Under part 70, a state must request and EPA must approve as part of that state's program any activity or emission level that the state wishes to consider insignificant. Part 70, however, does not establish appropriate emission levels for insignificant activities, relying instead on a case-by-case determination of appropriate levels based on the particular circumstances of part 70 program under review. Ventura provided its current permit exemption list as its list of insignificant activities. Because EPA was provided no criteria or information on the level of emissions of activities on Ventura's exemptions list and no demonstration that these activities are not likely to be subject to an applicable requirement, EPA cannot propose full approval of the list as the basis for determining insignificant activities. For other state programs, EPA has proposed to accept, as sufficient for full approval, emission levels for insignificant activities of 2 tons per year for criteria pollutants and the lesser of 1000 pounds per year, section 112(g) de minimis levels, or other title I significant modification levels for HAPs and other toxics (40 CFR 52.21(b)(23)(i)). EPA believes that these levels are sufficiently below applicability thresholds for many applicable requirements to assure that no unit potentially subject to an applicable requirement is left off a title V application and are consistent with current permitting thresholds in Ventura County. EPA is requesting comment on the appropriateness of these emission levels for determining insignificant activities in Ventura County. This request for comment is not intended to restrict the ability of the District to propose and EPA to approve other emission levels if the District demonstrates that such alternative emission levels are insignificant compared to the level of emissions from and types of units that are permitted or subject to applicable requirements. Definition of title I modification. Ventura's definition of ``title I modification'' does not include changes reviewed under a minor source preconstruction review program (``minor NSR changes''). The EPA is currently in the process of determining the proper definition of that phrase. As further explained below, EPA has solicited public comment on whether the phrase ``modification under any provision of title I of the Act'' in 40 CFR 70.7(e)(2)(i)(A)(5) should be interpreted to mean literally any change at a source that would trigger permitting authority review under regulations approved or promulgated under title I of the Act. This would include state preconstruction review programs approved by EPA as part of the State Implementation Plan under section 110(a)(2)(C) of the Clean Air Act. On August 29, 1994, EPA proposed revisions to the interim approval criteria in 40 CFR 70.4(d) to, among other things, allow state programs with a more narrow definition of ``title I modifications'' to receive interim approval (59 FR 44572). The Agency explained its view that the better reading of ``title I modifications'' includes minor NSR and pre&hyph;1990 NESHAP requirements, and solicited public comment on the proper interpretation of that term (59 FR 44573). The Agency stated that if, after considering the public comments, it continued to believe that the phrase ``title I modifications'' should be interpreted as including minor NSR changes, it would revise the interim approval criteria as needed to allow states with a narrower definition to be eligible for interim approval. The EPA hopes to finalize its rulemaking revising the interim approval criteria under 40 CFR 70.4(d) expeditiously. 1 If EPA establishes in its rulemaking that the definition of ``title I modifications'' can be interpreted to exclude changes reviewed under minor NSR programs, Ventura's definition of ``title I modification'' would be fully consistent with part 70. Conversely, if EPA establishes through the rulemaking that the definition must include changes reviewed under minor NSR, Ventura's definition of ``title I modifications'' will become a basis for interim approval. If the definition becomes a basis for interim approval as a result of EPA's rulemaking, Ventura would be required to revise its definition to conform to the requirements of part 70. 1 Publication of the proposed interim approval criteria revisions was delayed until August 29, 1994, and EPA received several requests to extend the public comment period until November 27, 1994. Given the importance of the issues in that rulemaking to states, sources and the public, but mindful of the need to take action quickly, EPA agreed to extend the comment period until October 28, 1994 (see 59 FR 52122 (October 14, 1994)). Accordingly, today's proposed approval does not identify Ventura's definition of ``title I modification'' as necessary grounds for either interim approval or disapproval. Again, although EPA has reasons for believing that the better interpretation of ``title I modifications'' is the broader one, EPA does not believe that it is appropriate to determine whether this is a program deficiency until EPA completes its rulemaking on this issue. 3. Permit Fee Demonstration Section 502(b)(3) of the Act requires that each permitting authority collect fees sufficient to cover all reasonable direct and indirect costs required to develop and administer its title V operating permits program. Each title V program submittal must contain either a detailed demonstration of fee adequacy or a demonstration that aggregate fees collected from title V sources meet or exceed $25 per ton of emissions per year (adjusted from 1989 by the Consumer Price Index (CPI)). The $25 per ton amount is presumed, for program approval, to be sufficient to cover all reasonable program costs and is thus referred to as the ``presumptive minimum'' (§70.9(b)(2)(i)). Ventura has opted to make a presumptive minimum fee demonstration. Ventura's existing fee schedule requires title V facilities to pay an average of $65.34 per ton in annual renewal fees. Ventura calculated its fee level at $65.34 per ton by adding up the annual renewal fees paid by sources identified as title V facilities ($1,192,780), and dividing that number by the permitted emissions (tons per year of regulated air pollutants) of those facilities (18,254.2 tons per year). The numbers in the calculation underestimate fee revenues and overestimate actual emissions, and therefore result in a conservative calculation of the fees collected per ton of pollutant. Ventura's fee demonstration shows that currently assessed renewal fees will be adequate to cover program costs for the next four years. For more information, see section VI of Ventura's Title V Operating Permit Program Description, available in the docket. 4. Provisions Implementing the Requirements of Other Titles of the Act a. Authority and commitments for section 112 implementation. Ventura has demonstrated in its title V program submittal adequate legal authority to implement and enforce all section 112 requirements through the title V permit. This legal authority is contained in the State of California enabling legislation and in regulatory provisions defining ``federally enforceable requirements'' and stating that the permit must incorporate all applicable requirements. EPA has determined that this legal authority is sufficient to allow Ventura to issue permits that assure compliance with all section 112 requirements. EPA is interpreting the above legal authority to mean that Ventura is able to carry out all section 112 activities. For further rationale on this interpretation, please refer to the Technical Support Document accompanying this rulemaking and the April 13, 1993 guidance memorandum titled ``Title V Program Approval Criteria for Section 112 Activities,'' signed by John Seitz, Director of the Office of Air Quality Planning and Standards, U.S. EPA. b. District preconstruction permit program to implement 112(g). As a condition of approval of the part 70 program, Ventura is required to implement section 112(g) of the Act from the effective date of the part 70 program. Imposition of case&hyph;by&hyph;case determinations of MACT or offsets under section 112(g) will require the use of a mechanism for establishing federally enforceable restrictions on a source-specific basis. The EPA is proposing to approve Ventura's preconstruction permitting program found in Ventura's Regulation II under the authority of title V and part 70 solely for the purpose of implementing section 112(g) during the transition period between title V approval and adoption of a District rule implementing EPA's section 112(g) regulations. EPA believes this approval is necessary so that Ventura has a mechanism in place to establish federally enforceable restrictions for section 112(g) purposes from the date of part 70 approval. Although section 112(l) generally provides the authority for approval of state air toxics programs, title V and section 112(g) provide authority for this limited approval because of the direct linkage between implementation of section 112(g) and title V. The scope of this approval is narrowly limited to section 112(g), and does not confer or imply approval for purposes of any other provision under the Act. If Ventura does not wish to implement section 112(g) through its preconstruction permit program and can demonstrate that an alternative means of implementing section 112(g) exists, the EPA may, in the final action approving Ventura's part 70 program, approve the alternative instead. This approval is for an interim period only, until such time as the District is able to adopt regulations consistent with any regulations promulgated by EPA to implement section 112(g). Accordingly, EPA is proposing to limit the duration of this approval to a reasonable time following promulgation of section 112(g) regulations so that Ventura, acting expeditiously, will be able to adopt regulations consistent with the section 112(g) regulations. The EPA is proposing here to limit the duration of this approval to 12 months following promulgation by EPA of section 112(g) regulations. Comment is solicited on whether 12 months is an appropriate period considering Ventura's procedures for adoption of regulations. c. Program for delegation of section 112 standards as promulgated. Requirements for approval, specified in 40 CFR 70.4(b), encompass section 112(l)(5) requirements for approval of a program for delegation of section 112 standards as promulgated by EPA as they apply to part 70 sources. Section 112(l)(5) requires that the District's program contain adequate authorities, adequate resources for implementation, and an expeditious compliance schedule, which are also requirements under part 70. Therefore, the EPA is also proposing to grant approval under section 112(l)(5) and 40 CFR 63.91 of Ventura's program for receiving delegation of section 112 standards that are unchanged from the Federal standards as promulgated. Ventura has informed EPA that it intends to accept delegation of section 112 standards through automatic delegation, as provided for by sections 39658 and 42301.10 of the California Health and Safety Code. The details of this delegation mechanism will be set forth in an Implementation Agreement between Ventura and EPA, expected to be completed prior to approval of Ventura's section 112(l) program for straight delegations. This program applies to both existing and future standards but is limited to sources covered by the part 70 program. d. Commitments for title IV implementation. In a letter dated May 26, 1994, Ventura's Air Pollution Control Officer (APCO) committed to propose to the District governing board (Board), a complete acid rain program, with sufficient time to submit the program to EPA by January 1, 1995. The APCO stated his intent to propose to the Board that they incorporate by reference the relevant provisions of part 72. The letter further indicates that the incorporation by reference will automatically incorporate Federal revisions to part 72. B. Proposed Interim Approval and Implications The EPA is proposing to grant interim approval to the operating permits program submitted by Ventura County APCD on December 6, 1993. If EPA were to finalize this proposed interim approval, it would extend for two years following the effective date of final interim approval, and could not be renewed. During the interim approval period, Ventura would be protected from sanctions, and EPA would not be obligated to promulgate, administer and enforce a Federal permits program for the District. Permits issued under a program with interim approval have full standing with respect to part 70, and the 1-year time period for submittal of permit applications by subject sources begins upon the effective date of interim approval, as does the 3-year time period for processing the initial permit applications. Following final interim approval, if Ventura failed to submit a complete corrective program for full approval by the date 6 months before expiration of the interim approval, EPA would start an 18-month clock for mandatory sanctions. If the District then failed to submit a corrective program that EPA found complete before the expiration of that 18-month period, EPA would be required to apply one of the sanctions in section 179(b) of the Act, which would remain in effect until EPA determined that Ventura had corrected the deficiency by submitting a complete corrective program. Moreover, if the Administrator found a lack of good faith on the part of the the District, both sanctions under section 179(b) would apply after the expiration of the 18-month period until the Administrator determined that the District had come into compliance. In any case, if, six months after application of the first sanction, the District still had not submitted a corrective program that EPA found complete, a second sanction would be required. If, following final interim approval, EPA were to disapprove Ventura's complete corrective program, EPA would be required to apply one of the section 179(b) sanctions on the date 18 months after the effective date of the disapproval, unless prior to that date the District had submitted a revised program and EPA had determined that it corrected the deficiencies that prompted the disapproval. Moreover, if the Administrator found a lack of good faith on the part of the District, both sanctions under section 179(b) would apply after the expiration of the 18-month period until the Administrator determined that the District had come into compliance. In all cases, if, six months after EPA applied the first sanction, Ventura had not submitted a revised program that EPA had determined corrected the deficiencies that prompted disapproval, a second sanction would be required. In addition, discretionary sanctions may be applied where warranted any time after the end of an interim approval period if a state or district has not timely submitted a complete corrective program or EPA has disapproved a submitted corrective program. Moreover, if EPA has not granted full approval to a title V operating permits program by the expiration of an interim approval and that expiration occurs after November 15, 1995, EPA must promulgate, administer and enforce a Federal permits program for that state of district upon interim approval expiration. 1. Ventura's Title V Operating Permits Program If interim approval is granted, Ventura must make the following changes to receive full approval: a. Insignificant activities. Rules 33.2 and 23 provide the framework for Ventura's insignificant activities provisions. For its program to be fully approvable, Ventura must provide a demonstration that activities that are exempt from part 70 permitting are truly insignificant and are not likely to be subject to an applicable requirement. Alternatively, the District may restrict the exemptions to activities that are not likely to be subject to an applicable requirement and emit less than District-established emission levels. The District should establish separate emission levels for HAPs and for other regulated pollutants and demonstrate that these emission levels are insignificant compared to the level of emissions from and type of units that are required to be permitted or subject to applicable requirements. b. Revision process for significant changes to monitoring terms and conditions. The definitions of ``minor permit modification'' and ``significant part 70 permit modification'' in Rule 33.1 must be revised to ensure that significant changes to existing monitoring permit terms or conditions are processed as significant permit modifications. See §70.7(e)(4). c. Operation of modifications prior to permit revision. Except in the case when a federally enforceable permit condition would prohibit it, Ventura's Rule 33.9 A.1. allows sources to make significant modifications prior to receiving a part 70 permit revision. In order to be consistent with part 70, Ventura must revise its rule so that the only changes that may be operated prior to receiving a part 70 permit revision are those modifications subject to section 112(g) and title I, parts C and D of the Act, and that are not prohibited by the existing part 70 permit. Under part 70, if a proposed change does not meet these criteria, the source may not make the change until the permitting authority has revised the source's part 70 permit. See §70.5(a)(1)(ii). d. Public notice. Revise Rule 33.7 B. to include notice ``by other means if necessary to assure adequate notice to the affected public.'' See §70.7(h)(1). e. Permit content. Ventura's permit content requirements are found in Rules 33.3 and 33.9. These regulatory provisions adequately address nearly all of the part 70 requirements. Certain elements (e.g. §§70.6(a)(3)(ii)(B), 70.6(a)(6)(i)), are more fully detailed in the General Part 70 Permit conditions, which were submitted in appendix B.2.b. of Ventura's part 70 program submittal. Ventura must establish a binding requirement that the General Part 70 Permit Conditions will be included in all part 70 permits. Ventura may accomplish this by modifying its regulation to reference the general conditions that were submitted and approved by EPA, or by more fully addressing the conditions within the regulation. f. Recordkeeping requirements. Revise Rule 33.3 permit content requirement to provide adequate specificity with regard to the applicable recordkeeping requirements. See §70.6(a)(3)(C)(ii). g. Emissions trading under applicable requirements. Add emissions trading provisions consistent with §70.6(a)(10), which require that trading must be allowed where an applicable requirement provides for trading increases and decreases without a case-by-case approval. h. Compliance schedule. Rule 33.3 B.2., which requires that a schedule of compliance be included in the permit, does not create an explicit link with 33.9 B.4., which details the contents of a compliance schedule. Revise Rule 33.3 permit content requirements to ensure that all elements of the compliance schedule under §70.5(c) are incorporated into the permit. i. EPA Notification of operational flexibility changes. Rule 33.5 D. must be revised to incorporate EPA notification of changes made under the operational flexibility provisions, either by providing for it within the regulation, or by making the general permit conditions, which do specify EPA notification, required elements of each permit. See §70.4(b)(14)(ii) 2. California Enabling Legislation Legislative source category limited interim approval issue. Because California state law currently exempts agricultural production sources from permit requirements, the California Air Resources Board has requested source category limited interim approval for all California districts. EPA is proposing to grant source category limited interim approval to the operating permits program submitted by the California Air Resources Board on behalf of Ventura County on December 6, 1993. In order for this program to receive full approval (and to avoid a disapproval upon the expiration of this interim approval), the California Legislature must revise the Health and Safety Code to eliminate the exemption of agricultural production sources from the requirement to obtain a permit. The above described program and legislative deficiencies must be corrected before Ventura can receive full program approval. For additional information, please refer to the TSD, which contains a detailed analysis of Ventura's operating permits program and California's enabling legislation. III. Administrative Requirements A. Request for Public Comments The EPA is requesting comments on all aspects of this proposed interim approval. Copies of Ventura's submittal and other information relied upon for the proposed interim approval are contained in a docket maintained at the EPA Regional Office. The docket is an organized and complete file of all the information submitted to, or otherwise considered by, EPA in the development of this proposed interim approval. The principal purposes of the docket are: (1) To allow interested parties a means to identify and locate documents so that they can effectively participate in the approval process; and (2) To serve as the record in case of judicial review. The EPA will consider any comments received by [insert date 30 days after date of publication]. B. Executive Order 12866 The Office of Management and Budget has exempted this regulatory action from Executive Order 12866 review. C. Regulatory Flexibility Act The EPA's actions under section 502 of the Act do not create any new requirements, but simply address operating permits programs submitted to satisfy the requirements of 40 CFR part 70. Because this action does not impose any new requirements, it does not have a significant impact on a substantial number of small entities. List of Subjects in 40 CFR Part 70 Environmental protection, Administrative practice and procedure, Air pollution control, Intergovernmental relations, Operating permits, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. Authority: 42 U.S.C. 7401&hyph;7671q. Dated: November 9, 1994. John Wise, Acting Regional Administrator. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;28713 Filed 11&hyph;21&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;F
