FR940419-1-00071 FR940419-1-00009 (e) The term ``resident,'' as used throughout this part, is interchangeable with the term ``tenant,'' to reflect the fact that local resident organizations have differing preferences for the terms. Terms such as ``resident council'' and ``tenant council'' and ``resident management'' and ``tenant management'' are interchangeable. Hereafter, for ease of discussion, the proposed rule will use the terms resident, resident council and resident management corporation, as appropriate. ยง964.7 Definitions. Annual Contributions Contract (ACC). A contract (in the form prescribed by HUD) under which HUD agrees to provide financial assistance, and the HA agrees to comply with HUD requirements for the development and operation of the public housing project. Eligible Residents for FIC. A participating resident of a participating HA. If the HA is combining FIC with the Family Self-Sufficiency (FSS) program, the term also means Public Housing FSS and Section 8 families participating in the FSS program. Although Section 8 FSS families are eligible residents for FIC, they do not qualify for income exclusions that are provided for public housing residents participating in employment and supportive service programs. Family Investment Centers (FIC). A facility on or near public housing which provides families living in public housing with better access to educational and employment opportunities to achieve self-sufficiency and independence. FIC Service Coordinator. Any person who is responsible for: (1) Determining the eligibility and assessing needs of families to be served by the FIC; (2) Assessing training and service needs of eligible residents; (3) Working with service providers to coordinate the provision of services on a HA-wide or less than HA-wide basis, and to tailor the services to the needs and characteristics of eligible residents; (4) Mobilizing public and private resources to ensure that the supportive services identified can be funded over the five-year period, at least, following the initial receipt of funding. (5) Monitoring and evaluating the delivery, impact, and effectiveness of any supportive service funded with capital or operating assistance under FIC program; (6) Coordinating the development and implementation of the FIC program with other self-sufficiency programs, and other education and employment programs; and (7) Performing other duties and functions that are appropriate for providing eligible residents with better access to educational and employment opportunities. Management. All activities for which the HA is responsible to HUD under the ACC, within the definition of ``operation'' under the Act and the ACC, including the development of resident programs and services. Management contract. A written agreement between a resident management corporation and a HA, as provided by subpart C. Public Housing Agency (HA). Any State, county, municipality, or other governmental entity or public body (or agency or instrumentality thereof) which is authorized to engage in or assist in the development and operation of low-income housing. Public Housing Development (Development). Any conventional housing project that is owned and operated by a HA, including the authorities of Guam, Puerto Rico, Alaska and the Virgin Islands, for which it receives operating subsidy from HUD under the Performance Funding System (PFS) to engage in the operation of low-income housing. Resident Management. The performance of one or more management activities for one or more projects by a resident management corporation under a management contract with the HA. Resident Management Corporation. An entity that proposes to enter into, or enters into, a contract to manage one or more management activities of a HA. Resident-owned business. A Business staffed by residents that is related to the management of the HA development(s). Supportive Services for FIC. New or significantly expanded services that are essential to providing families living with children in public housing with better access to educational and employment opportunities to achieve self-sufficiency and independence. Tenant Opportunities Program (TOP). The TOP program is designed to prepare residents to experience the dignity of meaningful work, to own and operate resident businesses, to move toward financial independence, and to enable them to choose where they want to live and engage in meaningful participation in the management of housing developments in which they live. Financial assistance in the form of technical assistance grants are available to RCs/RMCs to prepare to manage activities in their public housing developments. TOP will include components such as economic development, self-sufficiency initiatives, and social services for public housing residents. Vacant Unit under FIC. A dwelling unit that is not under an effective lease to an eligible family. An effective lease is a lease under which an eligible family has a right to possession of the unit and is being charged rent, even if the amount of any utility allowance equals or exceeds the amount of a total resident payment that is based on income and, as a result, the amount paid by the family to the HA is zero. ยง964.11 HUD policy on tenant participation. HUD promotes resident participation and the active involvement of residents in all aspects of a HA's overall mission and operation. Residents have a right to organize and elect a resident council to represent their interests. As long as proper procedures are followed, the HA shall recognize the duly elected resident council to participate fully through a working relationship with the HA. HUD encourages HAs and residents to work together to determine the most appropriate ways to foster constructive relationships, particularly through duly-elected resident organizations. ยง964.12 HUD policy on the Tenant Opportunities Program (TOP). HUD promotes TOP programs to support activities that enable residents to improve the quality of life and resident satisfaction, and obtain other social and economic benefits for residents and their families. Tenant opportunity programs are proven to be effective in facilitating economic uplift, as well as in improving the overall conditions of the public housing communities. ยง964.14 HUD policy on partnerships. HUD promotes partnerships between residents and HAs which are an essential component to building, strengthening and improving public housing. Strong partnerships are critical for creating positive changes in lifestyles thus improving the quality of life for public housing residents, and the surrounding community.
