FR941117-0-00162 FR941117-0-00011 §22.941 System identification numbers. System identification numbers (SIDs) are 15 bit binary numbers assigned to cellular systems. SIDs are transmitted by the cellular systems so that cellular mobile stations can determine whether the system through which they are communicating is a system to which they subscribe, or whether they are considered by the system to be roamers. (a) The FCC assigns one SID to each cellular system on its initial authorization. Cellular systems may transmit only their assigned SID(s) and/or the SIDs assigned to other cellular systems. A cellular system may transmit the SID assigned to another cellular system only if the licensee of that system concurs with such use of its assigned SID. (b) Licensees must notify the FCC (FCC Form 489) if their cellular systems transmit SIDs assigned to other cellular systems. The notification must indicate the concurrence of the licensee(s) of such other systems with this use of their assigned SID(s). The notification must be mailed or delivered to the filing place (see §22.106) no later than 15 days after the system begins transmitting the SID(s). (c) Licensees may request that an additional (previously unassigned) SID be assigned to their system by filing an application for minor modification of station (FCC Form 401). §22.942 Limitations on interests in licensees for both channel blocks in an area. No person may have a direct or indirect ownership interest in licensees for both channel blocks in overlapping cellular geographic service areas (CGSAs), unless such interests pose no substantial threat to competition. A licensee, a person that owns a controlling interest in a licensee, or a person that actually controls a licensee for one channel block in a CGSA must not have any direct or indirect ownership interest in the licensee, a person that owns a controlling interest in a licensee, or a person that actually controls a licensee for the other channel block in an overlapping CGSA. (a) A direct or indirect ownership interest of 5% or less in both systems is automatically excluded from the general rule prohibiting multiple ownership interests. Interests of less than 5% are considered and are not excluded from the general rule prohibiting multiple ownership interests in cases of persons or entities that own a small percentage of the licensee but nonetheless actually control the licensee, a person that owns a controlling interest in the licensee, or a person that actually controls the licensee. (b) Divestiture of interests as a result of a transfer of control or assignment of authorization must occur prior to consummating the transfer or assignment. §22.943 Limitations on assignments and transfers of cellular authorizations. The following limitations apply to applications for consent to transfer of control or assignment of authorizations in the Cellular Radiotelephone Service. (a) Trafficking. Applications for consent to transfer of control or assignment of authorization in the Cellular Radiotelephone Service are subject to the provisions of §22.139, except for: (1) Applications reflecting the trading of an ownership interest in an authorized but unconstructed cellular system in one market for a commensurate interest in a cellular system in another market; and, (2) Applications for consent to transfer of control or assignment of a cellular authorization obtained by random selection, after commencement of service. (b) Unserved area systems. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the FCC does not accept applications for consent to transfer of control or assignment of the authorization of a cellular system licensed to serve an unserved area until the system has provided service to subscribers for at least one year. (1) Licensees must not enter into any agreement (e.g. option agreement or management contract) to transfer control of the licensee of the system until the system has provided service to subscribers for one year. (2) The FCC may accept that grant applications for consent to transfer of control or for assignment of authorization if the transfer or assignment is pro forma and does not involve a change in ownership. (c) Systems authorized as result of comparative renewal proceeding. Except as otherwise provided in paragraphs (c)(1), (c)(2) and (c)(3) of this section, the FCC does not accept applications for consent to transfer of control or for assignment of the authorization of a cellular system that has been acquired by the current licensee for the first time as a result of a comparative renewal proceeding until the system has provided service to subscribers for at least three years. (1) The FCC may accept and grant applications for consent to transfer of control or for assignment of the authorization of a cellular system that is to be transferred as a part of a bona fide sale of an on-going business to which the cellular operation is incidental. (2) The FCC may accept and grant applications for consent to transfer of control or for assignment of the authorization of a cellular system that is to be transferred as a result of the death of the licensee. (3) The FCC may accept and grant applications for consent to transfer of control or for assignment of authorization if the transfer or assignment is pro forma and does not involve a change in ownership.
