FR940526-2-00111 FR940526-2-00063 From the opinions gathered, we concluded that, in most cases, the average annual miles driven in allowance locations appeared to be less than or equal to 15,000. In the Washington, D.C., area, the opinions of those contacted indicated an average annual mileage of 15,000 or more. Therefore, without definitive statistics to prove otherwise, Runzheimer set a standard used in all reports to date of 15,000 miles per year, which results in a four-year, 60,000-mile trade cycle. 5.2.3␣Fuel Performance and Type To establish average fuel-performance ratings, Runzheimer selected the ``city driving'' figures published by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). Runzheimer chose the ``city'' instead of ``highway'' figures because all locations contained considerable stop-and-go driving conditions. All vehicles included in this study used regular unleaded fuel. Runzheimer obtained self-service cash prices at branded stations only, and substituted full-service when self-service was not available or only non-branded stations were available. As in its second report to OPM, Runzheimer has included in its analysis a number of fuel-performance factors; specifically, temperature, road surface, and gradient. Based on our research of these three factors, Runzheimer analysts developed fuel-performance adjustment percentages in each allowance area. 5.2.3.1␣Impact of Temperature upon Fuel Performance Runzheimer consulted two published sources to develop its adjustment percentages for this fuel-efficiency factor: Passenger Car Fuel Economy: EPA and Road and The Weather Almanac (Ruffner & Blair). Miles-per-gallon performance varies by ambient temperature. The lower the temperature, the fewer miles-per-gallon achieved and vice versa. In the EPA study, the temperature at which no adjustments to fuel performance occur is 77 ○ F. Below that temperature, miles-per-gallon achieved drops; above 77 ○, miles-per-gallon achieved improves. To measure the effect temperature has on miles-per-gallon for each allowance area, Runzheimer research average monthly temperatures as reported in The Weather Almanac. In each location and for each month, Runzheimer assigned the appropriate shortfall factor from the EPA study based on the average monthly temperature for each given location. After assigning factors to each month, Runzheimer averaged the twelve factors for each location. The results of these calculations are shown in section 5.2.3.4.
