FR940602-1-00003 FR940602-1-00002 Rural Electrification Administration 7 CFR Part 1710 Credit Support of Power Supply Borrowers AGENCY: Rural Electrification Administration, USDA. ACTION: Advance notice of proposed rulemaking. SUMMARY: The Rural Electrification Administration (REA) is considering revising its policies regarding credit support required in connection with loans to power supply borrowers (G&T's) and is hereby soliciting comments from interested parties on issues relating to credit support. DATES: Written comments and recommendations must be received by REA by July 18, 1994. ADDRESSES: Written comments should be addressed to F. Lamont Heppe, Jr., Deputy Director, Program Support Staff, Rural Electrification Administration, room 2234, 14th and Independence Avenue, SW., Washington, DC 20250&hyph;1500. REA requires a signed original and three copies of all comments (7 CFR 1700.30(e)). All comments received will be made available for public inspection in room 2234&hyph;S (address as above) during regular business hours (7 CFR 1.27 (b)). FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: F. Lamont Heppe, Jr., Deputy Director, Program Support Staff, room 2234&hyph;S, at the above address. Telephone: (202) 720&hyph;0736. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background REA-financed cooperatives are generally organized on a two-tier system with power supply borrowers providing wholesale service to their member/owners, the distribution cooperatives. The power supply borrower owns or controls generation and bulk transmission facilities. The distribution members own the facilities necessary to serve consumers on the retail level. Taken together, a power supply borrower and its distribution members are essentially one economic unit, similar to a typical investor-owned utility which owns or controls both the sources of production and the retail franchises. This unity of ownership and interest between the power supply cooperative and its owners has made possible a highly efficient capitalization structure uniquely suited to the needs of REA's constituency. Distribution cooperatives entered into long term contracts to purchase all their power requirements from the power supply cooperative at the rates necessary to cover all the power supplier's costs, including debt service on its loans. These contracts, together with all other assets of the power supply cooperative, are pledged as security for billions of dollars of loans to the power supply cooperatives by the Government and private sector alike. The Government and other lenders have generally not required power suppliers to develop and maintain equity. As a result, consumers benefitted from lower electric rates, While, in most cases, REA credit support requirements currently include the long term, all-requirements wholesale power contract and the first lien on all property including after acquired property, in several instances REA has required additional credit support in the form of guarantees from the G&T's members. REA is undertaking to review the requirement for credit support in connection with G&T loans and loan guarantees. REA will be taking into consideration the G&T profile and the projects undertaken by the G&T. This profile includes some of the following characteristics: 100% debt financing from REA; equity considerations; and complex issues concerning their wholesale power contract agreements. REA financing of G&T projects generally consists of primarily guarantees of FFB loans and lien accommodations. I. Credit Support Considerations REA is requesting input on all factors that impact on the feasibility and risks associated with the borrower and the project to be financed. Factors to be considered may include the following: a. The regulatory climate (degree of regulation, regulatory body policies); b. Economics of the service territory (consumer growth trends, consumer load diversity, revenue by consumer class),; c. The power supply borrowers' current and future electric resource arrangement (capacity, fuel agreements, purchased power, generation statistics); d. Construction and operating risk of the proposed facility; e. Quality of management (strategic planning, consumer relations, experience, depth, capability, credibility, response to changing environment); f. Whether the borrower is operating under a debt restructure agreement with REA g. Impact on distribution member cooperative rates; and h. Rate competitiveness; i Territorial integrity. j. Diversification activity and/or plans: k. Analysis of accounting practices vs. industry practices. Comments are specifically requested on what factors should be considered, how the factors should be weighted, i.e. the ranking criteria, and on when REA should generally not require additional credit support. REA anticipates reserving the right to require credit support on any loan or loan guarantee it deems necessary. II. Types of Support REA is also requesting input on the forms of credit support REA should require under those circumstances where additional credit support is required. Respondents should consider, among others, in addition to the lien on wholesale power contracts and all system assets, the following types of support: a. G&T member guarantees of loans made to a G&T; b. Guarantees by financial institutions of G&T loans in lieu of member guarantees; and c. Letters of Credit obtained by members in lieu of a guarantee. REA is also requesting comments and suggestions on the terms and conditions that would attach to such credit support. Comments are specifically requested on the concepts of joint and several liability of guarantors, liability caps, pro rata sharing of liability, acceleration of the support obligations under certain circumstances, collateralization, term, and termination. Authority: 7 U.S.C. 901&hyph;950(b); Public Law 99&hyph;591; Delegation of Authority by the Secretary of Agriculture, 7 CFR 2.23; Delegation of Authority by the Under Secretary of Small Community and Rural Development, 7 CFR 2.72. Dated: May 26, 1994. Bob J. Nash, Under Secretary, Small Community and Rural Development. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;13402 Filed 6&hyph;1&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3410&hyph;15&hyph;P
