FR941212-1-00039 FR941212-1-00012 >(2) If a provisional application which has been accorded a filing date pursuant to paragraph (b)(2) of this section does not include the appropriate filing fee or the cover sheet required by §1.51(a)(2), applicant will be so notified if a correspondence address has been provided and given a period of time within which to file the fee, cover sheet and to pay the surcharge as set forth in §1.16(l) in order to prevent abandonment of the application. A copy of the ``Notice to File Missing Parts'' form mailed to applicant should accompany any response thereto submitted to the Office. If the required filing fee is not timely paid, the application will be disposed of. No copies will be provided or certified by the Office of an application which has been disposed of or in which the required basic filing fee has not been paid. The notification pursuant to this paragraph may be made simultaneously with any notification pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section. If no correspondence address is included in the application, applicant has two months from the filing date to file the basic filing fee, cover sheet and to pay the surcharge as set forth in §1.16(l) in order to prevent abandonment of the application.< (e)>(1)< An application for a patent >filed under paragraph (b)(1) of this section< will not be placed upon the files for examination until all its required parts, complying with the rules relating thereto, are received, except that certain minor informalities may be waived subject to subsequent correction whenever required. >(2) A provisional application for a patent filed under paragraph (b)(2) of this section will not be placed upon the files for examination and will become abandoned no later than twelve months after its filing date pursuant to 35 U.S.C. 111(b)(1).< * * * * * 14. Section 1.55 is proposed to be revised to read as follows: §1.55 Claim for foreign priority. (a) An applicant >in an application other than a provisional application< may claim the benefit of the filing date of a prior foreign application under the conditions specified in 35 U.S.C. 119>(a)&hyph;(d)< and 172. The claim to priority need be in no special form and may be made by the attorney or agent if the foreign application is referred to in the oath or declaration as required by §1.63. The claim for priority and the certified copy of the foreign application specified in [the second paragraph of] 35 U.S.C. 119>(b)< must be filed: (1) In the case of an interference (§1.630); (2) When necessary to overcome the date of a reference relied upon by the examiner; (3) When specifically required by the examiner; and (4) In all other cases, before the patent is granted. If the claim for priority or the certified copy of the foreign application is filed after the date the issue fee is paid, it must be accompanied by a petition requesting entry and by the fee set forth in §1.17(i)[(1)]. If the certified copy filed is not in the English language, a translation need not be filed except in the case of interference; or when necessary to overcome the date of a reference relied upon by the examiner; or when specifically required by the examiner, in which event an English language translation must be filed together with a statement that the translation of the certified copy is accurate. The statement must be a verified statement if made by a person not registered to practice before the Patent and Trademark Office. (b) An applicant may under certain circumstances claim priority on the basis of an application for an inventor's certificate in a country granting both inventor's certificates and patents. When an applicant wishes to claim the right of priority as to a claim or claims of the application on the basis of an application for an inventor's certificate in such a country under 35 U.S.C. 119>(d)<, [last paragraph (as amended July 28, 1972),] the applicant or his or her attorney or agent, when submitting a claim for such right as specified in paragraph (a) of this section, shall include an affidavit or declaration including a specific statement that, upon an investigation, he or she has satisfied himself or herself that to the best of his or her knowledge the applicant, when filing his or her application for the inventor's certificate, had the option to file an application either for a patent or an inventor's certificate as to the subject matter of the identified claim or claims forming the basis for the claim of priority. 15. Section 1.59 is proposed to be revised to read as follows: §1.59 Papers of application with filing date not to be returned. Papers in an application which has received a filing date pursuant to §1.53 will not be returned for any purpose whatever. If applicants have not preserved copies of the papers, the Office will furnish copies at the usual cost of any application in which [either] the required basic filing fee (§1.16) [or the processing and retention fee §1.21(l))] has been paid. See §1.618 for return of unauthorized and improper papers in interferences.
