FR941207-0-00124 FR941207-0-00022 Treatment of Affiliates 31. The Fifth Report and Order sets forth specific affiliation rules for identifying all individuals and entities whose gross revenues and assets must be aggregated with those of the applicant in determining whether the applicant exceeds the financial caps for the entrepreneurs' blocks (or for small business size status). The affiliation rules were adapted from those used by the SBA for purposes of assessing size status and consequent eligibility to participate in SBA's loan, procurement and minority enterprise programs. 32. Specifically, our rules identify which individuals or entities will be found to control or be controlled by the applicant or an attributable investor by specifying which ownership interests or other criteria will give rise to a finding of control and consequent affiliation. In the August 15, 1994 Order on Reconsideration we exempted Indian tribes and Alaska Regional and Village Corporations (hereafter ``Indian tribes'') from the affiliation rules for purposes of determining eligibility to participate in bidding on the entrepreneurs' blocks. 16 16 Order on Reconsideration, FCC 94&hyph;217 at ¶¶3&hyph;7. As we indicated in our Order on Reconsideration, we apply the term ``Indian tribe'' as it is statutorily defined in 25 U.S.C. §450b(e) to include ``any Indian tribe, band nation, or other organized groups or community, including any Alaska Native Village or regional corporation as defined in or established pursuant to the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act, which is recognized as eligible for special programs and services provided by the United States to Indians because of their status as Indians.'' Id. at ¶4, n. 7. 33. BET and others argue that we did not provide adequate notice or opportunity to comment on the possibility of the Commission adopting affiliation rules for all entrepreneurs' block participants (specifically, minorities and women). BET argues that we have thus violated the notice and comment requirements of the Administrative Procedure Act (APA), and that the Commission is required to issue a Further Notice prior to adopting the affiliation rules. BET also contends that the affiliation rules add unnecessary complexity to the broadband auction rules and that they make it very difficult, if not impossible, for potential bidders to tailor their pre-existing business relationships and ownership structures to our eligibility requirements. 34. Several parties have filed petitions for reconsideration of our Order on Reconsideration. On reconsideration of the Fifth Report and Order, several petitioners also challenge the limited exemption granted to Indian tribes or request that generic exemptions be granted for other applicants. BET and MasTec oppose any special treatment for a particular minority group, arguing that the exemption accorded Indian tribes creates an imbalance of bidding power in favor of tribally-owned entities and will skew the broadband PCS auction results. Cook Inlet Region, Inc. (Cook Inlet) argues that the exemption for Indian tribes should be expanded to encompass eligibility for treatment as a small business for purposes of bidding credits and installment payments because: (1) Indian tribes are congressionally recognized as particularly disadvantaged; (2) such an exemption applies when determining size status for SBA's programs; and, (3) substantial legal constraints with respect to tribal property and businesses preclude their use to raise capital or to cross-subsidize other tribally-owned entities. 35. More specifically, Cook Inlet assets that Indian tribes and Native corporations deserve special treatment because they face legal constraints that differ from other minority-owned businesses. According to Cook Inlet, Federal law prohibits Native corporations from pledging their stock as collateral for loans, issuing new stock to raise funds in traditional capital markets, or utilizing the majority of the revenues from their land holdings to invest in new enterprises. Thus, Cook Inlet contends that Indian tribes and Native corporations should be exempt from both the affiliation rules and the small business test because Native corporations cannot utilize their assets or revenues to fund new business ventures in the same way other corporations can. In reply, BET asserts that Alaska Regional Corporations still enjoy significantly greater access to capital than other minority-owned entities participating in the bidding for the entrepreneurs' block licenses despite any restrictions they might have on their assets. 36. TEC seeks an exemption from the affiliation rules for rural telephone companies, arguing that regulatory and corporate barriers prohibit small telephone companies like TEC from shifting broadband PCS costs to their affiliated resellers and that courts have found questions of affiliation to be irrelevant where such barriers to cross-subsidization exist. MEANS/SDN suggests a more narrowly tailored exception that would exempt centralized equal access providers ( i.e., a consortia of rural telephone companies that provide centralized equal access and other sophisticated information services) from the Commission's affiliation rules. MEANS/SDN argues that this modification would allow the consortia to bring their considerable expertise and efficiencies to bear in the deployment of broadband PCS. 37. After considering petitioners' various concerns, we will not eliminate the affiliation rules. As explained fully below, however, we create a limited exception to our affiliation rules that will apply when an attributable minority investor or enterprise in an applicant or an applicant's control group has controlling interests in other concerns. We also revise our treatment of Indian tribes under our affiliation rules to more narrowly tailor our application of these rules to the unique status of these minority groups. 38. As an initial matter we do not believe the promulgation of the affiliation rules violated the notice and comment requirements of the Administrative Procedures Act. Our Notice of Proposed Rule Making in this docket 17 alerted petitioners to the fact that the Commission was considering SBA's size standards which, by their terms (as set forth in the Notice ), incorporate the concept of affiliation in determining a firm's small business size status. 18 The question of affiliation is integral to the concept of size status, by whatever means size status is assessed. Without affiliation rules, large firms may unfairly avail themselves of the preferences intended for small businesses and other designated entities since they have an incentive to create subsidiaries (that would have access to the parent's substantial resources) to compete against bona fide applicants in the entrepreneurs' blocks. Adoption of affiliation rules similar to those used by the SBA is a logical outgrowth of the Commission's decision to impose a gross revenues test for small businesses and to consider SBA's size standards in establishing that test. 19 It was reasonable for petitioners to conclude that such rules would be applied in assessing eligibility for the entrepreneurs' blocks and for small business size status. Thus, sufficient opportunity to comment was provided on the affiliation rules since they play an integral role in any determination of size status. Moreover, we see no advantage in seeking additional comment on the affiliation rules since petitioners, such as BET, had a full and fair opportunity to suggest modifications to our affiliation rules, some of which we adopt on reconsideration. A Further Notice could also substantially delay the auction of entrepreneurs' block licenses. 17 See Notice of Proposed Rule Making in PP Docket No. 93&hyph;253, 8 FCC Rcd 7635, 7647 at ¶77 and n. 51, 78 (1993) ( Notice ). 18 See 13 CFR 121.802(a)(2). See also 13 CFR 121.401(a) (which provides that ``*␣*␣* size determinations shall include the applicant concern and all its domestic and foreign affiliates). 19 Rules adopted as a ``logical outgrowth'' of a Notice of Proposed Rule Making satisfy our APA notice requirements. See Public Service Commission of the District of Columbia v. FCC, 906 F.2d 713, 717 (D.C. Cir. 1990); Small Refiner Lead Phase-Down Task Force v. EPA, 705 F.2d 506, 547 (D.C. Cir. 1983). An agency must be free to adopt a final rule not described exactly in the Notice. where the difference involved is ``sufficiently minor,'' otherwise, agencies could not change a rule in response to valid comments without beginning the rulemaking anew. See National Cable Television Assoc., Inc. v. FCC, 747 F.2d 1503, 1507 (D.C. Cir. 1984).
