FR940825-1-00135 FR940825-1-00009 (1) For purposes of the Clean Water Act, any federally recognized Indian Tribe that meets the requirements set forth at 40 CFR 130.6(d); and (2) For purposes of the Clean Air Act, any federally recognized Indian Tribe that meets the requirements set forth at §35.220. Federal Indian reservation means for purposes of Clean Water Act or the Clean Air Act, all land within the limits of any Indian reservation under the jurisdiction of the United States Government, notwithstanding the issuance of any patent, and including rights-of-way running through the reservation. Indian Tribe means: (1) Within the context of the Public Water System Supervision and Underground Water Source Protection grants, any Indian Tribe having a Federally recognized governing body carrying out substantial governmental duties and powers over a defined area. (2) For purposes of the Clean Water Act, any Indian Tribe, band, group, or community recognized by the Secretary of the Interior and exercising governmental authority over a Federal Indian reservation. (3) For purposes of the Clean Air Act, any Indian Tribe, band, nation, or other organized group or community, including any Alaskan Native Village, which is recognized by the Secretary of the Interior and which exercises governmental authority over a Federal Indian reservation or other defined area. * * * * * 3. Section 35.205 is amended by adding a sentence to the end of paragraphs (a) and (b) to read as follows: §35.205 Maximum Federal share. (a) *␣*␣* For Indian tribes establishing eligibility pursuant to §35.220, the Regional Administrator may provide financial assistance to in an amount up to XXX (amount to be determined) of the approved costs of planning, developing, establishing, or improving an air pollution control, and up to XXX (amount to be determined) of the approved costs of maintaining that program.'' (b) *␣*␣* The Regional Administrator may provide agencies of one or more tribes that have established eligibility pursuant to §35.220 which have substantial responsibility for carrying out an applicable implementation plan under section 110 of the Clean Air Act up to XXX (amount to be determined) of the approved costs of planning, developing, establishing, or approving an air pollution control program and up to XXX (amount to be determined) of the approved costs of maintaining that program. 4. Section 35.210 is amended by adding a paragraph (c) to read as follows: §35.210 Maintenance of effort. * * * * * (c) The requirements of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section shall not apply to Indian tribes that have established eligibility pursuant to §35.220. 5. Section 35.215 is revised to read as follows: §35.215 Limitations. (a) The Regional Administrator will not award section 105 funds to an interstate, intertribal or intermunicipal agency which does not provide assurance that it can develop a comprehensive plan for the air quality control region which includes representation of appropriate State, interstate, local, and international interests. (b) The Regional Administrator will not award section 105 funds to a local, interstate, or intermunicipal agency without consulting with the appropriate official designated by the Governor or Governors of the State or States affected or the appropriate official of any affected Indian tribe or tribes. (c) The Regional Administrator will not disapprove an application for or terminate or annul an award of section 105 funds without prior notice and opportunity for a public hearing in the affected State or area within Tribal jurisdiction or in one of the affected States or areas within Tribal jurisdiction if several are affected. 6. Section 35.220 is added just before the center heading ``Water Pollution Control (Section 106)'' to read as follows: §35.220 Eligible Indian Tribes. The Administrator may make Clean Air Act section 105 grants to eligible Indian tribes without requiring the same cost share that would be required if such grants were made to states. Instead grants to eligible tribes will include a cost share of XXX (amount to be determined). (a) An Indian tribe is eligible to receive such assistance if it has demonstrated eligibility to be treated in the same manner as a State under 40 CFR 49.6.
