FR941026-2-00036 FR941026-2-00022 5. buying old railroad corridors for bike and walking trails 6. building an HOV lane at the Bedford toll_2 year trial 7. providing free shuttle bus service along Main Street in Nashua for 2 years 8. improving downtown traffic circulation in Nashua Additional and expanded TDM and planning techniques for managing and reducing peak congestion, which appear to have the greatest potential in the greater Nashua area include: (1) organized operation of mini-vans for car-pooling and ride-sharing; (2) better management, operation, and extension of the local bus system; (3) changing future land use development patterns to encourage cluster developments; (4) parking disincentives; (5) removing disincentives to implement and utilize mass transit; (6) extending rail service to the greater Nashua and Manchester area from Boston; (7) telecommunications in lieu of travel; and (8) incentives to business for implementing staggered work hours and many of the measures listed above. It is important that TDM measures be combined with TSM to prevent the improved mobility from attracting new users and leading to future congestion problems. Traffic flow improvements could include signal system timing/optimization, addition of turning lanes, restrictions of single occupant vehicles (to enhance HOV operations and attract users), fringe park and ride lots, and pedestrian/non-motorized improvements. Local road improvements Local improvements include anything that expands capacity on the basic existing traffic network, for example, improving traffic flow across the Taylor's Falls Bridge. While some TDM/TSM measures could also be listed under this category, other local improvements could involve adding additional lanes, overpasses, mini-bypasses, or other structural changes. Since the EIS does not focus on this issue very much, EPA would appreciate comments on needed improvements to the existing traffic network. D. Mitigation The current mitigation plan consists of avoiding, minimizing and compensating for environmental losses. DOT has endeavored to minimize impacts by proposing: 1. two bridges and five box culverts at some of the stream locations; 2. closed drainage systems to divert and treat runoff in order to minimize impacts to drinking water resources; 3. 26 ’ median widths at wetland locations; 4. 2:1 side slopes to minimize impacts; and 5. two retaining walls to reduce impacts. The compensatory mitigation portions of the plan consist of the following: 1. attempted creation or restoration of 44 acres of wetlands mainly at the former Benson's Wild Animal Farm; 2. bringing Merrill Brook above ground at Benson's; 3. constructing water detention basins adjacent to the roadway; 4. preserving an additional 100 acres at Benson's and 135 acres along an old alignment that DOT owns in the southern portion of the site; and 5. protecting water supply by capturing part of the runoff from the existing F.E. Everett Turnpike. In general, DOT has proposed a substantial mitigation plan, especially to minimize impacts. However, EPA believes that the environmental benefits, especially for wildlife, of the proposed compensation plan fall well short of the impacts the NHCH would cause. While creation and restoration may be beneficial to the aquatic environment, especially when applied at a low value site in a relatively undisturbed landscape setting, wetland creation suffers from both theoretical limitations and practical problems. First, the poor track record associated with wetland creation suggests that it would be unwise to rely on this mitigation to provide all of the intended benefits. Some wetland functions, such as flood storage, can normally be replicated successfully. Attempts to mitigate wildlife habitat losses have met with mixed success, and benefit only a few select species. There has been little or no demonstrated ability to recreate other wetland values such as groundwater discharge and recharge or the complex interactions of water, soil and plants involved in the uptake and transformation of nutrients and pollutants.
