FR941004-1-00064 FR941004-1-00016 Section 4(a)(3) of the Act requires that, to the maximum extent prudent and determinable, the Secretary designate critical habitat concurrently with determining a species to be endangered or threatened. The Service finds that designation of critical habitat is not prudent for Arctostaphylos imbricata and Lessingia germanorum, at this time. Because A. imbricata and L. germanorum face the threat of collection, the publication of precise maps and descriptions of critical habitat in the Federal Register would make these plants more vulnerable to incidents of collection and, therefore, could contribute to the decline of this species and increase enforcement problems. The listing of A. imbricata and L. germanorum also publicizes their rarity and, thus, can make these plants attractive to researchers, curiosity seekers, or collectors of rare plants. A. imbricata occurs at very few locations entirely on San Bruno Mountain. Any activity that would adversely modify critical habitat would likely jeopardize the continued existence of the species as well. The designation of critical habitat therefore would not provide additional benefit for this species beyond the protection afforded by listing. Designation of critical habitat therefore would not be prudent for A. imbricata or L. germanorum. Available Conservation Measures Conservation measures provided to species listed as endangered or threatened under the Act include recognition, recovery actions, requirements for Federal protection, and prohibitions against certain activities. Recognition through listing encourages and results in conservation actions by Federal, State, and private agencies, groups, and individuals. The Act provides for possible land acquisition and cooperation with the State and requires that recovery actions be carried out for all listed species. The protection required of Federal agencies and the prohibitions against certain activities involving listed plants are discussed, in part, below. Section 7(a) of the Act requires Federal agencies to evaluate their actions with respect to any species that is proposed or listed as endangered or threatened and with respect to its critical habitat, if any is being designated. Regulations implementing this interagency cooperation provision of the Act are codified at 50 CFR Part 402. Section 7(a)(4) of the Act requires Federal agencies to confer with the Service on any action that is likely to jeopardize the continued existence of a proposed species or result in destruction or adverse modification of proposed critical habitat. If a Federal action may affect a listed species or its critical habitat, the responsible Federal agency must enter into formal consultation with the Service. Five populations of Lessingia germanorum occur on Federal land managed by the Department of Defense. Arctostaphylos imbricata occurs within the San Bruno Mountain Habitat Conservation Plan area. Listing these two plants would provide for development of a recovery plan(s) for them. Such plan(s) would bring together both State and Federal efforts for conservation of the plants. The plan(s) would establish a framework for agencies to coordinate activities and cooperate with each other in conservation efforts. The plans would set recovery priorities and estimate costs of various tasks necessary to accomplish them. They also would describe site-specific management actions necessary to achieve conservation and survival of the two plants. Additionally, pursuant to section 6 of the Act, the Service would be able to grant funds to affected States for management actions promoting the protection and recovery of these species. The Act and its implementing regulations found at 50 CFR 17.61, 17.62, and 17.63 for endangered plants and 50 CFR 17.71 and 17.72 for threatened plants set forth a series of general prohibitions and exceptions. With respect to Lessingia germanorum, proposed to be listed as endangered, all trade prohibitions of section 9(a)(2) of the Act, implemented by 50 CFR 17.61, would apply. These prohibitions, in part, make it illegal with respect to any endangered plant for any person subject to the jurisdiction of the United States to import or export; transport in interstate or foreign commerce in the course of a commercial activity; sell or offer for sale this species in interstate or foreign commerce; remove and reduce to possession the species from areas under Federal jurisdiction; maliciously damage or destroy any such species on any area under Federal jurisdiction; or remove, cut, dig up, damage, or destroy any such endangered plant species on any other area in knowing violation of any State law or regulation or in the course of any violation of a State criminal trespass law. Arctostaphylos imbricata, proposed to be listed as threatened, would be subject to similar prohibitions (16 U.S.C. 1538(a)(2)(E); 50 CFR 17.61, 17.71). Seeds from cultivated specimens of threatened plant taxa are exempt from these prohibitions provided that a statement ``of cultivated origin'' appears on the shipping containers. Certain exceptions apply to agents of the Service and State conservation agencies. The Act and 50 CFR 17.62, 17.63, and 17.72 also provide for the issuance of permits to carry out otherwise prohibited activities involving endangered and threatened plant species under certain circumstances. The Service anticipates few trade permits would ever be sought or issued for the two species because the plants are not common in cultivation or in the wild. Requests for copies of the regulations on listed plants and inquiries regarding them may be addressed to the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, Ecological Services, Permits Branch, 911 N.E. 11th Avenue, Portland, Oregon 97232&hyph;4181 (503/231&hyph;6241) (FAX:503/231&hyph;6243). Public Comments Solicited The Service intends that any final action resulting from this proposal will be as accurate and as effective as possible. Therefore, comments or suggestions from the public, other concerned governmental agencies, the scientific community, industry, or any other interested party concerning this proposed rule are hereby solicited. Comments particularly are sought concerning: (1) Biological, commercial trade, or other relevant data concerning any threat (or lack thereof) to Lessingia germanorum and Arctostaphylos imbricata ;
