FR941212-1-00026 FR941212-1-00012 The reference to §1.60 in §1.17(i)(1) would be deleted, since it is proposed that §1.60 be removed. The words ``of this part'', in §1.17, paragraphs (h) and (i), would be deleted, since the paragraphs currently refer to sections in parts other than part 1. No substantive change is intended by this proposal. Section 1.17(i) would be amended to clarify that petitions relating to the grant of a filing date under §1.53 are for applications other than provisional applications. Proposed paragraph (q) would address petitions relating to provisional applications. In addition, the rules would be simplified by combining current §1.17(i)(1) and (i)(2) into new paragraph (i), since the petition fees provided in current paragraphs (i)(1) and (i)(2) are the same. No substantive change is intended by this proposal. A new §1.17(q) would be added to establish the fee for filing a petition for correction of inventorship under §1.48 in a provisional application as $25.00 for a small entity or $50.00 for other than a small entity. The $50.00/$25.00 petition fee would also be required by proposed §1.53 for filing a petition to accord a provisional application a filing date or to convert an application filed under proposed §1.53(b)(1) to a provisional application. New §§1.17(r) and (s) would be added to establish the fee for filing a submission after final rejection under §1.129(a) and for each additional invention requested to be examined under §1.129(b), respectively. These fees have been set at $730.00 to cover the costs of processing the submission after final rejection and each additional invention requested to be examined. Paragraph (l) would be deleted from §1.21 since the processing and retention fee required in existing §1.53(d) would be eliminated and the reference to §1.60 in paragraph (n) would be deleted since §1.60 would be removed. Section 1.28(a) would have the references to §1.60 deleted since §1.60 would be removed. Section 1.28(a) would be amended to delete the references to §1.62 and to specify the procedure for establishing small entity status in continuation, divisional and continuation-in-part applications where small entity status has been established in a parent application. Where the status as a small entity has been established in a parent application and is still proper, applicant could include, in a continuation, divisional or continuation-in-part application, either a reference to a verified statement claiming small entity status in the parent application or a copy of the verified statement filed in the parent application. Section 1.45(c) would state that each inventor named in a joint provisional application must have made a contribution to the subject matter disclosed in the application. The existing language of paragraph (c) refers to ``the subject matter of at least one claim'' which would be inappropriate for provisional applications, since provisional applications may be filed without claims. Section 1.48, paragraphs (a)&hyph;(c), would specify that the procedures for correcting an error in inventorship set forth in those paragraphs relate to applications other than provisional applications. A new paragraph (d) would establish a simplified procedure for adding the name of an inventor in a provisional application, where the name was originally omitted without deceptive intent. Proposed paragraph (d) would not require the verified statement of facts by the original inventor or inventors, the oath or declaration by each actual inventor in compliance with §1.63 or the consent of any assignee as currently required in paragraph (a). The procedure would require the filing of a petition identifying the name or names of the inventors to be added and including a statement that the name or names of the inventors were omitted through error without deceptive intention on the part of the actual inventor(s). The statement would be required to be verified if made by a person not registered to practice before the Office. The statement could be signed by a registered practitioner acting in a representative capacity under §1.34(a). The $50.00/$25.00 petition fee set forth in proposed §1.17(q) would also be required. Under 35 U.S.C. 119(e), as contained in S. 2467 and H.R. 5110, a later filed complete application may claim priority benefits based on a copending provisional application so long as the applications have at least one inventor in common. An error in naming a person as an inventor in a provisional application would not require correction by deleting the erroneously named inventor from the provisional application since this would have no effect upon the ability of the provisional application to serve as a basis for a priority claim. Therefore, proposed §1.48(d) would not provide a procedure for deleting a named inventory. Any request to delete a named inventor filed in a provisional application would be properly treated as a petition under §1.182. As a condition to granting any petition to delete a named inventor in a provisional application and in order to protect the rights of the inventors/assignees involved, the Office may require a statement from all of the named inventors and/or the written consent of any assignee.
