FR940805-1-00133 FR940805-1-00014 (3) A strategy to be followed in carrying out HUD programs; and (4) An action plan that provides a basis for assessing performance. ยง91.2 Applicability. (a) The following formula grant programs are covered by the consolidated plan: (1) The Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) programs (see part 570, Subparts D and I); (2) The Emergency Shelter Grants (ESG) program (see part 576); (3) The HOME Investment Partnerships (HOME) program (see part 92); and (4) The Housing Opportunities for Persons With AIDS (HOPWA) program (see part 574). (b) A jurisdiction must have a consolidated plan that is approved by HUD as a prerequisite to receiving funds from HUD under the following programs: (1) The HOPE I Public Housing Homeownership (HOPE I) program (see 24 CFR subtitle A, appendix A); (2) The HOPE II Homeownership of Multifamily Units (HOPE II) program (see 24 CFR subtitle A, appendix B); (3) The HOPE III Homeownership of Single Family Homes (HOPE III) program (see 24 CFR part 572); (4) The Low-Income Housing Preservation (prepayment avoidance incentives) program, when administered by a State agency (see 24 CFR 248.177); (5) The Supportive Housing for the Elderly (Section 202) program (see part 889); (6) The Supportive Housing for Persons with Disabilities program (see part 890); (7) The Supportive Housing program (see part 583); (8) The Single Room Occupancy Housing (SRO) program (see part 882, subpart H); (9) The Shelter Plus Care program (see 24 CFR part 582); (10) The Community Development Block Grant program_Small Cities and Insular Areas (see 24 CFR part 570, subparts E and F); (11) HOME program reallocations; (12) Revitalization of Severely Distressed Public Housing (section 24 of the United States Housing Act of 1937); (13) Hope for Youth: Youthbuild (see part 585); (14) The John Heinz Neighborhood Development program (see 24 CFR part 594); (15) The Lead-Based Paint Hazard Reduction program (see 24 CFR part 35); (16) Grants for Regulatory Barrier Removal Strategies and Implementation (section 1204, Housing and Community Development Act of 1992); and (17) Competitive grants under the Housing Opportunities for Persons With AIDS (HOPWA) program (see part 574). (c) Other programs do not require consistency with an approved consolidated plan. However, HUD funding allocations for the Section 8 Certificate and Voucher Programs are to be made in a way that enables participating jurisdictions to carry out their consolidated plans. ยง91.5 Definitions. Certification. A written assertion, based on supporting evidence, that must be kept available for inspection by HUD, by the Inspector General of HUD, and by the public. The assertion shall be deemed to be accurate unless HUD determines otherwise, after inspecting the evidence and providing due notice and opportunity for comment. Consolidated plan (or ``the plan''). The document that is submitted annually to HUD that serves as the planning documents (comprehensive housing affordability strategy and community development plan) of the jurisdiction and an application for funding under any of the Community Planning and Development formula grant programs (CDBG, ESG, HOME, or HOPWA), which is prepared in accordance with the process prescribed in this part. Consortium. Geographically contiguous units of general local government that are acting as a single unit of general local government for purposes of the HOME program (see 24 CFR part 92). (A unit of general local government that is also part of a consortium for HOME program purposes must submit a plan that complies with subpart C of this part, as well as contributing to the consortium's plan that complies with subpart E of this part.) Emergency shelter. Any facility with overnight sleeping accommodations, the primary purpose of which is to provide temporary shelter for the homeless in general or for specific populations of the homeless. Extremely low-income households (or families). Households whose income is between 0 and 30 percent of the median income for the area, as determined by HUD with adjustments for smaller and larger families, except that HUD may establish income ceilings higher or lower than 30 percent of the median for the area on the basis of HUD's findings that such variations are necessary because of prevailing levels of construction costs or fair market rents, or unusually high or low family incomes. Homeless. An individual (not imprisoned or otherwise detained pursuant to an Act of Congress or a State law) or family who: (1) Lacks a fixed, regular, and adequate nighttime residence; and (2) Has a primary nighttime residence that is: (i) A supervised publicly or privately operated shelter designed to provide temporary living accommodations (including welfare hotels, congregate shelters, and transitional housing for the mentally ill); (ii) An institution that provides a temporary residence for individuals intended to be institutionalized: or
