FR940603-1-00009 FR940603-1-00001 (5) Agency actions, including the issuance of permits, authorization to ship, or licensing involving a category of veterinary biological product which has been previously licensed, unless the product has been subsequently shown to be unsafe, or will be used at substantially higher dosage levels or for substantially different applications or circumstances than in the use for which the product was previously approved. Also, the issuance of a license, permit, or authorization to ship for field testing products that had not been previously licensed that do not contain live microorganisms or that are used only for in vitro diagnostic testing. (d) Exceptions for categorically excluded actions. Whenever the decisionmaker determines that an action listed in paragraph (c) of this section may have the potential to affect ``significantly'' the quality of the ``human environment,'' as those terms are defined at 40 CFR 1508.27 and 1508.14, respectively, an environmental impact statement or an environmental assessment will be prepared. §372.6 Early planning for applicants and non-APHIS entities. Each prospective applicant who anticipates the need for approval of proposed activities classified as normally requiring environmental documentation is encouraged to contact, at the earliest opportunity, APHIS' program staff, which will then coordinate with the environmental unit to design a streamlined compliance course tailored to the needs of the particular proposal. §372.7 Consultation. Prospective applicants are encouraged to contact APHIS program officials to determine what types of environmental analyses or documentation, if any, need to be prepared. Early consultation is not intended to satisfy the requirements of NEPA alone. NEPA documents will incorporate, to the fullest extent possible, surveys and studies required by other environmental statutes, such as the Endangered Species Act. §372.8 Major planning and decision points and public involvement. (a) Major planning and decision points. The NEPA process will be fully coordinated with APHIS planning by APHIS' environmental unit in cooperation with program personnel. Specific decision points or milestones will be identified and communicated to the public and others in a notice of intent and in the context of the public scoping process. (b) Public involvement. There will be an early and open process for determining the scope of issues to be addressed during environmental analysis. (1) A notice of intent to prepare an environmental impact statement will be published in the Federal Register as soon as it is determined that a proposed major Federal action has the potential to affect significantly the quality of the human environment. The notice may include a preliminary scope of environmental study. All public and other involvement in APHIS' environmental impact statement process, including the scoping process, commenting on draft documents, and participation in the preparation of any supplemental documents, will be pursuant to CEQ's implementing regulations. (2) Early public and other agency involvement in the environmental assessment process will be invited through announcements made available in the same fashion as the environmental assessments and findings of no significant impact. (3) Notification of the availability of environmental assessments and findings of no significant impact for proposed activities will be published in the Federal Register , unless it is determined that the effects of the action are primarily of local concern. Where the effects of the action are primarily of local concern, notice will normally be provided through publication in a local or area newspaper of general circulation and/or the procedures implementing Executive Order 12372, ``Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs.'' (4) All environmental documents, comments received, and any underlying documents, including interagency correspondence where such correspondence transmits comments of Federal agencies on the environmental impact of proposals for which documents were prepared, will be made available to the public upon request. Materials to be made available will be provided without charge, to the extent practicable, or at a fee which is not more than the actual cost of reproducing copies required to be sent to other Federal agencies, including CEQ. §372.9 Processing and use of environmental documents. (a) Environmental assessments will be forwarded immediately upon completion to the decisionmaker for a determination of whether the proposed action may have significant effects on the quality of the human environment, and for the execution, as appropriate, of a finding of no significant impact or a notice of intent to prepare an environmental impact statement. Simultaneously, the availability of environmental assessments will be announced by publishing a notice consistent with the notification provisions of §372.8. (b) Comments, if any, will be transmitted, together with any analyses and recommendations, to the APHIS decisionmaker who may then take appropriate action. (c) Changes to environmental assessments and findings of no significant impact which are prompted by comments, new information, or any other source, will normally be announced in the same manner as the notice of availability (except that all commenters will be mailed copies of changes directly) prior to implementing the proposed action or any alternative. (d) Environmental impact statements will be processed from inception (publication of the notice of intent) to completion (publication of a final environmental impact statement or a supplement) according to the Council on Environmental Quality implementing regulations. (e) For rulemaking or adjudicatory proceedings, relevant environmental documents, comments, and responses will be a part of the administrative record. (f) For all APHIS activity that is subject to the NEPA process, relevant environmental documents, comments, and responses will accompany proposals through the review process. (g) The APHIS decisionmaker for each NEPA document will consider the range of alternatives discussed in environmental documents in reaching their determinations on the merits of proposed actions. §372.10 Supplementing environmental impact statements. Once a decision to supplement an environmental impact statement is made, a notice of intent will be published. The administrative record will thereafter be open. The supplemental document will then be processed in the same fashion (exclusive of scoping) as a draft and a final statement, unless alternative procedures are approved by CEQ, and will become part of the administrative record. Done in Washington, DC, this 26th day of May 1994. Lonnie J. King, Acting Administrator, Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;13403 Filed 6&hyph;2&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3410&hyph;34&hyph;M
