FR940118-0-00044 FR940118-0-00012 (3) In the case of an inmate who suffers a work-related injury while housed at a community corrections center and is subsequently transferred to a Bureau of Prisons facility, release is defined as the removal of the inmate from the Bureau of Prisons facility upon expiration of sentence, parole, or transfer to a community corrections center or other non-federal facility. * * * * * (d) For purposes of this part, the term work detail supervisor may refer to either a Bureau of Prisons or a non-Bureau of Prisons supervisor. (e) For the purposes of this part, the phrase housed at or based at a ``Bureau of Prisons institution'' shall refer to an inmate that has a work assignment with a Bureau of Prisons institution or with another federal entity and is incarcerated at a Bureau of Prisons institution. For the purposes of this part, the phrase based at or housed at a ``community corrections center'' shall refer to an inmate who has a work assignment for a non-Bureau of Prisons federal entity and is incarcerated at a community corrections center. §301.103 [Amended] 4. Section 301.103 is amended by revising the phrase ``institutional work assignments'' to read ``work assignments''. 5. Section 301.104 is revised to read as follows: §301.104 Medical attention. Whenever an inmate worker is injured while in the performance of assigned duty, regardless of the extent of the injury, the inmate shall immediately report the injury to his official work detail supervisor. In the case of injuries on work details for other federal entities, the inmate shall also report the injury as soon as possible to community corrections or institution staff, as appropriate. The work detail supervisor shall immediately secure such first aid, medical, or hospital treatment as may be necessary for the proper treatment of the injured inmate. First aid treatment may be provided by any knowledgeable individual. Medical, surgical, and hospital care shall be rendered under the direction of institution medical staff for all inmates based at Bureau of Prisons institutions. In the case of inmates based at community corrections centers, medical care shall be arranged by the work supervisor or by community corrections center staff in accordance with the medical needs of the inmate. Refusal by an inmate worker to accept such medical, surgical, hospital, or first aid treatment recommended by medical staff or by other medical professionals may result in denial of any claim for compensation for any impairment resulting from the injury. 6. Section 301.105 is revised to read as follows: §301.105 Investigation and report of injury. (a) After initiating necessary action for medical attention, the work detail supervisor shall immediately secure a record of the cause, nature, and exact extent of the injury. The work detail supervisor shall complete a BP&hyph;140, Injury Report (Inmate), on all injuries reported by the inmate, as well as injuries observed by staff. In the case of injuries on work details for other federal entities, the work supervisor shall also immediately inform community corrections or institution staff, as appropriate, of the injury. The injury report shall contain a signed statement from the inmate on how the accident occurred. The names and statements of all witnesses (e.g., staff, inmates, or others) shall be included in the report. If the injury resulted from the operation of mechanical equipment, an identifying description or photograph of the machine or instrument causing the injury shall be obtained, to include a description of all safety equipment used by the injured inmate at the time of the injury. Staff shall provide the inmate with a copy of the injury report. Staff shall then forward the original and remaining copies of the injury report to the Institutional Safety Manager for review. In the case of inmates based at community corrections centers, the work detail supervisor shall provide the inmate with a copy of the injury report and shall forward the original and remaining copies of the injury report to the Community Corrections Manager responsible for the particular community corrections center where the inmate is housed. (b) The Institution Safety Manager or Community Corrections Manager shall ensure that a medical description of the injury is included on the BP&hyph;140 whenever the injury requires medical attention. The Institution Safety Manager or Community Corrections Manager shall also ensure that the appropriate sections of BP&hyph;140, Page 2, Injury_Lost-Time Follow-Up Report, are completed and that all reported work injuries are properly documented. §§301.201_301.204 [Redesignated as §§301.202_301.205] 7. In subpart B, §§301.201 through 301.204 are redesignated as §§301.202 through 301.205, and a new §301.201 is added to read as follows: §301.201 Applicability. Lost-time wages shall be available only for inmates based at Bureau of Prisons institutions.
