FR940803-0-00094 FR940803-0-00035 DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION National Highway Traffic Safety Administration 49 CFR Part 571 [Docket No. 74&hyph;14; Notice 91] RIN 2127&hyph;AE48 Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards; Occupant Crash Protection AGENCY: National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA), DOT. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: This notice amends Standard No. 208, Occupant Crash Protection, to require that Type 2 safety belts installed for adjustable seats in vehicles with a gross vehicle weight rating of 10,000 pounds or less either be integrated with the vehicle seat or be equipped with a means of adjustability to improve the fit and increase the comfort of the belt for a variety of different sized occupants. NHTSA believes that some occupants who find their safety belts to be uncomfortable react to their discomfort either by wearing their safety belts incorrectly or by not wearing them at all. NHTSA believes that improving safety belt fit will encourage the correct use of safety belts and could increase the overall safety belt usage rate. DATES: Effective Date: The amendments made in this rule are effective September 1, 1997. Petition Date: Any petitions for reconsideration must be received by NHTSA no later than September 2, 1994. ADDRESSES: Any petitions for reconsideration should refer to the docket and notice number of this notice and be submitted to: Administrator, National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, 400 Seventh Street SW., Washington, DC 20590. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mr. Clarke Harper, Frontal Crash Protection Division, Office of Vehicle Safety Standards, NRM&hyph;12, National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, 400 Seventh Street SW., Washington, DC 20590. Telephone: (202) 366&hyph;4916. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background Section 2503(4) of the ``Intermodal Surface Transportation Efficiency Act of 1991'' requires the NHTSA to address the matter of improved design for safety belts (Pub. L. 102&hyph;240). In response to this statutory mandate, NHTSA issued an advance notice of proposed rulemaking (ANPRM) on May 29, 1992, proposing to add safety belt ``fit'' requirements to FMVSS No. 208, Occupant Crash Protection (57 FR 22687). The ANPRM listed three rulemaking options and posed ten questions. The options included: A. Take no regulatory action at this time. B. Adopt detailed regulatory requirements to ensure proper belt fit. C. Adopt a general requirement that safety belts adjust to fit different sized occupants. The ten questions asked for information on costs and benefits, and for comments on the test procedure. At the same time, NHTSA continued research, begun in March 1992, to investigate some of the issues associated with belt fit. After considering the responses to the ANPRM, and the results of the research, NHTSA issued a notice of proposed rulemaking (NPRM) on April 26, 1994 (59 FR 21740). A detailed discussion of the responses to the ANPRM and of the research can be found in the NPRM. The NPRM proposed a general requirement that Type 2 safety belts either be integrated with the vehicle seat or be equipped with a means of adjustability to improve the fit and increase the comfort of the belt for a variety of different sized occupants (collectively referred to in the remainder of this notice as the adjustability requirement). As explained in the NPRM, NHTSA believes that some occupants who find their safety belts to be uncomfortable react to their discomfort either by wearing their safety belts incorrectly or by not wearing them at all. NHTSA believes that improving safety belt fit will encourage the correct use of safety belts and could increase the overall safety belt usage rate. A more detailed discussion of the anticipated safety benefits can be found in the ANPRM and the NPRM. NHTSA received 30 comments in response to the NPRM. In general, vehicle manufacturers only marginally concurred with the proposal. Many vehicle manufacturers believe that there would be no benefit in adopting the requirement because market forces are increasingly inducing vehicle manufacturers to voluntarily provide improved adjustability in their belt designs. The vehicle manufacturers further believe that the requirement would stifle innovation in developing other, and perhaps better, designs to improve belt fit. If the agency were nevertheless to adopt an adjustability requirement, they wanted NHTSA to exclude belts for rear seats and belts in convertibles, and in vehicles with a gross vehicle weight rating (GVWR) of more than 10,000 pounds, and to broaden the definitions of the type of adjustability devices which may be used. Consumer advocates and some vehicle manufacturers wanted the agency to amend the standard to include a detailed performance requirement. Equipment and multistage vehicle manufacturers wanted more lead time. None of the commenters disputed that improving safety belt fit should increase safety belt usage; however, the commenters believed that this benefit could not be quantified. All of these comments were considered by the agency in formulating this final rule, and the most significant comments are addressed below. General v. Detailed Performance Requirement Eight commenters stated that a detailed performance requirement would be better than the proposed general requirement. One commenter, Transport Canada, stated that NHTSA should adopt a performance requirement based on the Belt-fit Test Device (BTD), a device developed in Canada. The Canadian government has proposed that the BTD be used to assess belt fit in Canadian vehicles.
