FR940706-2-00133 FR940706-2-00078 7. The nonregulation component of the model would normally not be published for public comment in the Federal Register . Does this approach create a problem? What problem? If so, please suggest an alternative approach. 8. Which types or categories of provisions and clauses would you recommend to be included in the regulation component of the model? In the nonregulation manual component of the model? 9. Does the proposed approach to include only guidance needed by procurement personnel improve the contracting process? If not, please suggest an alternative approach. 10. Is there a better approach for rewriting the FAR? What is it? 11. How do we carry forward to lower levels the concept of moving away from a centralized direction? 12. Please provide any other comments you consider appropriate. First Proposed Approach Discussion The basic thrust of this approach under consideration by the Board is to divide the FAR into regulation and nonregulation (a Governmentwide manual) components. The new FAR will essentially retain its current 53 Part structure and will contain policies, provisions and clauses necessary to implement statutory requirements, primary regulation requirements, basic policies/guiding principles and essential governmentwide procedures. Much of the material, provisions and clauses that will be removed from the FAR will be made available in nonregulation remarks in a Federal acquisition manual. In addition, agencies will continue to issue supplements to the FAR, including minimal mandatory as well as nonmandatory provisions. The FAR will be mandatory for use by the agencies, and will be codified in the Code of Federal Regulations. The Government acquisition manual will include the FAR text, and in addition, will provide nonmandatory guidance, alternative approaches, forms, clauses, and other examples that may be used, at their discretion, by contracting officers in structuring a procurement. The nonregulation material in the manual will be published for public comment only when required by Section 22 of the Office of Federal Procurement Policy Act (41 U.S.C. 418b), which does not require publication of the type of information normally provided nonregulation component of the acquisition manual. The FAR system will promote decision making at the lowest practicable level by permitting contracting officers to use, modify, tailor to best suit individual situations or disregard nonregulation policies, procedures, provisions, forms and clauses. For example, in the illustration of a new FAR Part 9, the clauses covering First Article Approval, Contractor Testing, (FAR 52.209&hyph;3) would be eliminated from the regulation component but would be included in the nonregulation component. Proposed Drafting Principles_Structure 1. Include in the FAR statements of general policy, standards, forms, provisions, and clauses that_ a. Are required by, or reasonably necessary to implement Statutes, Executive Orders, OMB Circulars, OFPP Policy Letters, and, as appropriate, case law. b. The FAR Council or joint FAR signatories decide must have governmentwide application because consistency is essential to maintain an effective and efficient acquisition system.
