FR940621-0-00022 FR940621-0-00009 33 CFR Part 165 [COTP Southeast Alaska 94&hyph;002] RIN 2115&hyph;AA97 Safety Zone; Crescent Harbor, Sitka, AK AGENCY: Coast Guard, DOT. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: The Coast Guard is establishing a permanent safety zone in Crescent Harbor. The safety zone will protect life, limb and property during the annual Independence Day fireworks display. The fireworks are launched from a barge or waterfront facility, creating a safety hazard. Annual notice of these regulations will be published in the Local Notices to Mariners. EFFECTIVE DATE: This rule is effective on July 3, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: LTJG Andrew Tucci, Project Manager, United States Coast Guard Marine Safety Office Juneau, (907) 463&hyph;2465. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Drafting Information The drafters of these regulations are LTJG Andrew Tucci, Project Manager, and LT Brian McTague, Project Attorney, Seventeenth Coast Guard District Legal Office. Regulatory History Pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 553, a notice of proposed rulemaking was published at 59 FR 10773 on March 8, 1994. Interested persons were requested to submit comments and no comments were received. Background and Purpose The community of Sitka, Alaska holds a fireworks display on or about the 4th of July of each year to celebrate Independence Day. The fireworks are launched from a barge or waterfront facility in Crescent Harbor. There is a well established need for safety zones around vessels and facilities holding fireworks displays. Such displays draw large numbers of spectators on vessels. Both persons and vessels could be endangered by coming too close to the source of the displays. In addition to improving safety, this regulation will reduce the administrative burden associated with the creation of temporary safety zones each year. Good cause exists for the rule to become effective in fewer than 30 days from the date of Federal Register publication because the fireworks display will occur in less than 30 days and public safety must be provided. In addition, this rule will not unreasonably burden the public or commerce since it will be in effect only a short time each year. Regulatory Evaluation This rule is not a significant regulatory action under section 3(f) of Executive Order 12866 and does not require an assessment of potential costs and benefits under section 6(a)(3) of that order. It has been exempted from review by the Office of Management and Budget under that order. It is not significant under the regulatory policies and procedures of the Department of Transportation (DOT) (44 FR 11040; February 26, 1979). The Coast Guard expects the economic impact of this rule to be so minimal that a full Regulatory Evaluation under paragraph 10e of the regulatory policies and procedures of DOT is unnecessary. The safety zone will not affect commerce and will be in effect for only a few hours each year. Small Entities Under the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. 601 et seq. ), the Coast Guard must consider whether this regulation will have a significant impact on a substantial number of small entities. ``Small entities'' include independently owned and operated small businesses that are not dominant in their field and that otherwise qualify as ``small business concerns'' under Section 3 of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 632). The Coast Guard expects the impact of this regulation to be minimal. The Coast Guard certifies under 5 U.S.C. 605(b) that this regulation will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. Collection of Information This regulation contains no collection of information requirements under the Paperwork Reduction Act (44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq. ). Federalism The Coast Guard has analyzed this action in accordance with the principles and criteria contained in Executive Order 12612 and has determined that this regulation does not raise sufficient federalism implications to warrant the preparation of a Federalism Assessment. Environment The Coast Guard has considered the environmental impact of this rule and concluded that, under section 2.B.2.c. of Commandant Instruction M16475.1B, this rule is categorically excluded from further environmental documentation. List of Subjects in 33 CFR Part 165 Harbors, Marine safety, Navigation (water), Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Security measures, Waterways. Final Regulations
