FR940630-0-00026 FR940630-0-00009 IRS Concerns In addition to its concerns about aviation safety, the IRS believes that enforcement of the diesel fuel excise tax will be impaired unless the dye in fuel is visible when that fuel is diluted as part of any practicable plan of large-scale tax evasion. In determining the appropriate dye color and concentration requirements to address this concern, the IRS inspected numerous samples of diesel fuel containing various colors and concentrations of dye. Many of these samples were independently produced by the IRS and others were provided by the petroleum industry and dye manufacturers. Explanation of Final Regulations In order to avoid any possible confusion with blue or green avgas, these final regulations provide that beginning October 1, 1994, diesel fuel can no longer be dyed blue for tax exemption purposes. Rather, red dye will be used to identify all tax-exempt diesel fuel, regardless of the sulfur content of that fuel. The Commissioner will retain the authority to modify this requirement by approving the use of other dyes, but will not permit the use of dyes that could cause diesel fuel to be mistaken for avgas. In addition, a transitional rule will permit tax-free removals of high-sulfur diesel fuel that was dyed blue before October 1, 1994. The red dye concentration required by the final regulations is the equivalent of the red dye concentration currently required by IRS for tax-exempt low-sulfur diesel fuel. In the final regulations, however, the required red dye concentration is expressed in terms of a solid dye standard, which is uniform among dye manufacturers, rather than in terms of the dye's active ingredient. This change does not impose any additional requirements on diesel fuel that was dyed red under the rules in effect before the issuance of the final regulations. Thus, diesel fuel that was dyed red in accordance with those rules will satisfy the solid dye standard in the final regulations. Based on its inspection of dyed diesel fuel samples, the IRS believes the 3.9 ptb concentration required by the final regulations is necessary to address its concerns regarding dilution. In many cases involving the diesel fuel dyed with less than 3.9 ptb, the dye was not visible when the fuel was diluted. Thus, a required concentration level of less than 3.9 ptb could result in considerable diesel fuel tax evasion. The IRS understands the petroleum industry's concerns on the concentration issue and will continue to monitor the effectiveness of the 3.9 ptb standard. Action by EPA In conjunction with these IRS final regulations, EPA is issuing regulations in a future issue of the Federal Register that require high-sulfur diesel fuel to be dyed red rather than blue. The EPA rule and the IRS rule have the same effective dates. Special Analyses It has been determined that this Treasury decision is not a significant regulatory action as defined in EO 12866. Therefore, a regulatory assessment is not required. It also has been determined that section 553(b) of the Administrative Procedure Act (5 U.S.C. chapter 5) and the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. chapter 6) do not apply to these regulations, and, therefore, a Regulatory Flexibility Analysis is not required. Pursuant to section 7805(f) of the Internal Revenue Code, the notices of proposed rulemaking preceding these regulations were submitted to the Chief Counsel for Advocacy of the Small Business Administration for comment on their impact on small business. Drafting Information The principal author of these regulations is Frank Boland, Office of Assistant Chief Counsel (Passthroughs and Special Industries). However, other personnel from the IRS and Treasury Department participated in their development. List of Subjects in 26 CFR Part 48 Excise taxes, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. Adoption of Amendments to the Regulations Accordingly, 26 CFR part 48 is amended as follows: PART 48_MANUFACTURERS AND RETAILERS EXCISE TAXES Paragraph 1. The authority citation for part 48 is amended by removing the entry for ``Sections 48.4082&hyph;1T and 48.4082&hyph;2T'' and adding the following entry in numerical order to read as follows: Authority: 26 U.S.C. 7805 *␣*␣* Sections 48.4082&hyph;1 and 48.4082&hyph;2T also issued under 26 U.S.C. 4082(c). *␣*␣* Par. 2. Section 48.4082&hyph;1T is removed and §48.4082&hyph;1 is added to read as follows: §48.4082&hyph;1 Diesel fuel tax; exemption. (a) Exemption. Tax is not imposed by section 4081 on the removal, entry, or sale of any diesel fuel if_
