FR940719-0-00036 FR940719-0-00012 33 CFR Part 165 [COTP Baltimore 94&hyph;005] Safety Zone Regulation: Cambridge Triathlon, Hambrooks Bay Section of the Choptank River, Cambridge, MD AGENCY: Coast Guard, DOT. ACTION: Temporary final rule. SUMMARY: The Coast Guard Marine Safety Office Baltimore is establishing a safety zone for the purpose of the ``Cambridge Triathlon'' event to be held in the Hambrooks Bay section of the Choptank River, Cambridge, Maryland. The event will consist of participants swimming a two mile loop around Great Marsh Point and support vessels monitoring the participants. This safety zone is necessary to control small craft and commercial vessel traffic and to provide for the safety of life and property on U.S. navigable waters during this event. Entry into this zone is prohibited unless authorized by the Captain of the Port. EFFECTIVE DATE: This regulation will be effective from 7:30 a.m. June 5, 1994 until 11 a.m. June 5, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Timothy P. Ryan, Chief Warrant Officer, U.S. Coast Guard Marine Safety Office Baltimore, Custom House, 40 South Gay Street, Baltimore, Maryland 21202&hyph;4022, (410) 962&hyph;2651. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: In accordance with 5 U.S.C. 553, a Notice of Proposed Rule Making has not been published for this regulation and good cause exists for making it effective in less than 30 days from the date of publication. The application to hold this event was not received until February 16, 1994 and there was not sufficient time remaining to publish proposed rules in advance of the event or to provide for a delayed effective date. Background and Purpose The Columbia Triathlon Association filed an application with the U.S. Coast Guard, Group Baltimore requesting a safety zone for the ``Cambridge Triathlon'' event to take place June 5, 1994. As part of their application, the Columbia Triathlon Association requested the Coast Guard provide control of spectator and commercial traffic during the swimming event. Discussion of Regulations This regulation is necessary to ensure the safety of spectator craft, recreational vessels as well as swimmers participating in the event, and to provide for the safety of life and property on U.S. navigable waters during the event. Since Hambrooks Bay will not be closed for an extended period, vessel traffic should not be severely disrupted. This regulation is issued pursuant to 33 U.S.C. 1231 as set out in the authority citation for all of part 165. Drafting Information The drafters of this regulation are Timothy P. Ryan, Chief Warrant Officer, project officer for the Captain of the Port, Baltimore, Maryland and Christopher A. Abel, Lieutenant Commander, project attorney, Fifth Coast Guard District Legal Staff. Regulatory Evaluation This rule is not a significant regulatory action under Executive Order 12866 and is not significant under the Department of Transportation Regulatory Policies and Procedures (44 FR 11034, February 26, 1979). The Coast Guard expects the economic impact of this rule to be so minimal that a Regulatory Evaluation is unnecessary. Small Entities Because it expects the impact of this rule to be minimal, the Coast Guard certifies under 5 U.S.C. 605(b) that this rule will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. Environmental Assessment The Coast Guard has considered the environmental impact of this proposal consistent with Section 2.B.2.C. of Commandant Instruction M16475.1B, and actions to protect public safety have been determined to be categorically excluded from further environmental documentation. Federalism Assessment This action has been analyzed in accordance with the principles and criteria contained in Executive Order 12612, and it has been determined that this rule will not have sufficient federalism implications to warrant preparation of a Federalism Assessment. List of Subjects in 33 CFR Part 165 Harbors, Marine safety, Navigation (water), Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Security measures, Waterways. Regulation
