FR940429-0-00176 FR940429-0-00015 Step Three: Calculating the Repayment Owed. To calculate Sarah's owed repayment, USA must subtract the total costs incurred ($1053, from Step One above) from the total cash disbursed ($500, from Step Two above). In Sarah's case, this calculation results in a negative number [$500^$1053=0], which means she owes no repayment. If her cash disbursement had exceeded her costs incurred, however, she would have been required to repay the balance back to the Title IV, HEA program funds (the Federal Pell Grant program, in this case), in accordance with the allocation priorities in §668.22(g); if Sarah had owed unpaid charges to USA, no portion of the repayment owed could be used to pay those charges. Section 668.23␣Audits, Records, and Examinations The Secretary has amended §668.23 by requiring an institution or a third-party servicer with which the institution contracts to cooperate with the institution's nationally recognized accrediting agency in the conduct of audits, investigations, or program reviews authorized by law, in addition to the other authorized entities that were stipulated in the NPRMs. In addition, the Secretary has amended this section to require an institution to have performed, without exception, on an annual basis, a compliance audit of an institution's administration of its Title IV, HEA programs or a third-party servicer to have performed, without exception, on an annual basis, a compliance audit of a third-party's administration of an aspect of an institution's participation in a Title IV, HEA program. The Secretary is removing the audit exceptions proposed in the NPRMs that would have exempted certain institutions and third-party servicers from some or all of the audit requirements of this section because upon further review, the Secretary has determined that the proposed exemptions were inconsistent with the requirement in section 487(c) of the HEA that annual compliance audits be provided for in these regulations. However, changes are planned for the Student Financial Assistance Programs Audit Guide to reduce administrative costs by allowing institutions meeting certain performance-based or funding criteria to submit compliance audits under a reviewed or compiled basis rather than a full compliance audit. Paragraph (c)(3) is revised to specify that an institution's or third-party servicer's audit report must be submitted to the Department of Education's Office of Inspector General within 120 days after the end of the institution's or servicer's fiscal year. An institution or third-party servicer that submits an audit conducted in accordance with the Single Audit Act (Chapter 75 of Title 31, United States Code) is required to submit that audit report in accordance with the deadlines established in that act. Finally, paragraph (c)(4) is revised to include the Secretary of Veterans Affairs in the list of entities that the Secretary may require an institution or a third-party servicer to provide, upon request, the results of any audit conducted under this section. Subpart G_Fine, Limitation, Suspension and Termination Proceedings
