FR940617-2-00089 FR940617-2-00052 C. Section 182(f) of the Clean Air Act Section 182(f) of the Clean Air Act requires states to apply the reasonably available control technology (RACT) and new source review (NSR) requirements that apply to major stationary sources of volatile organic compounds to major stationary sources of NO x as well. NO X RACT is required in moderate and above ozone areas, as well as in all areas within an ozone transport region. NO X NSR regulations are required in marginal and above ozone areas, as well as in all areas within an ozone transport region. Clean Air Act section 182(f)(1)(A) states that, for nonattainment areas not within an ozone transport region (as established under Clean Air Act section 184), these NO X requirements shall not apply if the Administrator determines that additional reductions of NO X would not contribute to attainment of the national ambient air quality standard (NAAQS) for ozone in the area. Furthermore, for areas within an ozone transport region, section 182(f)(1)(B) states that these stationary source NO X requirements shall not apply if additional NO X reductions would not produce net ozone air quality benefits in the region. EPA issued limited guidance on section 182(f) exemptions in a September 17, 1993 memo from Michael H. Shapiro, Acting Assistant Administrator for Air and Radiation, to the Regional Air Division Directors entitled, ``State Implementation Plan (SIP) Requirements for Areas Submitting Requests for Redesignation to Attainment of the Ozone and Carbon Monoxide (CO) National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS) on or after November 15, 1992.'' EPA issued more extensive guidance in a December 1993 document entitled, ``Guideline for Determining the Applicability of Nitrogen Oxide Requirements under section 182(f).'' Most recently, EPA has clarified and, in part, revised its guidance in a May 27, 1994 memorandum from John S. Seitz, Director of the Office of Air Quality Planning and Standards, to Regional Air Division Directors, ``Section 182(f) NO X Exemptions_Revised Process and Criteria.'' All of these guidance documents are available by request from the contacts listed above. Taken together, these guidance documents state that if an area (not within an ozone transport region) has attained the ozone standard, as demonstrated by adequate monitoring data consistent with EPA guidance, it is clear that additional NO X reductions would not contribute to attainment. Therefore, such an area would meet the test under section 182(f)(1)(A) for an exemption from NO X NSR and RACT requirements. II. EPA Policy
