FR940830-0-00090 FR940830-0-00013 (6) *␣*␣* (i) The IHA developed the Comprehensive Plan/Five-Year Action Plan or amendments thereto in consultation with officials of the appropriate governing body and with development residents covered by the Comprehensive Plan/Five-Year Action Plan, in accordance with the requirements of §905.672(b) and (c); (ii) The Comprehensive Plan/Five-Year Action Plan or amendments thereto are consistent with the appropriate governing body's assessment of its low-income housing needs and that the appropriate governing body will cooperate in providing resident programs and services; and * * * * * (7) *␣*␣* (v) The proposed activities in the Five-Year Action Plan/Annual Statement are consistent with the proposed or approved Comprehensive Plan of the IHA; * * * * * (viii) The IHA has provided to HUD any documentation that the Department has requested to carry out its review under the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) and other related authorities in accordance with 24 CFR 905.120(a) and (b), and will not obligate, in any manner, the expenditure of CGP funds, or otherwise undertake the activities identified in its Comprehensive Plan/Annual Statement, until the IHA receives written notification from HUD indicating that the Department has complied with its responsibilities under NEPA and other related authorities; * * * * * (xv) The IHA has complied with the requirements governing tribal government and resident participation in accordance with 24 CFR 905.672(b), 905.678(d), and 905.684, and has given full consideration to the priorities and concerns of tribal government and residents, including comments which were ultimately not adopted, in preparing the Comprehensive Plan/Five-Year Action Plan and any amendments thereto; * * * * * (xviii) The IHA will comply with section 3 of the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1968, as amended, and make best efforts, consistent with existing Federal, State, and local laws and regulations, to give low- and very low-income persons, training and employment opportunities generated by CGP assistance, and to make best efforts, consistent with existing Federal, State, and local laws and regulations, to award contracts for work to be performed in connection with CGP assistance to business concerns that provide economic opportunities for low- and very low-income persons. (e) *␣*␣* (2) Amendments to needs assessments. The IHA must amend its plan by revising its needs assessments whenever it proposes to carry out activities in its Five-Year Action Plan or Annual Statement, that are not reflected in its current needs assessments (except in the case of emergencies). The IHA may propose an amendment to its needs assessments, in connection with the submission of its Annual Submission (see §905.678(b)), or at any other time. These amendments shall be reviewed by HUD in accordance with §905.675; (3) Six-year revision of Comprehensive Plan. Every sixth year following the initial year of participation, the IHA shall submit to HUD, with its Annual Submission, a complete update of its Comprehensive Plan. An IHA may elect to revise some or all parts of the Comprehensive Plan more frequently. (4) Annual revision of Five-Year Action Plan. Annually, the IHA shall submit to HUD, with its Annual Submission, an update of its Five-Year Action Plan, eliminating the previous year and adding an additional year. The IHA shall identify changes in work categories (other than those included in the new fifth year) from the previous year Five-Year Action Plan when making this Annual Submission. * * * * * 9. In §905.675, paragraph (b)(1) is amended by adding ``and §968.103'' after the reference to ``§905.601'' and before the period; by revising paragraph (c); and by adding the OMB approval number to the end of the section, to read as follows: §905.675 HUD review and approval of Comprehensive Plan (including Five-Year Action Plan). * * * * * (c) Effect of HUD approval of Comprehensive Plan. After HUD approves the Comprehensive Plan (including the Five-Year Action Plan), or any amendments to the plan, it shall be binding upon HUD and the IHA, until such time as the IHA submits, and HUD approves, an amendment to its plan. The IHA is expected to undertake the work set forth in the Annual Statement. However, the IHA may undertake any of the work identified in any of the other four years of the latest approved Five-Year Action Plan, current approved Annual Statement or previously approved CIAP budgets, without further HUD approval. Actual uses of the funds are to be reflected in the IHA annual Performance and Evaluation Report for each grant. See §905.684. The IHA is encouraged to inform the residents of significant changes (such as changes in scope of work or whenever it moves work items within the approved Five-Year Action Plan). Documentation of that information shall be retained in IHA files. If HUD determines as a result of an audit or monitoring findings that an IHA has provided false or substantially inaccurate data in its Comprehensive Plan/Annual Submission or has circumvented the intent of the program, HUD may condition the receipt of assistance, in accordance with §950.687. Moreover, in accordance with 18 U.S.C. 1001, any individual or entity who knowingly and willingly makes or uses a document or writing containing any false, fictitious or fraudulent statement or entry, in any matter within the jurisdiction of any department or agency of the United States, shall be fined not more than $10,000 or imprisoned for not more than five years, or both. (Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2577&hyph;0157)
