FR940725-1-00046 FR940725-1-00009 ( 3 ) Made meaningful progress in removing juvenile criminal-type offenders from adult jails and lockups. Compliance with this standard requires the State to document a significant reduction in the number of jurisdictions securely detaining juvenile criminal-type offenders in violation of section 223(a)(14) of the JJDP Act; or, a significant reduction in the number of facilities securely detaining such juveniles; or, a significant reduction in the average length of time each juvenile criminal-type offender is securely detained in an adult jail or lockup; or, that State legislation has recently been enacted and taken effect and which the State demonstrates will significantly impact the secure detention of juvenile criminal-type offenders in adult jails and lockups; and ( 4 ) Diligently carried out the State's jail and lockup removal plan approved by OJJDP. Compliance with this standard requires that actions have been undertaken to achieve the State's jail and lockup removal goals and objectives within approved timelines, and that the State advisory group, required by section 223(a)(3) of the JJDP Act, has maintained an appropriate involvement in developing and/or implementing the State's plan; and ( 5 ) Submitted an acceptable plan, based on an assessment of current jail and lockup removal barriers within the State, to eliminate noncompliant incidents; and ( 6 ) Achieved compliance with section 223(a)(15) of the JJDP Act; and ( 7 ) Demonstrates an unequivocal commitment, through appropriate executive or legislative action, to achieving full compliance. * * * * * 25. Newly designated paragraph (f)(6)(iii)(D) in §31.301 is revised to read as follows: §31.303 Jail Removal Waiver. (f) *␣*␣* (6) *␣*␣* (iii) *␣*␣* (D) Waiver Maximum. A State may receive a waiver of termination of eligibility from the Administrator under paragraph (f)(6)(iii)(C) of this section for a combined maximum of four Formula Grant awards through Fiscal Year 1993. No additional waivers will be granted. * * * * * 26. Paragraph (f)(7) in §31.303 is revised to read as follows: §31.303 Monitoring Report Exemption. (f) *␣*␣* (7) Monitoring Report Exemptions. States which have been determined by the OJJDP Administrator to have achieved full compliance with sections 223(a)(12)(A) and 223(a)(14), and compliance with section 223(a)(13) of the JJDP Act and wish to be exempted from the annual monitoring report requirements must submit a written request to the OJJDP Administrator which demonstrates that: (i) The State provides for an adequate system of monitoring jails, law enforcement lockups, detention facilities, correctional facilities, and nonsecure facilities to enable an annual determination of State compliance with sections 223(a) (12)(A), (13), and (14) of the JJDP Act; (ii) State legislation has been enacted which conforms to the requirements of sections 223(a) (12)(A), (13), and (14) of the JJDP Act; and (iii) The enforcement of the legislation is statutorily or administratively prescribed, specifically providing that: (A) Authority for enforcement of the statute is assigned; (B) Time frames for monitoring compliance with the statute are specified; and (C) Adequate procedures are set forth for enforcement of the statute and the imposition of sanctions for violations. * * * * * 27. Paragraph (g) introductory text in §31.303 is revised to read as follows: §31.303 Crime Analysis. (g) Juvenile Crime Analysis. Pursuant to section 223(a)(8), the State must conduct an analysis of juvenile crime problems, including juvenile gangs that commit crimes, and juvenile justice and delinquency prevention needs within the State, including those geographical areas in which an Indian tribe performs law enforcement functions. The analysis and needs assessment must include educational needs, gender specific services, delinquency prevention and treatment services in rural areas, and mental health services available to juveniles in the juvenile justice system. The analysis should discuss barriers to accessing services and provide a plan to provide such services where needed. * * * * *
