FR940328-0-00022 FR940328-0-00012 Monday March 28, 1994 Part V Department of the Interior Fish and Wildlife Service 50 CFR Part 17 Endangered and Threatened Wildlife and Plants; Endangered Status for 11 Plant Species From the Koolau Mountain Range, Island of Oahu, Hawaii; Final Rule Federal Register ␣/␣Vol. 59, No. 59␣/␣Monday, March 28, 1994␣/␣Rules and Regulations DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR Fish and Wildlife Service 50 CFR Part 17 RIN 1018&hyph;AB69 Endangered and Threatened Wildlife and Plants; Endangered Status for 11 Plant Species From the Koolau Mountain Range, Island of Oahu, HI AGENCY: Fish and Wildlife Service, Interior. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (Service) determines endangered status pursuant to the Endangered Species Act of 1973, as amended (Act), for 11 plant species: Chamaesyce deppeana ('akoko); Cyanea truncata (haha); Cyrtandra crenata (ha'iwale); Cyrtandra polyantha (ha'iwale); Eugenia koolauensis (nioi); Hesperomannia arborescens (no common name (NCN)); Lobelia oahuensis (NCN); Lycopodium nutans (wawae'iole); Melicope lydgatei (alani); Rollandia crispa (NCN); and Tetraplasandra gymnocarpa ('ohe'ohe). All but five of the taxa are or were endemic to the Koolau Mountain Range on the island of Oahu, Hawaiian Islands; the exceptions are or were found on the islands of Kauai, Molokai, Lanai, Maui, and/or in the Waianae Mountains of Oahu, as well as the Koolau Mountains. The 11 plant taxa and their habitats have been variously affected or are currently threatened by one or more of the following: Habitat degradation by trampling and/or predation by wild, feral, or domestic animals (pigs, goats, cattle, rats, slugs); competition for space, light, water, and nutrients by naturalized, introduced vegetation; habitat loss from fires; trampling due to military training exercises; and recreational activities. Due to the small number of existing individuals and their very narrow distributions, these taxa are subject to a danger of extinction from stochastic events and/or from reduced reproductive vigor. This final rule implements the Federal protection provisions provided by the Act. DATES: This rule takes effect April 27, 1994. ADDRESSES: The complete file for this final rule is available for public inspection, by appointment, during normal business hours, at the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, Pacific Islands Office, 300 Ala Moana Boulevard, room 6307, P.O. Box 50167, Honolulu, Hawaii 96850. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Robert P. Smith, at the above address (808/541&hyph;2749). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background Chamaesyce deppeana, Cyanea truncata, Cyrtandra crenata, Cyrtandra polyantha, Eugenia koolauensis, Hesperomannia arborescens, Lobelia oahuensis, Lycopodium nutans, Melicope lydgatei, Rollandia crispa, and Tetraplasandra gymnocarpa are either endemic to or have their largest or best known populations in the Koolau Mountain Range on the eastern side of the island of Oahu, Hawaii. Five of these taxa are or were known from regions other than the Koolau Mountains. Eugenia koolauensis was historically known from the island of Molokai. Hesperomannia arborescens is known also from the islands of Molokai and Maui. It is extirpated on the island of Lanai. Lycopodium nutans once grew on the island of Kauai but is now found only in the Koolau Mountains of Oahu. Lobelia oahuensis and Tetraplasandra gymnocarpa are restricted to the island of Oahu, including the Koolau Mountains and one population of each species in the Waianae Mountains.
