FR940621-2-00061 FR940621-2-00039 Attachment A Belonging to Provider Material Original Material Progeny Unmodified Derivatives Belonging to Recipient Modifications (however, Provider retains ownership rights to any form of the Material included therein) Those substances created through the use of the Material or Modifications, but which are not Progeny, Unmodified Derivatives or Modifications (e.g., do not contain the Original Material or Unmodified Derivatives). *If resulting from the collaborative efforts of Provider and Recipient, joint ownership may be negotiated. Simple Letter Agreement for Transfer of Non-Proprietary Biological Material From Non-Profit to Non-Profit (Recipient) TO: Address: (Provider) FROM: Address: Re: Biological Material Identified as: In response to Recipient's request for the above-identified Biological Material, Provider's institution asks that Recipient and Recipient's Scientist agree to the following before Recipient receives the Biological Material: 1. The above Biological Material is the property of Provider and is made available as a service to the research community. 2. The Biological Material will be used for research purposes only. 3. The Biological Material will not be further distributed to others without Provider's written permission; except such permission is not required where Recipient agrees, upon request, to provide the Biological Material (subject to its availability) or enabling information to appropriate investigators solely for the purpose of replicating or verifying Recipient's research. 4. Recipient agrees to acknowledge the source of the Biological Material in any publications reporting use of it. 5. The Biological Material is experimental in nature and it is provided without any warranties, express or implied, including any warranty of merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose. Recipient and Recipient's Scientist agree to assume all liability for damages which arise from use, storage or disposal of the Biological Material. 6. Recipient agrees to use Biological Material in compliance with all applicable statutes and regulations, including, for example, those relating to research involving the use of human and animal subjects or recombinant DNA. Recipient and Recipient's Scientist should sign both copies of this letter and return one signed copy to Provider. Provider will then forward the Biological Materials. Provider (signature)␣␣(date) Recipient's Scientist (signature)␣␣(date) Recipient Institutional Approval (authorized signature) (date) Name: Title: Address: [FR Doc. 94&hyph;14991 Filed 6&hyph;20&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4140&hyph;01&hyph;P
