FR940105-2-00115 FR940105-2-00054 Discussion The Commission finds that the proposed rule change is consistent with the requirements of the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder applicable to a national securities exchange, and, in particular, with the requirements of sections 6(b)(1), (6) and (7), 6(d)(1) and 19(d) of the Act. 7 The proposal is consistent with the section 6(b)(6) requirement that the rules of an exchange provide that its members and persons associated with its members shall be appropriately disciplined for violations of rules of the exchange. In this regard, the proposal provides an efficient procedure for appropriate disciplining of members for a rule violation that is technical and objective in nature. Moreover, because the Plan provides procedural rights to the person fined and permits a disciplined person to request a full hearing on the matter, the proposal provides a fair procedure for the disciplining of members and persons associated with members, consistent with sections 6(b)(7) and 6(d)(1) of the Act. 7 15 U.S.C. 78f(b)(1), (6) and (7), 78f(d)(1) and 78s(d) (1988). The Commission also believes that the proposal provides an alternate means by which to deter violations of the NYSE rules included in the Plan, thus furthering the purposes of section 6(b)(1) of the Act. An exchange's ability to effectively enforce compliance by its members and member organizations with Commission and Exchange rules is central to its self-regulatory functions. Inclusion of a rule in an exchange's minor rule violation plan should not be interpreted to mean it is an unimportant rule. On the contrary, the Commission recognizes that inclusion of rules under a minor rule violation plan may not only reduce reporting burdens on an SRO but also may make its disciplinary system more efficient in prosecuting violations of these rules. In addition, because the NYSE retains the discretion to bring a full disciplinary proceeding for any violation included on the List, the Commission believes that adding the procedures for entry and cancellation of MOC orders on expiration days to the List will enhance, rather than reduce, the NYSE's enforcement capabilities of these Exchange procedures. As described above, MOC procedures are subject to change on a monthly basis and are outlined in an Information Memo disseminated to the members and member organizations prior to each expiration day. The Commission believes that whether a member or member organization has followed such specifically outlined procedures is amenable to quick, objective determinations of compliance with respect to activity on each expiration day. The quick and efficient resolution of questions of compliance with such procedures would facilitate the Exchange's ability to induce continued compliance without being hindered by the additional time and cost associated with more sophisticated Exchange disciplinary actions. Finally, the Commission believes that the inclusion of the MOC procedural rules will prove to be an effective alternate response to a violation when the initiation of a full disciplinary proceeding is unsuitable because such a proceeding may be more costly and time-consuming in view of the minor nature of the particular violation. This is further reinforced by the nature of the monthly dissemination of these procedures to the members and their potential for change each month in response to the instruments affected on the expiration day and the surrounding circumstances at that time. By including the MOC procedures in the Rule 476A Minor Rule Violation List, the NYSE can quickly respond to violations, thereby deterring similar infractions the following month. It is therefore ordered, Pursuant to section 19(b)(2) and Rule 19d&hyph;1(c)(2) under the Act, 8 that the proposed rule change (SR&hyph;NYSE&hyph;93&hyph;35) is approved. 8 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(2) (1988) and 17 CFR 240.19d&hyph;1(c)(2) (1991). For the Commission, by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. 9 9 17 CFR 200.30&hyph;3(a)(12) (1991). Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;146 Filed 1&hyph;4&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
