FR940527-2-00171 FR940527-2-00129 DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION Federal Highway Administration Environmental Impact Statement: Hampton and Norfolk, VA AGENCY: Federal Highway Administration (FHWA), DOT. ACTION: Notice of intent. SUMMARY: The FHWA is issuing this notice to advise the public that an environmental impact statement will be prepared to investigate transportation alternatives for improving the crossing of Hampton Roads in southeastern Virginia. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mr. Allen Masuda, District Engineer, Federal Highway Administration, P.O. Box 10045, Richmond, Virginia 23240&hyph;0045, Telephone: (804) 771&hyph;2380. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The FHWA, in cooperation with the Virginia Department of Transportation, will prepare an environmental impact statement (EIS) for various alternatives developed to alleviate congestion and improve access and mobility across Hampton Roads. A major metropolitan transportation investment analysis will be completed in accordance with 23 CFR part 450, subpart C. Possible alternatives to be considered will likely include multi-modal transportation alternatives, congestion pricing methods, intelligent vehicle highway system features, the improvement of existing facilities, and new construction. The no-build alternative will be considered throughout the study. Letters describing the proposed action and soliciting comments have been sent to appropriate Federal, State, and local agencies, and to private organizations and citizens who have previously expressed or are known to have an interest in this study. A Hampton Roads Crossing Study Coordinating Committee has been formed to assist and guide the study. Regularly scheduled meetings with Federal and State agencies will occur during the study. A series of public meetings will be held within the Hampton Roads region beginning in the summer of 1994. Additional public outreach will occur through the issuance of project newsletters and the establishment of a study hotline which can be called at no cost within the Commonwealth of Virginia. The toll-free hotline number is 1(800) 276&hyph;HRCS. The draft EIS will be available for public and agency review and comment prior to a formal public hearing. The scoping process has begun through the Hampton Roads Crossing Study Coordinating Committee. To ensure that the full range of issues related to this project are addressed and all significant issues identified, comments, and suggestions are invited from all interested parties. Comments or questions concerning this proposed action and the EIS should be directed to the FHWA at the address provided above. (Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance Program Number 20.205, Highway Planning and Construction. The regulations implementing Executive Order 12372 regarding intergovernmental consultation on Federal programs and activities apply to this proposed action.) Issued on: May 17, 1994. James M. Tumlin, Division Administrator, Richmond, Virginia. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;12956 Filed 5&hyph;26&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;22&hyph;M
