FR941117-1-00035 FR941117-1-00004 (ii) State and/or Federal law; (iii) Third party contract; or (iv) The resident. (4) The clinical record must contain information which identifies the resident, documents the comprehensive assessment, the inpatient plan of treatment, the services received, notes on progress toward the objectives in the inpatient plan of treatment and any revision of the plan of treatment made following review. (e) Standard: Quality assurance. The facility must develop and implement an ongoing quality assurance program to monitor and evaluate the quality of patient care, pursue opportunities to improve care, and correct identified problems. (f) Standard: Independent medical evaluation. A facility must cooperate with a medical evaluation and an inspection of care of residents in the facility, including evaluation of each resident's need for facility care when the evaluation has been authorized by State or Federal government. ยง483.214 Condition of participation: Facility staffing. The facility must have enough competent and appropriately qualified health care professional, administrative and support staff to provide active treatment through implementation of the inpatient plan of treatment for each resident and to carry out other facility requirements. The facility is responsible for assuring that all services are effective, timely, and meet the needs of residents. (a) Standard: Staffing status. (1) In a facility that houses residents who are aggressive, assaultive or security risks, responsible direct care staff must be on duty and awake on a 24-hour basis to take prompt action in case of injury, illness, fire or other emergency. (2) In a facility that does not house residents who are aggressive, assaultive or security risks, a responsible direct care staff person must be on duty on a 24-hour basis, but need not remain awake when residents are sleeping. (3) If any resident is present in the facility, a direct care staff person must be present. If all residents are away from the facility during the day, a staff member must be available by telephone. (b) Standard: Professional staff. Staff may include qualified psychiatrists and other physicians, clinical psychologists, psychiatric nurses, social workers, substance abuse specialists, and other health care professionals and ancillary staff. When licensure, certification, or registration is required under State law, professional staff must meet these requirements. Professional staff must not be under a sanction imposed in accordance with sections 1156, 1128, or 1892 of the Act. (c) Standard: Contracts. Any professional or other services that are furnished to facility residents by persons who are not employed by the facility must be furnished under a written contract that specifies the contractor's responsibilities. ยง483.215 Condition of participation: Resident rights. A facility must protect and promote the rights of each resident, with special consideration for residents who are emancipated and have no parent or legal guardian, including each of the following rights: (a) Access and visits. A resident has a right to see family members and legal guardians and to have visitors from outside the facility. (b) Consultation. The resident has the right to be consulted as much as possible about his or her treatment. (c) Complaints. The resident has the right to file complaints with the facility administrator or with State officials concerning facility conditions or treatment. (d) Independent examination. The resident has a right to have independent medical or psychological examination.
