FR940603-1-00147 FR940603-1-00009 c. Certificate of Nonsegregated Facilities. The Contractor certifies that it does not maintain or provide for its employees any segregated facilities at any of its establishments, and that it does not permit its employees to perform their services at any location, under its control, where segregated facilities are maintained. The Contractor certifies further that it will not maintain or provide for its employees any segregated facilities at any of its establishments, and that it will not permit its employees to perform their services at any location, under its control, where segregated facilities are maintained. The Contractor agrees that a breach of this certification is a violation of the Equal Opportunity Clause in this Contract. As used in this certification, the term ``segregated facilities'' means any waiting rooms, work areas, restrooms and washrooms, restaurants and other eating areas, timeclocks, locker rooms and other storage or dressing areas, parking lots, drinking fountains, recreation or entertainment areas, transportation, and housing facilities provided for employees which are segregated by explicit directive or are in fact segregated on the basis of race, color, religion. or national origin, because of habit, local custom, or otherwise. The Contractor agrees that (except where it has obtained identical certifications from proposed subcontractors for specific time periods) it will obtain identical certifications from proposed subcontractors prior to the award of subcontracts exceeding $10,000 which are not exempt from the provisions of the Equal Opportunity Clause, and that it will retain such certifications in its files. Section 6_Franchises and Rights-of-way. The Contractor will be under no obligation to obtain or assist in obtaining any franchises, authorizations, permits, or approvals required to be obtained by the Owner from Federal, State, County, municipal or other authority; any rights-of-way over private lands or any agreements between the Owner and third parties with respect to the joint use of poles, crossings or any other matter incident to the construction and operation of the Project. Section 7_Nonassignment of Contract. The Contractor will not assign the Contract effected by an acceptance of this Proposal or any part thereof or enter into any contract with any person, firm or corporation for the performance of the Contractor's obligations thereunder, or any part thereof, without the approval in writing of the Owner. Section 8_Definitions. a. The term Owner shall also include an engineer employed by the Owner, or a firm or engineer retained by the Owner, and designated by the Owner to act in that capacity. The Contractor will be notified in writing by the Owner of those designated to act for the Owner at the time of acceptance of this Proposal. b. The term Completion of Construction shall mean full performance by the Contractor of the Contractor's obligations under the contract and all amendments and revisions thereof relating to any Section of the Project or to the Project except the Contractor's obligations in respect of (i) Certificate of Contractor and Indemnity Agreement_Line Extensions under Article III, Section 2 hereof and (ii) the Final Inventory referred to in Article III, Section 1a hereof. c. The term Completion shall mean full performance by the Contractor of the Contractor's obligations under the Contract and all amendments and revisions thereof relating to any Section of the Project or to the Project. Section 9_Extension to Successors and Assigns. Each and all of the covenants and agreements contained in the Contract effected by the acceptance of the Proposal shall extend to and be binding upon the successors and assigns of the parties thereto. XXXX (Contractor) By XXXX (President) XXXX (Address) Attest: XXXX (Secretary) XXXX Date of Proposal This Proposal must be signed with the full name of the Contractor. If the Contractor is a partnership, the Proposal must be signed in the partnership name by a partner. If the Contractor is a corporation, the Proposal must be signed in the corporate name by a duly authorized officer and the corporate seal affixed and attested by the Secretary of the Corporation. Construction Units_New Construction Section 1_Pole Units A pole unit consists of one pole in place. It does not include pole-top assembly unit or other parts attached to the pole. The first two digits indicate the length of the pole; the third digit shows the classification per A.S.A. (Example: 25&hyph;6 means a pole 25 feet long, class 6.) Species of Timber: XXXX Kind of Preservative: (Check one) 1. Creosote XX ; 2. Pentachlorophenol XX ; 3. Copper Naphthenate XX ; ␣␣4. Waterborne preservative_CCA XX ACZA XX Method of Treatment: (Check one) 1. Pressure XX ; 2. Thermal process: XX Pole Plan Under Which the Poles are to be Furnished: (Check one) 1. Insured Warranted XX ; 2. Independently Inspected XX ; 3. Quality Assured XX ; 4. Either Insured Warranted, Independently Inspected, or Quality Assured XX (Owner to complete above) ␣ 1Unit no. 1Unit price 2Labor 2Materials 2Labor and materials l l l Section A_Single Phase Pole Top Assembly Units Section B_V Phase Pole Top Assembly Units A pole top assembly unit consists of the hardware, crossarms, and their appurtenances, insulators, etc., except tie wire, required to support the primary conductors. It does not include the pole. Crossarm pins include 2x2x1/8 inch washer, nut, and locknut.
