FR940208-2-00186 FR940208-2-00093 (ii) where the committee makes an order referred to in subrule 46(1)(b), indefinitely, unless otherwise ordered by the committee; and (b) in any other case, until the day after the expiration of the time period fixed, pursuant to rule 42, for filing a Notice of Motion referred to in subrule 42(1)(c). 22. Where a person alleges that the terms of a Disclosure Undertaking or Protective Order have been violated, the committee shall refer the allegations to the investigating authority for investigation and, where applicable, the imposition of sanctions in accordance with section 77.26 of the Special Import Measures Act, as amended, or section 777(f) of the Tariff Act of 1930, as amended. Violation of Code of Conduct 23. Where a participant believes that a committee member or an assistant to a committee member is in violation of the Code of Conduct, the participant shall forthwith notify the responsible Secretary in writing of the alleged violation. The responsible Secretary shall promptly notify the other Secretary and the Parties of the allegations. Pleadings and Simultaneous Translation of Extraordinary Challenge Proceedings in Canada 24. Rules 25 to 27 apply with respect to an extraordinary challenge of a panel review of a final determination made in Canada. 25. Either English or French may be used by any person, panelist or member of a committee in any document or oral proceeding. 26. (1) Subject to subrule (2), any order or decision including the reasons therefor, issued by a committee shall be made available simultaneously in both English and French where (a) in the opinion of the committee, the order or decision is in respect of a question of law of general public interest or importance; or (b) the proceedings leading to the issuance of the order or decision were conducted in whole or in part in both English and French. (2) Where (a) an order or decision issued by a committee is not required by subrule (1) to be made available simultaneously in English and French, or (b) an order or decision is required by subrule (1)(a) to be made available simultaneously in both English and French but the committee is of the opinion that to make the order or decision available simultaneously in both English and French would occasion a delay prejudicial to the public interest or result in injustice or hardship to any participant, the order or decision, including the reasons therefor, shall be issued in the first instance in either English or French and thereafter at the earliest possible time in the other language, each version to be effective from the time the first version is effective. (3) Nothing in subrule (1) or (2) shall be construed as prohibiting the oral delivery in either English or French of any order or decision or any reasons therefor. (4) No order or decision is invalid by reason only that it was not made or issued in both English and French. 27. (1) Any oral proceeding conducted in both English and French shall be translated simultaneously. (2) Where a participant requests simultaneous translation of an extraordinary challenge proceeding, the request shall be made as early as possible in the proceedings. (3) Where a committee is of the opinion that there is a public interest in the extraordinary challenge proceedings the committee may direct the responsible Secretary to arrange for simultaneous translation of the oral proceedings, if any. Part II_Written Proceedings 28. Where these rules require that notice be given, it shall be given in writing.
