FR940606-1-00017 FR940606-1-00008 Organic HAP emissions from waste occur from evaporation of the volatile portion of the waste while it is being handled or stored. These emissions are fugitive in nature, occurring from each waste container. Inorganic HAP emissions from primer and topcoat application operations occur during the application of the primer or topcoat. These inorganic HAP emissions are paint particulates, commonly referred to as ``overspray,'' that do not adhere to the surface being coated. Like the organic HAP emissions from the operations, the emissions of the inorganic HAP occur in large open areas, such as hangars, or in partially or fully enclosed spaces, such as within spray booths. Inorganic HAP emissions from depainting operations occur from most non-chemical methods, such as plastic media blasting, used to strip an aerospace vehicle. (Chemical stripping techniques do not release inorganic HAP.) These emissions occur as particulates generated during the blasting process. The operation is typically carried out within a large hangar equipped with a ventilation system and particulate filtration device (e.g., a baghouse). The inorganic HAP that are released from the depainting operations are primarily found in the paint being stripped, although some stripping media may contain trace amounts of inorganic HAP. B. Proposed Standards for Affected Sources In addition to the standards for affected sources as discussed below, the proposed rule contains general standards. The general standards stipulate that all affected sources subject to the proposed rule are also subject to, as appropriate, §63.4, §63.5, and §63.6 of subpart A of 40 CFR part 63. 1 However, certain time frames specified in these sections have been changed in the proposed rule as follows: 1 The EPA promulgated regulations for subpart A of 40 CFR part 63, which were published in the Federal Register on March 16, 1994 at 59 FR 12408. (1) All affected sources shall submit any request for an extension of compliance not later than 12 months before the affected source's compliance date regardless of whether sources are included in emissions averaging or not, rather than not later than 18 months before the affected source's compliance date for sources that are including emission points in an emissions average as provided for in §63.6(i)(4)(i)(B), (2) The Administrator (or the State with an approved permit program) will notify the owner or operator in writing of his/her intention to deny approval of a request for an extension of compliance submitted under either §63.6(i)(4) or (i)(5) within 60 calendar days after receipt of sufficient information to evaluate the request, rather than notifying the owner of his/her approval or intention to deny approval of a request for an extension of compliance within 30 calendar days as provided for in §63.6(i)(12)(i) and §63.6(i)(13)(i). In addition, if the Administrator does not notify the owner or operator in writing of his/her intention to deny approval within 60 calendar days after receipt of sufficient information to evaluate a request for an extension of compliance, then the request shall be considered approved, (3) The Administrator (or the State) will notify the owner or operator in writing of the status of his/her application submitted under §63.6(i)(4)(ii) (that is, whether the application contains sufficient information to make a determination) within 30 calendar days after receipt of the original application and within 30 calendar days after receipt of any supplementary information that is submitted, rather than 15 calendar days as provided for in §63.6(i)(13)(i). In addition, if the Administrator does not notify the owner or operator in writing of the status of his/her application within 30 calendar days after receipt of the original application and within 30 calendar days after receipt of any supplementary information that is submitted, then the information in the application or the supplementary information is to be considered sufficient upon which to make a determination, (4) Each owner or operator is to be provided 30 calendar days to present additional information to the Administrator after he/she is notified of the intended denial of a compliance extension request submitted under either §63.6(i)(4) or §63.6(i)(5), rather than 15 calendar days as provided for in §63.6(1)(12)(iii)(B) and §63.6(i)(13)(iii)(B), (5) Each owner or operator who has submitted an extension request application under §63.6(i)(5) is to be provided 30 calendar days to present additional information or arguments to the Administrator after he/she is notified that the application is not complete, rather than 15 calendar days as provided for in §63.6(i)(13)(ii), and
