FR941221-2-00116 FR941221-2-00078 Analysis of Comments and Changes In response to the Secretary's invitation in the notice of proposed priorities six parties submitted comments. An analysis of the comments and of the changes in the proposed priorities follows. Technical and other minor changes_as well as suggested changes the Secretary is not legally authorized to make under the applicable statutory authority_are not addressed. Absolute Priority 1_Center To Support the Achievement of World Class Outcomes for Students With Disabilities Comment: One commenter suggested that the center be required to study formative as well as summative evaluation. Discussion: Applicants may or may not agree that formative evaluation is a critical topic for the center to address, and it would be overly prescriptive for the priority to require that it be studied. The priority as written has sufficient latitude to allow applicants to include this topic if they feel it is appropriate. Changes: None. Comment: One commenter suggested that ``World Class'' be dropped from the title of the priority. Discussion: The expression ``world class'' is commonly used to connote high educational standards and outcomes relative to international criteria. The Secretary believes this principle is important in Goals 2000, and that it is appropriately reflected in the title of the priority. Changes: None. Comment: One commenter suggested that the priority should require the center to have the capacity for successful coordination with State educational agencies. Discussion: The priority as written explicitly requires that the center must work directly with States in a number of activities. The capacity to coordinate and work with States is therefore an attribute upon which applicants will be evaluated during the review process. Changes: None. Comment: One commenter suggested that the center should address questions related to culturally different students with disabilities. Discussion: Cultural differences are among a large number of factors that are likely to be highly relevant to the center's activities. The priority does not attempt to identify all of these factors nor to prescribe a focus on any one of them. The center is intended to benefit the full range of students with disabilities. Applicants may categorize this population and define important factors as needed to facilitate the achievement of world class standards. Changes: None. Comment: One commenter suggested that studies are needed to determine the extent to which children with disabilities are included or excluded in regular classrooms. Discussion: While educational placement is not a central focus in the priority, it is one of the factors that may be relevant to the center's activities. Applicants may propose to address it as appropriate. Changes: None. Comment: Two commenters suggested that the priority should be expanded in a number of ways. One commenter suggested expanding the priority in the following ways: (1) require the development of training materials on the requirements of the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA), Section 504, and IDEA; (2) place greater emphasis on content standards and accommodations, such as assistive technology, accessibility, and telecommunications; (3) strengthen the training of Regional Resource Centers and other technical assistance providers ``to ensure their knowledge and expertise in the application of ADA, Section 504, IDEA, and best practice assistive technology and other educational supports *␣*␣*''; (4) add specified elements to activities (b), (c), and (d); (5) expand activities (f) and (g) to include classroom inclusion, supports, and accommodations; (6) expand activity (h) to include direct participation of individuals with disabilities and their families; and (7) expand activity (i) to include providing necessary assistance to infuse disability related issues into activities. The other commenter suggested that the priority be expanded to require that the center document intended and unintended consequences of the inclusion of students with disabilities in State activities. Discussion: The Secretary believes that activities such as those suggested by these commenters might be valuable components for the proposed center, but a priority that enumerated all of the possible valuable components would be excessively long and prescriptive. The Secretary prefers that applicants propose activities on the basis of the requirements of the priority and an analysis of the approaches most likely to achieve the center's purposes.
