FR940128-1-00066 FR940128-1-00006 Many in the seafood industry believe that economic abuse is one its most significant problems. A survey conducted by the National Fisheries Institute found that the Institute's membership supported mandatory inspection as a means of overcoming practices that pose a threat to the reputation of processors and packers adhering to scrupulous practices in the representation of their products (Ref. 127). General agreement was found to exist among processors, distributors, and importers, as well as retailers and restaurateurs, that abusive economic practices are widespread, including overglazing and overbreading of fishery products, inaccurate net weight measurement, and the substitution of inferior species for more valuable fish. In a similar industry study by the Southeastern Fisheries Association, members ranked problems with economic fraud (such as species identification, overglazing, and the use of phosphates) above all other seafood industry problems, except vessel handling practices (Ref. 128). 2. Recommended Adoption of HACCP-Based Methods Although the agency recognizes that HACCP was developed primarily to address safety, FDA believes that the proposed requirement in ยง123.6, for seafood processors to adopt HACCP methods to ensure the safety of seafoods provides an opportunity for processors to develop and apply effective control point procedures that they can use to ensure that seafoods comply with the provisions of sections 402(b) and 403 of the act, The Fair Packaging and Labeling Act, the seafood standards of identity promulgated in 21 CFR, and applicable compliance policy guides issued by the agency (Compliance Policy Guides 7108.01, 7108.03, 7108.04, 7108.12, 7108.13, 7108.14, 7108.21, and 7108.23). Consequently, the agency is proposing in Appendix D to establish a guideline for HACCP-based procedures to avoid economic adulteration and misbranding of seafoods. Following this guideline will enable processors to develop procedures and records that will establish that they are not engaged in any practices that would render their products economically adulterated. Clearly, however, guidelines cannot prevent economic fraud. The following guideline for product integrity lists critical control points covering raw material receipt, processing, and labels and labeling that processors and importers can incorporate in their HACCP plans. The agency believes that proper control begins with verification of the raw materials received by a processor. Therefore, in Appendix D, section 2.a., the agency is suggesting that, as part of their HACCP plan, processors and importers should include critical control points beginning with the receipt of raw materials. Ensuring that raw materials meet critical limits (e.g., correct species identification, net weight, additive identification) at the point they enter a processor's or importer's control is crucial. There are a number of ways to ensure that species are properly identified. Physical examination, as indicated in Appendix D, section 2.a.1. is the typical method of determining the identity of a species. The agency believes that most seafood processors and importers are knowledgeable about the species that they handle and would have personnel available at the point of receipt who could monitor the incoming shipments for species substitution. Expert consultation is another option for correctly identifying species. Processors or importers can also check the identity of seafood by employing laboratory services, as provided for in Appendix D, section 2.a.2. Protein chromatography is a laboratory method that can accurately establish the species of fish and fishery products (Ref. 50). Another option, Appendix D, section 2.a.3., is to receive raw materials certified by suppliers under either limited or general and continuing guaranties (section 303(c)(2) of the act (21 U.S.C. 333(c)(2)) and 21 CFR 7.12 and 7.13). In Appendix D, section 2.b., the agency points out that processors must ensure that the labels, labeling, and invoices of their finished products accurately list weight, count, size, and product identity, as well as the content of valuable constituents (i.e., that ingredient that the consumer identifies as providing the reason to purchase the product, for example, the shrimp in breaded shrimp). The content of the valuable constituents must be maintained as required by FDA's standards of identity regulations (21 CFR part 161, including: oysters, Pacific salmon, canned wet packed shrimp in transparent or nontransparent containers, frozen raw breaded shrimp, frozen raw lightly breaded shrimp, and canned tuna) or in accordance with FDA's compliance policy guides. More specifically, as in Appendix D, section 2.b.1., the species must be correctly identified by its common or usual name and be so represented on the label and labeling. To assist processors and consumers, FDA has developed both printed and database versions of the ``FDA Fish List'' to provide such guidance. Also specific requirements for such labeling are listed in Standards of Identity and the Common or Usual Name regulations (21 CFR, parts 161 and 102). Appendix D, sections 2.b.2. through b.5. are based on section 402(b) of the act. Under Appendix D, section 2.b.2., the processor needs to ensure that valuable constituents of the product are not omitted or abstracted. For example, breaded shrimp must contain the required weight ratio of shrimp to breading. Similarly, shrimp must be of the size and/or weight specified on the label or labeling.
