FR940413-2-00150 FR940413-2-00070 1. Prevent Fraudulent and Manipulative Acts and Practices The Commission and the MSRB have a significant interest in preventing fraudulent and manipulative acts and practices, as well as the appearance of fraud and manipulation, in the municipal securities market. One of the principal goals of Section 15B is to address threats to the integrity of the municipal securities market. 53 Underwriters perform essential functions in offerings by structuring the offering and preparing disclosure documents that form the basis of marketing the offering to the public. 54 If underwriter selection is swayed by political contributions or influence, underwriters may be chosen based on their history of contributions or political contacts, rather than their expertise or competence. 53 ``S. 249 would provide, through amendment of the Exchange Act, a comprehensive pattern for the regulation of brokers, dealers, and banks trading municipal securities. The Committee feels that the lack of federal regulation .␣.␣. represents a serious threat to the integrity of the capital-raising system upon which local governments rely to finance their efforts.'' Senate Report at 215, 16. 54 In the proposing and adopting releases for Rule 15c2&hyph;12, the Commission set forth its interpretation of the obligation of municipal securities underwriters under the antifraud provisions of the federal securities laws. The interpretation discussed the duty of underwriters to the investing public to have a reasonable basis for recommending any municipal securities, and their responsibility, in fulfilling that obligation, to review in a professional manner the accuracy of statements made in connection with the offering. Securities Exchange Act Release No. 26100 (September 28, 1988), 53 FR 37778; Securities Exchange Act Release No. 26985 (July 10, 1989), 54 FR 28799. Several commentators contend that reports of abuse are unsubstantiated, 55 or view the issue as one of voter confidence and campaign reform, rather than investor protection. 56 The Commission believes, however, that ``pay to play'' practices may damage the municipal securities market in several ways. If political influence is the determinative factor in the choice of municipal securities dealers as underwriters in an offering, the underwriter selected may be less likely or competent to perform a reasonable investigation of statements made by the issuer in connection with the offering. 57 A decrease in the credit quality of the issue after it has been sold could have a significant adverse impact on investors, and the underwriter's investigation might reveal information that bears directly on the issuer's future ability to meet interest and principal payment obligations on a timely basis. 55 For example, one commentator states that ``there have been relatively few reported instances of improper behavior in the market where approximately 15,000 issues are sold each year involving thousands of public officials *␣*␣*. Many of the high-profile cases of improper behavior that have been cited as evidence of corrupt practices caused by campaign giving are either illegal already or would not be affected by a prohibition on political contributions.'' Letter from Jeffrey L. Esser, Executive Director, Government Finance Officers Association, to Jonathan Katz, Secretary, Commission (March 10, 1994). See also letter from Donald J. Borut, Executive Director, National League of Cities, to Jonathan Katz, Secretary, Commission (February 7, 1994); letter from Harlan E. Boyles, State Treasurer, North Carolina, to Arthur Levitt, Chairman, Commission (January 28, 1994). Several commentators state that the majority of political contributions by municipal securities dealers and their associated persons are given for legitimate purposes and are unrelated to the selection of municipal securities underwriters. E.g., letter from Jeffrey L. Esser, Executive Director, Government Finance Officers Association, to Jonathan Katz, Secretary, Commission (March 10, 1994). 56 E.g., letter from Jeffrey L. Esser, Executive Director, Government Finance Officers Association, to Jonathan Katz, Secretary, Commission, (March 10, 1994). The Government Finance Officers Association ``believes that any improper relationship is properly a voter, taxpayer and ratepayer concern because of the potential impact such a relationship could have on the cost of the financing.'' 57 See supra note 54. ``Pay to play'' also undermines the integrity of municipal securities underwriting. The mere perception of political influence in underwriter selection diminishes investor confidence in an underwriter's willingness to faithfully fulfill its obligations to the investing public. The Statement of Initiative itself attests to the prevalence of industry concerns regarding the effects of these practices on the integrity of the municipal securities market and underwriters. The perception of conflicts of interest is also damaging to investor confidence. Although some commentators suggest that investor confidence has not been affected by ``pay to play'' practices, 58 the Commission, relying on its own expertise as well as the judgment of the MSRB, believes that the widespread reports of abuse adversely affect investor confidence, and that the MSRB's proposal will help to strengthen the integrity of the underwriting process and will help to restore and maintain investor confidence. 59 58 One commentator states that ``[t]o my knowledge the practice of campaign contributions made by participants of the municipal securities industry has not resulted in bond defaults or other value losses that directly affect individual investors. Even the most egregious abuses documented in the national press have not resulted in investor losses in either primary offerings or in the secondary markets.'' Letter from Kenneth L. Rust, Debt Manager, Mayor, City of Portland, Oregon, to Jonathan Katz, Secretary, Commission (February 28, 1994). 59 Because, as discussed herein, regulation of political contributions by municipal securities dealers and municipal securities professionals is intended to enhance the fairness and efficiency of the municipal securities market, it is directly related to the purposes of the Act. Some commentators raise objections to the proposal on federalism grounds. E.g., letter from David Norcross, General Counsel, Republican National Committee to Jonathan Katz, Secretary, Commission (March 11, 1994). Although the MSRB's proposal will have some effect on political fundraising activities of candidates for certain state and local offices, these effects do not transgress any limits on federal authority over state political activities. The MSRB's rules are directed at municipal securities dealers and municipal finance professionals and do not regulate the conduct of state officials. Cf. New York v. United States, 112 S. Ct. 2408 (1992). As such, the proposed rule change falls within the legitimate scope of the MSRB's congressionally-mandated jurisdiction regarding the conduct of municipal securities participants, notwithstanding any incidental effects on state elections.
