FR940906-0-00069 FR940906-0-00019 (c) Vessel responsibilities . An operator of a vessel must: (1) Provide, at no cost to observers, the State of Alaska, or the United States, accommodations and food on the vessel for the observer or observers that are equivalent to those provided for officers, engineers, foremen, deck-bosses or other management level personnel of the vessel. (2) Maintain safe conditions on the vessel for the protection of observers during the time observers are on board the vessel, by adhering to all U.S. Coast Guard and other applicable rules, regulations, or statutes pertaining to safe operation of the vessel. (3) Allow observers to use the vessel's communication equipment and personnel, on request, for the entry, transmission, and receipt of work-related messages, at no cost to the observers, the State of Alaska, or the United States. (4) Allow observers access to, and the use of, the vessel's navigation equipment and personnel, on request, to determine the vessel's position. (5) Allow observers free and unobstructed access to the vessel's bridge, trawl or working decks, holding bins, processing areas, freezer spaces, weight scales, cargo holds, and any other space that may be used to hold, process, weigh, or store fish or fish products at any time. (6) Notify observers at least 15 minutes before fish are brought on board, or fish and fish products are transferred from the vessel, to allow sampling the catch or observing the transfer, unless the observers specifically request not to be notified. (7) Allow observers to inspect and copy the vessel's daily fishing logbook, daily cumulative production logbook, transfer logbook, any other logbook or document required by regulations, printouts or tallies of scale weights, scale calibration records, bin sensor readouts, and production records. (8) Provide all other reasonable assistance to enable observers to carry out their duties, including, but not limited to, assisting the observers in measuring decks, codends, and holding bins; providing the observers with a safe work area adjacent to the sample collection site; providing crab observers with the necessary equipment to conduct sampling, such as scales, fish totes, and baskets; assisting in collecting bycatch when requested by the observers; assisting in collecting and carrying baskets of fish when requested by observers; and allowing observers to determine the sex of fish when this procedure will not decrease the value of a significant portion of the catch. (9) Move the vessel to such places and at such times as may be designated by the contractor, as instructed by the Regional Director, for purposes of embarking and debarking observers. (10) Ensure that transfers of observers at sea via small boat or raft are carried out during daylight hours, under safe conditions, and with the agreement of observers involved. (11) Notify observers at least 3 hours before observers are transferred, such that the observers can collect personal belongings, equipment, and scientific samples. (12) Provide a safe pilot ladder and conduct the transfer to ensure the safety of observers during transfers. (13) Provide an experienced crew member to assist observers in the small boat or raft in which any transfer is made. (d) Shoreside processor responsibilities . A manager of a shoreside processing facility must: (1) Maintain safe conditions at the shoreside processing facility for the protection of observers by adhering to all applicable rules, regulations, or statutes pertaining to safe operation and maintenance of the processing facility. (2) Notify the observers, as requested, of the planned facility operations and expected receipt of groundfish, crab, or halibut prior to receipt of those fish. (3) Allow the observers to use the shoreside processing facility's communication equipment, on request, for the entry, transmission, and receipt of work-related messages at no cost to the observers, the State of Alaska, or the United States. (4) Allow observers free and unobstructed access to the shoreside processing facility's holding bins, processing areas, freezer spaces, weight scales, warehouses, and any other space that may be used to hold, process, weigh, or store fish or fish products at any time. (5) Allow observers to inspect and copy the shoreside processing facility's daily cumulative production logbook, transfer logbook, any other logbook or document required by regulations; printouts or tallies of scale weights; scale calibration records; bin sensor readouts; and production records. (6) Provide all other reasonable assistance to enable the observer to carry out his or her duties, including, but not limited to, assisting the observer in moving and weighing totes of fish, cooperating with product recovery tests, and providing a secure place to store baskets of sampling gear. (e) Notification of observer contractors by processors and operators of vessels required to carry observers . (1) Processors and operators of vessels required to carry observers under the Research Plan are responsible for meeting their observer coverage requirements. Processors and vessel operators must notify the appropriate observer contractor, as identified by NMFS, in writing or facsimile copy, at least 60 days prior to the need for an observer, to ensure that an observer will be available. Processors and vessel operators must notify the appropriate observer contractor again, in writing, facsimile copy, or by telephone, at least 10 days prior to the need for an observer, to make final arrangements for observer deployment. (2) If observer contractors are not notified within the time periods set out at paragraph (e)(1) of this section, the availability of an observer to meet observer coverage requirements will not be guaranteed. (3) Names of observer contractors, information for contacting contractors, and a list of embarkment/disembarkment ports for observers will be published in the Federal Register annually, prior to the beginning of the calendar year pursuant to ยง677.11. (f) Release of observer data to the public _(1) Summary of weekly data . The following information collected by observers for each catcher processor and catcher vessel during any weekly reporting period may be made available to the public: (i) Vessel name and Federal permit number; (ii) Number of chinook salmon and ``other salmon'' observed; (iii) The ratio of total round weight of halibut or Pacific herring to the total round weight of groundfish in sampled catch; (iv) The ratio of number of king crab or C. bairdi Tanner crab to the total round weight of groundfish in sampled hauls; (v) The number of observed trawl hauls or fixed gear sets; (vi) The number of trawl hauls that were basket sampled; and (vii) The total weight of basket samples taken from sampled trawl hauls. (2) Haul-specific data . (i) The information listed in paragraphs (f)(2)(i) (A) through (M) of this section and collected by observers from observed hauls onboard vessels using trawl gear to participate in a directed fishery for groundfish other than rockfish, Greenland turbot, or Atka mackerel may be made available to the public: (A) Date. (B) Time of day gear is deployed. (C) Latitude and longitude at beginning of haul. (D) Bottom depth.
