FR940323-1-00027 FR940323-1-00005 While the procedures under §§435.911 and 435.912 for notifying individuals of actions on applications would not apply to presumptive eligibility decisions for ambulatory prenatal care, they would apply to regular Medicaid applications filed after the presumptive eligibility determination is made. Because we do not consider presumptive eligibility for ambulatory prenatal care to be eligibility for Medicaid per se, and because termination of ambulatory prenatal care benefits occurs automatically after specified time periods under section 1920 of the Act, we also propose not to apply the existing provisions of the regulations that require Medicaid agencies to provide timely written notice of reduction or termination of Medicaid benefits and rights to appeal of an adverse action (part 431, subpart E and §435.919). As indicated earlier, we propose to require a qualified provider to provide written notice of the date a pregnant woman can expect presumptive eligibility for ambulatory prenatal care to end. However, we propose not to grant rights to appeal a denial or termination of ambulatory prenatal care services under a presumptive eligibility decision. A presumptively eligible pregnant woman who subsequently files a regular Medicaid application that is denied would have the right to appeal the denial of her regular Medicaid application. We do not believe that we are imposing an undue burden on qualified providers by requiring that notification by a qualified provider be in writing. We do not foresee that this written notice will be individual personal letters. We considered requiring States to supply qualified providers with preprinted notices. However, we decided to allow States the flexibility to determine how to best arrange for this notification within each State program. We particularly solicit comments on whether the requirement that notification by a qualified provider be in writing imposes an undue hardship on qualified providers. Existing regulations at §435.914 permit States to provide Medicaid for an entire month when an individual is eligible for Medicaid under the plan at any time during the month. We propose not to permit States to provide full month eligibility for presumptive eligibility periods because by definition a presumptive determination is not a determination of Medicaid eligibility but eligibility for a special status. Therefore, special status eligibility begins on the exact date a presumptive eligibility decision is made and ends on the last day of the month following the month in which the presumptive decision is made when a Medicaid application has not been filed, or on the date a formal decision of Medicaid eligibility is made if an application has been filed. However, full month regular Medicaid eligibility is available during the approval month of a regular Medicaid application in States that have elected full month coverage in their approved State Medicaid plan. Section 9407 of OBRA '86, as amended by section 411(k)(16) of MCCA, provides that, for purposes of Federal financial participation, ambulatory prenatal care services that are covered under the plan, are furnished by a provider that is eligible for payment under the State plan, and are furnished to pregnant women during a presumptive period of eligibility, will be treated as expenditures for medical assistance under the State plan and thus are regarded as Medicaid plan services. If the State makes any payments for ambulatory prenatal care furnished by an eligible provider during the presumptive period for women who are later determined to be ineligible for Medicaid, these payments will not be counted in determining a State's excess erroneous payments for purposes of disallowing Federal financial participation. In general, Medicaid quality control will not review the accuracy of presumptive eligibility determinations in terms of predicting a pregnant woman's eligibility for Medicaid, and any erroneous payments made cannot be counted in determining the State's erroneous payments for purposes of quality control eligibility errors. However, quality control will review claims for services furnished to presumptively eligible pregnant women to determine whether these claims were, in fact, made for women who were pregnant and were for ambulatory prenatal services covered under the State plan, were furnished by a provider that is eligible to receive payment under the State plan, and were furnished during a period of presumptive eligibility. There will be situations in which the services furnished by a qualified provider will include verification of a woman's pregnancy. The services that are furnished for verification will be covered as presumptive eligibility services for FFP purposes only if the woman is actually pregnant. Section 1920 covers only ambulatory prenatal care made available to a pregnant woman during a specified period. Services furnished to deliver or remove an embryo/fetus from the mother or furnished following that delivery or removal will not be covered as presumptive eligibility services for FFP purposes. That is because, if the embryo/fetus is no longer viable, the woman is no longer considered to be a pregnant woman. Also, we do not believe that the services involved in delivering either a viable or nonviable fetus constitute prenatal services. In addition, any services furnished following removal or delivery would not be furnished to a pregnant woman nor would they constitute prenatal care.
