FR941230-2-00028 FR941230-2-00020 Background In 1993 EPA's Office of Emergency and Remedial Response (OERR) developed a draft fact sheet entitled: ``Interim Soil Screening Level Guidance.'' This guidance discussed the development and use of risk-based Soil Screening Levels (SSLs) for 30 common Superfund soil contaminants. The document was issued on September 30, 1993, to provide the basis for discussion of the SSL project with stakeholders and is available for review as background information in the Superfund Docket. Efforts to develop such a guidance were requested under both the EPA Administrator's June 19, 1991, ``30&hyph;Day Study,'' and the more recent Superfund Administrative Improvements Initiatives announced by the Deputy Administrator on June 23, 1993. Goals EPA's goal is to receive feedback on the draft Soil Screening Guidance from the widest range of interested parties possible. The soil screening project has already enjoyed the benefits of considerable input and broad public comment will improve it even further. EPA will review public comments received on the draft Soil Screening Guidance along with the results of the independent scientific peer review that will be conducted concurrent with this public comment and, where appropriate, incorporate changes responsive to those comments. This guidance is not intended to be, and should not be construed as a rule. Use of the guidance is not legally binding either on EPA staff or on other parties; rather it is intended to be a tool available for use as site-specific conditions warrant. EPA is seeking public comment at this time in order to ensure hearing the widest range of views and obtaining all information relevant to the development of policy, not because doing so is a legal requirement. EPA does, however, expect to respond to the principal comments received on the draft guidance as a matter of public information. EPA staff applying the guidance will have discretion to follow it or diverge from it as site-specific conditions may warrant, and each site-specific action will be explained on its own record. Please contact individuals and offices listed in the sections of this notice entitled ``Addresses'' and ``For Further Information Contact'' to learn more about the draft Soil Screening Guidance. EPA looks forward to receiving your comments. Dated: December 20, 1994. Elliott P. Laws, Assistant Administrator. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;31939 Filed 12&hyph;29&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;P
