FR941220-2-00050 FR941220-2-00033 Proposed Rule 8.11 provides for exercise limits on stock index warrants analogous to those found in stock index options and states that such limits are separate and distinct from any exercise limits that may be imposed by the issuers of stock index warrants. Proposed Rule 8.12 requires that the trading halt provisions in Rule 7.11 shall be applied to trading in stock index warrants. Upon Commission approval of the foregoing amendments, the Exchange proposes it will only file rule changes for specific warrant issues where there is no corresponding option or warrant on the same underlying broad based index already listed on a national securities exchange or NASDAQ. Accordingly, when a listed option overlies a particular broad based index, the Exchange proposes it be able to list warrants on that index without further Commission review and approval pursuant to Section 19(b) of the Act. Both initial and maintenance listing standards for stock index warrants will require that no more than 20% of the securities in the underlying index, by weight, may be comprised of foreign securities or American Depositary Receipts (``ADRs'') overlying foreign securities that are not subject to comprehensive surveillance sharing agreements between the PSE and the primary exchange on which the foreign security (including a foreign security underlying an ADR) is traded. 3 Furthermore, Commentary .01 to Proposed Rule 2.16 provides that stock index and currency warrants listed on the Exchange prior to SEC approval of this filing shall continue to be governed by those provisions of the Exchange's rules that were applicable to such warrants prior to approval of this filing. Finally, prior to trading index or currency warrants, the Exchange will distribute a circular to its membership providing guidance regarding member firm compliance responsibilities (including suitability recommendations) when handling transactions in index or currency warrants. 3 Telephone conversation between Michael Pierson, PSE, and Stephen M. Youhn, SEC, on December 5, 1994 (``Amendment No. 1''). The Exchange proposes that the ``20% test'' be applied in the same manner as that contained in Securities Exchange Act Release No. 34157 (June 3, 1994), 59 FR 30062 (June 10, 1994) (Commission approval order allowing the expedited trading approval of certain narrow-based index options). The Exchange believes that the proposed rule change is consistent with Section 6(b) of the Act, in general, and furthers the objectives of Section 6(b)(5), in particular, in that it will facilitate transactions in securities. (B) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Burden on Competition The Exchange does not believe that the proposed rule change imposes a burden on competition. (C) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received From Members, Participants, or Others Written comments on the proposed rule change were neither solicited nor received. III. Date of Effectiveness of the Proposed Rule Change and Timing for Commission Action Within 35 days of the publication of this notice in the Federal Register or within such other period (i) as the Commission may designate up to 90 days of such date if it finds such longer period to be appropriate and publishes its reasons for so finding or (ii) as to which the self-regulatory organization consents, the Commission will: (A) By order approve the proposed rule change, or (B) Institute proceedings to determine whether the proposed rule change should be disapproved. IV. Solicitation of Comments Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views and arguments concerning the foregoing. Persons making written submissions should file six copies thereof with the Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of the submission, all subsequent amendments, all written statements with respect to the proposed rule change that are filed with the Commission, and all written communications relating to the proposed rule change between the Commission and any person, other than those that may be withheld from the public in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552, will be available for inspection and copying at the Commission's Public Reference Section, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of such filing will also be available for inspection and copying at the principal office of the PSE. All submissions should refer to File No. SR&hyph;PSE&hyph;94&hyph;28 and should be submitted by January 10, 1995. For the Commission, by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. 4 4 17 CFR 200.30&hyph;3(a)(12) (1993). [FR Doc. 94&hyph;31207 Filed 12&hyph;19&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
