FR940128-1-00116 FR940128-1-00006 To minimize the variation in salt content of the fish, the agency is recommending in section 5.f. of Example 6 of this appendix that only fish of the same species and of similar size and similar weight be brined in the same tank (Refs. 171 and 199). Because reuse of brine solutions is a possible route of microbial contamination of raw fish, the agency is providing in section 5.g. of Example 6 of this appendix that brines not be reused unless they have been processed in some way to return them to a microbiological quality equivalent to the original, unused brine made with potable water and food-grade salt. The agency is also providing in section 5.h. of Example 6 of this appendix that a processor may rinse the brined fish with fresh water to remove any unwanted excess salt on the exterior of the fish. 2. Drying. Fish that are to be processed as smoked or smoke-flavored fish are dried after brining to remove excess water and prevent dripping during smoking. The drying process, usually of several hours in duration, provides another opportunity for microbial growth. Therefore, to minimize the opportunity for microbial growth by reducing those conditions that would provide a favorable environment for such growth, the agency is providing in section 5.i. of Example 6 of this appendix that the presmoking drying step should be conducted in a refrigerated room (Ref. 46). 3. Smoking. Smoke deposition, like water-phase salt content, is very difficult to control. Constituents of smoke called ``inhibitory compounds'' (such as phenolic compounds) are reported to have a bactericidal effect (Ref. 177). Factors that affect the quantity of inhibitory compounds deposited on the fish surface and the degree of penetration by those compounds into the fish are the humidity in the smoking chamber, the temperature of smoking, and the air flow in the smoking chamber (Ref. 178). Decreased levels of inhibitory compounds reduce the preservative effect of the smoke and make dependence on these compounds inadvisable (Ref. 178). In general, smoked products are not shelf stable and must be either refrigerated at a temperature of 40 ○F (4.4 ○C) or lower or frozen immediately after processing (Refs. 43, 45, and 178). To promote uniform deposition of smoke, heat exposure, and dehydration, and to ensure that on completion of these processes, the fish do not contain any raw or wet sections that would create an environment favorable for microbial growth and spoilage, the agency is providing in section 5.j. of Example 6 of this appendix that fish should be arranged in the smokehouse chamber or oven so that they are not overcrowded or touching each other, and that only fish of like size and weight should be included in a single batch of fish for smoking. Liquid smoke, a solution of wood smoke that, when diluted, may be used to impart a smoke flavor to fish products, is often used as an alternative to generated smoke. Liquid smoke has been reported to have similar antibacterial properties to, and some advantages over, generated smoke (Ref. 26). It is easier to apply uniformly, and the inhibitory compounds penetrate further into the fish flesh (Ref. 26). Liquid smoke, generated smoke, or a combination of liquid smoke and generated smoke needs to be applied to all surfaces of fish to be smoked. Liquid smoke may be applied to the product before, at the commencement of, or during the process, while generated smoke needs to be applied to the fish during the first half of the process and longer if necessary (Refs. 178 and 179). If a combination of liquid smoke and generated smoke is used, the method for use of liquid smoke may be followed, and the generated smoke may be applied at any stage of the process (Ref. 26). The agency is providing for the use of liquid smoke alone or in combination with generated smoke in section 3.c.2. of Example 6 of this appendix to impart smoke flavor and antibacterial properties to the products. 4. Use of sodium nitrite. Use of sodium nitrite in smoked and smoke-flavored fish products is limited to the species listed in §172.175 (21 CFR 172.175) and to chubs in §172.177 (21 CFR 172.177). Section 172.175 permits the use of sodium nitrite as a preservative and color fixative in cured, smoked sablefish, salmon, and shad. However, it requires that the level of sodium nitrite in the final product not exceed 200 ppm. Use of sodium nitrite substantially reduces the level of salt necessary to inhibit outgrowth of C. botulinum type A and type E spores, although the levels vary because of the difference in heat resistance between the two types of spores (Ref. 179). The quantity of sodium nitrite necessary to achieve inhibition is affected by both the level of contamination and the resistance of the spores (Refs. 179 and 180). Refrigeration of the finished product at temperatures of 40 ○F (4.4 ○C) or below is necessary to retain the inhibitory characteristic gained through use of sodium nitrite (Ref. 179). Therefore, in accordance with the provisions of §§172.175 and 172.177, the agency is proposing to provide for the use of sodium nitrite in the processing and packaging of smoked and smoke-flavored fish in section 5.a. and section 5.b. of Example 6 of this appendix.
