FR941107-2-00158 FR941107-2-00090 [Rel. No. IC&hyph;20667; File No. 812&hyph;9154] DFA Investment Dimensions Group Inc. et al. October 31, 1994. AGENCY: U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (``SEC'' or the ``Commission''). ACTION: Notice of application for an order under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the ``1940 Act''). APPLICANTS: DFA Investment Dimensions Group Inc. (the ``Fund''), Dimensional Fund Advisors Inc. (``DFA''), and certain life insurance companies (``Participating Insurance Companies'') and their separate accounts (``Separate Accounts'')_the Fund, DFA, the Participating Insurance Companies, and the Separate Accounts are referred to herein collectively as the ``Applicants.'' RELEVANT 1940 ACT SECTION: Order requested under Section 6(c) of the 1940 Act for exemptions from Sections 9(a), 13(a), 15(a), and 15(b) of the 1940 Act, and Rules 6e&hyph;2(b)(15) and 6e&hyph;3(T)(b)(15) thereunder. SUMMARY OF APPLICATION: Applicants seek an order to the extent necessary to permit shares of the Fund to be offered and sold to variable annuity and variable life insurance separate accounts issued by both affiliated and unaffiliated life insurance companies. FILING DATE: The application was filed on August 10, 1994. HEARING OR NOTIFICATION OF HEARING: An order granting the application will be issued unless the Commission orders a hearing. Interested persons may request a hearing by writing to the Secretary of the Commission and by serving the Applicants (in care of the Fund or DFA) with a copy of the request, personally or by mail. Hearing requests must be received by the Commission by 5:30 p.m. on November 25, 1994, and should be accompanied by proof of service on the Fund or DFA, in the form of an affidavit or, for lawyers, a certificate of service. Hearing requests should state the nature of the writer's interest, the reason for the request, and the issue contested. Persons may request notification of a hearing by writing to the Secretary of the Commission. ADDRESSES: Secretary, SEC, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549. Applicants, c/o Stradley, Ronon, Stevens & Young, Great Valley Corporate Center, 30 Valley Stream Parkway, Malvern, PA 19355, Attn: Stephen W. Kline, Esq. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Patrice M. Pitts, Attorney, Division of Investment Management, Office of Insurance Products, at (202) 942&hyph;0670. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The following is a summary of the application. The complete application is available for a fee from the Public Reference Branch of the Commission. Applicants' Representations 1. DFA is a corporation organized under the laws of Delaware, and is registered as an investment adviser under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940. DFA serves as investment adviser for the Fund. 2. The Fund is a Maryland corporation registered under the 1940 Act as an open-end, diversified management investment company. The Fund currently consists of, and offers shares of common stock (``shares'') in, nineteen separate investment portfolios, each of which has its own investment objectives and policies. Shares of two of those portfolios presently are offered only to a separate account of National Home Life Assurance Company which, in connection with its issuance of variable annuity contracts, is registered as a unit investment trust under the 1940 Act. 3. The Fund intends to offer shares of its portfolios to Separate Accounts of additional insurance companies_including insurance companies that are not affiliated with National Home Life Assurance Company_and to serve as the investment vehicle for various types of insurance products, including variable annuity contracts, single premium variable life insurance contracts, scheduled premium variable life insurance contracts, and flexible premium variable life insurance contracts (collectively referred to herein as ``variable contracts''). Such Participating Insurance Companies will establish their own separate accounts and design their own variable annuity or variable life insurance contracts. It is anticipated that Participating Insurance Companies will rely on Rules 6e&hyph;2 or 6e&hyph;3(T) under the 1940 Act, as appropriate, with respect to their scheduled premium and flexible premium variable life insurance contracts; some Participating Insurance Companies may rely on individual exemptive orders as well. 4. The use of a common management investment company as the underlying investment medium for both variable annuity and variable life insurance separate accounts is referred to herein as ``mixed funding.'' The use of a common management company as the underlying investment medium for separate accounts of unaffiliated insurance companies is referred to herein as ``shared funding.'' 5. Applicants submit that making the Fund available for ``mixed'' and ``shared'' funding will encourage more insurance companies to offer variable contracts, and that this should result in increased competition with respect to both variable contract design and pricing, which, in turn, can be expected to result in more product variation and lower charges. Applicants submit that ``mixed'' and ``shared'' funding should provide several benefits to variable contract owners, including, among other things: elimination of a sufficient portion of the costs of establishing and administering separate funds; and making a greater amount of assets available for investment, thereby promoting economies of scale, permitting increased safety through greater diversification, and making the addition of new portfolios more feasible.
