FR941102-0-00042 FR941102-0-00007 The Commission received five comments, four of which supported retaining the Rule in its current form or with minor modifications, and one which supported repeal of the Rule. Most of the comments indicated that the Rule continues to provide a benefit to the industry and consumers, while imposing no significant costs on the industry members. 1 The one comment opposing the regulation maintained that it imposed an unreasonable burden on the Federal Trade Commission in administering and enforcing the regulation. 2 In the Federal Register notice, the Commission requested public comments on the following questions: 1 Comments of the Consumer Electronics Group of the Electronic Industries Association (Electronic Industries Association) at 2&hyph;3; Zenith Electronics Corporation (Zenith) at 1&hyph;2; Chuck Cooper at 1. 2 Comment of the American Association of Advertising Agencies, Inc. (AAAA) at 1. (1) Has this trade regulation rule had a significant impact (cost or benefit) on entities subject to its requirements? (2) Is there a continuing need for this rule? (3) What burdens does adherence with this rule place on entities subject to its requirements? (4) What changes should be made to this rule to minimize the economic effect on such entities? (5) Does this rule overlap or conflict with other federal, state, or local government laws or regulations? (6) Have technology or economic conditions changed since this rule was issued, and, if so, what effect do these changes have on the rule? The public comments on these six issues are discussed below. 1. Has This Trade Regulation Rule Had A Significant Impact (Cost or Benefit) on Entities Subject to Its Requirements? The majority of the comments indicated that the Picture Tube Rule has provided significant benefits to the public and the consumer electronics industry, and imposed very little costs on entities subject to the Rule's requirements. One comment noted that the Rule did impose economic costs on television manufacturers in 1966 when the Rule was first promulgated. 3 At that time, manufacturers had to prepare and produce new advertising and promotional materials to comply with the Rule. Further, the United States was, and is to this day, the only country that requires screen measurements to be limited to the viewable picture area. 4 After the initial modifications, however, the Rule does not appear to have imposed any further burdens on the industry. One manufacturer noted that the Rule has had ``virtually no cost impact'' on the company. 5 3 Comment of Electronic Industries Association at 2. 4 The Commission is aware of an effort by the Canadian government to adopt similar provisions concerning televisions advertised for sale in Canada. Further, the Canadian television industry is considering adopting a voluntary standard that would provide for measurement of only the viewable area. 5 Comment of Zenith at 1.
