FR940203-0-00031 FR940203-0-00009 ยง206.34 Contents of petition. A petition under this subpart D shall include specific information in support of the claim that, as a result of the reduction or elimination of a duty provided for under the North American Free Trade Agreement, a Canadian or Mexican article, as the case may be, is being imported into the United States in such increased quantities (in absolute terms) and under such conditions so that imports of the article, alone, constitute a substantial cause of serious injury, or (except in the case of a Canadian article) a threat of serious injury, to the domestic industry producing an article that is like or directly competitive with the imported article. Such petition shall state whether provisional relief is sought because the imported article is a perishable agricultural product. In addition, such petition shall include the following information, to the extent that such information is publicly available from governmental or other sources, or best estimates and the basis therefor if such information is not available: (a) Product description. The name and description of the imported article concerned, specifying the United States tariff provision under which such article is classified and the current tariff treatment thereof, and the name and description of the like or directly competitive domestic article concerned; (b) Representativeness. (1) The names and addresses of the firms represented in the petition and/or the firms employing or previously employing the workers represented in the petition and the locations of their establishments in which the domestic article is produced; (2) the percentage of domestic production of the like or directly competitive domestic article that such represented firms and/or workers account for and the basis for claiming that such firms and/or workers are representative of an industry; and (3) the names and locations of all other producers of the domestic article known to the petitioner; (c) Import data. Import data for at least each of the most recent 5 full years that form the basis of the claim that the Canadian or Mexican article concerned is being imported in increased quantities in absolute terms; (d) Domestic production data. Data on total U.S. production of the domestic article for each full year for which data are provided pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section; (e) Data showing injury. Quantitative data indicating the nature and extent of injury to the domestic industry concerned: (1) With respect to serious injury, data indicating: (i) A significant idling of production facilities in the industry, including data indicating plant closings or the underutilization of production capacity; (ii) The inability of a significant number of firms to carry out domestic production operations at a reasonable level of profit; and (iii) Significant unemployment or underemployment within the industry; and/or (2) With respect to the threat of serious injury, data relating to: (i) A decline in sales or market share, a higher and growing inventory (whether maintained by domestic producers, importers, wholesalers, or retailers), and a downward trend in production, profits, wages, or employment (or increasing underemployment); (ii) The extent to which firms in the industry are unable to generate adequate capital to finance the modernization of their domestic plants and equipment, or are unable to maintain existing levels of expenditures for research and development; (iii) The extent to which the U.S. market is the focal point for the diversion of exports of the article concerned by reason of restraints on exports of such article to, or on imports of such article into, third country markets; and (3) Changes in the level of prices, production, and productivity. (f) Cause of injury. An enumeration and description of the causes believed to be resulting in the injury, or threat thereof, described under paragraph (e) of this section, and a statement regarding the extent to which increased imports of the Canadian or Mexican article are believed to be such a cause, supported by pertinent data; (g) Relief sought and purpose thereof. A statement describing the import relief sought, including the type, amount, and duration, and the specific purposes therefor, which may include facilitating the orderly transfer of resources to more productive pursuits, enhancing competitiveness, or other means of adjustment to new conditions of competition; (h) Efforts to compete. A statement on the efforts being taken, or planned to be taken, or both, by firms and workers in the industry to make a positive adjustment to import competition. (i) Critical circumstances. An allegation that critical circumstances exist must be included in the petition or made on or before the 90th day after the date on which the investigation is initiated. ยง206.35 Time for determinations, reporting. (a) In general. The Commission will make its determination with respect to injury within 120 days after the date on which the investigation is initiated. The Commission will make its report to the President no later than 30 days after the date on which its determination is made. (b) Perishable agricultural product. In the case of a request in a petition for provisional relief with respect to a perishable agricultural product that has been the subject of monitoring by the Commission, the Commission will report its determination and any finding to the President not later than 21 days after the date on which the request for provisional relief is received. (c) Critical circumstances. If petitioner alleges the existence of critical circumstances in the petition or on or before the 90th day after the day on which the investigation is initiated, the Commission will report its determination regarding such allegation and any finding on or before the 120th day after such initiation date.
