FR940317-2-00134 FR940317-2-00078 6. Management (10 points): Applicants should specify plans for proper organization, staffing, and management of the implementation process. Factors that will be considered include: (a) Appropriateness and authority of the governing or managing organization to conduct the proposed interstate or multi-state activities. (b) Qualifications of the project team and its leadership to conduct the proposed activity. (c) Soundness of staffing plans, including recruitment, selection, training, and continuing professional development. (d) Appropriateness of the organizational approach for carrying out the proposed activity. (e) Evidence of significant involvement and support by private industry. Eligibility Criteria Eligible applicants for these projects will be state and local governments, representing either themselves or a consortium of states, and appropriate private or public non-profit organizations, operating on behalf of a consortium of states or as a representative of states. Applicants will be able to propose providing services themselves or arranging for some or all of the proposed services to be provided by a second party. At least one state represented in the partnership or consortium must be characterized by relatively sparse distribution of industry or as having lower industrial densities. Matching Requirements A matching contribution from each applicant will be required. NIST may provide financial support up to 50% of the total budget for the project, however, the federal share may not exceed $250,000. The applicant's share of the budget may include dollar contributions from state, county, industrial or other non-federal sources and in-kind contributions necessary and reasonable for proper accomplishment of project objectives. Proposal Section Process The proposal evaluation and selection process with consist of three principal phases: Proposal qualification; Proposal review and selection of finalists; and Award determination. a. Proposal Qualification All proposals will be reviewed by NIST to assure compliance with the proposal content and other basic provisions of this notice. Proposals which satisfy these requirements will be designated qualified proposals; all others will be disqualified at this phase of the evaluation and selection process. b. Proposal Review and Selection of Finalists NIST will appoint an evaluation panel to review and evaluate all qualified proposals in accordance with the evaluation criteria and values set forth in this notice. From the qualified proposals a group of finalists will be selected based on this review. c. Award Determination The Director of NIST, or her designee, shall select awardees based on the rank order of total evaluation scores, geographic distribution, and the availability of funds. Upon the final award decision, a notification will be made to each of the proposing organizations.
