FR940725-2-00070 FR940725-2-00043 Part II_Programmatic Description and Activities, Eligibility and Application Receipt Date Program Description: CSAT will provide support for up to fifty percent (to a maximum of $50,000) of the total costs of planned meetings and conferences sponsored by new or ongoing constituent organizations or coalitions in their efforts to provide treatment for drugs of abuse. In making award decisions, CSAT will give special consideration to applications that demonstrate the potential for knowledge dissemination, interface with health promotion concepts and practices, promote appropriate resource utilization and/or consensus building, and yield a product (report or document) of specific relevance to furthering of the CSAT mission of improved delivery of addiction treatment and recovery services at the State or community level. For the purposes of this grant program, a Conference is a symposium, workshop, or any other organized and formal meeting lasting one or more days where persons assemble to exchange information and address information or strategy development needs in such areas as sharing new technologies, problem-solving, network-building or public policy deliberations. While a conference may result in educational experiences, this is not a program to impart training. The conference program should be consistent with the CSAT mission. Under the authority of Section 507, CSAT may sponsor regional workshops on improving the quality and availability of treatment services; however, sponsors of regional workshops may invite people from other regions in the country. The conference may be conducted at more than one site, provided that each separate workshop, meeting, etc., relates directly to the central conference topic. Conferences supported by this program are not intended to carry out research or to synthesize or disseminate research information for the non-clinical scientific research community. However, transmitting scientific information via the conference to those involved in AOD related services or in training to provide AOD services is supportable. This program addresses the HHS Secretary's themes of fostering independence through empowering the people served, preventing future problems, and improving services to customers through modern management approaches. Eligibility: Applications may be submitted by public and non-profit private entities. An individual is not eligible to receive grant support for a conference. Availability of Funds: It is estimated that approximately $400,000 will be available to support approximately eight (8) awards under this program in FY 1995. Actual funding levels will depend upon the availability of appropriated funds. Approved awards will be limited to a maximum of fifty percent of the total costs or $50,000, whichever is less. Period of Support: Awards will be made for a maximum of 12 months. Support for only one conference, as defined above, may be requested in any single application. Application Receipt and Review Schedule: The first receipt date for applications is October 24, 1994. Thereafter, the schedule for receipt and review of applications under this announcement will be as follows: ␣ 1Receipt date 1IRG review 1Earliest start date January 10 May/June September. May 10 September/October February. September 10 January/February June. Applications must be received by the above receipt date(s) to be accepted for review. An application received after the deadline may be acceptable if it carries a legible proof-of-mailing date assigned by the carrier (private metered postmarks are not acceptable as proof of timely mailing) and that date is not later than one week prior to the deadline date. If the receipt date falls on a weekend, it will be extended to Monday; if the date falls on a holiday, it will be extended to the following work day. Consequences of Late Submission: Applications received after the specified receipt dates are subject to assignment to the next review cycle or may be returned to the applicant without review. Part III_Special Requirements, Review/Award Criteria and Contacts for Additional Information Intergovernmental Review (E.O. 12372): Applications submitted in response to this announcement are subject to the intergovernmental review requirements of Executive Order 12372, as implemented through DHHS regulations at 45 CFR Part 100. E.O. 12372 sets up a system for State and local government review of applications for Federal financial assistance. Applicants (other than Federally recognized Indian tribal governments) should contact the State's Single Point of Contact (SPOC) as early as possible to alert them to the prospective application(s) and to receive any necessary instructions on the State process. For proposed projects serving more than one State, the applicant is advised to contact the SPOC of each affected State. A current listing of SPOCs is included in the application kit. The SPOC should send any state process recommendations to the following address: Review Branch, Center for Substance Abuse Treatment, Rockwall II Building, 10th Floor, 5600 Fishers Lane, Rockville, Maryland 20857, (301) 443&hyph;8923. The due date for state process recommendations is no later than 60 days after the deadline date for the receipt of applications. CSAT does not guarantee to accommodate or explain SPOC comments that are received after the 60-day cut-off. Public Health System Reporting Requirements: The program is not subject to the Public Health System Reporting Requirements.
