FR941004-2-00118 FR941004-2-00068 Such certificates are only an option for CITES Parties that are also parties to the other treaty, convention, or agreement. 24. Disposal of Confiscated Live Animals No document has been received from the CITES Secretariat yet. This issue was discussed at the Animals Committee, and the Service believes that the Animals Committee prepared a draft resolution that will be discussed at COP9. The Service has not yet received the final draft resolution prepared by the Animals Committee. However, the Service is supportive of uniform guidelines for the Parties on how to deal with confiscated live animals, that will benefit both the welfare of the individual animals and the conservation of their species in the wild. The Service is supportive of such guidelines, consistent with U.S. law. The Service is concerned about the risk of introduction of disease to wild populations from confiscated live animals being considered for reintroduction programs. The Service believes that transport and handling concerns for live animals should be coordinated with the Working Group on the Transport of Live Animals. Interest in what Parties should do with confiscated specimens, particularly live animals, goes back to the drafting of the Convention. The re-export of Appendix II specimens does not require a Scientific Authority finding. The Parties have spoken quite clearly on the issue of return of confiscated specimens to the country of origin, when feasible. 25. Disposal of Skins of Illegal Origin No document has been received from the CITES Secretariat yet; no position is possible at this time. 26. New Criteria for Amendment of Appendices I and II See Doc. 9.41_New Criteria for Amendment of Appendices I and II. Support adoption of the alternative Annexes submitted by the United States on this issue, rather than those prepared by the Standing Committee (as pertain to Annexes 1 and 2 of the draft resolution). The United States basically supports the other annexes of the Standing Committee resolution. The existing CITES listing criteria, known as the ``Berne Criteria'' (Resolutions Conf. 1.1 and 1.2) were developed at the first CITES Conference in 1976 in Berne, Switzerland. The United States agrees that the Convention will be strengthened by reevaluating the Berne Criteria for listing species in the Appendices, and that the Berne Criteria need to be reviewed and adapted to address a broader array of taxa and to be more descriptive and definitive, to the extent possible. At the same time, the United States notes that an inherent strength of CITES, which must be safeguarded, is its ability to seek balanced conservation-based solutions for a broad range of species and populations being considered. Thus, if any revision of the Berne Criteria is to be adopted at COP9, the United States is supportive of retaining maximal flexibility while firmly maintaining scientific credibility. The move to revise the Berne Criteria originated at the 1992 CITES Conference, in Japan (COP8). At COP8 the Parties agreed to start a process, coordinated by the Standing Committee, to develop a scientifically sound revision for consideration at COP9 in 1994. The World Conservation Union (IUCN) was asked to do a first draft, which would first be reviewed at a joint meeting of the Standing, Animals and Plants Committees, and put into CITES resolution form. The United States participated in a joint meeting of the Standing, Animals, and Plants Committees in Brussels in August-September 1993, which reviewed the IUCN draft and produced a draft resolution that was circulated to the Parties. The Service submitted comments to the Standing Committee, after consultation with other Federal agencies and reviewing extensive public comments received. The U.S. comments maintained that much of the draft resolution was not valid scientifically, and was not acceptable from management or practical perspectives. The United States believed that the criteria as proposed met neither the CITES treaty's requirements for the conservation of species in their ecosystems, nor the diverse needs of the CITES Parties. The U.S. comments and those of other Parties were discussed at the 31st meeting of the Standing Committee, in Geneva in March 1994. Some of the U.S. comments were taken into consideration in developing the final Standing Committee draft resolution. The Standing Committee resolution was not available to the United States or other CITES Parties until after the June 10 deadline for submission of resolutions and proposals to the CITES Secretariat. The Standing Committee resolution contains six annexes, several of which the United States looks forward to discussing further with the CITES Parties at COP9. In particular, the United States believes the Standing Committee draft is an improvement on the Berne Criteria as regards precautionary measures. However, the United States believes that Annex 1 (Biological criteria for Appendix I) and Annex 2 (Criteria for inclusion of species in Appendix II) are in need of major revision, particularly from a scientific perspective. The United States is particularly concerned about the utility and scientific validity of arbitrary numerical cutoffs for decision-making on which Appendix a species should be included in. After detailed review of the scientific literature and consultation with other Federal agencies, the United States has submitted alternatives to those Annexes to the Secretariat, along with some additional material for inclusion in the resolution. The U.S. intent is to urge the CITES Parties to substitute the Annexes 1 and 2 it submitted for those prepared by the Standing Committee. The United States could have waited to present these alternative Annexes 1 and 2 at COP9. However, the United States preferred to provide ample time to Parties to review this proposed alternative to the document submitted to the Parties by the Standing Committee. The United States believes that increased flexibility must be included in any revised listing criteria. The biological criteria submitted by the United States for inclusion of species in Appendix I (Annex 1) are grounded in the scientific literature, and are based on the concept that determination of whether a species is threatened with extinction should be risk averse, utilizing the best available scientific and trade information, and assessment of a series of biological factors and criteria. The proposed Annex 1 lists a series of interdependent factors to be included in an assessment of the status of a species, and thereby the determination that it is threatened with extinction. The criteria for inclusion of species in Annex 2 (in accordance with Article II paragraph 2(a)) of the Convention involve a determination of whether a species may become threatened with extinction, in order to avoid utilization incompatible with its survival. The Service received numerous comments recommending that the United States submit an alternative to the Standing Committee draft resolution. Several comments provided detailed analyses of the IUCN submission to the Secretariat, and of the resolution submitted to the Parties prior to the 31st meeting of the Standing Committee. These comments were taken into consideration by the Service and other Federal agencies. 27. Inclusion of Species in Appendix III No document has been received from the CITES Secretariat yet. However, the Service is aware that a resolution on this issue has been prepared by the Animals Committee. The Service is supportive of urging of more judicious use of Appendix III, including recommending direct consultation with the Animals or Plants Committee and a review of existing Appendix III listings.
