FR940906-2-00131 FR940906-2-00083 3. DOD References (1) DOD Directive 5100.52, DOD Response to an Accident or Significant Incident Involving Radiological Materials. (2) DOD Directive 5230.16, Nuclear Accident and Incident Public Affairs Guidance. (3) DOD Directive 3025.1, Military Support to Civil Authorities. (4) DOD Directive 3025.12, Military Assistance for Civil Disturbances. (5) DOD Directive 3150.5, DOD Response to Improvised Nuclear Device (IND) Incident. (6) DOD 5100.52M, Nuclear Weapon Accident Response Procedures (NARP) Manual. (7) Joint Federal Bureau of Investigation, Department of Energy, and Department of Defense Agreement for Response to Improvised Nuclear Device Incidents. 4. DOD Specific Authorities (1) The Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended. (2) Pub. L. 97&hyph;351 ``Convention on the Physical Protection of Nuclear Material Implementation Act of 1982.'' (3) Department of Defense, Department of Energy, Federal Emergency Management Agency Memorandum of Agreement of Response to Nuclear Weapon Accidents and Nuclear Weapon Significant Incidents, 1983. D. Department of Energy 1. Summary of Response Mission The Department of Energy (DOE) owns and operates a variety of radiological activities throughout the United States. These activities include: fixed nuclear sites; the use, storage, and shipment of a variety of radioactive materials; the shipment of spent reactor fuel; the production, assembly, and shipment of nuclear weapons and special nuclear materials; the production and shipment of radioactive sources for space ventures; and the storage and shipment of radioactive and mixed waste. DOE is responsible for the safe operation of these activities and should an emergency occur at one of its sites or an activity under its control, DOE will be the LFA for the Federal response. Due to its technical capabilities and resources, the DOE may perform other roles within the Federal response to a radiological emergency. With extensive, field-based radiological resources throughout the United States available for emergency deployment, the DOE responds to requests for offsite radiological monitoring and assessment assistance and serves as the initial coordinator of all such Federal assistance (to include initial management of the FRMAC) to State and local governments. With other specialized, deployable assets, DOE assists other Federal agencies responding to malevolent nuclear emergencies, accidents involving nuclear weapons not under DOE custody, emergencies caused by satellites containing radioactive sources, and other radiological incidents as appropriate. 2. Capabilities and Resources DOE has trained personnel, radiological instruments, mobile laboratories, and radioanalytical facilities located at its national laboratories, production, and other facilities throughout the country. Through eight Regional Coordinating Offices, these resources form the basis for the Radiological Assistance Program, which can provide technical assistance in any radiological emergency. DOE can provide specialized radiation detection instruments and support for both its response as LFA and as initial coordinator of Federal radiological monitoring and assessment assistance. Some of the specialized resources and capabilities include: (1) Aerial monitoring capability for tracking dispersion of radioactive material and mapping ground contamination; (2) A computer-based, emergency preparedness and response predictive capability that provides rapid predictions of the transport, diffusion, and deposition of radionuclides released to the atmosphere and dose projections to people and the environment; (3) Specialized equipment and instruments and response teams for locating radioactive materials and handling damaged nuclear weapons; (4) Medical experts on radiation effects and the treatment of exposed or contaminated patients; and (5) Support facilities for DOE response, including command post supplies, communications systems, generators, and portable video and photographic capabilities.
