FR941020-2-00043 FR941020-2-00032 •Use inspectors qualified to evaluate laboratory performance and agree to inspect laboratories with the frequency determined by HHS; •Apply standards and criteria that are equal to or more stringent than those condition level requirements established by HHS when taken as a whole; •Provide reasonable assurance that these standards and criteria are continually met by its accredited laboratories; •Provide HHS, within 30 days of the event, with the name of any laboratory that has had its accreditation denied, suspended, withdrawn, limited, or revoked; •Notify HHS at least 30 days prior to changing its standards; and •If HHS withdraws its approval, notify its accredited laboratories of the withdrawal within 10 days of the withdrawal. A laboratory can be accredited if it meets the standards of an approved accreditation body and authorizes the accreditation body to submit to HHS records and other information HHS may require. Along with requiring the promulgation of criteria for approving an accreditation body and for withdrawing such approval, CLIA requires HHS to perform an annual evaluation by inspecting a sufficient number of laboratories accredited by an approved accreditation organization, or by any other means that HHS determines appropriate. Under section 353(o) of the PHSA, the Secretary may, by agreement, use the services or facilities of any other Federal, State or local public agency, or any private, nonprofit organization to conduct inspections of laboratories performing testing on human specimens in the United States and its territories for the purpose of determining compliance with CLIA requirements. II. Approval of ASHI as an Accrediting Organization for the Specialty of Histocompatibility In this notice, we approve ASHI as an organization that may accredit laboratories for purposes of establishing their compliance with CLIA requirements for the specialty of histocompatibility. HCFA, with the assistance of CDC, has examined the ASHI application and all subsequent submissions against the requirements under subpart E of part 493 that an accreditation organization must meet in order to be granted approved status under CLIA. We have determined that ASHI requirements are equivalent to the applicable CLIA requirements for the specialty of histocompatibility as of October 20, 1994, and grant ASHI approval as an accreditation organization under this subpart through October 20, 2000, for the specialty of histocompatibility. As a result of this determination, any laboratory that is accredited by ASHI during this time period for the specialty of histocompatibility meets the CLIA requirements for laboratories found in part 493 of our regulations and, therefore, is not subject to routine inspection by a State survey agency to determine its compliance with CLIA requirements for histocompatibility. The accredited laboratory, however, is subject to validation and complaint investigation surveys performed by HCFA, or by any other Federal or State or local public agency or nonprofit private organization that acts in conformance to an agreement for this purpose with the Secretary. The laboratory remains subject to routine inspections by a State survey agency or an agent of HCFA to determine its compliance with CLIA requirements for any human specimen testing performed in any specialty other than the specialty of histocompatibility. III. Evaluation of ASHI The following describes the process we used to determine whether ASHI, as a private, nonprofit organization, provides reasonable assurance that those laboratories it accredits will meet the applicable requirements of the Federal law and regulations. A. Requirements for Approving an Accreditation Organization Under CLIA
