FR941117-0-00070 FR941117-0-00011 Subpart B_Application Requirements and Procedures §22.101 Station files. Applications, notifications, correspondence and other material, and copies of authorizations, comprising technical, legal, and administrative data relating to each station in the Public Mobile Services are maintained by the FCC in individual station files. These files constitute the official records for these stations and supersede any other records, data bases or lists from the FCC or other sources. §22.103 Representations. Applicants must make full and continuing disclosure as required by §1.65 of this chapter. Applicants must not make misrepresentations. The signing of an application or notification for new or additional facilities in the Public Mobile Services constitutes a representation that the applicant intends to use such facilities to provide service to subscribers in accordance with the rules in this part. §22.105 Written applications, standard forms, microfiche, magnetic disks. Except for authorizations granted under the emergency conditions set forth in section 308 of the Communications Act of 1934, as amended (47 U.S.C. 308), the FCC may grant authorizations only upon written application (FCC Form 401) received by it. A separate written application is required for each authorization. Applicants shall submit any documents, exhibits, or other written statements of fact that the FCC may require in determining whether to grant, deny or dismiss an application. Table B &hyph;1._ Standard Forms for the Public Mobile Services 1Purpose of filing 1Form No. 1Title of form •application for new or modified station •major amendment to pending application l•application for partial assignment of authorization. 401 Application for Mobile Radio Service Authorization. •application for renewal of authorization 405 Application for Renewal of Station License. •application for airborne mobile authorization 409 Application for Airborne Mobile Radiotelephone Authorization. •application for assignment of authorization 430 Licensee Qualification Report. •notification of completion of construction l•notification of minor modification of station. 489 Notification of Commencement of Service or of Additional or Modified Facilities. •application for assignment of authorization l•application for consent to transfer of control. 490 Application for Assignment of Authorization or Consent to Transfer of Control of Licensee. (a) Formal applications, amendments and notifications. Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, applications, amendments and notifications must be filed using the standard forms listed in paragraph (c) of this section. (b) Informal applications, amendments and notifications. Applications, amendments and notifications in letter or document form may be accepted for filing, if none of the standard forms listed in this section are prescribed for or clearly applicable for the intended purpose. Such informal applications, amendments and notifications must be submitted in duplicate, with a caption clearly stating the name of the filer, nature of the filing, the Public Mobile service involved, the call sign of the relevant existing station, if any, and the file number of the relevant pending application, if any, and must contain all necessary technical data and exhibits.
