FR940603-2-00052 FR940603-2-00038 Other Requirements A. Protection of Human Subjects If the proposed project involves research on human subjects, the applicant must comply with the Department of Health and Human Services Regulation, 45 CFR part 46, regarding the protection of human subjects. Assurances must be provided to demonstrate that the project will be subject to initial and continuing review by an appropriate institutional review committee. In addition to other applicable committees, Indian Health Service (IHS) institutional review committees also must review the project if any component of IHS will be involved or will support the research. If any Native American community is involved, its tribal government must also approve that portion of the project applicable to it. The applicant will be responsible for providing assurance in accordance with the appropriate guidelines and form provided in the application kit. B. Cost Recovery The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (CERCLA) of 1980, as amended by the Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act (SARA) of 1986, provides for the recovery of costs incurred for health assessments and health effects studies at each Superfund site from potentially responsible parties. The recipient would agree to maintain an accounting system that will keep an accurate, complete, and current accounting of all financial transactions on a site-specific basis, i.e., individual time, travel, and associated cost including indirect cost, as appropriate for the site. The recipient would also maintain documentation that describes the site-specific actions taken with respect to the site, e.g., contracts, work assignments, progress reports, and other documents that describe the work performed at a site. The recipient will retain the documents and records to support these financial transactions, for possible use in a cost recovery case, for a minimum of ten (10) years after submission of a final Financial Status Report (FSR), unless there is a litigation, claim, negotiation, audit or other action involving the specific site, then the records will be maintained until resolution of all issues on the specific site. C. Paperwork Reduction Act Projects that involve the collection of information from 10 or more individuals and that are funded by the cooperative agreement mechanism will be subject to review by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) under the Paperwork Reduction Act. D. Disclosure Recipient is required to provide proof by way of citation to State code or regulation or other State pronouncement given the authority of law, that medical information obtained pursuant to the agreement, pertaining to an individual, and therefore considered confidential, will be protected from disclosure when the consent of the individual to release identifying information is not obtained. E. Third Party Agreements Project activities which are approved for contracting pursuant to the prior approval provisions shall be formalized in a written agreement that clearly establishes the relationship between the grantee and the third party. The written agreement shall at a minimum: 1. State or incorporate by reference all applicable requirements imposed on the contractors under the grant by the terms of the grant, including requirements concerning technical review (ATSDR selected reviewers), release of data, ownership of data, and the arrangement for copyright when publications, data or other copyrightable works are developed under or in the course of work under a PHS grant supported project or activity. 2. State that any copyrighted or copyrightable works shall be subject to a royalty-free, nonexclusive, and irrevocable license to the Government to reproduce, publish, or otherwise use them, and to authorize others to do so for Federal Government purposes. 3. State that whenever any work subject to this copyright policy may be developed in the course of a grant by a contractor under a grant, the written agreement (contract) must require the contractor to comply with these requirements and can in no way diminish the Government's right in that work. 4. State the activities to be performed, the time schedule for those activities, the policies and procedures to be followed in carrying out the agreement, and the maximum amount of money for which the grantee may become liable to the third party under the agreement. 5. The written agreement required shall not relieve the grantee of any part of its responsibility or accountability to PHS under the grant. The agreement shall, therefore, retain sufficient rights and control to the grantee to enable it to fulfill this responsibility and accountability. Application Submission and Deadline The original and two copies of the application PHS Form 5161&hyph;1 must be submitted to Henry S. Cassell, III, Grants Management Officer, Grants Management Branch, Procurement and Grants Office, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), 255 East Paces Ferry Road, NE., room 300, Mailstop E&hyph;13, Atlanta, GA 30305, on or before July 21, 1994. (By formal agreement, the CDC Procurement and Grants Office will act on behalf of and for ATSDR on this matter.)
