FR940318-0-00168 FR940318-0-00023 Appendix B at the end of this Preamble lists in tabular form the Agency's determinations on substitutes in the cleaning sector. These listings are based on the risk screens described in the background document entitled ``Risk Screen on the Use of Substitutes for Class I Ozone-Depleting Substances: Solvent Cleaning'' and discussed in associated supporting memoranda. The table includes as ``pending'' a few substitutes for which the Agency has not yet issued determinations. Vendors or users of cleaning substitutes not described in appendix B should submit information on these uses, so that the Agency can review them and issue a SNAP determination. The three major end uses that in the past employed CFC&hyph;113 and MCF are metals cleaning, electronics cleaning, and precision cleaning. Metals cleaning applications usually involve removing cutting oils and residual metal filings. This sector relies principally on MCF as a cleaning solvent. In contrast, the electronics industry uses principally CFC&hyph;113, for instance, to remove flux residues left after mounting parts on printed circuit boards. Precision cleaning also uses mostly CFC&hyph;113. This last application comprises a broad category of industrial cleaning operations and can cover uses ranging from preparation of pacemakers to manufacture of direct access storage devices (DASDs) for computers. The following sections present substitutes for CFC&hyph;113 and MCF in these three end uses and discuss the acceptability listings presented in appendix B. 2. Substitutes in Solvents Cleaning a. Hydrochlorofluorocarbons (HCFCs). HCFC&hyph;141b or HCFC&hyph;141b blends with alcohols are the principal HCFC alternative solvents to CFC&hyph;113/MCF cleaning. These alternatives can be used in vapor degreasing equipment, principally for electronics or precision cleaning, and in some cases existing CFC&hyph;113 or MCF equipment can be retrofitted for use with HCFC&hyph;141b alternatives. From an environmental standpoint, the critical characteristic of HCFC&hyph;141b is that it has a relatively high ODP_0.11_the highest of all the HCFCs. Another HCFC, HCFC&hyph;123, is generally not considered to have widespread application as a cleaner. Although this HCFC has the capacity to remove many soils, it is such an aggressive cleaner that it frequently degrades the surface of the part being cleaned. The company-set AEL for HCFC&hyph;123 was recently raised from 10ppm to 30ppm based on new toxicity findings. These new data mean that the exposure limit could be met with existing equipment, and the Agency intends to list HCFC&hyph;123 under separate rule-making as acceptable subject to adherence to the exposure limit. HCFC&hyph;225, a third HCFC, is widely viewed as having potential as a cleaning agent, especially for manufacture and maintenance of precision parts and equipment. However, this chemical is not yet in widespread production or use and is only now starting to be commercially available. Preliminary toxicity findings suggest that of the two HCFC&hyph;225 isomers, HCFC&hyph;225ca and HCFC&hyph;225cb, toxicity concerns associated with the ca-isomer may warrant a comparatively low company-set occupational exposure limit. As a result, EPA intends under separate rule-making to propose HCFC&hyph;225 as acceptable subject to adherence to this limit. The Agency anticipates that companies will readily be able to meet this requirement since the ca-isomer is sold commercially in a blend with the less toxic cb-isomer. In addition, equipment using HCFC&hyph;225 is usually designed for precision operations and has inherently low emissions. b. Semi-aqueous cleaners. Semi-aqueous cleaners are alternatives for cleaning in all three sectors. These cleaners employ hydrocarbons/surfactants either emulsified in water solutions or applied in concentrated form and then rinsed with water. Since both approaches involve water as part of the formulation, the system is commonly referred to as ``semi-aqueous.'' The principal categories of chemicals used in these formulations are terpenes, C6&hyph;C20 petroleum hydrocarbons (both naturally or synthetically derived), or oxygenated organic solvents (such as alcohols). An extensive discussion of various semi-aqueous cleaning alternatives may be found in the Industry Cooperative for Ozone Layer Protection (ICOLP) documents on the subject. Users can obtain these documents from the EPA. c. Aqueous cleaners. Aqueous cleaners, unlike semi-aqueous, uses water as the primary solvent. These formulations are used mostly for metals cleaning, but companies are beginning to explore options using these substitutes in other cleaning applications. In aqueous formulations, detergents and surfactants are combined in water with a variety of additives such as organic solvents (e.g., high-boiling point alcohols), builders, saponifiers, inhibitors, emulsifiers, pH buffers and antifoaming agents. The cleaning process is comparable to that used in semiaqueous applications and consists of combinations of a wash phase, a rinse phase, and a drying phase. An important difference is that the wash tank is frequently heated to improve soil removal. The final step, drying, is separate from the cleaning step and can be accomplished by use of heat or a drying agent. These alternatives are discussed extensively in the ICOLP documents. d. Straight organic solvent cleaning. Organic solvents can be used to replace CFC&hyph;113 and MCF in certain cleaning operations. This classification is defined to include terpenes, C6&hyph;C20 petroleum hydrocarbons (both naturally and synthetically derived), and oxygenated organic solvents such as alcohols, ethers (including propylene glycol ethers), esters and ketones. These compounds are commonly used in solvent tanks at room temperature, although the solvents can also be used in-line cleaning systems or be heated to increase solvency power. If heated, the solvents must be used in equipment designed to control vapor losses.
