FR941207-0-00143 FR941207-0-00022 (ii) For all other applicants: (A) The identity of each member of the applicant's control group , regardless of the size of each member's total interest in the applicant, and the percentage and type of interest held; (B) The citizenship and the gender or minority group classification for each member of the applicant's control group if the applicant is claiming status as a business owned by members of minority groups and/or women; (C) The status of each control group member that is an institutional investor , an existing investor , and/or a member of the applicant's management; (D) The identify of each affiliate of the applicant and each affiliate of individuals or entities identified pursuant to paragraphs (c)(1)(ii)(A) and (c)(1)(ii)(C) of this section if not disclosed pursuant to §24.813; (E) A certification that the applicant's sole control group member is a preexisting entity , if the applicant makes the election in either paragraph (b)(5)(ii) or (b)(6)(ii) of this section; and (F) The applicant's gross revenues and total assets , computed in accordance with paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section. (iii) for each applicant claiming status as a small business consortium , the information specified in paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section, for each member of such consortium. (2) Long-form Application . In addition to the requirements in subpart I of this part and other applicable rules ( e.g. , §24.204(f), 20.6(e), 20.9(b)), each applicant submitting a long-form application for license(s) for frequency blocks C and F shall, in an exhibit to its long-form application: (i) Disclose separately and in the aggregate the gross revenues and total assets , computed in accordance with paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, for each of the following: the applicant; the applicant's affiliates , the applicant's control group members; the applicant's attributable investors; and affiliates of its attributable investors; (ii) List and summarize all agreements or other instruments (with appropriate references to specific provisions in the text of such agreements and instruments) that support the applicant's eligibility for a license(s) for frequency Block C or frequency Block F and its eligibility under §§24.711 through 24.270, including the establishment of de facto and de jure control; such agreements and instruments include articles of incorporation and bylaws, shareholder agreements, voting or other trust agreements, partnership agreements, management agreements, joint marketing agreements, franchise agreements, and any other relevant agreements (including letters of intent), oral or written; and (iii) List and summarize any investor protection agreements and identify specifically any such provisions in those agreements identified pursuant to paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section, including rights of first refusal, supermajority clauses, options, veto rights, and rights to hire and fire employees and to appoint members to boards of directors or management committees. (3) Records Maintenance . All applicants, including those that are winning bidders, shall maintain at their principal place of business an updated file of ownership, revenue and asset information, including those documents referenced in paragraphs (c)(2)(ii) and (c)(2)(iii) of this section and any other documents necessary to establish eligibility under this section or under the definitions of small business and/or business owned by members of minority groups and/or women. Licensees (and their successors in interest) shall maintain such files for the term of the license. Applicants that do not obtain the license(s) for which they applied shall maintain such files until the grant of such license(s) is final, or one year from the date of the filing of their short-form application (Form 175), whichever is earlier. (d) Audits. (1) Applicants and licensees claiming eligibility under this section or §§24.711 through 24.720 shall be subject to audits by the Commission, using in-house and contract resources. Selection for audit may be random, on information, or on the basis of other factors. (2) Consent to such audits is part of the certification included in the short-form application (Form 175). Such consent shall include consent to the audit of the applicant's or licensee's books, documents and other material (including accounting procedures and practices) regardless of form or type, sufficient to confirm that such applicant's or licensee's representations are, and remain, accurate. Such consent shall include inspection at all reasonable times of the facilities, or parts thereof, engaged in providing and transacting business, or keeping records regarding licensed broadband PCS service and shall also include consent to the interview of principals, employees, customers and suppliers of the applicant or licensee. (e) Definitions . The terms affiliate, business owned by members of minority groups and women, consortium of small businesses, control group, existing investor, gross revenues, institutional investor, members of minority groups, nonattributable equity, preexisting entity, publicly traded corporation with widely dispersed voting power, qualifying investor, qualifying minority and/or woman investor, small business and total assets used in this section are defined in §24.720. 3. Section 24.711 is revised to read as follows: §27.711 Upfront payments, down payments and installment payments for licenses for frequency Blocks C and F. (a) Upfront Payments and Down Payments. (1) Each eligible bidder for licenses on frequency Blocks C or F subject to auction shall pay an upfront payment of $0.015 per MHz per pop for the maximum number of licenses (in terms of MHz-pops) on which it intends to bid pursuant to §1.2106 of this Chapter and procedures specified by Public Notice. (2) Each winning bidder shall make a down payment equal to ten percent of its winning bid (less applicable bidding credits); a winning bidder shall bring its total amount on deposit with the Commission (including upfront payment) to five percent of its net winning bid within five business days after the auction closes, and the remainder of the down payment (five percent) shall be paid within five business days after the application required by §24.809(b) is granted. (b) Installment Payments. Each eligible licensee of frequency Block C or F may pay the remaining 90 percent of the net auction price for the license in installment payments pursuant to §1.2110(e) of this Chapter and under the following terms:
