FR940603-1-00042 FR940603-1-00009 Informal competitive bidding means the competitive procurement procedure which provides for private opening of bids and allows clarifying discussions between the contracting committee and the bidders. During the clarifying discussions any exceptions to the bid documents must be eliminated, or the bid rejected, so that the contract is awarded to the lowest evaluated responsive bidder (see §1726.202). Material means miscellaneous hardware which is combined with equipment to form an electric system, e.g., poles, insulators, or conductors. Minor error or irregularity means a defect or variation in a bid that is a matter of form and not of substance. Errors or irregularities are ``minor'' if they can be corrected or waived without being prejudicial to other bidders and when they do not affect the price, quantity, quality, or timeliness of construction. Minor modification or improvement means a project where the construction contract is less than $50,000, exclusive of the cost of owner furnished materials. Multiparty lump sum quotations means the procurement of goods or services on a lump sum basis, based on the lowest evaluated offering, when three or more offers are received (see §1726.205). Multiparty negotiation means the procurement procedure where three or more bids are received and provides for negotiations between the contracting committee and each bidder to determine the bid which is in the borrower's best interest (see §1726.203). Multiparty unit price quotations means the procurement of goods or services on a unit price basis, based on the lowest evaluated offering, when three or more offers are received (see §1726.204). Net Utility Plant (NUP) means part C, Line 5 of REA Form 7 for distribution borrowers or section B, Line 5 of REA Form 12a for power supply borrowers. Owner furnished materials means materials or equipment or both supplied by the borrower for installation by the contractor. REA approval means written approval by the Administrator or a representative with delegated authority. REA approval must be in writing, except in emergency situations where REA approval may be given over the telephone followed by a confirming letter. Responsive bid means a bid with no exceptions or non-minor errors or irregularities on any technical requirement or in the contract terms and conditions. Unit prices means individual prices for specific construction units defined in accordance with REA approved units specified in REA standard contract forms. §1726.15 ``Buy American''. The borrower must ensure that all materials and equipment financed with loans made or guaranteed by REA complies with the ``Buy American'' provisions of the Rural Electrification Act of 1938 (7 U.S.C. 901 et seq. ). When a ``Buy American'' certificate is required by this part, this must be on REA Form 213. §1726.16 Debarment and suspension. Borrowers are required to comply with certain requirements on debarment and suspension in connection with procurement activities as set forth in part 3017 of this title, particularly with respect to lower tier transactions, e.g., procurement contracts for goods or services. §1726.17 Restrictions on lobbying. Borrowers are required to comply with certain restrictions and requirements in connection with procurement activities as set forth in part 3018 of this title. §1726.18 Preloan contracting. Borrowers must consult with REA prior to entering into any contract for material, equipment or construction if a construction work plan, loan or loan guarantee for the proposed work has not been approved. While the REA staff will work with the borrower in such circumstances, nothing contained in this part is to be construed as authorizing borrowers to enter into any contract before the availability of funds has been ascertained by the borrower and all the requirements of part 1794 of this chapter, Environmental Policies and Procedures for Electric and Telephone Borrowers, have been fulfilled. §1726.19 Use of competitive procurement. REA borrowers' procurement is not subject to the provisions of the Federal Aquisition Regulation (48 CFR chapter 1); however, since borrowers receive the benefit of Federal financial assistance, borrowers must use competitive procurement to the greatest extent practical. The borrower must use competitive procurement for obtaining all goods or services when a REA loan or loan guarantee is involved except:
