FR940627-2-00038 FR940627-2-00026 6. Priority Area 1.01B␣National Resource Center for Permanency Planning . During a brief period of time in the late 1970's and early 1980's the number of children placed in foster care was decreasing. Many child welfare experts attribute this decline to attention and activities addressing permanency planning which occurred in the period around the passage of Public Law 96&hyph;272, the Adoption Assistance and Child Welfare Act of 1980. Since the mid-1980's, the number of children in foster care has shown continuous growth. These children and their biological and foster families constitute a large and costly segment of the population served by child welfare agencies. Agencies are faced with the challenge of responding to the increasing demand for services with quality and cost-effective programs. They are expected to plan and achieve permanence for children in foster care and conform to the procedures and safeguards spelled out in both State and Federal statutes. At the same time, the emergence of new and more severe child and family problems has put additional pressure on agencies to develop and deliver more complex services and has made the planning for and attainment of permanency more complicated. Agencies are often hard pressed to offer the specialized and therapeutic foster family environments more children entering foster care appear to need. Providing services to the families of children in care and attending to the legal and service issues related to permanency planning have been especially problematic. Finally, the declassification of many public child welfare positions and the loosening of strong ties between public agencies and social work education is believed to have contributed to an erosion of practice quality and compromised achieving permanency. While there is an emphasis on providing familial settings for children and youth, large numbers of young people still are placed in residential care facilities. Although quality residential care can be a useful temporary resource for certain children and youth, a lack of suitable alternatives means that far too often a residential placement is used to care for young people when it may not be appropriate. Establishing permanence for this segment of the foster care population is often more challenging than with children in family foster care. The National Resource Center for Permanency Planning will help children and family services agencies improve their capacity to accomplish permanence through the development and implementation of high quality foster family and residential care for children who must be removed from their homes. In addition to addressing the minimum requirements detailed previously, applicants need to:
