FR940506-0-00033 FR940506-0-00012 3. Establishment of New Receipt and Delivery Points In the final rule, the Commission adopted the agreement reached by Working Group 5 that information concerning new receipt and delivery points, or modifications to existing points, must be provided to the code assignor 10 days before any business will be transacted using the new or modified point. Natural requests clarification that shippers may utilize a new receipt or delivery point prior to the expiration of the 10-day period. It contends situations arise in which a shipper has an immediate need for a new receipt or delivery point and a 10-day delay would pose an unnecessary hardship. It also argues pipelines sometimes need to add a point immediately, for example, to identify a second proprietary code for an existing point or create a paper point for accounting purposes. It suggests that no more than a one day delay in implementing points should be mandated. The requirement for a delay in implementing points was intended to ensure that parties using the common code data base would not be at a disadvantage to those using the pipelines' proprietary points as listed on the EBB. Except in emergency situations, pipelines should give PI-GRID at least 10 days advance notice of new points or modifications to point information so that those using the common code data base will not be disadvantaged relative to those using the pipeline's EBB. VII. Additional Standards Parties had requested that the Commission require an electronic Index of Purchasers, which would disclose information about capacity rights, and require the development of standards for non-capacity release business transactions. The Working Groups were continuing their deliberations in these areas, and, in Order No. 563, the Commission stated that it would await the Working Group reports before making decisions on these issues. The Working Groups have submitted reports on these issues. Several rehearing petitions address these issues as do comments received on the Working Group reports, and the Commission will address these issues below. A. Index Of Purchasers The National Registry and Gaslantic support the so-called Tennessee compromise being developed by the Working Groups, but, in the event the compromise falls through, the National Registry requests the Commission to grant rehearing and require the pipelines to implement the limited Index the National Registry proposes. KGPC suggests that, if an electronic Index of Purchasers is required, the Commission should eliminate or modify its current regulations that require pipelines to file similar information with the Commission. Working Groups 1 & 2 failed to reach consensus on an Index. One group, consisting of 44 participants drawn from a cross-section of the industry (Group 1), 36 support a compromise proposal under which the Commission would eliminate the paper reporting requirements relating to firm and interruptible transportation, including the initial and subsequent reports (but not the annual reports or the reports on bypasses) and the requirement to include an Index of Purchasers in a pipeline's tariff. These reports would be replaced by an electronic Index provided in downloadable form consisting of the following nine data elements for each firm transportation and storage shipper: shipper's name, contract identifier, rate schedule, contract start date, contract end date, contract quantity, receipt points (and associated maximum daily quantities (MDQs)), delivery points (and associated MDQs), and conjunctive restrictions, if any. 37 The information would be updated whenever a new contract for firm capacity was written or a pipeline filed a section 4(e) rate case. 36 Algonquin Gas Transmission, American Iron and Steel Institute, Amoco Production Company, Aquila Energy Marketing Corporation, Aquila Energy Resources Corporation, Bass Enterprises Production Co., BP Exploration Inc., BridgeGas U.S.A. Inc., Chevron, Conoco, East Tennessee Natural Gas, EnerSoft, Fuel Managers Association, Gaslantic Corporation, Georgia Industrial Users Group, Heath Petra Resources, Inc., Independent Oil & Gas Association of Pennsylvania, Independent Oil & Gas Association of West Virginia, KCS Energy Marketing, Inc., Kern River Gas Transmission, Marathon Oil, Midland Marketing Corporation, Midwestern Gas Transmission, Mobil, National Fuel Gas, National Registry of Capacity Rights, Natural Gas Clearinghouse, New York Mercantile Exchange, New York State Electric and Gas, Panhandle Eastern Pipe Line, Peoples Gas Systems, Premier Gas Company, Process Gas Consumers Group, Producer-Marketer-Transportation Group, Richardson Products Co., Samson Resources Company, Tenneco Gas Marketing Co., Tennessee Gas Pipeline, Texas Eastern Transmission, Transcontinental Gas Pipe Line, Trunkline Gas Company, Valero Gas Marketing, L.P., Virginia Power, Washington Gas. 37 Conjunctive restrictions were undefined in the proposal. According to the comment by the National Registry, one of the signatories to the agreement, conjunctive restrictions are provisions that operate across multiple points or contracts and may limit a shipper's rights at a particular receipt or delivery point. It gives as an example a shipper with stated rights 2,000 MDQs at three points, but a restriction that it cannot ship more than a total of 2,500 MDQ's from all three points on a single day. A smaller number of participants (11) (Group 2) 38 support a more limited Index which essentially excludes the receipt and delivery point information contained in the first group's proposal. The parties supporting this proposal state that they do not believe any Index is truly necessary, but that, in the spirit of compromise, their proposal would provide a reasonably cost effective Index. 39 They are concerned that disclosing specific receipt and delivery points potentially could place firm shippers at a disadvantage with respect to future gas purchase options. 38 American Gas Association, Brooklyn Union Gas Company, Colorado Interstate Gas Company, Consolidated Edison Company of New York, Inc., Enron Interstate Pipelines, Koch Gateway Pipeline Company, Natural Gas Pipeline Company of America, Peoples Gas Light & Coke Company, Public Service Company of Colorado, Southern California Gas Company, Williston Basin Interstate Pipeline Company. 39 They assert that those seeking the Index claim that it will help users locate available firm capacity. But the group argues that an Index is not needed for this purpose because firm capacity holders have every incentive to post their available firm capacity and shippers seeking capacity can post ``want ads'' advertising their need for capacity.
