FR940913-0-00018 FR940913-0-00004 7 CFR Part 929 [FV94&hyph;929&hyph;1FIR] Cranberries Grown in States of Massachusetts, Rhode Island, Connecticut, New Jersey, Wisconsin, Michigan, Minnesota, Oregon, Washington, and Long Island in the State of New York; Changes to the Rules and Regulations AGENCY: Agricultural Marketing Service, USDA. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: The Department of Agriculture (Department) is adopting as a final rule, without change, the provisions of an interim final rule changing the rules and regulations under the cranberry marketing order. The marketing order regulates the handling of cranberries grown in 10 States and is administered locally by the Cranberry Marketing Committee (Committee). This rule revises or deletes language in the order's rules and regulations to reflect amendatory changes to the marketing order completed in 1992. This rule makes the order's rules and regulations consistent with the current marketing order language. EFFECTIVE DATE: October 13, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Patricia A. Petrella or Mark Hessel, Marketing Specialists, Marketing Order Administration Branch, F&V, AMS, USDA, Room 2522&hyph;S, P.O. Box 96456, Washington, DC 20090&hyph;6456; telephone: (202) 720&hyph;5127. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: This rule is issued under Marketing Agreement and Order No. 929 [7 CFR Part 929], as amended, regulating the handling of cranberries grown in 10 States, hereinafter referred to as the ``order.'' The order is effective under the Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act of 1937, as amended [7 U.S.C 601&hyph;674], hereinafter referred to as the ``Act.'' The Department of Agriculture (Department) is issuing this rule in conformance with Executive Order 12866. This rule has been reviewed under Executive Order 12778, Civil Justice Reform. This rule is not intended to have retroactive effect. This rule will not preempt any State or local laws, regulations, or policies, unless they present an irreconcilable conflict with this rule. The Act provides that administrative proceedings must be exhausted before parties may file suit in court. Under section 608c(15)(A) of the Act, any handler subject to an order may file with the Secretary a petition stating that the order, any provision of the order, or any obligation imposed in connection with the order is not in accordance with law and request a modification of the order or to be exempted therefrom. A handler is afforded the opportunity for a hearing on the petition. After the hearing the Secretary would rule on the petition. The Act provides that the district court of the United States in any district in which the handler is an inhabitant, or has his or her principal place of business, has jurisdiction in equity to review the Secretary's ruling on the petition, provided a bill in equity is filed not later than 20 days after date of the entry of the ruling. Pursuant to requirements set forth in the Regulatory Flexibility Act (RFA), the Administrator of the Agricultural Marketing Service (AMS) has considered the economic impact of this action on small entities. The purpose of the RFA is to fit regulatory actions to the scale of business subject to such actions in order that small businesses will not be unduly or disproportionately burdened. Marketing orders issued pursuant to the Act, and rules issued thereunder, are unique in that they are brought about through group action of essentially small entities acting on their own behalf. Thus, both statutes have small entity orientation and compatibility. There are approximately 30 handlers of cranberries who are subject to regulation under the order and approximately 1,050 producers of cranberries in the regulated area. Small agricultural service firms have been defined by the Small Business Administration [13 CFR 121.601] as those having annual receipts of less than $5,000,000, and small agricultural producers are defined as those whose annual receipts are less than $500,000. The majority of handlers and producers of cranberries may be classified as small entities.
