FR941230-1-00034 FR941230-1-00004 Example 11. Connecting road. The facts are the same as in Example 10 , except that the road extends beyond the port to a new residential development. Persons residing in this development will account for more than 25 percent of the use of both segments of the road. The bonds do not satisfy the private business use test because the use of the road is general public use. Example 12. Fish ladder. J, a political subdivision, owns and operates a hydro-electric generation plant and related facilities. Pursuant to a take or pay contract having a term equal to the useful life of the facility, J sells 15 percent of the output of the plant to Corporation K, an investor-owned utility. Under the license issued to J for operation of the plant, J is required by federal regulations to construct various facilities for the preservation of fish and for public recreation. J issues its obligations to finance the fish preservation and public recreation facilities. The financed facilities provide no direct benefits to J or the purchasers of the electricity produced by the plant. Because K has no primary legal or contractual obligation to provide the financed facilities, the facilities are not used for a private business use by K under paragraph (b)(8) of this section. Under this paragraph (e), however, the fish preservation facilities, but not the public recreation facilities, are treated as used by K because they are functionally and integrally related to the generation plant. (f) De minimis exceptions _(1) Short-term leases and similar arrangements. Use by a nongovernmental person pursuant to a lease, management contract, or similar arrangement does not result in private business use if_ (i) The agreement may not be renewed or extended beyond the period described in this paragraph (f)(1); (ii) Following the expiration of that agreement the facility subject to the agreement is not used for a private business use (determined without regard to this paragraph (f)(1)); (iii) The term (or in the case of an agreement entered into prior to, and not in connection with, the issuance of the bonds, the remaining term) of the agreement does not exceed the least of (A) 1 year, (B) 10 percent of the remaining economic life of the financed facility (determined at the time the arrangement is entered into), and (C) 10 percent of the remaining term of the bonds; and (iv) Except in the case of a lease, management contract, or similar agreement entered into prior to the issue date (or contemplated issuance) of bonds financing the acquisition of the property, the agreement must be an arm's-length, fair market value agreement. (2) Temporary use by developers. Use by a developer of an improvement that carries out an essential governmental function during an initial development period does not result in private business use if_ (i) The issuer and the developer reasonably expect on the issue date to proceed with all reasonable speed to develop and sell the related property to members of the general public and covenant in the bond documents to do so with due diligence; (ii) The issuer and the developer reasonably expect on the issue date that the related property will be sold to members of the general public within 3 years of the issue date; and (iii) Bonds of the issue are not required to be retired in connection with the developer's sale of property to members of the general public. (3) Incidental use _(i) General rule. Incidental use of a financed facility is disregarded to the extent that that use doe not exceed 2.5 percent of the proceeds of the entire issue. A use of a facility by a person is incidental if_ (A) The use does not involve the transfer to the person of possession and control over space that is separated from other areas of the facility by walls, partitions, or other physical barriers, such as a night gate affixed to a structural component of a building (a nonpossessory use ); (B) The nonpossessory use is not functionally related to any other use of the facility by the same person (other than a different nonpossessory use); and (C) All nonpossessory uses of the facility do not, in the aggregate, involve the use of more than 2.5 percent of the facility.
