FR941028-1-00010 FR941028-1-00004 COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION 17 CFR Parts 35 and 36 Section 4(c) Contract Market Transactions; Swap Agreements AGENCY: Commodity Futures Trading Commission. ACTION: Proposed rules. SUMMARY: On August 16, 1993, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (``Commission'') published a notice of petitions for exemptive relief submitted by the Chicago Mercantile Exchange (``CME'') and the Board of Trade of the City of Chicago (``CBOT'') and request for comment. The petitions requested exemptions from most of the requirements of the Commodity Exchange Act (``CEA'' or ``Act'') and Commission regulations for certain exchange-traded futures and option contracts pursuant to Section 4(c) of the Act, added October 28, 1992. The comment period closed December 15, 1993, and the Commission has carefully considered the comments received. Based upon its review of the comments and its own consideration of the exemption requests, the Commission is proposing rules which will permit certain contract market transactions (as defined herein) meeting specified criteria to trade pursuant to exemption from certain requirements under the Act and Commission regulations on a section 4(c) contract market. The Commission is also seeking comment on whether Part 35 (exemption of swap agreements) should be amended to include stand-alone prohibitions on fraud and price manipulation. DATES: Written comments must be received by the Commission by the close of business on December 12, 1994. Reference should be made to section 4(c) contract market transactions. ADDRESSES: Interested persons should submit their written views and comments to Jean A. Webb, Secretary, Commodity Futures Trading Commission, 2033 K Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20581. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Pat G. Nicolette, Acting General Counsel, David R. Merrill, Deputy General Counsel, or Ellyn S. Roth, Attorney, Office of the General Counsel, Commodity Futures Trading Commission, 2033 K Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20581. Telephone: (202) 254&hyph;9880. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: I. Statutory Background Section 2(a)(1)(A) of the Act grants the Commission exclusive jurisdiction over ``accounts, agreements (including any transaction which is of the character of *␣*␣* an 'option' *␣*␣*), and transactions involving contracts of sale of a commodity for future delivery traded or executed on a contract market *␣*␣* or any other board of trade, exchange, or market *␣*␣*'' 7 U.S.C. 2. The CEA and Commission regulations require that transactions in commodity futures contracts and commodity option contracts, with narrowly defined exceptions, occur on or subject to the rules of contract markets designated by the Commission. 1 1 Sections 4(a), 4c(b) and 4c(c) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. 6(a), 6c(b), and 6c(c). Section 4(a) of the CEA specifically provides, inter alia , that it is unlawful to enter into a commodity futures contract that is not made ``on or subject to the rules of a board of trade which has been designated by the Commission as a `contract market' for such commodity.'' 7 U.S.C. 6(a). This prohibition does not apply to futures contracts made on or subject to the rules of a foreign board of trade, exchange or market. 7 U.S.C. 6(a).
