FR941117-2-00156 FR941117-2-00104 [Docket No. EA92&hyph;041; Notice 2] General Motors Pickup Truck Defect Investigation AGENCY: National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA), DOT. ACTION: Identification of information sought at public meeting. SUMMARY: On October 27, 1994, NHTSA published a notice that it will hold a public meeting on December 6, 1994 regarding the initial decision by the Secretary of Transportation that certain pickup trucks manufactured by General Motors Corporation (GM) with fuel tanks mounted outside the frame rails contain a defect that relates to motor vehicle safety. The purpose of the meeting is to permit any interested person, including General Motors, to present relevant information to NHTSA and the Secretary on the issue of whether a defect that relates to motor vehicle safety exists in these GM pickup trucks. This supplemental notice identifies particular information that the Secretary believes could be useful in making his final decision on whether to order a recall or to close the investigation. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Ellen Berlin, Director, Office of Public and Consumer Affairs, National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, 400 Seventh Street SW., Washington, DC 20590; (202) 366&hyph;9550. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: On October 17, 1994, Secretary of Transportation Federico Peña announced his initial decision that model year 1973&hyph;1991 full-sized GM pickup trucks and cab-chassis equipped with fuel tanks mounted outboard of the frame rails contain a defect related to motor vehicle safety. At the same time, he released a comprehensive Engineering Analysis (EA) Report that explains in detail the basis for the decision. A summary of that Report is set out in the Federal Register notice announcing that decision. 59 Fed. Reg. 54025 (October 27, 1994). The EA Report makes two fundamental findings. First, on the basis of statistical analysis, laboratory crash tests, and a review of available information concerning specific real- world crashes, the EA Report demonstrates that the GM pickups at issue exhibit an increased risk of fire in side-impact crashes compared to similar vehicles (specifically, to contemporary Ford and Dodge full-sized pickups). Second, primarily on the basis of this increased risk and an analysis of GM's actions (both at the time it designed the trucks and during the period they were in production), the Secretary concluded that this increased risk is unreasonable. On the basis of these findings, and other supplementary information, the Secretary made his initial decision that the GM pickups contain a defect related to motor vehicle safety. The Secretary also announced that, pursuant to 49 U.S.C. §30118 and 49 CFR 554.10, a public meeting will be held on December 6, 1994, in order to afford GM and other interested persons an opportunity to present information, views, and arguments on the issue of whether the vehicles covered by this initial decision contain a defect related to motor vehicle safety. Following the public meeting, the Secretary will decide whether to order a recall of the vehicles or to close the investigation. This defect investigation has raised many important and complex factual, legal, and public policy issues. Substantial interest in those issues has been expressed by affected individuals, auto manufacturers, and members of the general public. The Department believes that the December 6 public meeting will provide a valuable forum and opportunity for both General Motors and the public to address these issues, either in support of or in opposition to the initial decision. To assist in reaching a final decision, interested persons are requested to present relevant information and arguments on issues raised by the investigation and in particular on the issues identified below. Issues Related to the Question of Increased Risk 1. Is there additional information supporting or rebutting the finding in the EA Report that the GM pickups exhibit an increased risk of fire and fatalities/injuries due to fire in side-impact crashes? 2. Is it appropriate in this investigation to focus only on side-impact crashes as opposed to other crash modes? What is the most appropriate focus and why?
