FR941103-2-00148 FR941103-2-00082 •Coordinate with emergency and spill responders on pipeline location and condition, and provide maps and other relevant information to them. •Coordinate with other pipeline operators in the flood area and establish emergency response centers to act as liaison for pipeline problems and solutions. •Determine if facilities which are normally above ground (e.g., valves, regulators, relief sets, etc.) have become submerged and are in danger of being struck by vessels or debris; if possible, such facilities may be marked with an appropriate buoy with Coast Guard approval. •Perform surveys to determine the depth of cover over pipelines and the condition of any exposed pipelines, such as those crossing scour holes. Where appropriate, surveys of underwater pipe should include the use of visual inspection by divers or instrumented detection. Information gathered by these surveys should be shared with landowners. Agricultural agencies may help to inform farmers of the potential hazard from reduced cover over pipelines. •Assure that line markers are still in place or are replaced in a timely manner, and notify contractors, highway departments, and others involved in post-flood restoration activities of the presence of pipelines and the risks posed by reduced cover. If a pipeline operator has suffered damage to its line, or has shut in the line, or has operated at a reduced pressure as a precautionary measure during the flood, the operator should advise the State Pipeline Safety Office (for intrastate lines), or RSPA's Regional Pipeline Safety Office (interstate lines) prior to returning the line to service, on increasing the operating pressure, or otherwise changing the operating status of the line. The State Safety Division or the RSPA Regional Pipeline Safety Office, as appropriate, will advise on a case-by-case basis whether, and under what conditions, a line can safely be returned to full service. Issued in Washington, D.C. on October 28, 1994. George W. Tenley, Jr., Associate Administrator for Pipeline Safety. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;27227; Filed 11&hyph;2&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;60&hyph;P
