FR940706-2-00070 FR940706-2-00039 IV It is further ordered that respondent shall, for a period of not less than four (4) years from the date of service of this order, instruct all future retail store managers who will be engaged in the sale of consumer products on behalf of respondent, before they assume said responsibilities for respondent, as to their specific obligations and duties under the Magnuson-Moss Warranty Act (15 U.S.C. 2301) and this Order. V It is further ordered that respondent shall, within thirty (30) days of the date of service of this Order, develop and implement a program to instruct its sales personnel about the availability and location of warranty information. VI It is further ordered that respondent shall, for a period of not less than five (5) years from the date of service of the Order, maintain and upon request make available to the Federal Trade Commission for inspection and copying (i) copies of all written instructions provided by respondent to its retail store managers and sales personnel regarding their obligations and duties under the Magnuson-Moss Warranty Act (15 U.S.C. 2301) and this Order; (ii) copies of signs posted by respondent in its retail store outlets designed to elicit prospective buyers' attention to the availability of the text of written warranties for review upon request; and (iii) copies of the text of written warranties made readily available by respondent's retail store outlets for examination by prospective buyers on request. VII It is further ordered that respondent, for a period of six (6) years from the date of service of this Order, shall notify the Commission at least thirty (30) days prior to any dissolution, assignment, or sale resulting in the emergence of a successor corporation, the creation of dissolution of subsidiaries, or any other change in the corporation that may affect compliance obligations arising out of the Order. VIII It is further ordered that respondent shall, within sixty (60) days after service of this Order on it, file with the Commission a report in writing, setting forth in detail the manner and form in which it has complied with this Order. Analysis of Proposed Consent Order to Aid Public Comment The Federal Trade Commission has accepted an agreement to a proposed consent order from Montgomery Ward & Co., Incorporated, Chicago, Illinois (``Wards''). Wards is a national chain of retail department stores, and of specialty stores selling appliances and consumer electronics. The proposed consent order has been placed on the public record for sixty (60) days for reception of comments by interested persons. Comments received during this period will become part of the public record. After sixty (60) days, the Commission will again review the agreement and the comments received and will decide whether it should withdraw from the agreement and take other appropriate action, or make final the proposed order contained in the agreement. The complaint alleges that Wards has violated a Rule promulgated by the Federal Trade Commission (16 CFR 702.3(a)) pursuant to the Magnuson-Moss Consumer Warranty Act (15 U.S.C. ยง2301). This Rule requires Wards to maker manufacturers' warranty information available to consumers. The purposes of this Act, and the Rule, are to improve the information available to consumers, to prevent deception, and to promote competition, in the marketing of consumer product warranties offered by manufacturers. The Rule, called the ``Pre-Sale Availability Rule,'' gives retailers the option of either 1) displaying the text of manufacturers' warranties in close proximity to the product display; or 2) furnishing the text of manufacturers' warranties to customers upon request, and prominently displaying signs advising of the availability of such warranties. The complaint alleges that Wards has not complied with either of these options. The proposed order requires Wards to comply with this Rule, to inform its retail store executives of their compliance responsibilities, and to develop a program for instructing its sales personnel about the availability and location of manufacturers' warranty information. Wards will be subject to civil penalties if it does not comply with the order. The purpose of this analysis is to facilitate public comment on the proposed order. It is not intended to constitute an official interpretation of the agreement and proposed order or to modify in any way their terms. Donald S. Clark, Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;16276 Filed 7&hyph;5&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6750&hyph;01&hyph;M
