FR940511-1-00022 FR940511-1-00003 a. Exclude from random drug testing certain groups of workers (e.g., clerical, administrative) who have unescorted access to protected areas but not to vital areas. (Option 2) b. Limit random drug testing to only those workers who have unescorted access to vital areas of nuclear power plants. (Option 3) c. Limit random drug testing to workers whose jobs involve safety- or security-related functions regardless of whether these workers have unescorted access to protected areas. (Option 4) d. Allow use of alternative testing methods in lieu of urinalysis for certain groups of workers who have unescorted access to protected areas (but not to vital areas) only because their normal workstations are within a protected area of the nuclear power plant. These methods could include performance-based testing, even though there are current technical limitations, primarily varying degrees of detectability, reliability, sensitivity, and accuracy. (See also question 7, below.) (Option 5) 3. For each of the four approaches above (2.a&hyph;2.d), what are the potential effects on risk to public health and safety or on vulnerability of nuclear power plants resulting from accidental acts and deliberate acts such as sabotage or vandalism? Will vulnerability or risk increase or decrease to any significant degree, or will they remain unchanged? 4. What would be the expected effect on the need for random drug testing under each of the four approaches above (2.a&hyph;2.d) if vital area access controls are reduced ( e.g., allowing certain vital area doors to normally be unlocked, but be capable of (i) being remotely locked on demand in the event of a security contingency, and (ii) generating an alarm if a vital area door is opened without an authorized keycard )? 5. Does substance abuse increase the probability of a person committing a deliberate act such as sabotage or vandalism? These acts might be caused by indirect influences of drugs on a person's attitude or susceptibility to being influenced by others. What data exist to show a relationship between substance abuse and deliberate acts? Is random drug testing an appropriate means to control the risk of deliberate acts associated with substance abuse and, at the same time, not encroach unreasonably into individual privacy expectations? 6. Does the Commission's policy in 10 CFR part 26 deter the introduction of illegal substances into protected areas of nuclear power plants? If so, what aspect(s) of the FFD program creates this deterrent effect? If not, should the Commission require licensees to implement measures to cause this deterrent effect, and what type of measures should be required? (Information describing the measures and their effectiveness in sufficient detail to show the cause and effect relationship between the deterrent measure and the resulting reduction/elimination of illegal substances being brought into the workplace would be useful.) 7. Should the Commission continue to investigate new testing methods that could be used for all workers who have unescorted access to protected areas? What are some methods that might be acceptable and effective alternatives to the existing approach? For proposed methods, please provide data that establishes accuracy (i.e., test's error rate), specificity (i.e., degree to which the test can measure what it's supposed to measure), reliability (i.e., the precision with which the test can be repeated and the consistency of test results), and similar supporting parameters. The Commission is specifically interested in data on the validity of performance testing measures. Dated at Rockville, Maryland, this 4th day of May 1994. For the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. John C. Hoyle, Assistant Secretary of the Commission. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;11294 Filed 5&hyph;10&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 7590&hyph;01&hyph;P
