FR941004-1-00019 FR941004-1-00002 The Commander, Eighth Coast Guard District, will evaluate all communications received and determine a course of final action on this proposal. The proposed regulation may be changed in the light of comments received. Drafting Information The drafters of this regulation are Mr. John Wachter, project officer, and LT Elisa Holland, project attorney. Background and Purpose LDOTD has requested the new proposed regulation because of a decline in vessel traffic that passes the Kelso Bayou bridge at Hackberry, during certain times of the year. The new proposed regulation would allow the bridge owner relief from having a person available at the bridge site during the periods that vessel traffic is less frequent. This proposed new regulation would create a savings to the taxpayer while still serving the reasonable needs of navigational interest. Discussion of Proposed Rules The Kelso Bayou bridge is a 406 foot structure. Navigational clearances provided by the bridge are 9.1 feet vertical above mean high water in the closed position and unlimited in the open position. Horizontal clearance is 50.0 feet. Navigation on the waterway consists of mainly small and large fishing boats, with occasional small oil field work boats. Data provided by LDOTD show that from January 1, through December 31, the number of vessels that passed the bridge totaled 740 for the year. This breaks down to about 61.6 vessels per month or 2.0 vessels per 24-hour period. Alternate routes are available. They are the Calcasieu Ship Channel, the Intracoastal Canal and the salt ditch. Regulatory Evaluation This proposal is not a significant regulatory action under section 3(f) of Executive Order 12866 and does not require an assessment of potential cost and benefits under section 6(a)(3) of that order. It has not been reviewed by the Office of Management and Budget under that order. It is not significant under the regulatory policies and procedures of the Department of Transportation (DOT) (44 FR 11040; February 26, 1979). The Coast Guard expects the economic impact of this proposal to be so minimal that a full Regulatory Evaluation under paragraph 10e of the regulatory policies and procedures of DOT is unnecessary. Small Entities Under the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. 601 et seq. ), the Coast Guard must consider whether this proposal, if adopted, will have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. ``Small entities'' may include (1) small business and not-for-profit organizations that are independently owned and operated and are not dominant in their fields and (2) governmental jurisdictions with populations of less than 50,000. Since the proposed rule also considers the needs of local commercial fishing vessels; the economic impact is expected to be minimal. Therefore, the Coast Guard certifies under 5 U.S.C. 605(b) that this proposal, if adopted, will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities.
