FR940610-2-00205 FR940610-2-00106 The Secretary anticipates that most of the Department's remaining application notices for new awards for FY 1995 will be included in the second section of the combined notice, to be issued in September 1994, or published as separate application notices before then. The September document will reference all programs and competitions announced in this notice, as well as any for which application notices will have been published in the interim. Within the next month the Secretary intends to publish in the Federal Register amendments to the Education Department General Administrative Regulations (EDGAR) that will change how the Department makes non-competing continuation discretionary grant awards for multi-year projects. The amendments will eliminate the requirement that a recipient submit an application for a continuation award. Instead, the due dates for performance reports will be adjusted so that they can be used to determine whether the recipient has met the criteria for receiving the continuation award. This action is being taken to improve the effectiveness, integrity, and quality of the grant award process and the projects that the Department funds. The amendments will affect the information that an applicant must submit to the Department when it applies for a new grant for a multi-year project. Specifically, the applicant would submit a detailed budget for the entire project period, rather than for only the first budget period of the project. This combined application notice announces the amount the Secretary intends to award for only the first budget period of a multi-year project. In the application package for an individual program or competition, applicants will receive information about the amount the Secretary intends to make available for each year of a multi-year project. That will enable an applicant to provide a detailed budget for each year of the grant, as will be required by the amended regulations. Organization of Notice Each principal program office is assigned a separate chart as follows: Chart 1_Office of Bilingual Education and Minority Languages Affairs. Chart 2_Office of Educational Research and Improvement. Chart 3_Office of Elementary and Secondary Education. Chart 4_Office of Postsecondary Education. Chart 5_Office of Special Education and Rehabilitative Services. Chart 6_Office of Vocational and Adult Education. Each of the charts that lists individual programs or competitions contains the following information: •The CFDA number and the name of each affected program. •The date of availability of applications. •The deadline date for transmitting applications. •For any program subject to the requirements of EO 12372 and the regulations in 34 CFR part 79, the deadline date for transmitting comments under intergovernmental review. •The estimated range of awards. •The estimated average size of awards. •The estimated number of awards. For programs or competitions that have already published in the Federal Register application notices for FY 1995 grants, the chart references the date and page number of the notice. Following the chart for each principal program office are additional details for each affected program with an application notice in this combined notice, including_ •A brief statement of the purpose of the program; •A list of eligible applicants; •A list of regulations applicable to the program; •Information regarding priorities, if any; •Supplemental information, if necessary, regarding selection criteria, any fiscal matters peculiar to the program or competition, or other matters; •The project period in months; •The name, address, and telephone number of the person or office at the Department to contact for applications or information; and •A citation of the statutory or other legal authority for the program. In addition, some programs have listed an estimated award date. Available Funds The Congress has not yet enacted a fiscal year 1995 appropriation for the Department of Education. However, the Department is publishing this notice in order to give potential applicants adequate time to prepare applications. Estimates of the amount of funds available for these programs are based in part on the President's 1995 budget request and in part on the level of funding available for fiscal year 1994. The Department of Education is not Bound by any of the Estimates in this Notice. National Education Goals On March 31, 1994, the President signed into law the Goals 2000: Educate America Act (Pub. L. 103&hyph;227). The Act enunciates eight National Education Goals for the year 2000: •All children in America will start school ready to learn. •The high school graduation rate will increase to at least 90 percent. •All students will leave grades 4, 8, and 12 having demonstrated competency in challenging subject matter, including English, mathematics, science, foreign languages, civics and government, economics, arts, history, and geography; and every school in America will ensure that all students learn to use their minds well, so they may be prepared for responsible citizenship, further learning, and productive employment in our Nation's modern economy. •United States students will be first in the world in mathematics and science achievement.
