FR941212-0-00035 FR941212-0-00014 General Rate Increase Filing Fee Several commenters oppose the proposed filing fee for general rate increases (``GRIs'') in the domestic offshore trade, contending that such filings are for the public benefit, and that the full cost of such review should not be borne by the carrier. 15 However, the proposed filing fee is based on the full cost to the Commission of processing GRI filings, and not on the broader incidental benefits associated with a regulated domestic offshore trade. 16 Further, Commission review of GRIs benefits filers, in that it ensures that they comply with statutory requirements of the Intercoastal Shipping Act, 1933, 46 U.S.C. app. section 843 et. seq., i.e., that filed rates be just and reasonable. 15 PRMSA comments that the filing of GRIs is part of the regulatory regimen established for the benefit of the public_to ensure that the shipping public is treated fairly and without discrimination. 16 The NPR explained how filers of GRIs in the domestic offshore trades specifically benefit because of the potential for increased revenues. The Commission believes that carriers operating in the domestic offshore trades receive a clear and definite benefit from GRIs, and that any public benefit flowing from Commission review of such filings is ``incidental'' to the benefits accruing to the filers. The benefits to carriers include their potential for increased revenues, and assistance in meeting their statutory duty to charge ``just and reasonable'' rates. Therefore, reduction of the GRI filing fee to account for public benefit is not warranted. Matson Navigation Company, Inc. (``Matson'') regards the imposition of a new filing fee at this time as untimely. It points out that the Commission is considering revisions of its methodology for determining the reasonableness of a carrier's GRIs. 17 Matson states that the new GRI fee is based on historic cost data and that there is no indication in the NPR that the Commission has yet made an analysis of what the costs will be under the proposed revised methodology. The Commission is therefore urged to defer implementation of its GRI filing fee proposal until it has developed sufficient cost experience under the new methodology to justify imposition of such a fee. 17 See Docket No. 94&hyph;07, Financial Reporting Requirements and Rate-Of-Return Methodology in the Domestic Offshore Trades, 59 FR 67 (April 7, 1994). Matson's concerns themselves appear untimely, as any new GRI methodology is some time away. If and when the Commission changes methodologies, the cost of processing GRIs under the new method will be studied and adjustment made accordingly. For now, the Commission still employs the current method for determining the reasonableness of GRIs, and the proposed fee reflects the current cost to the Commission of analyzing GRIs. PRMSA comments that including the agency's general and administrative costs and other indirect costs (many of which PRMSA sees as not pertaining to the cost of processing a GRI) is unreasonable and improper. It argues that carriers should not be required to pay Government overhead, which includes matters such as travel, furniture and other expenses of the Commission, and which have little bearing on the processing of those documents. At a maximum, PRMSA urges that the industry should pay only those costs that are directly related to GRI review. As explained in the NPR, the Commission employed the best available data to calculate the proposed filing fees, employing surveys to determine the time and cost involved in providing particular services. The courts have leaned toward reasonableness in attributing costs, not necessarily exactitude. 18 Furthermore, the Commission's method for allocating indirect costs follows what has been generally accepted in Central & Southern. Finally, the Commission deducted certain expenses from its indirect cost calculations so that only relevant expenses remained in calculating the proposed fees. 18 See Engine Manufacturers Association, 20 F.3d at 1177. PRMSA claims that the Commission's proposal to cover the full cost of GRI filings is arbitrary because recouping the full cost does not extend to other types of filings such as formal complaints, petitions, and informal complaints, none of which include the Administrative Law Judges' or Hearing Counsel's time. The Commission's method for the assessment of user fees for GRI filings is similar to the approach used for other Commission activities. The proposed fees for filing formal complaints, petitions, and informal complaints do not include any cost for adjudicatory functions that they may require. 19 Similarly, the proposed fees for GRI and agreement filings do not include any cost for adjudicatory functions. The filing fee for GRIs only covers the analytical staff work in reviewing GRIs. 19 As the Commission explained in the NPR, enforcement activities are not deemed appropriate for assessing fees because they are adjudicatory functions that have broad public significance and a quasi-judicial impact. Finally, PRMSA contends that the Commission's GRI fee of $11,951 is inconsistent with the fees charged by other agencies. PRMSA cites the ICC, which charges a fee of $7,700 to process requests for nationwide and regional collectively filed GRIs under 49 CFR 1002.2(f). FMC review of GRI filings in the domestic offshore trade is distinct in both purpose and resource requirements from the ICC's processing of GRIs. Further, while the FMC adopted the approach used by the ICC in developing a methodology for determining indirect costs, we recognized the need to develop our own fees due to differing cost structures between the two agencies. The proposed fees concerning applications filed by carriers in the domestic offshore trades, requesting permission to deviate from annual reporting requirements, did not elicit any comment and are adopted as final. Based on the foregoing, the Commission is adopting as final the proposed new fees, as amended herein. Because the Commission finds that there is an ``independent'' public benefit associated with tariff and ET filings, the Commission is reducing by half the tariff filing fee to $.17 per filing object, and the ET filing fee to $1.65 per set. See Appendix B for a summary of the new fees established in this proceeding. To permit sufficient time to develop, test, and implement billing procedures for collecting tariff and ET filing fees, the Commission is delaying the effective date for those fees to April 1, 1995. In keeping with OMB guidelines, the Commission intends to update its fees on an annual basis. In updating its fees, the Commission will incorporate changes in the wages and salaries of its employees into direct labor costs associated with its services, and recalculate its indirect costs (overhead) based on current costs. In the NPR, the Commission certified, pursuant to section 605(b) of the Regulatory Flexibility Act, 5 U.S.C. 605(b), that the Proposed Rule would not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities, including small businesses, small organizational units, and small governmental jurisdictions. The Commission did recognize, however, that the proposed new fees may have an impact on the shipping industry, but not of the magnitude that would be contrary to the requirements of the Regulatory Flexibility Act. As mentioned earlier, commenters argue that the proposed tariff and ET filing fees would significantly increase their cost of doing business, and that this additional cost coupled with what they have already spent to convert their paper tariffs to the ATFI system represents an undue burden on the industry.
