FR941004-2-00016 FR941004-2-00007 We made an adjustment to U.S. price for the value-added tax (`VAT'') assessed on comparison sales in Israel, in accordance with our practice, pursuant to the court of International Trade (``CIT'') decision in Federal-Mogul, et al v. United States, 834 F.Supp. 1391 (CIT 1993). ( See Final determination of Sales at Less Than Fair Value: Calcium Aluminate Cement, Cement Clinker and Flux from France, 59 FR 14136, March 25, 1994). Foreign Market Value Carmiel made sales only to the United States and Israel during the POI. Based on the substantial quantity of home market sales in relation to its U.S. sales, we determined that the home market was viable. We have preliminarily determined that respondent's method for determining date of sale is not consistent with the Department's practice. According to the response, Carmiel makes most of its home market sales over the telephone and does not document these orders. Moreover, the company did not know the specific date of each sale, but claimed to know the month in which the sale was made. Therefore, Carmiel reported its home market sales as having occurred the first day of the month in which the sale was made. Our practice with respect to the date of sale is to use the date of the first written document which sets the price and quantity for the sale ( see Certain Stainless Steel Butt-Weld Pipe and Tube fittings From Japan; Final Results of Antidumping Duty Administrative Review (59 FR 12240, 12241; March 16, 1994) and Antifriction Bearings (Other Than Tapered Rolling Bearings) and Parts Thereof From France, et al. , (58 FR 39729,39783; July 26, 1993)). In Carmiel's case, the first written document with this information is the invoice. Thus, according to Commerce practice, Carmiel should have reported home market sales that were invoiced during the POI. For purposes of our preliminary determination, however, we have used the sales reported by respondent. we will be requesting a better explanation of whether the date of sale used by respondent can be documented, or, in the absence of documentation, a new sales listing before verification. We have calculated FMV using the delivered prices reported by Carmiel for its home market sales. We adjusted the prices for discounts offered to home market customers. Also, in light of the decision of the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit in Ad Hoc Committee of AZ-NM-TX-FL Producers of Gray Portland Cement v. United States, 13 F.3d 398 (Fed. Cir., 1994), we deducted post-sale home market movement charges from the FMV under the circumstances-of-sale provision of 19 U.S.C 1677b(a)(4)(B). This adjustment included home market inland freight. We also made circumstance-of-sale-adjustments for differences in credit expenses between the two markets, pursuant to 19 CFR 353.56(a)(2). In calculating U.S. credit expense, we used the borrowing rate in Israel on short-term New Israeli Shekel (``NIS'') loans linked to the dollar. In calculating the home market credit expense, we used the borrowing rate on unliked short-term NIS loans. For a further discussion of the Department's treatment of credit in this investigation, please see Memorandum from Barbara R. Stafford to Susan G. Esserman (September 26, 1994) on file in room B&hyph;099 of the U.S. Department of Commerce. We adjusted for VAT in accordance with our practice. ( See the ``United States Price'' Section of this notice, above.) Currency Conversion we made currency conversions based on the official exchange rates in effect on the dates of the U.S. sales, as published in the International Monetary Fund's International Financial Statistics. Critical Circumstances Petitioner alleges that critical circumstances exist with respect to imports of the subject merchandise from Israel. Section 733(e)(1) of the Act Provides that the Department will determine that critical circumstances exist if: (A)(i) There is a history of dumping in the United States or elsewhere of the class or kind of merchandise which is the subject of this Investigation, or (ii) The person by whom, or for whose account, the merchandise was imported knew or should have known that the exporter was selling the merchandise which is the subject of the investigation at less than its fair value, and (B) there have been massive imports of the class or kind of merchandise which is the subject of this investigation over a relatively short period. Regarding A(i) above, in determining whether there has been a history of dumping, we normally look to see whether there has been an antidumping order in the United States or elsewhere on such or similar merchandise. Regarding (A)(ii) above, we normally consider margins of 25 percent or more for purchase price sales sufficient to impute knowledge of dumping. ( See Final Determination of Sales at Less Than Fair Value; Tapered Roller Bearings and Parts Thereof, Finished or Unfinished, from Italy, 52 FR 24198, June 29, 1987.)
