FR940705-2-00161 FR940705-2-00090 Appendix Q&hyph;II&hyph;D&hyph;2&hyph;p. Restraining devices for animals may be required to avoid damage to the integrity of the containment animal facility. Appendix Q&hyph;II&hyph;D&hyph;2&hyph;q. The supply water distribution system shall be fitted with a back-flow preventer or break tank. Appendix Q&hyph;II&hyph;D&hyph;2&hyph;r. All utilities, liquid and gas services, shall be protected with devices that avoid back-flow. Appendix Q&hyph;II&hyph;D&hyph;2&hyph;s. Sewer and other atmospheric ventilation lines shall be equipped minimally with a single high efficiency particulate/HEPA filter. Condensate drains from these type housings shall be appropriately connected to a contaminated or sanitary drain system. The drain position in the housing dictates the appropriate system to be used. Appendix Q&hyph;III. Footnotes and References for Appendix Q Appendix Q&hyph;III&hyph;A. If recombinant DNA is derived from a Class 2 organism requiring BL2 containment, personnel shall be required to have specific training in handling pathogenic agents and directed by knowledgeable scientists. Appendix Q&hyph;III&hyph;B. Personnel who handle pathogenic and potentially lethal agents shall be required to have specific training and be supervised by knowledgeable scientists who are experienced in working with these agents. BL3&hyph;N containment also minimizes escape of recombinant DNA-containing organisms from exhaust air or waste material from the containment area. Appendix Q&hyph;III&hyph;C. Classes 4 and 5 microorganisms pose a high level of individual risk for acquiring life-threatening diseases to personnel and/or animals. To import Class 5 agents, special approval must be obtained from U.S. Department of Agriculture, Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Import-Export Products, Room 756, Federal Building, 6505 Belcrest Road, Hyattsville, Maryland 20782. Laboratory staff shall be required to have specific and thorough training in handling extremely hazardous infectious agents, primary and secondary containment, standard and special practices, and laboratory design characteristics. The laboratory staff shall be supervised by knowledgeable scientists who are trained and experienced in working with these agents and in the special containment facilities. Within work areas of the animal facility, all activities shall be confined to the specially equipped animal rooms or support areas. The maximum animal containment area and support areas shall have special engineering and design features to prevent the dissemination of microorganisms into the environment via exhaust air or waste disposal. Appendix Q&hyph;III&hyph;D. Other research with non-laboratory animals, which may not appropriately be conducted under conditions described in Appendix Q, may be conducted safely by applying practices routinely used for controlled culture of these biota. In aquatic systems, for example, BL1 equivalent conditions could be met by utilizing growth tanks that provide adequate physical means to avoid the escape of the aquatic species, its gametes, and introduced exogenous genetic material. A mechanism shall be provided to ensure that neither the organisms nor their gametes can escape into the supply or discharge system of the rearing container (e.g., tank, aquarium, etc.) Acceptable barriers include appropriate filtration, irradiation, heat treatment, chemical treatment, etc. Moreover, the top of the rearing container shall be covered to avoid escape of the organism and its gametes. In the event of tank rupture, leakage, or overflow, the construction of the room containing these tanks should prevent the organisms and gametes from entering the building's drains before the organism and its gametes have been inactivated. Other types of non-laboratory animals (e.g., nematodes, arthropods, and certain forms of smaller animals) may be accommodated by using the appropriate BL1 through BL4 or BL1&hyph;P through BL4&hyph;P containment practices and procedures as specified in Appendices G and P. OMB's ``Mandatory Information Requirements for Federal Assistance Program Announcements'' (45 FR 39592) requires a statement concerning the official government programs contained in the Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance. Normally NIH lists in its announcements the number and title of affected individual programs for the guidance of the public. Because the guidance in this notice covers not only virtually every NIH program but also essentially every Federal research program in which DNA recombinant molecule techniques could be used, it has been determined to be not cost effective or in the public interest to attempt to list these programs. Such a list would likely require several additional pages. In addition, NIH could not be certain that every Federal program would be included as many Federal agencies, as well as private organizations, both national and international, have elected to follow the NIH Guidelines. In lieu of the individual program listing, NIH invites readers to direct questions to the information address above about whether individual programs listed in the Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance are affected. Effective Date: June 24, 1994. Harold Varmus, Director, National Institutes of Health. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;16199 Filed 7&hyph;1&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4140&hyph;01&hyph;P
