FR940204-1-00030 FR940204-1-00002 (3) Describe agreements among System institutions regarding capital preservation, loss sharing, or any other forms of financial assistance. (e) Description of capital. (1) Describe the capitalization of the System, including capital structure, types of stock and participation certificates, and voting rights of holders of stock and participation certificates. (2) Describe the statutory requirement that a borrower purchase stock as a condition of obtaining a loan; how such stock is purchased, transferred, and retired; and how earnings are distributed. (3) Describe any statutory or other authority of a System institution to require additional capital contributions from stockholders. (4) Describe regulatory minimum permanent capital standards and capital adequacy requirements for banks and associations. State the number of institutions, if any, categorized by banks and associations, that are not currently in compliance with such standards and include a brief discussion of the reasons for the noncompliance. (5) Describe any statutory and regulatory restrictions on retirement of stock and distribution of earnings by System institutions. State the number of System institutions, if any, categorized by banks and associations, that are currently affected by such restrictions and provide a summary of the causes of such prohibitions. (f) Selected financial data. At a minimum, furnish the following combined financial data of the System in comparative columnar form for each of the last 5 fiscal years. (1) Balance sheet. (i) Loans. (ii) Allowance for losses. (iii) Net loans. (iv) Cash and investments. (v) Other property owned. (vi) Total assets. (vii) FCS debt obligations and other bonds, notes, debentures, and obligations, presented by type, with a descriptive title. (viii) Total liabilities. (ix) Capital stock and surplus. (2) Statement of income. (i) Net interest income. (ii) Net other expenses. (iii) Provision for loan losses. (iv) Extraordinary items. (v) Provision for income taxes. (vi) Net income (loss). (3) Key financial ratios. (i) Return on average assets. (ii) Return on average capital stock and surplus. (iii) Net interest income as a percentage of average earning assets. (iv) Net loan chargeoffs as a percentage of average loans. (v) Allowance for loan losses as a percentage of gross loans outstanding at year end.
