FR940405-0-00006 FR940405-0-00002 This commenter states that provisions of 7 CFR 792.7, which provide for administrative offset prior to the completion of due process requirements in certain circumstances, have the effect of ``swallowing'' due process. The commenter also states that payments should be withheld rather than offset during the period before due process is completed. The language referred to in 7 CFR 792.7 is taken from the Federal Claims Collection Standards with which agencies are required to be consistent. In addition, taking offset prior to completion of due process requirements does not negate any rights which the debtor has. Due process requirements still must be completed. Further, there is no benefit to the debtor in ``withholding'' payment rather than offsetting payment. In either case, the debtor does not have use of the funds. In fact by offsetting payment and applying it to the debt, rather than merely holding the payment, the debtor is ensured that any interest assessment will be stopped. If when due process is completed it is determined that the debtor does not owe the debt, the offset payment will be returned to the debtor, with prompt payment interest when applicable. Finally, this commenter made several broad policy suggestions which were not within the scope of these regulations. These suggestions will not be responded to in this regulation. The second commenter also expressed concern that the provisions of 7 CFR 792.7 which permit offset prior to completion of all due process requirements would negate the due process requirements. As stated above, that is not the case. Due process requirements do not stop because offset is taken. They are still required to be completed in the same time periods regardless of whether or not offset has been taken. This commenter also needed clarification regarding the difference between the cited provision for accelerated offset and the provisions for withholding at 7 CFR 792.9. Withholding is a temporary action and monies withheld are not actually credited to the debtor. It is generally used when the amount due is uncertain. Under accelerated offset, the payment is actually applied to the debt. As stated above, this will ensure that any interest which may be accruing is stopped. This is more difficult to ensure in cases of withholding since in most cases, because the amount due is uncertain, there is no recorded debt to which to apply the payment. List of Subjects in 7 CFR Part 792 Claims, Income taxes. Accordingly, subchapter E, chapter VII of title 7 of the Code of Federal Regulations is amended by adding a new part 792 to read as follows: PART 792_DEBT SETTLEMENT POLICIES AND PROCEDURES Sec. 792.1␣Applicability. 792.2␣Administration. 792.3␣Definitions. 792.4␣Demand for payment of debts. 792.5␣Collection by payment in full.
