FR940916-1-00136 FR940916-1-00016 Train Brake Communication Line means the communication link between the locomotive and cars by which the brake commands are transmitted. This may be a pneumatic pipe, electrical line, or radio signal. Train Brake Information System means the set of procedures developed by a railroad to ensure all information on the present status of a train brake system is communicated to the crew of the train as they take responsibility for the train. Train Brake System means all apparatus or components involved to produce a retarding force to decelerate a train. The train brake system includes, but is not limited to: (1) Brake controls, (2) Brake system software, (3) Brake sensors or monitors, (4) All air brake components, (5) All forms of dynamic brake components, (6) All inter-connecting communication lines or data links, (7) Hand brakes, and (8) All other apparatus required to or involved in producing a retarding force on a train. Train Brake System Inspection means a visual inspection and observation of the functioning of train brake system components in yards by a qualified train brake system inspector or a qualified train crew member to determine that brakes are being applied and released correctly. Train Brake System Monitoring means the procedures used by an engineer to monitor the status of the train brake system while the train is enroute. Train Brake System Test means a process or series of procedures performed to determine the operational status of a train brake system. Train Brake System Tests include: (1) Class 1 Tests, (2) Class 2 Tests, (3) Running Tests, and (4) Transfer Tests. Train, Commuter means a train used to transport passengers on a daily basis to and from major centers of employment. Train, Conventional means a train that operates at 79 mph or less. Train, Excursion means a train that carries passengers on recreational runs, often using antiquated equipment, with conveyance of the passengers to a particular destination not being the principle purpose. Train, Freight means any train using a portion of the general railroad system comprised only of cars designed to haul freight of some type. Train, Heavy means a train of more than 8,000 total trailing tons. Train, High Speed means a train that operates at speeds greater than 125 mph but not exceeding 160 mph. Train, Intermediate Speed means a train that operates at speeds greater than 79 mph but not exceeding 125 mph. Train, Local means a train that travels between a point of origin and a point of final destination, assigned to perform switching service enroute. Train, Long means a train exceeding a total length of 5,000 feet. Train, MU Commuter means a commuter train madeup of electrically self-propelled cars with provisions made to control all the propulsion motors in the train from a single controller. Train, Passenger means a train (using a portion of the general railroad system) to transport passengers excluding excursion and commuter trains. If a train is composed of a mixture of passenger and freight equipment, that train is a passenger train for the purposes of this part. Train, Revenue Service means a train that provides service to the customers of a railroad, whether or not compensation is received by the railroad. Train, Road means a train that travels over main track. Train Set, Passenger means a passenger train including the locomotive(s) or power car(s) and passenger cars that are semi-permanently coupled to operate as a single unit. The individual components are uncoupled only for emergencies or maintenance. Train, Transfer means a train that travels between a point of origin and a point of final destination located less than 20 miles apart, without intermediate switching. Train, Unit Freight means a train composed of cars of a common type or purpose that normally remain coupled that is used to transport a single commodity from a single point of origin to a single destination. Train, Work means a non-revenue service train used for the administration and upkeep service of the railroad. Train, Yard means a train used only to perform switching functions within a single yard area. Wheels Free of Cracks means freight car and conventional passenger car wheels with no visible cracks in the tread surface or flange of the wheel. Worst Case Adhesion Conditions means the minimum available wheel-to-rail adhesion irrespective of speed, condition of the rail, or condition of the wheel. Yard means a system of tracks within defined limits provided for the making up of trains, storing of cars, and other purposes. Yard Air Test means a train brake system test conducted using a source of compressed air other than a locomotive. Zero Slack means slack action between each two units in a train is less than one inch.
