FR940617-2-00112 FR940617-2-00070 Health Resources and Services Administration Final Minimum Percentages for ``High Rate'' and ``Significant Increase in the Rate'' for Implementation of the Statutory General Funding Preference and Final Funding Priority for Grants for Establishment of Departments of Family Medicine_Fiscal Year 1994 The Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA) announces the final minimum percentages for ``high rate'' and ``significant increase in the rate'' for implementation of the statutory general funding preference and final funding priority for fiscal year (FY) 1994 Grants for Establishment of Departments of Family Medicine authorized under the authority of section 747(b) of the Public Health Service (PHS) Act, title VII, as amended by the Health Professions Education Extension Amendments of 1992, Public Law 102&hyph;408, dated October 13, 1992. Purpose Section 747(b) of the PHS Act authorizes support to schools of medicine and osteopathic medicine to meet the costs of projects to establish, maintain, or improve family medicine academic administrative units (which may be departments, divisions, or other units) to provide clinical instruction in family medicine. Funds awarded will be used to: (1) Plan and develop model educational predoctoral, faculty development and graduate medical education programs in family medicine which will meet the requirements of section 747(a), by the end of the project period of section 747(b) support; and (2) support academic and clinical activities relevant to the field of family medicine. The program may also assist schools to strengthen the administrative base and structure that is responsible for the planning, direction, organization, coordination, and evaluation of all undergraduate and graduate family medicine activities. Funds are to complement rather than duplicate programmatic activities for actual operation of family medicine training programs under section 747(a). Statutory General Funding Preference As provided in section 791(a) of the PHS Act, preference will be given to any qualified applicant that_ (A) has a high rate for placing graduates in practice settings having the principal focus of serving residents of medically underserved communities; or (B) during the 2-year period preceding the fiscal year for which an award is sought, has achieved a significant increase in the rate of placing graduates in such settings. This preference will only be applied to applications that rank above the 20th percentile that have been recommended for approval by the peer review group. Statutory Funding Preference Establishment and Expansion In addition, Public Law 102&hyph;408 has amended section 747(b) to include the following statutory funding preference for this program. Section 747(b)(2) provides that preference shall be given to any qualified applicant that agrees to expend the award for one of the following purposes: (a) Establishing an academic administrative unit (defined as a department, division, or other unit), for programs in family medicine; or (b) substantially expanding the programs of such a unit. A program will meet the definition of ``substantial expansion'' if it has developed an acceptable plan for a 50 percent increase in a sufficient number of the following areas to qualify for 70 points. The expansion must be completed within 3 years. ␣ 1␣ 1 Points (1) Required 3rd Year Clerkship 30 (2) Required Preceptorship 20 (3) Family Medicine Research 10 (4) Expansion of Faculty 10 (5) Faculty Development Program for Community Based Faculty 10 (6) Family Medicine Faculty Represented on Medical School Standing Committees of Admissions or Curriculum 10 (7) Family Medicine Faculty Represented on Dean's Executive Committee that determines Tenure 10 A proposed notice was published in the Federal Register on January 6, 1994, at 59 FR 767 for public comment. Several comments were received during the 30-day comment period from one respondent regarding the statutory funding preferences, which are established by law and the established funding priorities for which comments were not requested. The respondent also expressed concern with the proposed funding priority. The respondent suggests that we focus more on the results than activities. These comments will be given serious consideration in the development of funding priorities in future cycles. Therefore, the final minimum percentages for ``high rate'' and ``significant increase in the rate'' and final funding priority for this program will be retained as follows: Final Minimum Percentages for ``High Rate'' and ``Significant Increase in the Rate'' ``High rate'' means that 20 percent of all graduates of the medical school in 1989 or 1990, whichever is greater, are spending at least 50 percent of their work time in clinical practice in the specified settings.
