FR940902-1-00092 FR940902-1-00012 §645.30 How does the Secretary decide which grants to make? (a) The Secretary evaluates an application for a grant as follows: (1)(i) The Secretary evaluates the application on the basis of the selection criteria in §645.31. (ii) The maximum score for all the criteria in §645.31 is 100 points. The maximum score for each criterion is indicated in parentheses with the criterion. (2)(i) If an applicant for a new grant proposes to continue to serve substantially the same target population or schools that the applicant is serving under an expiring project, the Secretary evaluates the applicant's prior experience in delivering services under the expiring Upward Bound project on the basis of the criteria in §645.32. (ii) The maximum score for all the criteria in §645.32 is 15 points. The maximum score for each criterion is indicated in parentheses with the criterion. (b) The Secretary makes grants in rank order on the basis of the application's total scores under paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section. (c) If the total scores of two or more applications are the same and there are insufficient funds for these applications after the approval of higher-ranked applications, the Secretary uses whatever remaining funds are available to serve geographic areas that have been underserved by the Upward Bound program. (d) The Secretary may decline to make a grant to an applicant that carried out a project that involved the fraudulent use of funds under section 402A(c)(2)(B) of the HEA. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1070a&hyph;11, 1070a&hyph;13) §645.31 What selection criteria does the Secretary use? The Secretary uses the following criteria to evaluate an application for a grant: (a) Need for the project (24 points). In determining need for an Upward Bound project, the Secretary reviews each type of project (Regular, Math and Science, or Veterans) using different need criteria. The criteria for each type of project contain the same total weight of 24 points and are as follows: (1) The Secretary evaluates the need for a Regular Upward Bound project in the proposed target area on the basis of_(i) High school dropout rates in the target area; (ii) College-going rates of the high schools in the target area; (iii) Student/counselor ratios of the high schools in the target area; (iv) Income level of families within the target area; (v) Education attainment levels of families within the target area; and (vi) Unaddressed academic, social, or economic problems of low-income, potentially first-generation students in the target area. (2) The Secretary evaluates the need for an Upward Bound Math and Science project in the proposed target area on the basis of_ (i) The extent to which student performance on standardized aptitude or achievement tests in mathematics and science in the proposed target schools, is lower than State and national norms. (ii) The extent to which target schools lack the resources to offer a full range of mathematics and science courses, which are prerequisites for entry into postsecondary programs in mathematics, science, or engineering; (iii) The extent to which attendance data, dropout rates, college-going rates and student/counselor ratios in the target schools indicate the importance of having additional educational opportunities available to low-income, first-generation students; and (iv) The extent to which there are eligible students in the target schools who have demonstrated interest and capacity to pursue academic programs and careers in mathematics and science, and who could benefit from an Upward Bound Math and Science program. (3) The Secretary evaluates the need for a Veterans Upward Bound project in the proposed target area on the basis of clear evidence that shows_ (i) The proposed target area lacks the services for eligible veterans that the applicant proposes to provide; (ii) A large number of veterans who reside in the target area are low income and potential first generation; (iii) A large number of veterans who reside in the target area, have not completed high school or, have completed high school but have not enrolled in a program of postsecondary education; and (iv) Other indicators of need for a Veterans Upward Bound project, including the presence of unaddressed academic or socio-economic problems of veterans in the area. (b) Objectives (9 points). The Secretary evaluates the quality of the applicant's proposed project objectives on the basis of the extent to which they_ (1) Include both process and outcome objectives relating to the purpose of the applicable Upward Bound programs for which they are applying; (2) Address the needs of the target area or target population; and (3) Are measurable, ambitious, and attainable over the life of the project. (c) Plan of operation (30 points). The Secretary determines the quality of the applicant's plan of operation by assessing the quality of_ (1) The plan for identifying, recruiting, and selecting participants to be served by the project; (2) The plan for assessing individual participant needs and for monitoring the academic growth of participants while they are in an Upward Bound project; (3) A follow-up plan for tracking the academic accomplishments of participants after they are no longer participating in the Upward Bound project;
