FR940203-0-00032 FR940203-0-00009 ยง206.36 Public report. Upon making a report to the President of the results of an investigation to which this subpart D relates, the Commission will make such report public (with the exception of information which the Commission determines to be confidential) and cause a summary thereof to be published in the Federal Register . Subpart E_Investigations for Relief From Market Disruption ยง206.41 Applicability of subpart. This subpart E applies specifically to investigations under section 406(a) of the Trade Act. For other applicable rules, see subpart A of this part and part 201 of this chapter. ยง206.42 Who may file a petition. A petition under this subpart E may be filed by an entity, including a trade association, firm, certified or recognized union, or group of workers, that is representative of a domestic industry producing an article with respect to which there are imports of a like or directly competitive article which is the product of a Communist country, which imports, allegedly, are increasing rapidly, either absolutely or relative to domestic production, so as to be a significant cause of a material injury, or the threat thereof, to such domestic industry. ยง206.43 Contents of petition. A petition under this subpart E shall include specific information in support of the claim that imports of an article that are the product of a Communist country which are like or directly competitive with an article produced by a domestic industry, are increasing rapidly, either absolutely or relative to domestic production, so as to be a significant cause of material injury, or the threat thereof, to such domestic industry. In addition, such petition shall, to the extent practicable, include the following information: (a) Product description. The name and description of the imported article concerned, specifying the United States tariff provision under which such article is classified and the current tariff treatment thereof, and the name and description of the like or directly competitive domestic article concerned; (b) Representativeness. (1) The names and addresses of the firms represented in the petition and/or the firms employing or previously employing the workers represented in the petition and the locations of their establishments in which the domestic article is produced; (2) the percentage of domestic production of the like or directly competitive domestic article that such represented firms and/or workers account for and the basis for asserting that petitioner is representative of an industry; and (3) the names and locations of all other producers of the domestic article known to the petitioner; (c) Import data. Import data for at least each of the most recent 5 full years which form the basis of the claim that imports from a Communist country of an article like or directly competitive with the article produced by the domestic industry concerned are increasing rapidly, either absolutely or relative to domestic production; (d) Domestic production data. Data on total U.S. production of the domestic article for each full year for which data are provided pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section; (e) Data showing injury. Quantitative data indicating the nature and extent of injury to the domestic industry concerned: (1) With respect to material injury, data indicating: (i) An idling of production facilities in the industry, including data indicating plant closings or the underutilization of production capacity; (ii) The inability of a number of firms to carry out domestic production operations at a reasonable level of profit; and (iii) Unemployment or underemployment within the industry; and/or (2) With respect to the threat of material injury, data relating to:
