FR940912-0-00028 FR940912-0-00006 The FCC recommended that the proposed definition of ``material'' be expanded to recognize the different levels of reporting and disclosure responsibilities of the System banks and the Funding Corporation. The FCC suggested two separate definitions of ``material.'' One of the suggested definitions would apply to the Banks' reporting responsibilities to the Funding Corporation and the second would apply to the Funding Corporation's disclosure responsibilities on a Systemwide basis as subject to antifraud provisions of the Federal securities laws. Under GAAP, individual materiality judgments are made on a case-by-case basis and materiality is measured at each reporting level in light of surrounding circumstances. The GAAP position is supported by FAC No. 2 and recognizes that no general standards of materiality could be formulated to take into account all the considerations that enter into an experienced human judgment. In line with this approach to the concept of materiality, the FCA believes that it is unnecessary to include, as suggested by the FCC, two separate definitions of ``material.'' Materiality judgments regarding information presented outside the financial statements, while not covered by the GAAP definition, are governed by current standards of materiality under the securities laws. 4 The FCA believes that the case law standard of materiality provides sufficient guidance to the System in preparing information to be presented outside the financial statements. To avoid any confusion between the GAAP materiality standard which governs preparation of the financial statements, and the standard of materiality enunciated in the case law, which governs information presented outside of the financial statements, the proposed definition of ``material'' has been eliminated from the final rule. 4 See TSC Indus., Inc. v. Northway, Inc., 426 U.S. 438, 449 (1976) and cases following. 3. Section 630.2(g)_Definition of ``Report to Investors'' The FCC commented that, although the preamble clarifies that the term ``report to investors'' used throughout the proposed rule is intended to mean the Information Statement currently published by the Funding Corporation, confusion exists as to whether the term refers to the FCS Report or the Information Statement. Because the FCS Report currently prepared by the Funding Corporation contains certain information that is not part of the System Disclosure Program, and for which System banks are not responsible, the FCC suggested that all references to the ``report to investors'' in the regulation be replaced with the term ``Information Statement.'' The FCA does not intend to regulate the name of the report required by this part. The term ``report to investors'' used in the proposed rule is merely a general reference to the disclosure document required by this part. However, in response to the FCC's comment, a new definition of ``report to investors'' has been added as ยง630.2(g) of the final rule to clarify that the term ``report to investors'' referred to in the regulations means ``a report that presents the Systemwide combined financial statements, supplemental financial statement information, and related financial and nonfinancial information pertaining to the System required by this part.'' Under this provision, a document containing only information that is not required by this part and that is clearly identified as separate from the required report will not be subject to this final rule.
