FR940318-0-00145 FR940318-0-00023 Several commenters believed EPA was unclear in its distinctions between new and retrofit substitutes. In response, EPA has clarified this difference in this final rule. A tension exists between deeming substitutes acceptable for as wide a range of end-uses as possible and providing some guidance to users on effective substitutes. Several commenters suggested duplicating listings for retrofits and new equipment, but that duplication does not always serve the goal of disseminating information about viable substitutes. Certain substances may not be attractive for long-term use because they contain HCFCs, and thus may only be listed for retrofits. Alternatively, substitutes may not be easily implemented as a retrofit. It should be noted, however, that an acceptability determination for use in new equipment or as a retrofit option does not imply that the alternative is unacceptable for use in the other category. The retrofit category within each end-use refers to the use of substitutes with some modification to existing equipment but without changing every component. Generally speaking, retrofit refrigerants will not require completely new systems or redesign. Drop-in replacements require minimal retrofitting, as in cases where only the refrigerant needs to be replaced. The new equipment category within each end-use refers to the use of substitutes in entirely new systems. No existing components will be used. This designation may be used for refrigerants which may require significant design changes. For example, use of a flammable substitute may require some design changes to mitigate potential risk. Submitters must demonstrate how those risks can be addressed in new designs. In addition, alternative technologies often require entirely different systems. For example, evaporative cooling does not use a vapor compression cycle, and therefore cannot be used as a retrofit option. For purposes of submissions, the retrofit and new use categories should be considered separate end-uses and listed separately on the submission form. 4. Listing Decisions a. Acceptable substitutes. These determinations are based on data submitted to EPA and on the risk screen described in the draft background document entitled ``Risk Screen on the Use of Substitutes for Class I Ozone-Depleting Substances: Refrigerants''. In accordance with the guiding principles for SNAP, substitutes were compared both to the substance they replace and to each other. EPA believes the use of all acceptable substitutes presents lower overall risk than the continued use of an ozone-depleting substance. Not all substitutes will necessarily be appropriate choices for all systems within an end-use. Engineering decisions must take into account factors such as operating temperatures and pressures, ambient conditions, and age of equipment, especially during retrofits. For example, under industrial process refrigeration, both HFC&hyph;134a and HCFC&hyph;22 are listed as acceptable for retrofits. However, these substances exhibit significantly different thermodynamic characteristics, and both may not be appropriate for use within a given system. EPA believes such decisions are most appropriately made by the equipment owner, manager, or contractor. Users of HCFCs should be aware that an acceptability determination shall not be construed to release any user from compliance with all other regulations pertaining to class II substances. These include: (a) The prohibition against venting during servicing under section 608, which was effective July 1, 1992; (b) recycling requirements under section 608, which were effective July 13, 1993; (c) section 609 regulations regarding MVACS which were effective August 13, 1992; and (d) the revised production phaseout of class II substances under section 606, which was published on December 10, 1993. In addition, users of non-chlorine refrigerants should be aware that an acceptability determination shall not be construed to release any user from conformance with the venting prohibition under section 608(c)(2), which takes effect November 15, 1995, at the latest. Substitutes are listed as acceptable by end-use. These substitutes have only been found acceptable for use in the specific end-uses for which they have been reviewed, as described in this section. Users of blends should be aware that EPA has evaluated and found acceptable in each case only the specific percentage composition submitted for review; no others have been evaluated. EPA strongly recommends that users of alternative refrigerants adhere to the provisions of ASHRAE Standard 15_Safety Code for Mechanical Refrigeration. ASHRAE Standard 34_Number Designation and Safety Classification of Refrigerants is a useful reference on refrigerant numerical designations. Users are also strongly encouraged to contain, recycle, or reclaim all refrigerants. (1) CFC&hyph;11 Centrifugal Chillers, Retrofit. (a) HCFC&hyph;123. HCFC&hyph;123 is acceptable as a substitute for CFC&hyph;11 in retrofitted centrifugal chillers. Because HCFC&hyph;123 contributes to ozone depletion, it is considered a transitional alternative. Since it poses much lower ozone-depleting risk than continued use of CFCs, EPA has determined that its use is acceptable for these end-uses. In addition, HCFC&hyph;123's GWP and atmospheric lifetime are significantly lower than almost any other alternatives. HCFC&hyph;123 is not flammable. Since HCFC&hyph;123 is classified as a B1 refrigerant pursuant to ASHRAE standard 34, ASHRAE requires that a refrigerant vapor detector be placed in the machinery room. EPA strongly recommends that users of HCFC&hyph;123 adhere to this requirement and any other requirements provided in ASHRAE Standards 15 and 34. Worker-monitoring studies conducted by EPA demonstrate that HCFC&hyph;123's 8-hour time-weighted average concentration can be maintained at or under 1 ppm (less than the industry-established AEL of 30 ppm), provided that such standards are followed.
