FR941125-1-00021 FR941125-1-00007 l. requirements for VOC emission offsets for new and modified minor VOC sources m. increased ratio of emission offsets required for new sources; and n. requirements for VOC controls on new minor sources. The contingency measures may be considered for Jersey County or for upwind areas whose emissions impact the air quality in Jersey County. The selection of a particular contingency measure for implementation will be based on VOC emission reduction potential, cost-effectiveness, economic and social considerations, or other factors that the IEPA deems to be appropriate. (5) Emission control authority and additional commitments. The IEPA certifies that it has the authority to continue the application of existing emission control measures and additional emission control measures if required. The IEPA commits to continue monitoring of ozone in Jersey County for the purposes of tracking continued maintenance of the ozone standard attainment. Additionally, the IEPA commits to revise the maintenance plan as necessary to comply with any subsequent USEPA finding that the maintenance plan is inadequate to maintain attainment of the ozone NAAQS (such a finding would be made by the USEPA if subsequent violations of the ozone standard showed that the maintenance plan is adequate to maintain attainment of the ozone standard or to further lower emissions after a monitored violation of the ozone standard) and to revise the maintenance plan in eight years in compliance with section 175A of the Act. (6) Demonstration of maintenance. To demonstrate maintenance of the NAAQS, the IEPA has projected VOC, NOx, and CO emissions to 2004, ten years after USEPA is expected to approve the redesignation of Jersey County. Emission projections were based on methodology consistent with USEPA guidelines. For stationary point sources, the IEPA used growth factors obtained from Regional Economic Models, Incorporated (REMI) using Illinois-specific data. Area source and off-highway emissions were projected using population projections and other factors consistent with the approach used to project emissions in the State's 15 percent rate of progress plan (currently under development). On-highway emissions were projected assuming an annual growth rate of 2.5 percent as estimated by the Illinois Department of Transportation. On-highway emissions were estimated using MOBILE5a. Emission estimates for the attainment base year (1990), 2006, and several interim years are given below:
