FR940603-0-00144 FR940603-0-00029 CHAPTER 2_AMENDMENTS TO THE FIELD OF MEMBERSHIP I_Introduction As stated in Chapter 1, Section 5 of every federal credit union's charter defines the groups the credit union is legally entitled to serve. There are a number of instances in which Section 5 may need to be changed. On each of these occasions, the federal credit union must obtain approval from NCUA before amending its charter. First, a group not included in a federal credit union's charter may wish to be served by that credit union. This may occur through agreement between the group and the credit union directly, or through a merger, purchase and assumption (P&A), or spin-off. Second, a federal credit union may wish to change it common bond entirely_from an occupational to a community credit union, for example, or vice versa. Third, which is discussed in Chapter 3, a state-chartered credit union may wish to convert to a federal charter. (The field of membership of a federal credit union converting to a state charter is determined under applicable state law, except to the extent that the credit union seeks to continue to be federally insured and the proposed new field of membership would adversely affect the safe and sound operation of the institution.) Finally, a federal credit union may wish to remove a group from its field of membership_for example, through agreement with the group or a spin-off. NCUA's goals with respect to amendments of federal credit union charters are the same as for including groups in the charters of new federal credit unions. The Agency's analysis, therefore, is also similar, though adapted for the different circumstances in which the issue arises_primarily the facts that the federal credit union is in existence and has a history of service that can be evaluated. The three issues NCUA must evaluate in deciding whether to approve a change in a federal credit union's field of membership are: •whether the change satisfies NCUA's common bond requirements; •whether the interests of the groups to be added are demonstrated; and •whether the change is economically advisable. II_Additions Through Direct Agreement With a Group The most common type of addition to a federal credit union's field of membership is through agreement with the group itself. The requirements are similar to those for including a group in a federal credit union's charter initially. II.A_Common Bond Requirement II.A.1_Additions to Fields of Membership of Occupational, Associational, and Multiple Occupational/Associational Federal Credit Unions As with new multiple occupational/associational federal credit unions, occupational and associational groups may be added to occupational, associational, and multiple occupational/associational federal credit unions in two ways. If the group is part of an occupational or associational common bond which constitutes a majority of the federal credit union's field of membership, the group may be added regardless of location. These are commonly called ``common bond additions.'' For any other occupational or associational common bond, the group must be within the credit union's operational area. These are commonly called ``select group additions.'' The requirements for common bond additions are identical to those for inclusion of occupational and associational common bonds in a credit union's initial field of membership; please refer to Section II.A and II.B of Chapter 1 for guidance. The requirements for select groups additions are similar to those set forth in Section II.D of Chapter 1 for inclusion of other associational and occupational groups in a multiple group federal credit union's field of membership initially, with this exception: The credit union may add groups within the operational areas of one of its planned service facilities if: •The planned facility begins operation shortly after the group is added; and •The current field of membership constitutes a significant portion of the total field of membership to be served initially by the proposed facility. Although the addition of a new select group alone is not enough to justify a planned service facility, it is permissible to include new groups as partial justification for such a facility. Moreover, in the case of a planned facility, NCUA may, in its discretion, require financial projections and/or a business plan supporting amendments around that service facility in order to determine the economic feasibility and to address any safety and soundness concerns of the amendment. II.A.2_Additions to the Common Bond of a Community Federal Credit Union Community federal credit unions, except those designated low-income or distressed, may expand their fields of membership only by redefining their boundaries. There must be interaction among persons who live or work within the proposed well-defined neighborhood, community or rural district. The burden of proof for existence of the common bond is placed upon the applicant credit union. In the majority of cases where community credit unions are asking to expand their areas of service, and in all cases where a conversion to a community charter is proposed, an NCUA staff member will make a documented on-site evaluation of the proposal. The staff member will prepare a separate analysis of the proposed amendment, independent of the credit union's application. Following completion of the on-site evaluation and regional office review of the staff member's report, the regional director will act on the proposal. Certain expansions require NCUA Board consideration. II.A.3_Special Situations II.A.3.a_General The special rules for credit unions serving low-income persons, serving retirees and senior citizens over 50 years old, and serving employees at industrial parks, shopping centers and similar facilities apply equally to field of membership additions. However, there are two special situations unique to existing federal credit unions: (1) corporate restructurings and (2) plant or base closings, and other kinds of distress to a substantial portion of a credit union's membership. II.A.3.b_Corporate Restructuring
