FR940419-2-00056 FR940419-2-00033 Total Direct Charges_Line 6i. Enter the total of Lines 6a through 6h. Indirect Charges_6j. Enter the total amount of indirect charges (costs). If no indirect costs are requested, enter none. Generally, this line should be used when the applicant (except local governments) has a current indirect cost rate agreement approved by the Department of Health and Human Services or another Federal agency. Local and State governments should enter the amount of indirect costs determined in accordance with HHS requirements. When an indirect cost rate is requested, these costs are included in the indirect cost pool and should not be charged again as direct costs to the grant. Justification: Enclose a copy of the indirect cost rate agreement. Total_Line 6k. Enter the total amounts of lines 6i and 6j. Program Income_Line 7. Enter the estimated amount of income, if any, expected to be generated from this project. Do not add or subtract this amount from the total project amount. Justification: Describe the nature, source, and anticipated use of program income in the Program Narrative Statement. Section C_Non-Federal Resources. This section summarizes the amounts of non-Federal resources that will be applied to the grant. Enter this information on line 12 entitled Totals. In-kind contributions are defined in 45 CFR 74.51 and 45 CFR 92.3, as property or services which benefit a grant-supported project or program and which are contributed by non-Federal third parties without charge to the grantee, the subgrantee, or a cost-type contractor under the grant or subgrant. Justification: Describe third party in-kind contributions, if included. Section D_Forecasted Cash Needs. Not applicable. Section E_Budget Estimate of Federal Funds Needed For Balance of the Project. This section should only be completed if the total project period exceeds 12 months. Totals_Line 20. For projects that will have more than one budget period, enter the estimated required Federal funds for the second budget period (months 13 through 24) under column (b) First. If a third budget period will be necessary, enter the Federal funds needed for months 25 through 36 under (c) Second. Columns (d) and (e) are not applicable in most instances, since ACF funding is almost always limited to a three-year maximum project period. Columns (d) and (e) would be used in the case of a 60 month project. Section F_Other Budget Information. Direct Charges_Line 21. Not applicable. Indirect Charges_Line 22. Enter the type of indirect rate (provisional, predetermined, final or fixed) that will be in effect during the funding period, the estimated amount of the base to which the rate is applied, and the total indirect expense. Remarks_Line 23. If the total project period exceeds 12 months, you must enter your proposed non-Federal share of the project budget for each of the remaining years of the project. 3. Project Summary Description Clearly mark this separate page with the applicant name as shown in item 5 of the SF 424, the priority area number as shown at the top of the SF 424, and the title of the project as shown in item 11 of the SF 424. The summary description should not exceed 300 words. These 300 words become part of the computer database on each project. Care should be taken to produce a summary description which accurately and concisely reflects the proposal. It should describe the objectives of the project, the approaches to be used and the outcomes expected. The description should also include a list of major products that will result from the proposed project, such as software packages, materials, management procedures, data collection instruments, training packages, or videos (please note that audiovisuals should be closed captioned). The project summary description, together with the information on the SF 424, will constitute the project abstract. It is the major source of information about the proposed project and is usually the first part of the application that the reviewers read in evaluating the application. At the bottom of the page, following the summary description, type up to 10 key words which best describe the proposed project, the service(s) involved and the target population(s) to be covered. These key words will be used for computerized information retrieval for specific types of funded projects. 4. Program Narrative Statement The Program Narrative Statement is a very important part of an application. It should be clear, concise, and address the specific requirements mentioned under the priority area description in Part II. The narrative should provide information concerning how the application meets the evaluation criteria (see Section C, Part III), using the following headings:
