FR941011-0-00004 FR941011-0-00002 List of Subjects in 7 CFR Part 271 Administrative practice and procedure, Claims, Food stamps, Penalties. Accordingly, 7 CFR part 271 is amended as follows: PART 271_GENERAL INFORMATION AND DEFINITIONS 1. The authority citation for part 271 continues to read as follows: Authority: 7 U.S.C. 2011&hyph;2032. 2. Section 271.5 is amended by adding a new paragraph (e), as follows: ยง271.5 Coupons as obligations of the United States, crimes and offenses, forfeiture and denial of property rights. * * * * * (e) Forfeiture and denial of property rights. (1) General. (i) Any nonfood items, moneys, negotiable instruments, securities, or other things of value furnished or intended to be furnished by any person in exchange for food coupons, authorization cards, or other program benefit instruments or access devices in any manner not authorized by the Food Stamp Act or regulations issued pursuant to the Act, shall be subject to forfeiture and denial of property rights. Such property is deemed forfeited to the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) at the time it is either exchanged or offered in exchange. (ii) These forfeiture and denial of property rights provisions shall apply to property exchanged or offered in exchange during investigations conducted by the Inspector General, USDA, and by other authorized Federal law enforcement agencies. (iii) These forfeiture and denial of property rights provisions shall not apply to property exchanged or intended to be exchanged during the course of internal investigations by retail firms, during investigations conducted solely by State and local law enforcement agencies and without the participation of an authorized Federal law enforcement agency, or during compliance investigations conducted by the Food and Nutrition Service. (2) Custodians and their responsibilities. (i) The Inspector General, USDA, the Inspector General's designee, and other authorized Federal law enforcement officials shall be custodians of property acquired during investigations. (ii) Upon receiving property subject to forfeiture the custodian shall: (A) Place the property in an appropriate location for storage and safekeeping, or (B) Request that the General Services Administration (GSA) take possession of the property and remove it to an appropriate location for storage and safekeeping. (iii) The custodian shall store property received at a location in the judicial district where the property was acquired unless good cause exists to store the property elsewhere. (iv) Custodians shall not dispose of property prior to the fulfillment of the notice requirements set out in paragraph 3, or prior to the conclusion of any related administrative, civil, or criminal proceeding, without reasonable cause. Reasonable cause to dispense with notice requirements might exist, for example, where explosive materials are being stored which may present a danger to persons or property. (v) Custodians may dispose of any property in accordance with applicable statutes or regulations relative to disposition. The custodian may: (A) Retain the property for official use; (B) Donate the property to Federal, State, or local government facilities such as hospitals or to any nonprofit charitable organizations recognized as such under section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code; or (C) Request that GSA take custody of the property and remove it for disposition or sale. (vi) Proceeds from the sale of forfeited property and any moneys forfeited shall be used to pay all proper expenses of the proceedings for forfeiture and sale including expenses of seizure, maintenance of custody, transportation costs, and any recording fees. Moneys remaining after payment of such expenses shall be deposited into the general fund of the United States Treasury. (3) Notice requirements. (i) The custodian shall make reasonable efforts to notify the actual or apparent owner(s) of or person(s) with possessory interests in the property subject to forfeiture except for the good cause exception if the owner cannot be notified. (ii) The notice shall: (A) Include a brief description of the property; (B) Inform the actual or apparent owner(s) of or person(s) with possessory interests in the property subject to forfeiture of the opportunity to request an administrative review of the forfeiture; (C) Inform the actual or apparent owner(s) of or person(s) with possessory interests in the property subject to forfeiture of the requirements for requesting administrative review of the forfeiture; and (D) State the title and address of the official to whom a request for administrative review of the forfeiture may be addressed. (iii) Except as provided in paragraphs (e)(3) (iv) and (v) of this section, notice shall be given within 45 days from the date the United States convicts, acquits, or declines to act against the person who exchanged the property.
