FR940505-1-00431 FR940505-1-00012 (C) By the applicable compliance date specified in paragraph (u)(5) of this section, any owner or operator of a unit subject to the requirements of paragraph (u)(3)(i) of this section shall submit to the Administrator certification that the unit is in compliance with the applicable standards in paragraph (u)(3)(i) of this section as demonstrated through the applicable requirements of paragraph (u)(6)(ii)(A) or (u)(7)(i) of this section. As a part of the certification, the owner or operator shall submit a written report of the results of the compliance method used. If an owner or operator demonstrates compliance by use of a compliance test in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (u)(7)(i) of this section, the owner or operator shall provide the Administrator at least 30 days prior notice of the compliance test to afford the Administrator the opportunity to have an observer present. (D) Any owner or operator that must or chooses to demonstrate compliance with paragraph (u)(3)(i) of this section shall submit to the Administrator a written report of the results of all compliance tests required under paragraph (u)(3)(i)(D) or (E) of this section within 60 days after completing each compliance test. The owner or operator shall provide the Administrator at least 30 days prior notice of the compliance test to afford the Administrator the opportunity to have an observer present. (E) By the applicable compliance date specified in paragraph (u)(5) of this section, any owner or operator of a unit subject to the requirements of paragraph (u)(3)(ii) of this section shall submit to the Administrator a report that documents the compliance method selected for demonstrating compliance with the requirements of paragraph (u)(3)(ii) of this section. The report shall also contain documentation of the procedure used or the results of the compliance method to demonstrate that the unit is in compliance with the requirements of paragraph (u)(3)(ii) of this section. (F) Any owner or operator subject to the requirements of paragraph (u)(3)(ii) of this section shall submit to the Administrator a report every 12 months after the initial compliance date that contains documentation of the procedure used and the results of the compliance method to demonstrate that the unit is in compliance with the requirements of paragraph (u)(3)(ii) of this section. (G) Any owner or operator subject to the monitoring requirements of paragraph (u)(6)(ii)(B) of this section shall notify the Administrator in writing within 30 days after the rolling 12 calendar month annual heat input rate of the unit equals or exceeds 9 × 1.2 × 10 9 Btu/yr. Any owner or operator that becomes subject to the requirements of paragraph (u)(3)(i) of this section as a result of the requirements of this paragraph shall be subject to the compliance schedule in paragraph (u)(5)(iv) of this section and the applicable requirements of paragraphs (u)(6) and (u)(7) of this section.
