FR940822-2-00152 FR940822-2-00061 2. Financial Reporting In order to obtain financial information concerning the use of funds, the Institute requires that grantees/subgrantees of these funds submit timely reports for review. Two copies of the Financial Status Report are required from all grantees, other than recipients of scholarships under section II.B.2.b.v., for each active quarter on a calendar-quarter basis. This report is due within 30 days after the close of the calendar quarter. It is designed to provide financial information relating to Institute funds, State and local matching shares, and any other fund sources included in the approved project budget. The report contains information on obligations as well as outlays. A copy of the Financial Status Report, along with instructions for its preparation, will be included in the official Institute Award package. In circumstances where an organization requests substantial payments for a project prior to the completion of a given quarter, the Institute may request a brief summary of the amount requested, by object class, in support of the Request for Advance or Reimbursement. Grantees receiving a continuation or on-going support grant should provide financial information and number their quarterly Financial Status Reports on a project rather than a grant basis. Grantees receiving a package grant must submit a quarterly financial report summarizing the financial activity for the entire package and separate reports for each project within the package. On the separate reports for the component projects, the alphabetic project identifier (A, B, C, etc.) must be appended to the grant number in Block 5 of the Financial Status Report. 3. Consequences of Non-Compliance With Submission Requirements Failure of the grantee organization to submit required financial and program reports may result in a suspension of grant payments or revocation of the grant award. H. Allowability of Costs 1. General Except as may be otherwise provided in the conditions of a particular grant, cost allowability shall be determined in accordance with the principles set forth in OMB Circulars A&hyph;87, Cost Principles for State and Local Governments; A&hyph;21, Cost Principles Applicable to Grants and Contracts with Educational Institutions; and A&hyph;122, Cost Principles for Non-Profit Organizations. No costs may be recovered to liquidate obligations which are incurred after the approved grant period. 2. Costs Requiring Prior Approval a. Preagreement Costs. The written prior approval of the Institute is required for costs which are considered necessary to the project but occur prior to the award date of the grant. b. Equipment. Grant funds may be used to purchase or lease only that equipment which is essential to accomplishing the goals and objectives of the project. The written prior approval of the Institute is required when the amount of automated data processing (ADP) equipment to be purchased or leased exceeds $10,000 or the software to be purchased exceeds $3,000.
