FR940719-2-00164 FR940719-2-00098 [Treasury Order Number 101&hyph;05] Reporting Relationships and Supervision of Officials, Offices and Bureaus, Delegation of Certain Authority, and Order of Succession in the Department of the Treasury; Organization Dated: May 11, 1994. By virtue of the authority vested in the Secretary of the Treasury, including the authority vested by 31 U.S.C. 321(b), 31 U.S.C. 301(d), as amended, dated February 12, 1994, and Executive Order 11822, dated December 10, 1974, it is ordered that: 1. The Deputy Secretary shall report directly to the Secretary. 2. The Chief of Staff shall report directly to the Secretary and shall exercise supervision over the Director, Secretary's Scheduling Office. 3. The Executive Secretary and Senior Adviser to the Secretary shall report directly to the Secretary and shall exercise supervision over the functions of the Executive Secretariat; the Deputy Executive Secretary (Public Liaison); and, for purposes of administrative and managerial control, over the Special Assistant to the Secretary (National Security). The Special Assistant to the Secretary (National Security) shall report to the Secretary and the Deputy Secretary. 4. The following officials shall report through the Deputy Secretary to the Secretary and shall exercise supervision over those officers and organizational entities set forth on the attached organizational chart: Under Secretary (International Affairs) Under Secretary (Domestic Finance) Under Secretary (Enforcement) General Counsel Assistant Secretary (Economic Policy) Assistant Secretary (Legislative Affairs) Assistant Secretary (Management) Assistant Secretary (Public Affairs) Assistant Secretary (Tax Policy) Inspector General Commissioner of Internal Revenue 5. The Assistant Secretary (Management) serves as the Department's Chief Financial Officer pursuant to the Chief Financial Officers Act of 1990, Public Law 101&hyph;576. 6. The Deputy Secretary is authorized, in that official's own capacity and that official's own title, to perform any functions the Secretary is authorized to perform and shall be responsible for referring to the Secretary any matter on which action would appropriately be taken by the Secretary. 7. The Under Secretaries, the General Counsel, and the Assistant Secretaries are authorized to perform any functions the Secretary is authorized to perform. Each of these officials will ordinarily perform under this authority only functions which arise out of, relate to, or concern the activities or functions of, or the laws administered by or relating to, the bureaus, offices, or other organizational units over which the incumbent has supervision. Each of these officials shall perform under this authority in the official's own capacity and the official's own title and shall be responsible for referring to the Secretary any matter on which action would appropriately be taken by the Secretary. Any action heretofore taken by the Deputy Secretary or any of these officials in the incumbent's own title is hereby affirmed and ratified as the action of the Secretary. 8. The following officials shall, in the order of succession indicated, act as Secretary of the Treasury in case of the death, resignation, absence or sickness of the Secretary and other officers succeeding the incumbent, until a successor is appointed, or until the absence or sickness shall cease: a. Deputy Secretary; b. The following individuals, in the order of the date on which they were first appointed to a position within the Department requiring appointment by the President by and with the advice and consent of the Senate: •Under Secretary (International Affairs); •Under Secretary (Domestic Finance); and •Under Secretary (Enforcement); c. General Counsel; and d. Assistant Secretaries, appointed by the President with Senate confirmation, in the order designated by the Secretary. 9. To the extent that any provision of any other Order of the Department is inconsistent with any provision of this Order, the provisions of this Order shall govern. 10. Cancellation. Treasury Order 101&hyph;05, ``Reporting Relationships and Supervision of Officials, Offices and Bureaus, Delegation of Certain Authority, and Order of Succession in the Department of the Treasury,'' dated November 23, 1993, is superseded as of this date. Lloyd Bentsen, Secretary of the Treasury. BILLING CODE 4810&hyph;25&hyph;P E:GRAPHICSEN19MY94.058 [FR Doc. 94&hyph;12170 Filed 5&hyph;18&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4810&hyph;25&hyph;C
