FR940318-0-00127 FR940318-0-00023 19. Information Already Available in the Literature If any of the data needed to complete the SNAP program notice are available in the literature, the submitter should provide the Agency with references for such information. Failure to provide the Agency with an accurate and complete citation may delay review of the notice. Additionally, submitters are encouraged to provide copies of any literature to expedite review, particularly if the citation is from a source not readily available. Any references from sources in foreign languages should be translated into English prior to submission. Submissions should be sent to the SNAP Coordinator at the address referenced at the beginning of this final rule. All submissions must be provided in three complete copies. If information is claimed as confidential, all confidential information must be excised from one of the three copies. This copy will be placed in the public docket. The other two copies should include the confidential material. If no claims of confidentiality are made for the submission, all three copies should be identical. (See below, as well as appendix C, for further guidance on handling of confidential information under SNAP.) C. Submission of Confidential Business Information 1. Clean Air Act Provisions Anyone submitting information for which Confidential Business Information (CBI) status is requested must assert a claim of confidentiality at the time of submission. Failure to assert a claim of confidentiality at the time of submission may result in disclosure of the information by the Agency without further notice to the submitter. Further, it should be noted that information which is publicly available (e.g., in journals, trade magazines, product literature, etc.) cannot be claimed as CBI. Requesting CBI status for such information could delay review under section 612. All claims of confidentiality will be treated in a manner consistent with 40 CFR part 2, subpart B. The submitter should be advised that under CAA section 114(c), emissions data may not be claimed as confidential. Moreover, there are further instances in which confidentiality assertions may later be reconsidered by the Agency even when confidentiality claims are originally received. These circumstances are provided in the provisions of 40 CFR part 2, subpart B. The submitter will be contacted as part of this evaluation process when such a circumstance occurs. 2. Substantiation of Confidentiality Claims In the NPRM, EPA proposed to require substantiation of any confidentiality claims at the time of submission. In making these claims, the following provisions apply: _The specific information to which the claim applies must be clearly marked in the body of the study as subject to a claim of confidentiality; _A Supplemental Statement of Data Confidentiality Claims must be submitted, identifying each section claimed confidential and describing in detail the basis for the claim. (A list of points to address in such a statement is included in appendix C); _The Supplemental Statement of Data Confidentiality Claims must be signed and dated and must include the typed name and title of the official who signed it. EPA also stated that if required substantiation is not provided when submitting information claimed as confidential, the complete submitted information may be made available to the public without further notice to the submitter. Several commenters indicated that EPA should contact the submitter before releasing information marked as confidential to the public even if it does not contain adequate substantiation. One commenter also indicated that complete substantiation should not be required until the end of the 90 day review period and that any issue regarding the adequacy of CBI substantiation should not delay the review process. EPA agrees with the comment that submitters should be notified prior to disclosure to the public of information marked as confidential where substantiation, although it may be inadequate, has been provided. This will give the submitter opportunity to provide the necessary additional substantiation or withdraw the submission. However, an acceptability determination on a substitute will not be published until all claims of CBI have been fully substantiated under the provisions described above. Additionally, should no substantiation of CBI claims be provided, EPA may make the complete submittal available to the public without further notice to the submitter. 3. Confidentiality Provisions for Toxicity Data In the event that toxicity or health and safety studies are listed as confidential, the submitter should be advised that this information cannot be maintained as confidential where such data are also submitted under TSCA or FIFRA to the extent that confidential treatment is prohibited under those statutes. However, any information other than emissions data contained in the toxicity study that is not health and safety data and is not relevant to the effects of a substance on human health and the environment (e.g., discussion of process information, proprietary blends) can be maintained as confidential subject to the provisions of 40 CFR part 2, subpart B. The Agency is therefore requesting that submitters not identify the following information as confidential when submitting information under TSCA or FIFRA: All information concerning the objectives, methodology, results, or significance of any toxicity test or experiment performed on or with a substitute or its degradation products; any information concerning the effects of the substitute on any organism (e.g., fish, wildlife, humans and other mammals) or the environment (e.g., studies related to persistence, translocation, and fate); and pharmacokinetics/metabolism studies.
