FR940603-2-00155 FR940603-2-00091 Application Notice for Fiscal Year 1995 [Special Projects and Demonstrations for Spinal Cord Injuries, CFDA No. 84.133N] 1Funding priority 1Deadline for transmittal of applications 1Estimated number of awards 1Estimated size of awards (per year) 1Project period (months) Special Projects and Demonstrations for Spinal Cord Injuries 10/14/94 8&hyph;13 $230,000&hyph;375,000 60 Program Title: Research Training and Career Development Program CFDA Number: 84.133P Purpose: The purpose of this program is to expand capability in the field of rehabilitation research by supporting projects that provide advanced training in rehabilitation research. These projects provide research training and experience at an advanced level to individuals with doctorates or similar advanced degrees who have clinical or other relevant experience, including experience in management or basic science research, in fields pertinent to rehabilitation, in order to qualify those individuals to conduct independent research on problems related to disability and rehabilitation. Invitational Priorities: The Secretary is particularly interested in applications that address one of the following invitational priorities. However, under 34 CFR 75.105(c)(1) an application that meets an invitational priority does not receive competitive or absolute preference over other applications. The invitational priorities are: 1. Training individuals with disabilities in advanced research in disability and rehabilitation-related fields. 2. Training individuals with disabilities from minority backgrounds in advanced disability and rehabilitation research. Selection Criteria: The Secretary uses the following criteria to evaluate applications under this program. (a) Importance and potential contribution. (20 points) The Secretary reviews each application to determine to what degree_ (l) The applicant is responsive to any priority established under ยง360.32; (2) The applicant proposes to provide training in a rehabilitation discipline or area of study in which there is a shortage of qualified researchers, or to provide training to a trainee population in which there is a need for more qualified researchers, such as clinicians in rural areas, or clinicians who are directly experienced with underserved populations; and (3) The applicant is likely to make a significant increase in the number of trained rehabilitation researchers. (b) Quality of proposed training program. (40 points) The Secretary reviews each application to determine to what degree_ (l) The applicant's proposed recruitment program is likely to be effective in recruiting highly qualified trainees; (2) The proposed didactic and classroom training programs emphasize scientific methodology, are multidisciplinary, comprehensive, and appropriate to the level of the trainees, and are likely to produce qualified independent researchers; (3) The quality and extent of the academic mentorship, guidance, and supervision to be provided to each individual trainee are of a high level and are likely to produce highly qualified researchers; (4) The type, extent, and quality of the proposed clinical and laboratory research experience, including the opportunity to participate in research on meaningful topics at an advanced level, are likely to develop individuals with the capacity to perform independent research; and (5) The opportunities for collegial and collaborative activities, exposure to outstanding scientists in the field, and opportunities to participate in the preparation of scholarly or scientific publications and presentations are extensive and appropriate. (c) Personnel and resources committed to the project. (30 points) The Secretary evaluates each application to determine to what degree_ (l) The activities of the project will be implemented by sufficient and qualified staff who are outstanding scientists in the field; (2) The project director and other key staff are experienced in the delivery of advanced research training as well as knowledgeable about the methodology and literature of pertinent subject areas; (3) All required disciplines are effectively included; and (4) The applicant possesses the appropriate facilities, laboratories, and access to clinical populations and organizations representing persons with disabilities to support the conduct of advanced clinical rehabilitation research.
