FR940428-1-00049 FR940428-1-00009 The grazing fee system that would be implemented if this proposed rule is adopted would result in an increase in fees charged for grazing livestock on public rangelands. This proposed rule would establish the 1995 grazing fee at $2.75, and the 1996 grazing fee at $3.50. Thereafter, the fee would be calculated using the base value of $3.96, multiplied by the revised forage value index yielding a 1997 grazing fee of $3.96. In subsequent years, the calculated fee would depend on the changes in the market rate for private grazing land leases. After the 3-year phase-in, the grazing fee would change no more than 25 percent annually, plus or minus, from the amount charged the previous year. Preparation of a separate rule establishing an incentive-based grazing fee is underway. As currently contemplated, permittees could be entitled to a 30 percent reduction in their grazing fees using the $3.96 base value if they meet certain qualification criteria, the identification of which will be the focus of this separate rulemaking. Pending adoption of this separate rule, the base value shall remain at $3.50 for the purposes of calculating the fee. The proposed fee system would apply to all National Forest System lands in the Western States. Public comment is invited and will be considered in adoption of the final rule. Regulatory Impact This proposed rule has been reviewed under Executive Order 12866 on Regulatory Planning and Review. The agency has determined that this proposed rule is a significant regulatory action subject to Office of Management and Budget review. This rule may result in increased operational costs for ranch operations that have permits on National Forest System land in the Western States. The Department of Interior has prepared an initial Small Entities Flexibility Assessment analyzing the economic impact of this rulemaking on small entities under the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. 605 et seq ). The public may obtain copies of the draft Small Entities Flexibility Assessment by writing to the address listed under Addresses earlier in this document. Environmental Impact The Bureau of Land Management and the Forest Service, as a cooperating agency, are preparing a draft environmental impact statement (DEIS) on ``Rangeland Reform '94'' as announced in the Federal Register on August 13, 1993. Upon completion of the draft EIS, a notice of availability will be published in the Federal Register with an opportunity for public comment. Following the comment period on the draft EIS, a final EIS will be developed and a Record of Decision published in the Federal Register. Constitutionally Protected Property Rights This rule has been reviewed for its effects on private property rights (Executive Order 12630 of March 15, 1988, ``Government Actions and Interference with Constitutionally Protected Property Rights'' as implemented by the U.S. Attorneys General's Guidelines for the Evaluation of Risk and Avoidance of Unanticipated Takings). Under the Guidelines, benefits, and privileges bestowed by the Government are expressly excluded from the definition of private property rights protected by the Fifth Amendment. The Congress established that a grazing permit is a privilege through the Granger-Thye Act of April 24, 1950 (Section 19), and the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of October 21, 1976 (Section 402(h)). Both of these acts state that the issuance of grazing permits in no way grants any right, title, interest, or estate in or to lands or resources held by the United States. A long line of court cases has established that a grazing permit is a noncompensable interest since it is a privilege to use federally owned land for livestock grazing purposes. Accordingly, it is a privilege_not a right-which can be withdrawn or canceled by the United States without compensation. Since this rule deals with granting a privilege, Executive Order 12630, which involves the taking of private property for public use, does not apply. Notwithstanding the above, the Office of General Counsel has prepared a Takings Implication Assessment (TIA) on grazing activities undertaken by the Forest Service. The TIA concluded that regulatory activities associated with Forest Service administration of grazing on National Forest System lands do not present the risk of a taking of private property. Information Collection Requirements This proposed rule governing grazing and livestock use on National Forest System land does not contain any recordkeeping or reporting requirements or other information collection requirements as defined in 5 CFR part 1320. Civil Justice Reform Act This proposed rule has been reviewed under Executive Order 12778, Civil Justice Reform. If this proposed rule were adopted, (1) all state and local laws and regulations that are in conflict with this proposed rule or which would impede its full implementation would be preempted; (2) no retroactive effect would be given to this proposed rule; and (3) it would not require administrative proceedings before parties may file suit in court challenging its provisions. List of Subjects in 36 CFR Part 222 Grazing lands, Livestock, National forests, National grasslands, Range management. For the reasons set forth in the preamble, 36 CFR part 222, subpart C, is proposed to be amended as follows: PART 222_RANGE MANAGEMENT Subpart C_Grazing Fees 1. The authority citation for subpart C to read as follows: Authority: 16 U.S.C. 551; 31 U.S.C. 483A; 43 U.S.C. 1901. 2. Revise §§222.50, 222.51, and 222.52 to read as follows: §222.50 General procedures. (a) Fees shall be charged for all livestock grazing of National Forest System land or other land under Forest Service control, unless otherwise expressly provided in the grazing permit terms and conditions. (b) In calculating fees, the agency shall not consider any value associated with a grazing permit that may be capitalized into the permit holder's private ranching operation. (c) For billing purposes, the grazing fee charged is for each head month of livestock grazing. The fee is prorated on a daily basis and is multiplied by the number of head months of use and the number of days. For purposes of calculating grazing fees, a head month is a month's use and occupancy of rangeland by one adult cow, bull, steer, heifer, horse or mule, five sheep, or five goats. An animal is an adult if it is weaned, is at least 6 months old at the beginning of the permitted period of use, or will be 12 months old during the permitted period of use. (d) When sheep grazing is already authorized by a grazing permit, no additional charge shall be made for lambing upon National Forest System land or other lands under Forest Service management. (e) The grazing fee established in §§222.51, 222.53, and 222.54 may be charged for all livestock grazing of National Forest System land authorized by a temporary grazing permit. However, the authorized officer may waive or otherwise adjust the fee when the Forest Service imposes limitations or requirements on grazing use for the purpose of implementing management objectives in the forest land resource management plan and the terms and conditions of the grazing permit. (f) All fees charged for livestock grazing of National Forest System land are payable in advance of the opening date of the grazing period, or entry, unless otherwise authorized by the Chief of the Forest Service and provided for in the grazing permit. (g) Refunds or credits may be allowed under justifiable conditions and circumstances as the Chief of the Forest Service may specify. (h) The fee year for charging grazing fees is March 1 through the following February.
