FR940912-0-00026 FR940912-0-00006 II. Statutory Authority and Proposed Rulemaking Under section 5.17(a)(8) of the Farm Credit Act of 1971, as amended (1971 Act), 12 U.S.C. 2252(a)(8), the FCA is authorized to ``Regulate the preparation by System institutions and the dissemination to stockholders and investors of information on the financial condition and operations of such institutions. *␣*␣*'' On February 4, 1994, the FCA proposed regulations for a new part 630, Disclosure to Investors in Systemwide and Consolidated Bank Debt Obligations of the Farm Credit System, to govern the System's preparation and reporting of Systemwide financial information to investors. (59 FR 5341) In general, the proposed regulations reflected the current division of responsibilities among the institutions participating in the System Disclosure Program, and included requirements for disclosures similar to those contained in the Information Statements currently published by the System. The institutions participating in the System Disclosure Program were designated as the ``disclosure entities'' in the proposed regulations, in recognition of their shared responsibility for disclosure of Systemwide financial information to investors and the general public. III. Discussion of the Final Rule and Summary of Public Comments The FCA is adopting part 630 largely as proposed. The final rule includes changes and clarifications to address comments received on the proposed rule. As in the proposed regulations, the final regulations (1) Require the System to publish annual and quarterly reports to investors; (2) delineate responsibilities relating to the preparation of the report; (3) reinforce internal controls over Systemwide financial disclosure; and (4) establish reporting standards for the report to ensure that relevant information concerning the combined financial condition and results of operations of the System is disclosed to investors and potential investors. The final rule will prevent any inconsistency between Systemwide disclosure to investors and FCA regulations governing accounting and reporting standards and individual System institution disclosure to shareholders. These new FCA regulations will apply to the information currently contained in the System's Information Statements and press releases that contain Systemwide financial information. The final rule also implements section 514 of the Farm Credit Banks and Associations Safety and Soundness Act of 1992, Pub. L. 102&hyph;552 (1992 Act), which requires adequate disclosure to investors of financial and conflict-of-interest information. The final regulations will ensure that timely and accurate Systemwide financial information continues to be disclosed to investors and the public to assist them in making informed decisions regarding FCS debt obligations and System institutions. This is consistent with the FCA Board's regulatory policy to ``Protect the public, the investors, and the customer/shareholders of the System in an effort to create an environment whereby customer/shareholders and investors can take advantage of the System's strength and rely on its future viability with confidence.'' ( See FCA Board Policy Statement on Regulatory Philosophy, 59 FR 32189, June 22, 1994) The FCA received six comment letters on the proposed regulations during the comment period, which expired on April 20, 1994. One letter was submitted by the Farm Credit Council (FCC) on behalf of its membership. The FCC comments were the product of input from a number of sources, including System banks, the System's Accounting Standards Work Group, and the Funding Corporation. The FCC recognized and concurred with the FCA's efforts to ensure that timely and accurate Systemwide financial information continues to be disclosed to investors and potential investors in FCS debt securities. Noting the System's general support for the proposed regulations, the FCC submitted comments on several provisions of the proposed regulations in the body of its letter and provided technical comments on other provisions in an attached appendix. The Funding Corporation, the Farm Credit Bank of Texas (FCBT), and the Farm Credit Bank of Baltimore (FCBB) each submitted a letter addressing specific issues. The Funding Corporation commented concerning its access to FCA Examination Reports of System banks and associations. The FCBT addressed the same issue in its letter. In addition, the FCBT urged that the FCA prohibit directors of System institutions from serving on the System Audit Committee. While endorsing the comments submitted by the FCC, the FCBB urged that the FCA clarify, for purposes of Systemwide disclosure, the treatment of the FCBB's wholly-owned subsidiary, the Farm Credit Finance Corporation of Puerto Rico. The American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA) and Price Waterhouse, the external auditor currently engaged to provide an opinion on the Systemwide combined financial statements, also commented on the proposed regulations. Both of these commenters suggested that the requirements for an accountant's opinion on supplemental information be clarified. The AICPA also commented on issues concerning the definition of ``material,'' the due dates of the reports to investors, and the requirement for filing a letter with the FCA explaining the preferability of an accounting change.
