FR941103-2-00146 FR941103-2-00082 Research and Special Programs Administration Pipeline Safety Advisory Bulletin ADB&hyph;94&hyph;05; Pipelines Affected by Flooding AGENCY: Research and Special Programs Administration (RSPA), DOT. ACTION: Advisory to each owner or operator of a hazardous liquid or natural gas transmission pipeline operating in areas that may be subject to severe flooding. SUMMARY: This advisory is for all operators of pipelines which may be affected by flooding. It provides observations from RSPA, Texas Railroad Commission (TRC), and other federal and state agencies as a result of the recent floods near Houston. This advisory also includes actions that operators should consider taking to assure the integrity of pipelines in case of flooding. Background As the result of unprecedented flooding of rivers and streams in the Houston area, seven natural gas and hazardous liquid pipelines failed in or near the San Jacinto River over the three day period October 19&hyph;21, 1994. These failures included: an Exxon 8-inch diameter LPG line; an Exxon 8-inch diameter fuel line; an Exxon 20-inch diameter hazardous liquid line; a Colonial 40-inch diameter products (gasoline) line; a Colonial 36-inch diameter products (heating oil) line; a Texaco 20-inch diameter crude oil line; and a Valero 12-inch diameter natural gas line. While no determination of cause of failure has been made for any of these lines, RSPA and the TRC believe that the extreme flooding by the San Jacinto River was probably a substantial contributing factor in each of the failures. The damage to pipelines caused by the flood may have resulted either from the extreme force of the flowing water, as the San Jacinto carved new temporary channels, or from pipelines being struck by heavy debris that was reported as having flowed down river at the height of the flooding. Because RSPA and the TRC cannot at this time determine the exact effects of the flooding, operators should consider the potential effects of flooding as posing a possible threat to the integrity of their lines. Advisory As the result of seven natural gas and hazardous liquid pipeline flood-related failures in or near the San Jacinto River in Texas on October 19&hyph;21, 1994, operators should consider the actions recommended in this Advisory Bulletin for application to pipelines located in any area of the United States subject to widespread flooding.
