FR941121-2-00129 FR941121-2-00094 Appeals from an Initial Denial of a Request for Correction of Records: (1) An appeal from an initial denial of a request for correction of records must be in writing, signed by the individual involved, identify the system of records, and clearly state that it is made pursuant to the Privacy Act of 1974. If the individual is making an appeal in person, identity may be established by the presentation of a single official document bearing the individual's photograph or by the presentation of two items of identification without the photograph but showing a name and signature. If the individual is making an appeal by mail, identity may be established by the presentation of a signature, address, and one other identifier such as a photocopy of an official document bearing the individual's signature. The Bureau of the Public Debt reserves the right to require additional verification of an individual's identity. (2) Appellate determinations will be made by the Commissioner of the Public Debt or the delegate of such officer. Appeals should be addressed to, or delivered personally to: Chief Counsel, Bureau of the Public Debt, 999 E Street NW., Room 503, Washington, DC 20239&hyph;0001 (or as otherwise provided for in the applicable appendix to 31 CFR part 1, subpart C), within 35 days of the individual's receipt of the initial denial of the requested correction. (3) An appeal must be marked ``Privacy Act Amendment Appeal'' and specify: (a) The records to which the appeal relates, (b) the date of the initial request made for correction of the records, and (c) the date the initial denial of the request for correction was received. (4) An appeal must also specify the reasons for the requester's disagreement with the initial denial of correction and must include any applicable supporting evidence. Record source categories: Information in this system of records is provided by the subject of the record, authorized representatives, supervisors, employers, medical personnel, other employees, other Federal, State, or local agencies, and commercial entities. Exemptions claimed for the system: None. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;28673 Filed 11&hyph;18&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4810&hyph;40&hyph;M
