FR940407-1-00070 FR940407-1-00014 Tribal Work Experience Program (TWEP) is a work experience program (WEP) that is contracted to and administered by a tribe. Unemployable person is an individual who is unable to obtain employment and meet the criteria specified in §20.21(i)(1). Unemployed person is an individual who is physically and mentally able to obtain employment but is unemployed due to lack of available jobs. Work Experience Program (WEP) is a work program designed to provide eligible general assistance clients with training and work experience which promote, preserve, and develop work skills and habits. §20.2 Purpose. The regulations in this part govern the provision of general assistance, child welfare assistance, miscellaneous assistance, child and family services, community services, adult care assistance, the work experience program, and quality assurance. §20.3 Policy. (a) In the administration of general assistance, child welfare assistance, burial and disaster assistance, family and community services, adult care assistance and work experience programs, it is the policy of the BIA to provide services to eligible Indians in a manner designed to promote individual self-determination, family unity, economic and social stability, and the attainment of personal independence and self-reliance. Through the application of professional social work skills and principles, it is BIA policy to work with Indians to promote and maintain social environments in their communities that emphasize safety and well-being for all children; promote family stability; and value individual independence. (b) In administering social services programs, it is also BIA policy to emphasize the importance of individual case planning. The goal of case plan implementation is to assist people to become self-sufficient, preventing dependency, strengthening family relationships, and restoring individuals, families or groups to successful social functioning. When an ineligible adult is a member of an assistance household, the case plan shall address the spousal, parental and/or custodial responsibilities of the ineligible person relative to the financial support of the eligible members of the household. (c) Further, it is BIA policy to ensure, insofar as possible, that Indians have full access to available Federal and state services. Therefore, the financial assistance and social services programs authorized under this part are secondary resources and are provided only when assistance or services are not available from state, local, or other primary providers. 3. Under subpart B_Administrative Procedures, new §§20.15 and 20.16 are added to read as follows: §20.15 Reporting requirements for all social services programs. The following required reports shall be submitted by each BIA Area social services program to the designated BIA authority on forms provided by the BIA: (a) The Monthly Statistical Report shall include, by category of assistance, the number of active cases, the number of cases closed, the number of persons served, and total dollars expended during the month. This report is due no later than the fifteenth day of the subsequent month. (b) The Quarterly Analysis of Funds Report shall include, by category of assistance, data on the number of cases, persons served, and expenditures per person and per case. The Quarterly Analysis of Funds Report is to be accompanied by a narrative report on the activities and accomplishments of the program, and on projected deficits, if any are anticipated. This report is due on the fifteenth of the month following the end of each quarter. (c) The Annual Report shall include unduplicated counts of cases, persons, and dollars by category and by each reservation program. This report is due no later than ninety (90) days following the end of each fiscal year. (d) Special reports to Congress are due when requested. §20.16 Staffing requirements. The following staffing requirements shall apply to all BIA social services programs: (a) Each local program shall have a minimum of one staff member with a Master of Social Work (MSW) degree. (b) Any additional staff member(s) engaging in the direct delivery of services shall have, at a minimum, a bachelors degree in a human services discipline or no fewer than three years of work experience in the field of human services. (c) A social services program that is unable to comply with these requirements shall provide regular access to professional consultation and/or implement a formal staff development/training plan to achieve this standard. The Area Director shall determine whether the alternative plan will support and promote an acceptable level and quality of services. 4. Under subpart C_Eligibility Conditions, §20.20 is amended by adding (c) through (f) and §20.23 is revised to read as follows: §20.20 General. * * * * * (c) The Assistant Secretary may authorize emergency short-term assistance and services to Indians not otherwise eligible under this part, who reside on a reservation or in designated near-reservation areas: (1) Upon written request of an appropriate tribal governing body or the appropriate Bureau official, and (2) When necessary to meet need as defined at §20.1 and prevent hardship caused by fire, flood or acts of nature.
