FR940805-0-00039 FR940805-0-00013 DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION Coast Guard 33 CFR Parts 26 and 162 [CGD 93&hyph;072] RIN 2115&hyph;AE66 Vessel Bridge-to-Bridge Radiotelephone Regulations: Inland Waterways Navigation Regulations AGENCY: Coast Guard, DOT. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: The Coast Guard is amending the Vessel Bridge-to-Bridge Radiotelephone Regulations to correct an inconsistency between the statutory and regulatory language; and amending the Inland Waterways Navigation Regulations to remove regulatory language that contradicts the Inland Navigation Rules. EFFECTIVE DATE: October 4, 1994. ADDRESSES: Unless otherwise indicated, documents referred to in this preamble are available for inspection or copying at the office of the Executive Secretary, Marine Safety Council (G&hyph;LRA/3406), U.S. Coast Guard Headquarters, 2100 Second Street SW., room 3406, Washington, DC 20593&hyph;0001 between 8 a.m. and 3 p.m., Monday through Friday, except Federal holidays. The telephone number is (202) 267&hyph;1477. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mr. Jonathan Epstein, Navigation Rules and Information Branch, Office of Navigation Safety and Waterway Services, (202) 267&hyph;0352 or (202) 267&hyph;0357. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Drafting Information The principal persons involved in drafting this document are Jonathan Epstein, Project Manager, Office of Navigation Safety and Waterway Services, and LT Ralph L. Hetzel, Project Counsel, Office of Chief Counsel. Regulatory History On April 8, 1994, the Coast Guard published a notice of proposed rulemaking entitled ``Vessel Bridge-to-Bridge Radiotelephone Regulations: Inland Waterways Navigation Regulations'' in the Federal Register (59 FR 16780). The Coast Guard received one letter commenting on the proposal. No public hearing was requested, and none was held. Background and Purpose This rule corrects two conflicts between statutory law and existing navigation safety regulations. 1. Vessel Bridge-to-Bridge Radiotelephone Regulations This rule makes Vessel Bridge-to-Bridge Radiotelephone Regulations, specifically 33 CFR 26.05, consistent with the corresponding statutory authority, the Vessel Bridge-to-Bridge Radiotelephone Act, 1972, (33 U.S.C. 1204). The particular statutory language is important because it determines who may maintain the watch on the designated bridge-to-bridge calling channel (VHF&hyph;FM Channel 13 in U.S. territorial waters, except in the approaches to the lower Mississippi River where VHF&hyph;FM Channel 67 is the designated channel). 2. Inland Waterways Navigation Regulations This rulemaking removes 33 CFR 162.65(b)(3)(iv) because it contradicts statutory provisions in the Inland Navigation Rules Act. Specifically it provided that a vessel being overtaken by another shall slacken speed sufficiently to permit the passage to be effected with safety to both vessels. This directly conflicted with Inland Navigation Rule 13 which places the responsibility for keeping clear on the overtaking vessel and Inland Rule 17 which requires the overtaken vessel to maintain course and speed. Discussion of Comments and Changes The Coast Guard received only one comment in response to the notice of proposed rulemaking. This comment strongly endorsed the correction to the bridge-to-bridge radiotelephone regulations, noting that one of the key elements of Bridge Resource Management is clear delegation of duties; and that only the master or conning officer should have authority to communicate intended ship movements to other vessels. Because the only comment was positive no changes from the proposed language have been made. Regulatory Evaluation This rule is not a significant regulatory action under section 3(f) of Executive Order 12866 and does not require an assessment of potential costs and benefits under section 6(a)(3) of that order. It has not been reviewed by the Office of Management and Budget under that order. It is not significant under the regulatory policies and procedures of the Department of Transportation (DOT) (44 FR 11040; February 26, 1979). The Coast Guard expects the economic impact of this proposal to be so minimal that a Full Regulatory Assessment is unnecessary. Since this rulemaking basically corrects inconsistencies and places no new requirements on the maritime community further Regulatory Evaluation was deemed unnecessary. Small Entities Under the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. 601 et seq. ), the Coast Guard considered whether this rulemaking would have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. ``Small entities'' include independently owned and operated businesses that are not dominant in their field and that otherwise qualify as ``small business concerns'' under section 3 of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 632). Because it expects the impact of this rule to be minimal, the Coast Guard certifies under 5 U.S.C. 605(b) that this rule will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. Collection of Information This proposal contains no collection-of-information requirements under the Paperwork Reduction Act (44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq. ). Federalism The Coast Guard has analyzed this rule under the principles and criteria contained in Executive Order 12612 and has determined that this rule does not have sufficient federalism implications to warrant the preparation of a Federalism Assessment. Under Federal law, authority to issue regulations to amend the Inland Waterways Navigation Regulations and the Vessel Bridge-to-Bridge Radiotelephone Regulations is vested in the Secretary of Transportation and delegated to the Coast Guard. Therefore, the Coast Guard intends it to preempt State action addressing this subject matter. Environment The Coast Guard considered the environmental impact of this rule and concluded that, under section 2.B.2 of Commandant Instruction M16475.1B, this rulemaking is categorically excluded from further environmental documentation as this administrative action clearly has no environmental effect. A Categorical Exclusion Determination is available in the docket for inspection or copying where indicated under `` ADDRESSES .'' List of Subjects 33 CFR Part 26 Communications equipment, Navigation (water), Marine safety, Radio, Telephone, Vessels. 33 CFR Part 162 Navigation (water), Waterways. For the reasons set out in the preamble, the Coast Guard amends 33 CFR part 26 as follows: PART 26_[AMENDED]
