FR940804-2-00079 FR940804-2-00038 Office of Civilian Radioactive Waste Management Process for Evaluating the Suitability of the Yucca Mountain Site for Development as a Repository for High-Level Radioactive Waste and Spent Nuclear Fuel AGENCY: Office of Civilian Radioactive Waste Management, Department of Energy. ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: Through this Notice, the Department of Energy makes four announcements regarding the process for evaluating the suitability of the Yucca Mountain site for development as a repository for high-level radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel. 1) The Department announces the availability of Summary Reports of the May 21, 1994 stakeholder meeting held in Las Vegas, Nevada. 2) The Department announces its decision to use the Siting Guidelines (10 CFR Part 960) as they currently exist. 3) The Department announces the availability of a draft description of the process for evaluating the suitability of the Yucca Mountain site for public comment. 4) The Department announces stakeholder meetings to elicit the views of the general public on the proposed process and particularly the proposed opportunities for external involvement. The Department invites interested parties to provide written comments during the term specified in this Notice. DATES: Written comments on the Draft Summary Reports of the May 21, 1994 stakeholder meeting and the draft description of the proposed process are due on or before October 3, 1994. The meetings will be held on August 27, 1994 from 9 am to 5 pm (PDT) at the Stardust Hotel in Las Vegas, Nevada, and on August 30, 1994 from 9 am to 5 pm (EDT) at the Renaissance Hotel, in Washington, DC. ADDRESSES: Written comments should be submitted to: Dr. Jane R. Summerson, U.S. Department of Energy, Yucca Mountain Site Characterization Office, 101 Convention Center Drive, Las Vegas, NV 89109, (702) 794&hyph;5317 (Phone), (702) 794&hyph;7907 (Fax). FOR FURTHER INFORMATION AND COPY OF DRAFT PROCESS CONTACT: Dr. Jane R. Summerson, U.S. Department of Energy, Yucca Mountain Site Characterization Office, 101 Convention Center Drive, Las Vegas, NV 89109, (702) 794&hyph;5317 (Phone), (702) 794&hyph;7907 (Fax). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: I. Summary Reports The Department of Energy (Department) held a public meeting on May 21, 1994, in Las Vegas, Nevada (59FR19680). The purposes of the meeting were to follow-up on a previous stakeholder meeting held in August 1993; to update stakeholders on Yucca Mountain site characterization activities; and to provide an opportunity to discuss the development of a process to evaluate the suitability of the Yucca Mountain site for development as a repository. Through this Notice, the Department announces that the Summary Reports of the meeting are available upon request. II. Decision on the Use of 10 CFR Part 960 Issued in 1984, DOE's 10 CFR Part 960 siting guidelines cover all phases of the siting process including the screening and comparison of several sites in order to select three for detailed characterization as potential repository sites. The Department has considered a range of options concerning the application of the guidelines, from revising them through the rulemaking process to simply continuing to use them in their present form and has found that the guidelines are applicable to the site suitability process. The Department has decided that it will not amend the siting guidelines. Therefore, in making suitability decisions that are required at this stage of the siting process, the Department will use the guidelines as they are currently written. Their use, however, will be subject to the programmatic changes and reconfiguration provided in the Nuclear Waste Policy Amendments Act of 1987. Because the Amendments Act eliminated all of the pre-characterization stages by requiring the Secretary to proceed with site characterization at Yucca Mountain and to cease investigation of all other potential sites for the first repository, comparative evaluation is no longer relevant. Accordingly, the Program will not utilize the comparative portions of the guidelines for purposes of the suitability assessment of the Yucca Mountain site. This means that the Program will not make specific evaluations of the favorable and potentially adverse conditions since these tests are primarily for use in comparing sites. III. Availability of the draft description of the process for evaluating the suitability of the Yucca Mountain site The Department is developing a process for evaluating the suitability of the Yucca Mountain Site for a repository for high-level radioactive waste and spent fuel. Through this Notice, the Department announces that a draft description of the proposed process is available for public comment. Written comments on the draft description of the proposed process are due as set forth near the beginning of this notice. IV. Stakeholder Meetings As part of the comment process discussed above, two day-long public meetings have been scheduled as set forth near the beginning of this notice. The meeting will provide an opportunity for representatives from the DOE to explain the draft description of the process and to receive the views and comments of the public on the proposed process and, in particular, opportunities for public involvement. Issued in Washington, DC on July 29, 1994. Daniel A. Dreyfus, Director, Office of Civilian Radioactive Waste Management. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;19062 Filed 8&hyph;3&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6450&hyph;01&hyph;P
