FR940228-1-00092 FR940228-1-00010 Section 668.16␣Standards of Administrative Capability The Secretary proposes to redesignate §668.14 as §668.16. In matters not governed by specific provisions, section 487(c)(1)(B) of the HEA provides for the establishment of standards of administrative capability for participating institutions that include any matter the Secretary deems necessary for the sound administration of the Title IV, HEA programs. Section 498(d) of the HEA, which was added by the Amendments of 1992, authorizes the Secretary to establish procedures and requirements relating to administrative capability, including the consideration of past performance of institutions or individuals in control of those institutions and maintenance of records. In addition, section 498(d) authorizes the Secretary to establish other reasonable procedures that will contribute to ensuring that institutions will be administratively capable. Given this framework, the Secretary proposes to strengthen and modify the administrative capability standards in the current regulations by making significant, substantive changes to the administrative standards as well as some technical changes; the significant proposed changes to the current regulations are described below. The Secretary proposes to clarify the Secretary's current principle that an institution must demonstrate that it is capable of meeting each of the administrative standards in this section to be considered administratively capable. During negotiated rulemaking, alternatives to requiring that institutions meet each administrative standard were discussed. Among the options considered were that the various factors be ``weighted,'' i.e., the Secretary would identify which factors he considered to be the most critical and would incur the greatest penalty if they were not met. Some of the negotiators suggested that the various factors be used only as indicators of capability; that is, the Secretary would be required to review each institution that did not comply with one or more standard to determine the seriousness of noncompliance. However, the negotiators did not reach consensus on an approach. Therefore, the Secretary is proposing that to be fully certified as meeting the standards in this section (as well as the other standards in Subpart B of these regulations) an institution must demonstrate that it is administratively capable by meeting all the administrative standards. An institution that fails to demonstrate compliance with one or two administrative standards could be certified provisionally (see the earlier discussion on provisional certification) if the Secretary were to determine the institution capable of meeting all the standards within a specific time period and that the noncompliance did not necessitate taking a stronger sanction such as a fine, limitation, suspension, or termination proceeding against the institution. For example, an initial applicant would not be able to demonstrate compliance with all standards prior to participation. However, the Secretary expects such an institution to demonstrate that it is capable of complying with all the standards. Therefore, the Secretary currently provisionally certifies an initial applicant if the Secretary determines that the applicant is capable of meeting the current standards within a specified period of time. The Secretary will continue this practice, using any additional standards proposed in this section if they are adopted in final. The Secretary proposes to make explicit the requirement that, to be considered administratively capable, an institution must administer all the Title IV, HEA programs in which it participates in accordance with all applicable statutory and regulatory provisions and special arrangements, agreements, and limitations. This expectation has been implicit. However, the Secretary believes it is important to lay out this standard together with all the other administrative standards.
