FR941013-2-00113 FR941013-2-00081 [Rel. No. IC&hyph;20603; 812&hyph;9020] Capital Exchange Fund, Inc., et al.; Notice of Application October 6, 1994. AGENCY: Securities and Exchange Commission (``SEC''). ACTION: Notice of Application for Exemption under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the ``Act''). APPLICANTS: Capital Exchange Fund, Inc., Depositors Fund of Boston, Inc., Diversification Fund, Inc., Eaton Vance Equity-Income Trust, Eaton Vance Government Obligations Trust, Eaton Vance Growth Trust, Eaton Vance High Income Trust, Eaton Vance Investment Fund, Inc., Eaton Vance Investment Trust, Eaton Vance Investors Trust, Eaton Vance Municipal Bond Fund L.P., Eaton Vance Municipals Trust, Eaton Vance Municipals Trust II, EV Marathon Gold & Natural Resources Fund, Eaton Vance Special Investment Trust, Eaton Vance Securities Trust, Eaton Vance Total Return Trust, Fiduciary Exchange Fund, Inc., Second Fiduciary Exchange Fund, Inc., The Exchange Fund of Boston, Inc., Vance, Sanders Exchange Fund, Alabama Tax Free Portfolio, Arizona Limited Maturity Tax Free Portfolio, Arizona Tax Free Portfolio, Arkansas Tax Free Portfolio, California Limited Maturity Tax Free Portfolio, California Tax Free Portfolio, Colorado Tax Free Portfolio, Connecticut Limited Maturity Tax Free Portfolio, Connecticut Tax Free Portfolio, Florida Limited Maturity Tax Free Portfolio, Florida Tax Free Portfolio, Georgia Tax Free Portfolio, Government Obligations Portfolio, Growth Portfolio, Hawaii Tax Free Portfolio, High Income Portfolio, Investors Portfolio, Kentucky Tax Free Portfolio, Louisiana Tax Free Portfolio, Maryland Tax Free Portfolio, Massachusetts Limited Maturity Tax Free Portfolio, Massachusetts Tax Free Portfolio, Michigan Limited Maturity Tax Free Portfolio, Michigan Tax Free Portfolio, Minnesota Tax Free Portfolio, Missouri Tax Free Portfolio, Mississippi Tax Free Portfolio, National Limited Maturity Tax Free Portfolio, North Carolina Limited Maturity Tax Free Portfolio, National Municipals Portfolio, New Jersey Limited Maturity Tax Free Portfolio, New Jersey Tax Free Portfolio, New York Limited Maturity Tax Free Portfolio, New York Tax Free Portfolio, North Carolina Tax Free Portfolio, Ohio Limited Maturity Tax Free Portfolio, Ohio Tax Free Portfolio, Oregon Tax Free Portfolio, Pennsylvania Limited Maturity Tax Free Portfolio, Pennsylvania Tax Free Portfolio, Rhode Island Tax Free Portfolio, Short-Term Income Portfolio, South Carolina Tax Free Portfolio, Special Investment Portfolio, Stock Portfolio, Tennessee Tax Free Portfolio, Texas Tax Free Portfolio, Total Return Portfolio, Virginia Limited Maturity Tax Free Portfolio, Virginia Tax Free Portfolio, and West Virginia Tax Free Portfolio, each an open-end management investment company registered under the Act, and Eaton Vance Prime Rate Reserves, a closed-end management investment company registered under the Act (collectively, the ``Funds''). RELEVANT ACT SECTIONS: Order requested under sections 6(c) and 17(b) of the Act for an exemption from sections 13(a)(2), 13(a)(3), 17(a)(1), 18(a), 18(c), 18(f)(1), 22(f), 22(g) and 23(a) of the Act and pursuant to section 17(d) of the Act and rule 17d-1 thereunder. SUMMARY OF APPLICATION: Applicants request an order that would permit the Funds to enter into deferred compensation arrangements with their independent trustees. FILING DATE: The application was filed on May 27, 1994, and amended on August 24, 1994. Applicants have agreed to file an additional amendment, the substance of which is incorporated herein, during the notice period. HEARING OR NOTIFICATION OF HEARING: An order granting the application will be issued unless the SEC orders a hearing. Interested persons may request a hearing by writing to the SEC's Secretary and serving applicants with a copy of the request, personally or by mail. Hearing requests should be received by the SEC by 5:30 p.m. on October 31, 1994, and should be accompanied by proof of service on applicants, in the form of an affidavit or, for lawyers, a certificate of service. Hearing requests should state the nature of the writer's interest, the reason for the request, and the issues contested. Persons who wish to be notified of a hearing may request notification by writing to the SEC's Secretary. ADDRESSES: Secretary, SEC, 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549. Applicants, 24 Federal Street, Boston, Massachusetts 02110. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Deepak T. Pai, Staff Attorney, at (202) 942&hyph;0574, or Robert A. Robertson, Branch Chief, at (202) 942&hyph;0564 (Division of Investment Management, Office of Investment Company Regulation). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The following is a summary of the application. The complete application may be obtained for a fee at the SEC's Public Reference Branch. Applicants' Representations 1. The Funds are registered management investment companies. Some of the Funds (the ``Portfolios'') issue shares to other Funds that invest all or substantially all of their assets in the Portfolios. Eaton Vance Management (``Eaton Vance'') currently serves as the administrator or investment adviser for each of the Funds, except the Portfolios. Boston Management and Research, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Eaton Vance, serves as investment adviser to each of the Portfolios. Eaton Vance and Boston Management are each registered under the Investment Advisers Act. Eaton Vance Distributors, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Eaton Vance, serves as the Funds' principal underwriter. Applicants request that the proposed relief apply to the funds and any requested investment companies that in the future are advised by Eaton Vance or any entity under common control with or controlled by Eaton Vance. The proposed relief would not, however, apply to any investment company that is a money market fund that relies on rule 2a&hyph;7 under the Act. Any relief granted from section 13(a)(3) of the Act would extend only to named Funds.
