FR940725-0-00125 FR940725-0-00019 The following summary and explanation of the individual provisions within the standard discusses the important elements of the final standard, explains the purpose of the individual requirements, and explains any differences between the final rule and previous standards. This section also discusses and resolves issues that were raised during the rulemaking period, significant comments received as part of the rulemaking record, and substantive changes from the language of the proposed rule. References in parentheses are to exhibits (Ex.) and transcripts (Tr.) 1 in the rulemaking record. 1 Transcript of the SESAC meeting of September 2&hyph;3, 1992, Baltimore, MD. B. Subpart A, §1915.7_Competent Person In this final rule, OSHA is revising various requirements related to the designation and use of competent persons. Among the revised provisions are the following: allowing an employer to avoid designating competent persons if their tasks are always performed by a Marine Chemist; allowing employers to select the form in which they may keep records on competent persons; clarifying the criteria competent persons must meet; and simplifying the way the competent person's records of tests and inspections may be kept. In this regard, and as proposed, OSHA is only revising §1915.7, which establishes both the duty for employers to designate competent persons and the criteria for designating such persons. The definition for competent person in §1915.4 remains the same. The duties of competent persons, other than the duties contained in Subpart B and addressed below in this rulemaking, also remain the same. In addition to substantive and editorial revisions to the regulatory text of §1915.7 contained in the final rule, OSHA has reorganized the paragraphs for clarity and coherence. OSHA prefers to place paragraphs addressing the scope or application of a regulation at the beginning of the applicable paragraphs, sections, or subparts of that regulation. The previous paragraph addressing the application of §1915.7 is contained in paragraph (d) located at the end of §1915.7. To be consistent with other OSHA rulemaking, OSHA has redesignated the paragraphs of §1915.7 so that the previous paragraph (d) entitled, ``Application,'' becomes new paragraph (a) in the final rule. Previous paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) have been redesignated (b), (c), and (d), respectively. Application. Paragraph (a) of the final standard sets forth the application of §1915.7 that was previously contained in paragraph (d) as discussed above. In addition, editorial changes have been made to improve the language. For example, the old paragraph specified that application would be to ``employers engaged in general ship repair, shipbuilding and shipbreaking'' while in the new paragraph the general inclusive term ``shipyard employment'' is used. The coverage provided to employees by the new language is identical. Designation of a competent person. In paragraph (b)(1), OSHA continues the requirement in old paragraph (a)(1) of §1915.7 that the employer designate at least one competent person for the purpose of testing the atmospheres of work spaces in shipyard employment unless all of the employer's testing under Subpart B is performed by an NFPA Certified Marine Chemist. OSHA also proposed to delete ``National Fire Protection Association Certified Marine Chemist'' in previous paragraph (a)(1) and to replace it with ``Marine Chemist.'' The phrase ``National Fire Protection Association Certified'' which modifies ``Marine Chemist'' is redundant since the term ``Marine Chemist'' will be defined in the final rule as ``an individual who possesses a current Marine Chemist Certificate issued by the National Fire Protection Association.'' OSHA proposed to allow an employer to avoid designating competent persons when the employer states that atmospheric testing is done by other qualified individuals, who include NFPA Certified Marine Chemists. Some commenters (e.g., Exs. 6&hyph;3, 6&hyph;12, 6&hyph;15) asserted that competent persons were as capable as the Marine Chemist in performing the atmospheric tests required in Subparts B, C, D, and H. For example, Bay Shipbuilding Corp.
