FR940725-2-00112 FR940725-2-00067 Previously for ISCC members on surveillance status, the market risk factor and the foreign exchange factor of the clearing fund formula were increased, in the discretion of ISCC, by requiring up to an additional 3%, 5%, and 7% of average daily debits for members on Advisory, Class A, and Class B surveillance, respectively. Under the new formula, both the market risk factor and the foreign exchange factor may be increased by a maximum of 3%, a maximum of 5%, and a maximum of 7% for members on Advisory, Class A, and Class B surveillance, respectively. II. Discussion The Commission believes the proposed rule change is consistent with Section 17A of the Act and, therefore, is approving the proposal. Specifically, the Commission believes the proposal is consistent with Section 17A(b)(3)(F) 9 of the Act in that it better enables ISCC to safeguard securities and funds for which it is responsible. ISCC's adjustments to its clearing fund formula will result in a more accurate reflections of its risks. Instead of basing the formula on past obligations of the ISCC member, the formula is now based on the actual obligations of such member during the relevant time period. This should provide ISCC increased protection when an ISCC member has unusually heavy trading activity. In addition, the previous ISCC clearing fund formula relied on a calculation of market risk factor and of foreign exchange risk factor that is now outdated. ISCC's increase in the size of these factors provides ISCC with greater protection consistent with likely movements in securities prices and in foreign exchange rates. 9 15 U.S.C. 78q&hyph;1(b)(3)(F) (1988). On June 17, 1980, the Commission issued a release announcing the standards to be used by the Division of Market Regulation in connection with the registration of clearing agencies. 10 In that release, the Commission stated that it is appropriate for a clearing agency to establish an appropriate level of clearing fund contributions based, among other things, on its assessment of the risks to which it is subject. In addition, contributions to the clearing fund should be based on a formula that applies to users on a uniform, nondiscriminatory basis. The Commission believes that ISCC's proposal is consistent with these guidelines. The new clearing fund formula is based on the risks ( i.e., time, market, and foreign exchange risks) created by the LSE's method of settlement. In addition, the formula is applied uniformly to all ISCC members in accordance with their usage of the LSE link. 10 Securities Exchange Act Release No. 16900 (June 17, 1980), 45 FR 41920. The Commission preliminarily finds that the proposal is consistent with Section 17A of the Act. The Commission believes that in light of its significance to ISCC and its members, the proposed revisions to ISCC's clearing fund formula should be carefully monitored before they become a permanent feature. For this reason, the Commission is approving the proposal on a temporary basis through July 18, 1995. The Commission finds good cause for approving the proposed rule change prior to the thirtieth day after the date of publication of the notice of filing. The LSE is scheduled to move to its new settlement cycle on July 18, 1994. ISCC needs to have its new clearing fund formula in place at the same time in order to sufficiently cover its new risks. The Commission therefore believes that it is appropriate to accelerate approval of the proposal. III. Conclusion It is therefore ordered pursuant to section 19(b)(2) of the Act that the proposed rule change (File No. SR&hyph;ISCC&hyph;94&hyph;01) be, and hereby is, temporarily approved through July 18, 1955. For the Commission, by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Director. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;18026 Filed 7&hyph;22&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
