FR940810-2-00116 FR940810-2-00073 SECURITIES EXCHANGE COMMISSION [Release No. 34&hyph;34481; File No. SR&hyph;PHLX&hyph;94&hyph;32] Self-Regulatory Organizations; Philadelphia Stock Exchange, Inc.; Filing of a Proposed Rule Change Relating to Implementing a ``Wheel'' for the Registered Options Trader Contra-Side Participation to AUTO&hyph;X Trades August 3, 1994. Pursuant to Section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act''), 1 notice is hereby given that on July 18, 1994, the Philadelphia Stock Exchange, Inc. (``Phlx''or ``Exchange'') filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``Commission'') the proposed rule change as described in Items I, II, and III below, which items have been prepared by the Phlx. The Commission is publishing this notice to solicit comments on the proposed rule change from interested persons. 1 15 U.S.C. ยง78s(b)(1) (1988). I. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Terms of Substance of the Proposed Rule Change The Phlx, pursuant to Rule 19b&hyph;4 under the Act, proposes to adopt Floor Procedure Advice F&hyph;24, AUTO&hyph;X Contra-Party Participation (The Wheel), in order to implement an automated mechanism for assigning floor traders ( i.e. , specialists and Registered Option Traders (``ROTs'')), on a rotating basis, as contra-side participants to AUTO&hyph;X orders. Advice F&hyph;24 codifies Wheel eligibility and the procedures by which Wheel participants must sign on/sign off. It also establishes the rotation upon which trades will be allocated among Wheel participants. Paragraph (a) of the Advice summarizes AUTO&hyph;X eligibility by stating that public customer orders up to the maximum permissible size would be eligible for AUTO&hyph;X. 2 Paragraph (b) establishes that the Wheel will assign contra-parties by rotating through the list, in consecutive order, trade by trade. Paragraph (c) requires specialists to participate on the Wheel and permits ROTs to participate in assigned issues. It also limits ROTs to Wheel participation in one Wheel assignment area, which is defined as two contiguous quarter turrets at any one given time. 3 ROTs must sign onto the Wheel in person on the trading floor from terminals designated by the Exchange and may sign on in individual options. ROTs who sign on before 9:30 a.m. may remain on the Wheel for the entire trading day; those who sign on after 9:30 a.m. are eligible for Wheel participation beginning at 12:30 p.m. After 12:30 p.m., no new sign ons are permitted. 2 Currently, the maximum permissible size eligible for AUTO&hyph;X is 25 contracts. Securities Exchange Act Release No. 32906 (September 15, 1993), 58 FR 49345. 3 A turret is one contiguous portion of a post on the option floor, which is generally divided into four ``quarters.'' Paragraph (c) also governs signing off the Wheel. An ROT may sign off the Wheel at any time during the trading day, which becomes effective for all listed options. However, an ROT may sign off twice each trading day and still be eligible to sign on again that day; after the third sign off, that ROT is no longer eligible for the Wheel that day. ROTs who sign on for the half-day session beginning at 12:30 p.m. may only sign off once and still be eligible to sign on again that day. In addition, no two associated or dually affiliated ROTs may be on the Wheel for the same option at the same time. Paragraph (d) permits a Floor Official to modify the aforementioned sign on/sign off procedures in extraordinary circumstances. Paragraph (e) details the rotation of trades among Wheel participants. Specifically, the first ten contracts of any AUTO&hyph;X order are assigned to a single Wheel participant, with the specialist receiving the first execution of the day in each respective listed option. For those AUTO&hyph;X orders greater than ten contracts, each additional ten-lot or remaining portion thereof is assigned to the next individual Wheel participant. The next order is similarly assigned, beginning with the next participant after the last to receive an execution. If there are five or more ROTs signed onto the Wheel, the specialist will receive every fifth execution, in addition to being assigned to the first AUTO&hyph;X order in the option. Lastly, paragraph (f) states that paragraph (e) will be reviewed by the Exchange's Allocation, Evaluation, and Securities Committee after six months. II. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change In its filing with the Commission, Phlx included statements concerning the purpose of, and basis for, the proposed rule change, and discussed any comments it received on the proposed rule change. The text of these statements may be examined at the places specified in Item IV below. Phlx has prepared summaries, set forth in sections (A), (B), and (C) below, of the most significant aspects of such statements. A. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change The purpose of the proposed rule change is to increase the efficiency and liquidity of order execution through AUTO&hyph;X by adopting a ``Wheel'' for the automated assignment of floor traders as contra-parties to incoming AUTO&hyph;X orders. The Phlx believes that the Wheel will make AUTO&hyph;X more efficient, as contra-side participation will be assigned automatically and no longer entered manually. The AUTO&hyph;X system is the automatic execution feature of the Exchange's Automated Options Market (``AUTOM'') system. 4 AUTO&hyph;X provides customers with automatic executions of eligible option orders at displayed markets. 5 AUTO&hyph;X orders are currently given executions automatically and immediately. ROTs are added later as contra-side participants to such orders with manual keypunch entries, which can cause delays and errors in processing executions. The proposed Wheel is designed to eliminate manual keypunching of contra-side participant information relating to AUTO&hyph;X executions and the errors that sometimes result from such keypunching. It also provides a rotation schedule by which floor traders will automatically be assigned as the contra-party to AUTO&hyph;X orders and will do so in a manner that reduces the number of contra-side participants, which in most cases will be reduced to one contra-side per trade. 4 AUTOM is an on-line system that allows electronic delivery of options orders from member firms directly to the appropriate specialist on the Phlx options trading floor, with electronic confirmation of order executions. On March 31, 1988, the Commission first approved the Phlx's operation of the AUTOM system on a pilot basis. Securities Exchange Act Release No. 25540 (March 31, 1988), 53 FR 11390. 5 Orders eligible for automatic execution are (1) printed in hard copy form at the floor representative booth of the delivering member organization; (2) displayed on the trading crowd screen with buy/sell information omitted; and (3) printed in hard copy form at the specialist post.
