FR940721-2-00125 FR940721-2-00071 2. Statutory Basis The proposed rule change is consistent with Section 6(b)(5) of the Act in that it permits registered brokers or dealers as set forth herein to become member organizations of the Exchange. The proposed rule change is also consistent with Section 6(b)(5) of the Act in that it broadens the types of entities which the Exchange may approve as a member organization and therefore avoids possible unfair discrimination. Finally, it is consistent with Section 6(b)(8) of the Act in that it serves to remove possible burdens on competition resulting from organizational structure not necessary or appropriate in furtherance of the purposes of the Act. B. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Burden on Competition The Exchange believes that the proposed rule change will impose no burden in competition that is not necessary or appropriate in furtherance of the purposes of the Act. C. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received From Members, Participants or Others The Exchange has not solicited, and does not intend to solicit, comments regarding the proposed rule change. The Exchange has not received any unsolicited written comments from members or other interested parties. III. Date of Effectiveness of the Proposed Rule Change and Timing for Commission Action Within 35 days of the publication of this notice in the Federal Register or within such other period (i) as the Commission may designate up to 90 days of such date if it finds such longer period to be appropriate and publishes its reasons for so finding or (ii) as to which the self-regulatory organization consents, the Commission will: (A) By order approve the proposed rule change, or (B) Institute proceedings to determine whether the proposed rule change should be disapproved. IV. Solicitation of Comments Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views and arguments concerning the foregoing. Persons making written submissions should file six copies thereof with the Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street NW., Washington DC 20549. Copies of the submission, all subsequent amendments, all written statements with respect to the proposed rule change that are filed with the Commission, and all written communications relating to the proposed rule change between the Commission and any person, other than those that may be withheld from the public in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552, will be available for inspection and copying at the Commission's Public Reference Section, 450 Fifth Street NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of such filing will also be available for inspection and copying at the principal office of the NYSE. All submissions should refer to File No. SR&hyph;NYSE&hyph;94&hyph;01 and should be submitted by August 11, 1994. For the Commission, by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;17760 Filed 7&hyph;20&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
