FR940620-2-00118 FR940620-2-00063 •Cancer treatment with x-rays or drugs. •AIDS or HIV infection. If so, your doctor or nurse will probably give IPV instead of OPV. If you are older than age 18 years, you usually do not need polio vaccine. _Travel If you are traveling to a country where there is polio, you should get either OPV or IPV. _Pregnancy If protection is needed during pregnancy, OPV or IPV can be used. _Allergy to neomycin or streptomycin Does the person getting the vaccine have an allergy to the drugs neomycin or streptomycin? If so, she/he should get OPV, but not IPV. Ask your doctor or nurse if you are not sure. Tell your doctor or nurse if the person getting the vaccine: •Ever had a serious allergic reaction or other problem after getting polio vaccine. •Now has moderate or severe illness. If you are not sure, ask your doctor or nurse. What Are the Risks From Polio Vaccine? As with any medicine, there are very small risks that serious problems, even death, could occur after getting a vaccine. The risks from the vaccine are much smaller than the risks from the disease if people stopped using vaccine. Almost all people who get polio vaccine have no problems from it. •Risks from OPV Risks to the person taking OPV: There is a very small chance of getting polio disease from the vaccine. _about 1 case occurs for every 11/2 million first doses _about 1 case occurs for every 30 million later doses Risks to people who never took polio vaccine who have close contact with the person taking OPV: After a person gets OPV, it can be found in his or her mouth and stool. If you never took polio vaccine, there is a very small chance of getting polio disease from close contact with a child who got OPV in the past 30 days. (Examples of close contact include changing diapers or kissing.) _About 1 case occurs for every 2 million first doses _About 1 case occurs for every 15 million later doses Talk to your doctor or nurse about getting IPV. •Risks From IPV This vaccine is not known to cause problems except mild soreness where the shot is given. What to do if there is a serious reaction: •Call a doctor or get the person to a doctor right away. •Write down what happened and the date and time it happened. •Ask your doctor, nurse, or health department to file a Vaccine Adverse Event Report form or call: (800) 822&hyph;7967 (toll-free). The National Vaccine Injury Compensation Program gives compensation (payment) to some persons thought to be injured by vaccines. For details call: (800) 338&hyph;2382 (toll-free). If you want to learn more, ask your doctor or nurse. She/he can give you the vaccine package insert or suggest other sources of information: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Public Health Service, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Polio 6/10/94, 42 U.S.C. 300aa&hyph;26 . Measles, Mumps, and Rubella Vaccine (MMR) What you need to know before you or your child gets the vaccine. About the Diseases Measles, mumps, and rubella (German measles) are serious diseases. They spread when germs pass from an infected person to the nose or throat of others.
