FR940429-0-00221 FR940429-0-00015 Comments: Several commenters suggested amending the provisions of ยง668.23(b)(3) governing reasonable access to an institution's personnel to allow an institution the basic right to protect its interest during a compliance review by having an attorney, a management representative, or a tape recorder present when the Department of Education conducts an interview with a person employed by the institution. A few commenters suggested that these provisions violate an employee's constitutional rights to counsel. One commenter stated that as a minimum, an institution should have the opportunity to build its own record and rebut inaccurate charges by having tape recordings of interviews between its employees and the Department of Education's representatives. Several commenters were against the provisions in this section that require a third-party servicer, in the conduct of audits, investigations, or program reviews, to allow its individual employees_those employees connected with the servicer's administration of the Title IV, HEA programs_to be questioned in private, without management being present or without the questioning being tape recorded. Many of these commenters contended that this requirement violated an individual's right to due process. One commenter felt that the Secretary was overstepping his statutory authority in this matter. Discussion: The Secretary has already responded to similar comments in the preamble to final regulations for parts 600 and 668 that was published in the Federal Register on July 31, 1991 (56 FR 36682). The Secretary continues to disagree with these views and in the three years since these regulations have been in effect has received no evidence that the claims of the commenters are justified. With respect to third-party servicers, these provisions simply add requirements for third-party servicers that parallel current requirements for institutions participating in the Title IV, HEA programs. Changes: None. Comments: Many commenters recommended that an institution should be able to use a third-party servicer's annual compliance audit report to satisfy the portion of an institution's audit requirement for those areas that the servicer has contracted to administer on behalf of the institution. These commenters noted that this idea would eliminate duplication of effort by independent auditors auditing a third-party servicer's activities. Discussion: The Secretary generally agrees with commenters that an institution may use a third-party servicer's audit report to cover those areas of an institution's participation in the Title IV, HEA programs that the institution has contracted with the servicer to administer. However, if an institution is required to have audited additional areas of its administration or is required to use different procedures in having the audit performed than the servicer then the institution may not be able to use fully the results of the servicer's audit. An institution is always responsible for ensuring that a compliance audit of the institution's participation in the Title IV, HEA programs includes all aspects of the institution's participation. Changes: None. Comments: Forty-three commenters suggested that an institution ought to be permitted to remain under the biennial audit requirement if that institution did not have deficiencies in the prior audit report of more than five percent of the institution's total Title IV, HEA program funds. Many of these commenters pointed out that this modification would parallel a similar provision in the proposed ยง668.15 governing financial responsibility. At a minimum, the commenters recommended that these provisions be modified to reflect that an institution that had no deficiencies that required a monetary adjustment be permitted to remain under the biennial audit requirement. Several commenters asked the Secretary to clarify what are considered to be no deficiencies and material exceptions. One commenter suggested specifying certain amounts in the use of those terms. Three commenters supported the Secretary's proposal to provide exceptions to the annual audit requirement for third-party servicers that administer small amounts of Title IV, HEA program funds. One commenter argued that third-party servicers administering less than $250,000 in Title IV, HEA program funds should not be excluded from having an annual audit performed. One commenter recommended that instead of requiring third-party servicers to have performed a compliance audit at least every two years if the servicer administers less than $1,000,000 in Title IV, HEA program funds, that that threshold should be increased to $5,000,000. Three commenters urged the Secretary to require all third-party servicers to have an annual audit performed. One commenter suggested defining what is meant by a material exception. Discussion: The Secretary has reevaluated his proposal in the February 17 and 28, 1994, NPRMs and upon a further examination of section 487(c) of the HEA and information surrounding the intent of the statute, has determined that the proposals were inconsistent with the requirement for an institution to have performed, without exception, on an annual basis, a compliance audit of the institution's administration of its Title IV, HEA programs or a third-party servicer to have performed, without exceptions, on an annual basis, a compliance audit of the servicer's administration of any aspect of its administration of an institution's participation in a Title IV, HEA program. The Secretary appreciates the comments and suggestions provided with respect to the basis for exempting institutions and third-party servicers from the annual audit requirement. While the Secretary cannot adopt these in the regulations, the Secretary is considering them in the development of changes to the Department of Education's audit guides. These changes are being designed to reduce administrative costs by allowing institutions that meet certain performance-based or funding criteria to have performed compliance audits under a reviewed or compiled basis rather than fully audited.
