FR941110-0-00108 FR941110-0-00016 While the notification in and of itself is not appealable, providers may appeal, in accordance with parts 431 or 498, as applicable, a finding of noncompliance that caused a remedy or remedies to be imposed. However, there is no statutory basis to require that results of provider appeals be communicated to the physicians and licensing board previously notified of the substandard quality of care. Again, the providers are free to notify physicians and licensing boards about the outcomes of these appeals and physicians and licensing boards are free to inquire about such matters. All information related to the survey and certification of Medicare and Medicaid providers is retained in accordance with Federal and State provider survey and certification records retention requirements. Section 488.330␣Certification of Compliance or Noncompliance Comment: A small number of commenters suggested that HCFA delegate to the State all enforcement responsibilities for the SNF portion of dually participating facilities. Commenters believe that States have better resources to perform the enforcement functions and this solution would eliminate duplicative efforts and be more cost effective. One commenter further suggested that the State handle all enforcement responsibilities for all SNFs. Response: We cannot accept this suggestion. Section 1819(h)(2) of the Act requires the Secretary to take certain enforcement actions when the Secretary finds either through his or her own survey, or through the State's survey, that a SNF no longer meets the requirements set forth in section 1819(b), (c) or (d) of the Act. Thus, we do not have the authority to delegate the enforcement authority for SNFs to the State. Comment: A few commenters believed that HCFA, not the State, should perform the on-site surveys of State-operated nursing homes. Response: To the extent possible, we have attempted to use the survey and certification process in effect before October 1, 1990, whereby the survey agency would conduct the survey and certify compliance or noncompliance with Federal requirements, subject to HCFA approval as necessary for SNFs. The OBRA '87 legislation made a distinction between State operated and non-State operated facilities. Specifically, OBRA '87 provided that the Secretary would be responsible for certifying State-operated facilities. To be as consistent as possible with our present survey process, we proposed that the State survey agency would conduct all surveys (with the exception of validation surveys). We believe that requiring survey agencies to survey all facilities will make surveys for all nursing homes in a State more consistent since the same entity will conduct all surveys. However, HCFA would maintain the certification responsibility, thus assuring oversight as envisioned by the Act. Comment: Some commenters were concerned that, although the Secretary's determination of a facility's noncompliance takes precedence over a State's finding of compliance, the regulation is unclear about which agency's remedies control when both HCFA and the State determine that the facility is not in compliance. Response: When both the Secretary and the State survey agency agree that a facility is not in compliance, the rules at proposed §488.232 (redesignated as §488.452(b),(c),(d) and (e)) are applied to determine whether the Secretary's or the State's timing and choice of remedies control. Comment: A few commenters were unclear about whether the validation survey and the certification survey would be counted as separate surveys for sanction purposes because the denial of payment sanction must be imposed when the State or Secretary finds substandard quality of care through three consecutive standard surveys. Response: The Secretary's finding of noncompliance during a validation survey would not be counted toward three consecutive findings of substandard quality of care. Sections 1819(h)(2)(E) and 1919(h)(2)(D) of the Act refer to facilities being found to have provided substandard care under three consecutive standard surveys conducted under sections 1819(g)(2) and 1919(g)(2) of the Act, respectively. Sections 1819(g)(2) and 1919(g)(2) of the Act describe the State's standard survey of a facility. Prospective Providers In the proposed rule, we asked for public comments regarding our requirement that prospective providers be in full compliance with the requirements of sections 1819 (b), (c) and (d) and 1919 (b), (c) and (d) of the Act in order to participate in the Medicare and Medicaid programs, respectively. Comment: Many commenters believe that HCFA's proposal ignores the concept of substantial compliance because the proposed regulations define any failure to comply with the regulations as a deficiency. The commenters suggest that the regulation be rewritten to state that facilities will be judged on substantial compliance. A few commenters asked if a deficiency with a scope of 1 and a severity of 1 would constitute noncompliance that is sufficient to exclude a prospective provider from program participation.
