FR940429-0-00276 FR940429-0-00015 (b) The institution or servicer shall file its request for review and any records or materials admissible under the terms of §668.116(e) and (f), no later than 45 days from the date that the institution or servicer receives the final audit determination or final program review determination. (c) The institution or servicer shall attach to the request for review a copy of the final audit determination or final program review determination, and shall_ (1) Identify the issues and facts in dispute; and (2) State the institution's or servicer's position, as applicable, together with the pertinent facts and reasons supporting that position. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1094) 40. Section 668.114 is revised to read as follows: §668.114 Notification of hearing. (a) Upon receipt of an institution's or third-party servicer's request for review, the designated department official arranges for a hearing before a hearing official. (b) Within 30 days of the designated department official's receipt of an institution's or third-party servicer's request for review, the hearing official notifies the designated department official and the parties to the proceeding of the schedule for the submission of briefs by both the designated department official and, as applicable, the institution or servicer. (c) The hearing official schedules the submission of briefs and of accompanying evidence admissible under the terms of §668.116 (e) and (f) to occur no later than 120 days from the date that the hearing official notifies the institution or servicer. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1094) 41. Section 668.116 is amended by revising paragraphs (b), (d), (e)(1), (f), and (g) to read as follows: §668.116 Hearing. * * * * * (b) The hearing process consists of the submission of written briefs to the hearing official by the institution or third-party servicer, as applicable, and by the designated department official, unless the hearing official determines, under paragraph (g) of this section, that an oral hearing is also necessary. * * * * * (d) An institution or third-party servicer requesting review of the final audit determination or final program review determination issued by the designated department official shall have the burden of proving the following matters, as applicable: (1) That expenditures questioned or disallowed were proper. (2) That the institution or servicer complied with program requirements. (e) (1) A party may submit as evidence to the hearing official only materials within one or more of the following categories: (i) Department of Education audit reports and audit work papers for audits performed by the department's Office of Inspector General. (ii) In the case of an institution, institutional audit work papers, records, and other materials, if the institution provided those work papers, records, or materials to the Department of Education no later than the date by which the institution was required to file its request for review in accordance with §668.113. (iii) In the case of a third-party servicer, the servicer's audit work papers and the records and other materials of the servicer or any institution that contracts with the servicer, if the servicer provided those work papers, records, or materials to the Department of Education no later than the date that the servicer was required to file the request for review under §668.113. (iv) Department of Education program review reports and work papers for program reviews. (v) Institutional or servicer records and other materials (including records and other materials of any institution that contracts with the servicer) provided to the Department of Education in response to a program review, if the records or materials were provided to the Department of Education by the institution or servicer no later than the date by which the institution or servicer was required to file its request for review in accordance with §668.113.
