FR940907-0-00039 FR940907-0-00015 Ford Motor Company's Utica Trim Plant has entered into an administrative consent order requiring RACT-level controls for its polyurethane foam manufacturing processes, reaction injection molding processes, and various adhesive operations at this facility. This order has been submitted as a SIP revision. The Woodbridge Corporation, Whitmore Lake Plant (formerly Johnson Controls, Inc.) has entered into an administrative consent order requiring RACT-level controls for VOC emissions for its polyurethane foam automotive seat cushion manufacturing operation, and elimination of all methylene chloride emissions from the facility. This order has been submitted as a SIP revision. These 3 site-specific, non-CTG regulations have been reviewed by US EPA and are being approved for inclusion into Michigan's SIP. F. Stage I Vapor Recovery Michigan has controlled VOC emissions from underground tank loading at service stations, called Stage I controls, since the early 1980s. Rule 606, the Stage I rule, currently requires services stations in the Detroit, Flint, Grand Rapids, and Lansing urban areas to have their underground gasoline storage tanks equipped with vapor balance equipment when unloading gasoline at the service stations. New Stage I legislation has recently been enacted and submitted as part of the November 12, 1993 submittal which expands the geographic coverage of the current program and lowers the exemption level. Service stations with greater than 10,000 gallons per month of gasoline sales and located in the 10 county moderate nonattainment areas will now be required to implement the Rule 606 Stage I controls and meet the equipment specifications as specified by the California Air Resources Board. In addition, pressure/vacuum valves on the underground storage tank vents will now be mandatory, as required in the equipment specifications. All of the rules submitted on November 12, 1993 have been reviewed and been found to be approvable by the EPA for incorporation into the Michigan ozone SIP. G. Negative Declarations In a letter dated March 30, 1994, meant to supplement the November 12, 1993 submittal, Michigan included current negative declarations for the following CTG categories: (1) Large petroleum dry cleaners; (2) SOCMI air oxidation processes; (3) High-density polyethylene and polypropylene resin manufacturing; and (4) Pneumatic rubber tire manufacturing. These current negative declarations obviate the need for Michigan to develop regulations for these source categories because none of these types of sources exist in the State. Federal Action The EPA approves the VOC RACT rules submitted as a SIP revision for the State of Michigan to the EPA on June 12, 1993 and November 12, 1993. The EPA has evaluated all of Michigan's rules, as submitted on June 12, 1993 and November 12, 1993 for consistency with the requirements of the Act, EPA regulations and the EPA's interpretation of these requirements as expressed in EPA policy documents. The EPA has found that the rules meet the requirements applicable to ozone and are, therefore, approvable for incorporation into the State's ozone SIP. A more complete discussion of the EPA's review of the State's regulations is contained in technical support documents dated December 11 1990, August 23, 1991, and May 5, 1994. The EPA is proposing to approve this revision as fully meeting the RACT fix-up requirements of section 182(a)(2)(A) of the Act and the RACT catch-up requirements of section 182(b)(2) of the Act. Because EPA considers this action noncontroversial and routine, we are approving it without prior proposal. This action will become effective on November 7, 1994. However, if we receive adverse comments by October 7, 1994, EPA will publish: (1) a document that withdraws this action; and (2) address the comments received in the final rule on the requested SIP revision which has been proposed for approval in the proposed rules section of this Federal Register . Miscellaneous A. Applicability to Future SIP Decisions Nothing in this action should be construed as permitting, allowing or establishing a precedent for any future request for revision to any SIP. The EPA shall consider each request for revision to the SIP in light of specific technical, economic, and environmental factors and in relation to relevant statutory and regulatory requirements. B. Executive Order 12866
