FR940224-2-00064 FR940224-2-00040 Summary of and Responses to Comments on 1993 Proposal The Board received 28 comments on the proposed penalty fee calculation. The comments were distributed as follows: ␣ 1Type of commenter 1No. of responses Corporate credit union 18 Commercial bank 2 Federal Reserve Bank 2 Credit union 1 Commercial bankers' bank 1 Trade association 1 Bank holding company 1 Edge corporation 1 Federal agency 1 n,s Total 28 The corporate credit union commenters generally expressed similar views regarding the proposal. They opposed both the concept of the daylight overdraft penalty and the size of the proposed rate. These commenters contended that the Board did not present a legally sustainable case as to why the same daylight overdraft rate should not be imposed on all institutions. They also asserted that the Federal Reserve Act does not authorize a penalty fee for corporate credit unions. The corporate credit union commenters, as well as the National Credit Union Administration, maintained that one of the purposes of the proposed penalty fee appeared to be to penalize those bankers' banks that do not maintain reserves. They argued that it is unwarranted and contrary to the letter and spirit of the Monetary Control Act (MCA) for the Board to attempt to reduce the equality of treatment among users of Federal Reserve services by assessing corporate credit unions a penalty fee for daylight overdrafts. Five commenters, including a bank trade association, a bank holding company, and a commercial bankers' bank, agreed that the MCA does not require the Federal Reserve to treat daylight credit as a service to which depository institutions should have equal access. Two of these commenters stated that charging the same rate for all daylight overdrafts would give an unfair competitive advantage to those institutions that do not maintain reserves. The legislative history of the MCA indicates that Congress intended bankers' banks to have access to Federal Reserve payment services despite the fact that they do not maintain reserves, but also indicates that the access to Federal Reserve services was opened up to depository institutions in general because they all were to be subject to reserve requirements. 6 The Board believes that, when implementing a fee for daylight overdrafts incurred through use of Federal Reserve payments services, it is reasonable to establish different rates for institutions that maintain reserves and those that do not. The language of the MCA supports this distinction, by explicitly providing that the Board may impose balances ``sufficient for clearing purposes'' as a requirement for access to Federal Reserve services. By including this provision, Congress recognized that certain institutions with access to Federal Reserve services may not hold reserves at the Reserve Bank and may be subject to terms that would account for that fact. 6 Colloquy between Mr. Wirth and Mr. Reuss, 126 Cong. Rec. H 2291, daily ed. March 27, 1980, and remarks of Sen. Proxmire, 126 Cong. Rec. S 3167, daily ed. March 27, 1980. The corporate credit union commenters also stated that the Board has not shown how daylight overdrafts incurred by corporate credit unions differ from those incurred by commercial banks and other depository institutions. Many of these commenters cited the Board's 1989 overdraft survey, which showed that corporate credit unions incurred only 0.18 percent of the total amount of daylight overdrafts incurred. The corporate credit unions, as well as an Edge corporation, stated that a penalty incentive is not necessary, as these institutions rarely incur daylight overdrafts. The commenters also stated that corporate credit unions do not incur overnight overdrafts, and therefore there is no evidence that a daylight penalty fee is necessary to prevent overnight overdrafts. The Board believes there is a fundamental difference between overdrafts incurred by institutions that have access to Federal Reserve credit and those that do not. Even though corporate credit union overdrafts constitute only a small percentage of the total daylight overdrafts in Federal Reserve accounts, the Board believes that these institutions should not receive any daylight credit from the Federal Reserve. On the other hand, the Board allows depository institutions with discount window access to incur limited daylight overdrafts. The daylight overdraft penalty fee reflects this difference. The corporate credit unions and the National Credit Union Administration argued that the proposed penalty fee is excessive for the purposes of discouraging daylight overdrafts. These commenters also noted that the Board has stated that even the regular daylight overdraft fee of 60 basis points (adjusted to 25 basis points given a 10-hour Fedwire day) will provide an incentive for depository institutions to reduce daylight overdrafts. The corporate credit union commenters, as well as a bank trade association, also noted that the 10 percent floor in the current overnight penalty rate, to which the proposed daylight penalty rate was tied, yields an anomalous result as the federal funds rate declines. One commenter suggested that a daylight penalty rate 100 basis points above the federal funds rate should provide more than sufficient incentive for corporate credit unions to avoid daylight overdrafts. Four commenters, including a bank holding company and a commercial bankers' bank, supported the Board's proposed penalty fee calculation as equitable and sufficient to deter daylight overdrafts.
