FR941102-1-00083 FR941102-1-00018 A witness for NCI testified that even though somatic cells affect the quality of milk, particularly in the manufacture of cheese, it is difficult to place a value on their effect. The witness explained that the variability in somatic cell levels from day to day and producer to producer makes determining an appropriate payment adjustment imprecise. In addition, the witness pointed out that other factors affect milk quality, and that placing a precise value on their effect is even more difficult than in the case of somatic cells. The NCI witness explained that the NCI proposal would allow each handler to establish and apply its own somatic cell adjustment schedule, with the approval of the market administrator, as long as the total payments to producers met or exceeded the Federal order minimum value. The witness explained that each handler could change its payment plan as conditions warranted. A witness for Kraft emphasized the earlier testimony on the effect of somatic cells on milk quality and cheese yields. The witness listed several studies supporting the results testified to by the NAJ expert witness. The Kraft witness testified that Kraft has, since the early 1980's, employed a quality payment program as part of its producer payroll. The witness went on to state that the plethora of somatic cell payment programs in use in the industry is strong evidence of the industry's recognition that somatic cells play a major role in milk quality. The Kraft witness explained that, in order of preference, Kraft supports the proposal submitted by NCI, followed by LOL's proposal and the TAPP/FUMMC proposal. Kraft, in its post-hearing brief, reiterated its support for a somatic cell adjustment to be included in the amended order. Kraft's brief did not support a particular adjustment plan but preferred the LOL&hyph;NCI concept. If that plan were not adopted, Kraft expressed support for the proposal by Mid-Am or the original CMPC proposal. A brief filed largely reiterative of NCI testimony was filed on behalf of NCI with the Dairy Division rather than the Hearing Clerk, and was received more than 3 weeks after the extended due date for filing briefs. The brief is not considered in this decision. In the Anderson-Erickson Dairy Company (A&hyph;E) post-hearing brief, A-E opposed the application of an adjustment for somatic cells to Class I milk. They contended that the Class I handler is unable to recover the added cost of lower somatic cell count milk from the retail market. This position was supported in the post-hearing brief filed by Lamers Dairy and Hansen Dairy (Lamers). Lamers pointed to testimony that indicated that the monetary effect of somatic cells on Class I milk could not be quantified as it could be with the manufacture of cheese. NFO, in its post-hearing brief, opposed the inclusion of any somatic cell adjuster in the recommended order. NFO expressed the opinion that support for a somatic cell adjuster was rather weak, with none of the positions presented having strong support. As an example, the NFO brief pointed to the neutral position taken by CMPC at the hearing after including a somatic cell adjuster in the original CMPC proposal. The NFO brief continued by explaining that testimony at the hearing indicated that the relationship between somatic cell levels and economic return is not a clear and definite relationship. The NFO brief went on to point out that there was no consensus at the hearing on how to apply a somatic cell adjuster. There is ample testimony and evidence to support the inclusion of a somatic cell adjuster in these amended orders. The somatic cell adjuster per hundredweight per 1,000 somatic cells will be calculated by multiplying .0005 times the monthly average National Cheese Exchange 40-pound block cheese price. To determine the value for an individual producer, the producer s monthly average somatic cell count (in thousands) will be subtracted from 350 and multiplied by the somatic cell adjuster. The value of the somatic cell adjustment will be applied on a per hundredweight basis in the handlers' payment to producers. Somatic cells will not be included in the computation of the producer price differential.
