FR940525-1-00061 FR940525-1-00008 2. Copies of articles cited in the literature searches and other information as follows: a. All information relied upon for the support of the health claim, including copies of publications or other information cited in review articles and used to perform meta-analyses. b. All information concerning adverse consequences to any segment of the population (e.g., sensitivity to the substance). c. All information pertaining to the U.S. population. F. The applicant is required to submit either a claim for categorical exclusion under 21 CFR 25.24 or an environmental assessment under 21 CFR 25.31. Yours very truly, Applicant By (Indicate authority) (g) The data specified under the several lettered headings should be submitted on separate pages or sets of pages, suitably identified. If such data have already been submitted with an earlier application from the applicant or any other final labeling application, the present labeling application may incorporate it by specific reference to the earlier application. (h) The labeling application shall include a statement signed by the person responsible for the labeling application that, to the best of his or her knowledge, it is a representative and balanced submission that includes unfavorable information, as well as favorable information, known to him or her to be pertinent to the evaluation of the proposed health claim. (i) The labeling application shall be signed by the applicant or by his or her attorney or agent, or, if a corporation, by its responsible officer or agent. (j) FSIS action on the labeling application. (1) Upon receipt of the labeling application and supporting documentation, the applicant shall be notified, in writing, of the date on which the labeling application was received. Such notice shall inform the applicant that the labeling application is undergoing FSIS review and that the applicant shall subsequently be notified of FSIS's decision to consider for further review or deny the labeling application. (2) Upon review of the labeling application and supporting documentation, FSIS shall notify the applicant, in writing, that the labeling application is either being considered for further review or that it has been summarily denied by the Administrator. FSIS shall deny a labeling application without reviewing the information contained in subsection B of this part, Summary of Scientific Data, if the information in subsection A of this part, Preliminary Requirements, is inadequate to explain how the substance conforms to the requirements of ยง317.314(b). (3) If the labeling application is summarily denied by the Administrator, the written notification shall state the reasons therefore, including why FSIS has determined that the proposed health claim is false or misleading. The notification letter shall inform the applicant that the applicant may submit a written statement by way of answer to the notification, and that the applicant shall have the right to request a hearing with respect to the merits or validity of the Administrator's decision to deny the use of the proposed health claim. (i) If the applicant fails to accept the determination of the Administrator and files an answer and requests a hearing, and the Administrator, after review of the answer, determines the initial determination to be correct, the Administrator shall file with the Hearing Clerk of the Department the notification, answer, and the request for a hearing, which shall constitute the complaint and answer in the proceeding, which shall thereafter be conducted in accordance with the Department's Uniform Rules of Practice. (ii) The hearing shall be conducted before an administrative law judge with the opportunity for appeal to the Department's Judicial Officer, who shall make the final determination for the Secretary. Any such determination by the Secretary shall be conclusive unless, within 30 days after receipt of notice of such final determination, the applicant appeals to the United States Court of Appeals for the circuit in which the applicant has its principal place of business or to the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit. (4) If the labeling application is not summarily denied by the Administrator, the Administrator shall publish in the Federal Register a proposed rule to amend the regulations to authorize the use of the health claim. The proposal shall also summarize the labeling application, including where the supporting documentation can be reviewed. The Administrator's proposed rule shall seek comment from consumers, the industry, consumer and industry groups, medical and scientific professionals, and other interested persons on the labeling application and the use of the proposed health claim. After public comment has been received and reviewed by FSIS, the Administrator shall make a determination on whether the proposed health claim shall be approved for use on the labeling of meat or meat food products. (i) If the claim is denied by the Administrator following the review of the public comments, FSIS shall notify the applicant, in writing, of the basis for the denial, including the reason why the claim on the labeling was determined by FSIS to be false or misleading. The notification letter shall also inform the applicant that the applicant may submit a written statement by way of answer to the notification, and that the applicant shall have the right to request a hearing with respect to the merits or validity of the Administrator's decision to deny the use of the proposed health claim.
