FR940114-2-00010 FR940114-2-00005 Boppin Basin Salvage Sale; Kootenai National Forest; Lincoln County, MT AGENCY: Forest Service, USDA. ACTION: Notice; intent to prepare environmental impact statement. SUMMARY: The Forest Service will prepare an environmental impact statement (EIS) to analyze and disclose the environmental impacts of a proposal to harvest timber and construct and reconstruct roads in the East and West Fork of Basin Creek located about 29 air miles northeast of Troy, Montana. This EIS will tier to the Kootenai National Forest Land and Resource Management Plan and EIS, which provide overall guidance for achieving the desired forest condition of the area. The purpose of the proposed action is to help reduce existing natural fuel loadings of standing and down dead lodgepole pine, increase the productivity on those suitable areas that sites currently are not growing anywhere near full potential and increase the health and vigor of proposed salvage stands which will help maintain a more equal distribution of timber age classes. DATES: Written comments and suggestions should be received by February 28, 1994. ADDRESSES: Send written comments to John B. Righter, District Ranger, Three Rivers Ranger District, 1437 North Highway 2, Troy, Montana, 59935. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: 0 Monte Fujishin, Supervisory Forester, (406) 295&hyph;4693. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The timber salvage management activities under consideration would occur within a 6,046 acre analysis area which is immediately adjacent to the East and West Fork of Basin Creek. The proposed action would harvest about 17.6 million board feet from 10 harvest units totaling 1,258 acres. Approximately 4 miles of new road would be constructed and 3 miles of existing road would be reconstructed. There are a variety of purposes for timber harvest and reforestation in the Basin Creek area; the primary purposes are: (1) To improve timber productivity by replacing stands of dead, down or dying lodgepole pine with younger, more vigorously growing trees; (2) to salvage the dead, down and dying lodgepole pine; and (3) to reduce potentially catastrophic wildfire conditions by removal of natural dead, down or dying fuels. Additionally, the purpose of road construction and reconstruction is to facilitate access to the timber stands to be harvested. The project area consists of approximately 6,046 acres located in Sections 20&hyph;22, 26&hyph;29, and 32&hyph;34, T36N, R30N, P.M.M., Lincoln County, Montana. The decision to be made is what, if anything, should be done in the Basin Creek Project Area to: (a) Increase timber productivity and contribute to the Forest's sustained yield of timber products through salvage operations, (b) reduce natural fuel loadings of dead, down and dying lodgepole pine as a result of past mountain pine beetle infestations, (c) dispose of slash and reforest harvested lands, (d) develop and manage the road system to facilitate removal of timber, reforest stands and maintain or improve wildlife and (e) create a situation of better age class distributions of stands within project area. The Kootenai Forest Plan provides guidance for management activities within the potentially affected area through its goals, objectives, standards and guidelines, and management area direction. The areas of proposed timber harvest and reforestation would occur within Management Areas 12 and 14. Timber harvest would occur only on suitable timber land. Road construction and reconstruction would occur in these two management areas plus Management Area 13 when crossing the East Fork of Basin Creek. Below is a brief description of the applicable management direction. Management Area 12_These are areas that contain productive timber lands which are suitable for timber harvest, provided that big game summer habitat objectives are met. Management Area 13_These are areas that contain special habitat characteristics which are suitable for old-growth dependent wildlife. Local road construction is permitted, providing that they are restricted following use to protect snag characteristics. Management Area 14_These are areas that contain productive timber lands which are suitable for timber harvest, provided that grizzly bear habitat objectives are met. The Forest Service will consider a range of alternatives. One of these will be the ``no action'' alternative, in which none of the proposed activities will be implemented. Additional alternatives will examine varying levels and locations for the proposed activities to achieve the proposal's purposes, as well as to respond to the issues and other resource values. The EIS will analyze the direct, indirect, and cumulative environmental effects of the alternatives. Past, present, and projected activities on National Forest Lands will be considered. The EIS will disclose the analysis of site-specific mitigation measures and their effectiveness. Public participation is an important part of the analysis, commencing with the initial scoping process (40 CFR 1501.7) which has already occurred in March of 1992. In addition, public is encouraged to visit with Forest Service officials at any time during the analysis and prior to the decision. The Forest Service will be seeking information, comments, and assistance from Federal, State and local agencies and other individuals or organizations who may be interested in or affected by the proposed action. No public meetings are scheduled at this time. Comments from the public and other agencies will be used in preparation of the Draft EIS. The scoping process will be used to: 1. Identify potential issues. 2. Identify major issues to by analyzed in depth. 3. Eliminates minor issues or those which have been covered by a relevant previous environmental analysis, such as the Kootenai Forest Plan EIS. 4. Identify alternatives to the proposed action. 5. Identify potential environmental effects of the proposed action and alternatives (i.e. direct, indirect, and cumulative effects). 6. Determine potential cooperating agencies and task assignments. Preliminary scoping, including public and agency participation, was initiated in March, 1992, and has continued through this year. Until recently, an Environmental Assessment (EA) and Finding of No Significant Impact (FONSI) were envisioned. However, it became apparent to the Interdisciplinary Team that due to the size and scope of the proposed action, that effects on the biological characteristics of the area could be considered significant. In such cases, an EIS is required. The principal environmental issues identified to date are related to: 1. Wildlife habitat and security maintenance. 2. Fuels treatment and accumulations in terms of potential catastrophic wildfire situations.
