FR941117-2-00139 FR941117-2-00093 Applicant's Conditions Chase agrees that any order of the SEC granting the requested relief my be conditioned upon the following: 1. The foreign custody arrangements proposed regarding Chase-Mexico will satisfy the requirements of rule 17f&hyph;5 in all respects other than Chase-Mexico's level of shareholders' equity. 2. Chase will deposit Assets with Chase-Mexico only in accordance with the Custody Agreement and the Subcustody Agreement described in (a) and (b) below. The Custody and Subcustody Agreements will remain in effect at all times during which Chase-Mexico fails to satisfy all the requirements of the rule. (a) The Custody Agreement will be between Chase and the U.S. Investment Company (or its custodian). In that agreement, Chase will undertake to provide custody or subcustody services, and the U.S. Investment Company (or its custodian) will authorize Chase to delegate to Chase-Mexico such of Chase's duties and obligations as will be necessary to permit Chase-Mexico to hold in custody the Mexican Assets of U.S. Investment Companies. The Custody Agreement will further provide that the delegation by Chase to Chase-Mexico will not relieve Chase of any responsibility to the U.S. Investment Company or its custodian for any loss due to such delegation, and that Chase will be liable for any loss or claim arising out of or in connection with the performance by Chase-Mexico of the custody services to the same extent as if Chase had itself provided the custody services under the Custody Agreement. (b) A Subcustody Agreement will be executed by Chase and Chase-Mexico. Pursuant to this agreement, Chase will delegate to Chase-Mexico such of Chase's duties and obligations as would be necessary to permit Chase-Mexico to hold Assets in custody in Mexico. The Subcustody Agreement will explicitly provide that (i) Chase-Mexico is acting as a foreign custodian for Assets that belong to a U.S. Investment Company pursuant to the terms of an exemptive order issued by the SEC and (ii) the U.S. Investment Company or its custodian (as the case may be) that has entered into a Custody Agreement will be entitled to enforce the terms of the Subcustody Agreement and can seek relief directly against Chase-Mexico. The Subcustody Agreement will provide that it will be governed by New York law. 3. Chase currently satisfies and will continue to satisfy the Qualified U.S. Bank requirement set forth in rule 17f&hyph;5(c)(3). For the Commission, by the Division of Investment Management, under delegated authority. Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;28362 Filed 11&hyph;16&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
