FR941006-0-00045 FR941006-0-00012 (2) Deprive a person of the right to a fair trial or an impartial judgment. (3) Invade personal privacy unnecessarily. (4) Identify a confidential source, including a state, local, or foreign agency or authority or any private institution that gives confidential information. (5) Disclose information from a confidential source and obtained by a criminal law enforcement authority in a criminal investigation or by an agency conducting a lawful national security intelligence investigation. (6) Disclose methods for law enforcement investigation or prosecutions. (7) Disclose guidelines for law enforcement investigations or prosecutions if the release would probably encourage circumvention of the law. (8) Endanger an individual's life or physical safety. (i) You may use this exemption to prevent disclosure of documents not originally created for, but later gathered for law enforcement purposes. (j) Exemption 8_Financial Institutions. Those records contained in or related to examination, operation, or condition reports prepared by, on the behalf of, or for the use of, an agency that regulates or supervises financial institutions. (k) Exemption 9_Wells. Records with geological and geophysical information and data, including maps, concerning wells. ยง806.11 FOIA exclusions. (a) Under two limited situations, requests for law enforcement records are not subject to disclosure under FOIA: (1) Requests for law enforcement records when the investigation involves a possible criminal violation, the subject is unaware of the investigation, and disclosing the record's existence could interfere with enforcement. (2) Requests for informant records a criminal law enforcement agency keeps under the informant's name or personal identifier made by a third party using the informant's name or personal identifier, but only when the informant's status as an informant has not been officially confirmed. (b) In these cases, do not use denial procedures; instead, say you found no records. Coordinate with the SJA on these cases. When you write to the requester, do not give the statutory citation for the exclusion nor state your reliance on an exclusion. ยง806.12 Denials. Only denial authorities may withhold information. Denial authority level is at the deputy chiefs of staff and chiefs of comparable offices or higher at HQ USAF, and MAJCOM and FOA commanders. These officials may name an additional official as a denial authority. Send SAF/AAIQ a letter with the position titles only. Only the Administrative Assistant to the Secretary of the Air Force can approve a request for more than one additional denial authority. Send those requests, with justification, to SAF/AAIQ. (a) When denying information, delete only the exempt parts of a record, release what remains, and let the requester know that you are providing all reasonably segregable, releasable parts of the record. Clearly show the requester where you deleted information. (b) Denial letters must include the reason for the denial and cite the statutory exemption. Only authorized denial authorities sign denial letters. FOIA managers may sign ``no records'' responses. Denial letters and ``no records'' responses must also include an appeal paragraph that: (1) Tells the requester to address appeals to the Secretary of the Air Force, through the FOIA office of the activity that issued the denial or ``no records'' response. (2) Tells the requester to appeal within 60 calendar days from the date of the letter and to include reasons for reconsideration. (3) Asks the requester to attach a copy of the response. ยง806.13 Freedom of Information Act annual report (a) MAJCOM and FOA FOIA managers submit a calendar-year report on 31/2- or 51/4-inch disk using the FOIA System. Send the report by 10 January to SAF/AAIQ. The report control symbol (RCS) is DD&hyph;PA(A)1365. (b) SAF/AAIQ submits the report to the Office of the Assistant to the Secretary of Defense (Public Affairs) Directorate for Freedom of Information and Security Review on DD Form 2564, Annual Report_Freedom of Information Act.
