FR941021-0-00209 FR941021-0-00024 (i) There is evidence in the Presentence Investigation that alcohol or other drug use contributed to the commission of the instant offense; (ii) Alcohol or other drug use was a reason for violation either of supervised release, including parole, or BOP community status (CCC placement) for which the inmate is now incarcerated; or (iii) The inmate was recommended for drug programming during incarceration by the sentencing judge. (2) Voluntary participation. Inmates who are not required by paragraph (a)(1) of this section to participate in the drug abuse education course may request to participate voluntarily in the drug abuse education course when participant space is available. Volunteers must have the approval of the drug abuse treatment coordinator. Priority consideration shall be given to those inmates whose participation has been recommended by unit or treatment staff. (b) Sanctions. An inmate who is required by paragraph (a)(1) of this section to participate in the drug abuse education course and who refuses participation, withdraws, is expelled, or otherwise fails to meet the attendance and examination requirements shall be held at the lowest pay grade (Grade 4) within the institution and shall be ineligible for community programs. Inmates may be permitted to receive work promotions during their participation or while on a ``waiting list'' for the drug abuse education course. The Warden may make exceptions to the provisions of this paragraph for good cause with reasons for such exceptions documented in writing. (c) Exemptions. An inmate may be exempted from the required drug abuse education course due to cognitive impairment or other learning disabilities only after evaluation and recommendation by a psychologist. An inmate may also be exempted from the drug abuse education course if that inmate volunteers for, enters and completes a residential drug abuse treatment program or if he/she completes a structured drug abuse treatment program at one of the Bureau of Prisons' Intensive Confinement Centers (ICC). (d) Written consent. All inmates who enter the drug abuse education course (whether as mandatory or as voluntary participants) are required to sign an agreement to participate prior to admission to the course. (e) Completion. Completion of the drug abuse education course requires attendance and participation during course sessions and a passing grade on an examination given at the end of the course. Inmates required to participate in this course ordinarily are provided at least three chances to pass the final examination before privileges are lost or sanctions (see paragraph (b) of this section) are invoked. A certificate of achievement will be awarded to all who successfully complete the program. A copy of this certificate will be forwarded to the unit team for placement in the inmate's central file. ยง550.55 Institution residential drug abuse treatment program. Residential drug abuse treatment is available at selected Bureau of Prisons institutions. It is an intensive, unit-based treatment experience provided by a team of drug abuse treatment specialists and the drug abuse treatment coordinator. (a) Eligibility. The following criteria must be met for an inmate to be recommended and/or approved for the residential drug abuse treatment program. (1) The inmate must have a documented drug abuse problem. (2) The inmate must have no serious mental impairment which would substantially interfere with or preclude full participation in the program. (3) The inmate must sign an agreement acknowledging his/her program responsibility. (4) Ordinarily, the inmate must be within thirty-six months of release. (5) The security level of the residential program institution must be appropriate for the inmate. (b) Application/Referral/Placement. Participation in the residential drug abuse treatment program is voluntary. An inmate may be referred for treatment by unit and/or drug treatment staff or apply for the program by submitting a request to a staff member (ordinarily, a member of the inmate's unit team or the drug abuse treatment coordinator). The decision on placement is made by the drug abuse treatment coordinator.
