FR940719-2-00104 FR940719-2-00062 •Benefits: receipt of AFDC, General Welfare/General Relief, food stamps, and other assistance. •Outlook: the participant's self-efficacy relative to outcome of interest, such as ability to live in a low-poverty neighborhood or ability to get along with neighbors. •Parent involvement: the participant's involvement with his/her children's schooling. •Contact information: the names of three friends or relatives who do not live with the participant and will always know how to contact him/her. This information will be used for long-term tracking of the participants and follow-up survey work. Part II collects demographic information about every member of the participant's household. A cover sheet requests the full name of each member as well as basic demographic information, including birth date, sex, race, ethnicity. The second page contains a matrix in which information about adult household members is reported. This information includes relationship to applicant, school and work status, marital status, number of children, and the year first child was born. In addition, Part II includes two short surveys for children living in the household. One is for children five and younger, and the other is for children from six to eighteen years of age. The applicant completes a sheet for each child in the household. For younger children, basic information is requested about pre-school attendance, child care arrangements, general health and behavior. For children 6 to 18, information includes school and grade, attendance in gifted or special education classes, general behavior and health, and child care arrangements. A2.2.2␣Data Collection with Agency Respondents At each of the demonstration sites, the public housing authorities and nonprofit organizations will routinely collect and update program data and submit them (initially to the Contractor, later to HUD) on a monthly basis during the demonstration period. 11 These data will be used by HUD to monitor the progress of the demonstration (i.e., the number of people participating in the program, the number who have leased units), to identify differences in the program among the sites and reasons for these differences, to determine the costs associated with adding MTO counseling to the conventional Section 8 program, and to develop biennial reports to the Congress. It should be noted that the collection of the data is also useful to each of the sites, as they manage and monitor their own programs. The data collection instruments that have been designed for agency respondents are: the Participant Tracking Forms for PHAs and NPOs; the Participant Counseling Log for NPOs; the Program Cost Forms for PHAs and NPOs; and the Landlord Outreach Log for NPOs. These are discussed below and can be found in Appendix B. 11 During the first few months of the demonstration, this information will be reported to Abt Associates. Abt will review the information to ensure it is accurately recorded, discussed any deficiencies with the sites, and then pass this information on to HUD. After this start-up period, programs will submit these forms directly to HUD. HUD is also considering whether to issue a competitive procurement to obtain the services of a data tracking and monitoring firm to ensure that, in the long-term, information is properly gathered and reported. PHA and NPO Participant Tracking Logs. Tracking logs provide a mechanism for monitoring the progress of participants from enrollment through lease-up of a new unit. Separate tracking logs have been developed for the PHAs and NPOs which they will update on an as-needed basis. Updated logs will be copied and submitted monthly (initially to the Contractor, later to HUD), so that the progress of demonstration enrollment, search, and lease-up can be monitored. The ``PHA tracking log'' requires PHA staff to record the name and social security number of all eligible applicants as they are enrolled in the program and the dates when key PHA-related activities occur. For example, PHA staff will record the date the Enrollment Form is signed, the date the Participant Baseline Survey is completed, and the outcome of random assignment. The log separately tracks participants in the experimental, Section 8 control, and in-place control groups. For experimental and Section 8 control group families, the log captures the date a certificate or voucher is issued and dates for search extension and expiration of the certificate or voucher. Once a participant finds a unit, the dates for the housing quality standards inspection, lease approval, and move-in are recorded. The ``NPO participant tracking log'', to be maintained by staff of the nonprofit agencies, applies only to experimental group participants. It is used to record the dates and results of NPO-related activities. These include a credit check, a visit to the participant's home, and accompanied visits to inspect up to three prospective units. When the participant finds a unit, the unit address and neighborhood are recorded, along with the date of a follow-up visit by NPO staff. After random assignment, tracking of the in-place control group members will not require a special data collection by the PHA. It will be accomplished using extracts from the electronic Form 50058 files that PHAs and Section 8 project managers maintain for periodic submission to HUD. 12 12 It is assumed that there will be complete reporting of HUD 50058 data by PHAs at the demonstration sites. Participant Counseling Log. Part of the design of the MTO program is the provision of counseling to participants in the experimental group, from the time of receiving a Section 8 certificate or voucher, for as long as one year after they have leased a unit under MTO. This counseling_on search methods, community features, credit problems, and family adjustment_will be provided by the nonprofit organizations. NPO staff will be asked to record contacts with each participant, whether the contact is by phone or in person, as well as the purpose and duration of the contact. NPOs will retain this information; it will be submitted to HUD at the end of the intake period and one year later. NPOs may choose to substitute their own forms to collect this information, provided that the same information is contained on their forms. Program Cost Forms. HUD is required to identify the costs associated with operating the MTO demonstration in biennial reports to Congress. To do this, it will be necessary to document the staff costs associated with counseling MTO participants (including staff time and travel), the cost of conducting credit checks, identifying housing units, recruiting and working with landlords, as well as managing random assignment and general program administration. Separate forms have been developed for NPOs and PHAs, to report to HUD on a monthly basis all costs related to the program. The forms require documentation of the amount of staff time devoted to a range of program activities, including outreach, enrollment, random assignment, record-keeping, and counseling. The name and hourly wage of staff working on MTO during the month is to be reported, along with the total number of hours the staff person devoted to MTO that month. Non-staff costs associated with the demonstration are to be reported as well, including indirect labor costs and benefits, overhead expenses, subcontracts, and fees. In order to minimize the burden on participating agencies, data on staff time by activity will be collected for just two one-month periods during the demonstration intake period. Total costs will be reported in the other months.
