FR941220-2-00073 FR941220-2-00044 The TEVan is based on production vehicles certified as complying with all applicable Federal motor vehicle safety standards. However, it does not comply with the portions of the standards indicated below. 1. Standard No. 101, Controls and Displays. S5.1. The TEVan is equipped with a state-of-charge gauge to serve as an indicator of reserve battery power, rather than the fuel gauge required by the standard. 2. Standard No. 102, Transmission Shift Lever Sequence, Starter Interlock, and Transmission Braking Effect. S3.1.2. The requirement for transmission braking effect is met by regenerative braking, in which the electric motor becomes a generator, recharging the batteries and dissipating energy in the process. Regenerative braking can be switched off at the option of the driver to restore steering control on slippery surfaces. S3.1.3. The starter interlock mechanism is deleted since there will be no electric starting motor. S3.1.4. The automatic transmission shift mechanism is replaced with an electric switch control device that operates in a similar manner. 3. Standard No. 105, Hydraulic Brake Systems S5.1. The performance of the service brake system is predicated on the use of the regenerative characteristic of the drive motor to augment the power-assisted hydraulic wheel brakes. The motor, driven through the transmission by the mass of the coasting vehicle, functions as a generator to dissipate energy through charging the drive batteries. Chrysler has never conducted tests using regenerative braking, however, tests of a conventionally powered weighted simulation of the TEVan indicate that the TEVan will meet the stopping distance requirements of S5.1.1. In the fade and recovery test, S5.1.4, the distance specified between the starting points of successive brake applications at 60 mph is 0.4 mile. The TEVan cannot accelerate to 60 mph in that distance, so the test cannot be conducted as prescribed, but based on the performance of a simulated TEVan, the TEVan could comply if it could accelerate as specified. On TEVans equipped with anti-lock brake systems, the regenerative braking is disabled during hard stops that actuate the anti-lock feature of the brakes. According to the original petition, an exemption would facilitate the development and field evaluation of a low-emission motor vehicle by enabling the petitioner to develop the electric drive motor, battery controller, battery, and other subsystems to increase the efficiency and durability of future generations of electric vehicles. The petitioner requested extension of its exemption for a two-year period beginning September 1, 1994. In its original petition it argued that the exemptions will not unduly degrade the safety of the vehicles because the vehicles from which the TEVan is adapted are certified as conforming to the standards. Chrysler observes in its petition for renewal that its ``field experience to date would indicate no negative result if this extension was granted.'' Finally, petitioner originally argued that granting the exemption would be in the public interest and consistent with the National Traffic and Motor Vehicle Safety Act because it would accelerate the development of electrically-driven vehicles and related technology which could help to reduce the dependency on foreign oil. No comments were received on the petition. In order to grant the renewal of an exemption originally provided under 49 U.S.C. 30113(b)(3)((B)(iii) (formerly 15 U.S.C. 1410(a)(1)(C)), the Administrator must find that the temporary exemption would ``make the development or field evaluation of a low-emission motor vehicle easier and would not unreasonably lower the safety level of that vehicle,'' and that the exemption is consistent with the public interest and 49 U.S.C. Chapter 301 Motor Vehicle Safety. The applicant has argued that the exemption would enable it to continue to develop the components of the vehicle to increase the efficiency and durability of future generations of electric vehicles. NHTSA concurs with this argument. It is probable that an exemption would permit the use of the vehicles under varied conditions of climate and terrain, testing those components for durability and life. Petitioner has also argued that safety is not compromised because the vehicles from which the TEVan is adapted are certified as conforming to the standards. The inability of the TEVan to meet two of the standards from which exemption is requested, Standards Nos. 101 and 102, appears only technical in nature, as systems and instruments are provided that are the equivalents of those in gasoline-powered vehicles. As for Standard No. 105, the petitioner on the basis of simulated tests of weighted vehicles, judges that the stopping distance requirements will be met. It is NHTSA's experience that regenerative braking can provide a drag on the vehicle's forward motion when the foot is removed from the accelerator; this, coupled with foot brake activation should ensure adequate stopping capability. It is manifestly in the public interest to accelerate the development of electrically-driven vehicles, not only to reduce reliance on oil, no matter where it originates, but also to reduce the level of harmful emissions in the environment. Because of the minimal impact on safety of the renewal of this exemption, NHTSA considers that an exemption is consistent with the objectives of Chapter 301.
