FR940111-1-00012 FR940111-1-00002 (d) Failure to report. A manufacturer who fails to report the quantities of domestic and imported tobacco used for manufacturing cigarettes shall be presumed to have used only imported tobacco in such cigarettes. The Director may determine the total quantity of tobacco used by any method determined reasonable by the Director to arrive at that estimate. (e) Failure to comply. Each domestic manufacturer of cigarettes who fails to comply with the requirements of this section shall pay a domestic marketing assessment and shall purchase loan stocks of tobacco in accordance with §§723.503 and 723.504. §723.503 Domestic content marketing assessment. (a) General. Each domestic manufacturer of cigarettes who fails to comply with the domestic content requirement in §723.502 shall pay a nonrefundable domestic marketing assessment to the Commodity Credit Corporation as provided in this section. (b) Assessment rate. A domestic marketing assessment rate, for purposes of this section, shall be determined for each calendar year. The assessment rate shall be equal to the difference between one-half the sum of the average prices per pound received by domestic producers of burley tobacco and flue-cured tobacco, respectively, for the previous marketing year as determined by the Director. The Director may use for that purpose data published by the National Agricultural Statistic Service of USDA and the weighted average price of unmanufactured tobacco which was imported during the previous calendar year, as calculated from Bureau of Census data for such calendar year. Other data may be used in lieu of that data. (c) Amount of assessment due. The Director shall assess a domestic marketing assessment against each domestic manufacturer of cigarettes who fails to comply with the domestic content requirement of this subpart. The domestic marketing assessment shall be determined by: (1) Multiplying the required percentage of domestic content by the total pounds of tobacco used to produce cigarettes during the applicable calendar year; (2) Subtracting the pounds of domestic tobacco used in such cigarettes from the result determined in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, and (3) Multiplying the result determined in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, if a positive number, by the assessment rate determined under the provisions of paragraph (b) of this section. (d) Time for paying assessment. The manufacturer shall pay the domestic marketing assessment provided for in this section within 30 calendar days after demand for payment. However, if the manufacturer timely requests reconsideration or timely appeals the determination, the time for payment of the amount in dispute may be extended by the Director to a date no later than 30 calendar days after the final determination is rendered. (e) Failure to timely pay assessment. If a domestic manufacturer of cigarettes fails in a timely manner to pay any assessment under this section, such manufacturer shall be subject to a penalty in an amount equal to twice the amount of the initial assessment. The penalty shall be payable in addition to the initial assessment and any other charges that apply. §723.504 Required purchases from tobacco loan stocks. (a) General. In addition to paying a domestic marketing assessment, each domestic manufacturer of cigarettes who fails to comply with §723.502, as determined by the Director, shall purchase a quantity of burley and flue-cured tobacco from the loan stocks of the producer owned cooperative marketing associations as provided in this section. (b) Purchase quantity. The amount of tobacco that must be purchased shall be an amount equal to the amount of imported tobacco on which the assessment in §723.503 can be levied. The total amount of required purchases shall be divided equally between burley and flue-cured tobacco. If it is determined that the required amount of purchases by all manufacturers would reduce the inventories of burley or flue-cured tobacco below the reserve stock level, the Director may reduce the required purchase quantity on a pro rata basis. Required purchases under this section shall not be considered as purchases for purposes of meeting the manufacturer's purchase intentions under section 320B of the 1938 Act. (c) Purchase price. In order to receive credit for a purchase to satisfy a purchase required by this section, the purchase price must not be less than published offer list price of the applicable producer cooperative marketing association. Credit for required purchases shall not be allowed if discounts, rebates, or other special incentives have been offered and received in connection with purchases of tobacco loan stocks from association inventories. (d) Failure to purchase required amount. Each manufacturer shall have 30 calendar days from date of notification of the required purchase amount to complete the purchases required under this section. The producer cooperative marketing association shall report to the Director the quantities of required purchases that have been made. A manufacturer who fails to purchase within the allotted time the required quantity of burley or flue-cured tobacco shall be liable for penalty on each pound of tobacco for which there has been a failure to make a timely purchase. The penalty rate shall be the amount determined to be equal to 75 percent of the average market price for the kind of tobacco required to be purchased for the year preceding the year of the violation. §723.505 Reduction of domestic content percentage. (a) General. The Director, in consultation with the producer owned cooperative marketing associations, may reduce the domestic content level to a percentage below 75 percent for any calendar year, when the Director determines that the production of burley or flue-cured tobacco for the preceding year was substantially reduced because of natural disaster or other conditions beyond the control of producers for the immediately preceding crop year and that the loan stock inventory for the kind of tobacco involved will be depleted to 25 percent of the reserve stock level for that kind of tobacco. (b) Expected production. For purposes of this section, the Director may determine, but shall not be required to determine, the expected production of tobacco based on the planted acreage as reported by the National Agricultural Statistics Service for the respective kind of tobacco multiplied by the simple average of the five most recent years' average yields per acre for the respective kind of tobacco. (c) Deadline for determination. The Director shall announce the reduced percentage level for domestic content by November 30 of the year preceding the calendar year to which the reduced percentage will apply. §723.506 Required records and reports; Burden of proof. (a) Required records. (1) Each domestic manufacturer of cigarettes, for all manufacturing plants producing cigarettes chargeable to the manufacturer under this subpart, shall maintain records, on a calendar year basis, by kind of tobacco, the quantity, form and country of origin of all unmanufactured tobacco which is: (i) In inventory at the beginning of the calendar year, (ii) Acquired during the calendar year, (iii) Used to manufacture cigarettes in the United States during the calendar year, and (iv) Used, or otherwise disposed of, other than to manufacture cigarettes during the calendar year. (2) Each domestic manufacturer of cigarettes shall maintain a record with respect to each batch or lot of tobacco used in each separate run or blend of cigarettes for the subject manufacturing plants as follows:
