FR941003-1-00073 FR941003-1-00006 (k) Council membership means the full membership of the Council or a subgroup of members, numbering not less than three, appointed by the Chairman to carry out specific responsibilities under this part. (l) Foreclosure means the action or inaction of a Federal agency which precludes the Agency Official from obtaining, considering and acting on the Council's comments on the full range of measures to avoid or minimize the adverse effects in accordance with ยง800.12(b). (m) Head of the agency means the chief official of the agency responsible for all aspects of the agency's actions. If a State, local or tribal government has been delegated responsibility for compliance with Section 106, the head of that unit of government shall be considered the head of the agency. (n) Historic property means any prehistoric or historic district, site, building, structure, or object included in, or eligible for inclusion in, the National Register of Historic Places maintained by the Secretary of the Interior. For the purposes of this part, this term includes but is not limited to, artifacts, records, and remains that are related to and located within such properties. The term further includes properties of traditional religious and cultural importance to an Indian tribe or Native Hawaiian organization which meet the criteria for inclusion in the National Register of Historic Places. The term ``eligible for inclusion in the National Register'' includes both properties formally determined as such in accordance with regulations of the Secretary of the Interior and all other properties that meet National Register listing criteria. (o) Indian tribe means an Indian tribe, band, nation, or other organized group or community, including a Native village, Regional Corporation or Village Corporation, as those terms are defined in Section 3 of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1602), which is recognized as eligible for the special programs and services provided by the United States to Indians because of their status as Indians. (p) Interested party means any individual or organization that has indicated to the Agency Official, State Historic Preservation Officer or Council its concern with the effects of an undertaking on historic properties. (q) Local government means a city, county, parish, township, municipality, borough, or other general purpose political subdivision of a State. (r) Memorandum of Agreement means the document that records the terms and conditions which have been agreed upon to resolve the adverse effects of an undertaking upon historic properties. (s) National Historic Landmark means a historic property that the Secretary of the Interior has designated a National Historic Landmark. (t) National Register means the National Register of Historic Places maintained by the Secretary of the Interior. (u) National Register Criteria means the criteria established by the Secretary of the Interior for use in evaluating the eligibility of properties for the National Register (36 CFR Part 60). (v) Native Hawaiian means any individual who is a descendant of the aboriginal people who, prior to 1778, occupied and exercised sovereignty in the area that now constitutes the State of Hawaii. (w) Native Hawaiian organization means any organization which serves and represents the interests of Native Hawaiians; has as a primary and stated purpose the provision of services to Native Hawaiians; and has demonstrated expertise in aspects of historic preservation that are significant to Native Hawaiians. (x) Notice of Violation means a notification from the Council of its finding in accordance with ยง800.12(d) that an Agency Official has failed to comply with Section 106 and this part. (y) Secretary means the Secretary of the Interior.
