FR940805-0-00060 FR940805-0-00021 Subpart A_General §388.1 What is the State Vocational Rehabilitation Unit In-Service Training program? This program is designed to support projects for training State vocational rehabilitation unit personnel in program areas essential to the effective management of the unit's program of vocational rehabilitation services or in skill areas that will enable staff personnel to improve their ability to provide vocational rehabilitation services leading to employment outcomes for individuals with disabilities. The State Vocational Rehabilitation Unit In-Service Training program responds to needs identified in the comprehensive system of personnel development in section 101(a)(7) of the Act. The program may include training designed_ (a) To address recruitment and retention of qualified rehabilitation professionals; (b) To provide for succession planning; (c) To provide for leadership development and capacity building; and (d) For fiscal year 1994, to provide training on the amendments to the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 made by the Rehabilitation Act Amendments of 1992. (Authority: 29 U.S.C. 771a(g)(3)) §388.2 Who is eligible for an award? Each designated State agency is eligible to receive an award under the basic State award program described in §388.21. If a designated State agency does not apply for an award during an announced competition, no funds may be made available for in-service training of the staff of that designated State agency under this program until there is a new competition for funding. At least 15 percent of the sums appropriated to carry out section 302 of the Act must be allocated to designated State agencies to be used, directly or indirectly, for projects for in-service training of rehabilitation personnel. (Authority: 29 U.S.C. 771a(g)(3)) §388.3 What types of projects are authorized? State vocational rehabilitation unit in-service training projects are concerned with the staff development and training of State vocational rehabilitation unit personnel in order to ensure an improved level of competence in serving State unit clients and to assist in expanding and improving vocational rehabilitation services for individuals with disabilities, especially those with severe disabilities, to ensure employment outcomes. (Authority: 29 U.S.C. 770 and 771a) §388.4 What activities may the Secretary fund? (a) Training activities supported under a State vocational rehabilitation unit in-service training grant focus primarily on program areas that are essential to the State unit's operation or on skill areas that will enable staff personnel to improve their ability to function on their job, or prepare for positions of greater responsibility within the unit, or to correct deficiencies identified in the State program. Projects may_ (1) Address recruitment and retention of qualified rehabilitation professionals; (2) Provide for succession planning; (3) Provide for leadership development and capacity building; and (4) For fiscal year 1994, provide training on the amendments to the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 made by the Rehabilitation Act Amendments of 1992. (b) Training methods may include_ (1) The development of State unit training institutes related to the specific aspects of State unit administration or service provision; (2) Group employee training at courses conducted in cooperation with or by an educational institution; (3) Individualized directed study in priority areas of State unit service or practice; (4) Employee access to current agency instructional resources for books, films, videos, tapes, and other human resource development resources; (5) Distance learning through telecommunications; and (6) Dissemination and information sharing with other designated State agencies. (Authority: 29 U.S.C. 770 and 771a) §388.5 What regulations apply? The following regulations apply to the State Vocational Rehabilitation Unit In-Service Training program:
