FR940712-2-00042 FR940712-2-00036 FEDERAL MARITIME COMMISSION Notice of Agreement(s) Filed The Federal Maritime Commission hereby gives notice of the filing of the following agreement(s) pursuant to section 5 of the Shipping Act of 1984. Interested parties may inspect and obtain a copy of each agreement at the Washington, DC, Office of the Federal Maritime Commission, 800 North Capitol Street, NW., 9th Floor. Interested parties may submit comments on each agreement to the Secretary, Federal Maritime Commission, Washington, DC 20573, within 10 days after the date of the Federal Register in which this notice appears. The requirements for comments are found in ยง572.603 of Title 46 of the Code of Federal Regulations. Interested persons should consult this section before communicating with the Commission regarding a pending agreement. Agreement No.: 202&hyph;002744&hyph;079. Title: West Coast of South America Agreement. Parties: A.P. Moller-Maersk Compania Chilena de Navigacion Interoceania, S.A. Compania Sud Americana de Vapores, S.A. Crowley American Transport, Inc. Flota Mercante Grancolombiana, S.A. Lykes Bros. Steamship Co., Inc. Nedlloyd Lijnen, B.V. Sea-Land Service, Inc. South Pacific Shipping Company Ltd. Synopsis: The proposed amendment provides that a Member may establish no more than two CY's and two CFS's in the commercial zones of ports in Florida and U.S. Gulf Coast ports. Agreement No.: 202&hyph;003103&hyph;110. Title: Japan-Atlantic & Gulf Freight Conference. Parties: Hapag-Lloyd AG Mitsui O.S.K. Line, Ltd. A.P. Moller-Maersk Line Neptune Orient Lines Limited Nippon Yusen Kaisha Wilhelmsen Lines AS Synopsis: The proposed amendment modifies Article 8(d)(2)(d) by deleting the requirement of voting by secret ballot and permitting changes in service contract rates to be decided by a two-thirds majority of all votes actually cast. Agreement No.: 202&hyph;011102&hyph;022. Title: U.S. Atlantic & Gulf/Western Mediterranean Rate Agreement. Parties: A.P. Moller-Maersk Line Evergreen Marine Corporation (Taiwan) Ltd. Italia di Navigazione, S.p.A. Lykes Bros. Steamship Co., Inc. Nedlloyd Lines P&O Containers Limited Sea-Land Service, Inc. Zim Israel Navigation Company, Ltd. Synopsis: The proposed amendment would permit the Agreement members to take independent action on rate or service items that are exempted from the tariff filing requirements of section 8 of the Shipping Act on or after January 1, 1995. Agreement No.: 202&hyph;011375&hyph;013. Title: Trans-Atlantic Agreement. Parties: Atlantic Container Line AB Cho Yang Shipping Co. Ltd. Sea-Land Service, Inc. A.P. Moller-Maersk Line Nedlloyd Lijnen BV Hapag Lloyd AG Mediterranean Shipping Company, S.A. DSR/Senator Joint Service Polish Ocean Lines Orient Overseas Container Line (UK) Ltd. Transportation Maritima Mexicana, S.A. de C.V. P&O Containers Limited Nippon Yusen Kaisha Tecomar S.A. de C.V. Synopsis: The proposed amendment eliminates the rate committee/non-rate committee status, reduces the specific I/A notice, changes to the service contract provisions, and restructures the framework of the capacity management program. In addition, the Agreement name has been changed to ``Trans-Atlantic Conference Agreement'' and the Agreement has been restated to reflect these and other non-substantive changes.
