FR940607-2-00145 FR940607-2-00090 Exhibit C May 9, 1994. Kenneth Markison, Esquire, U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, 451 7th Street, SW., Washington, DC 20410. Dear Mr. Markison: The Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (``Freddie Mac'') has submitted to the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (``HUD'') computer tapes that contain single-family and multifamily loan registries for the mortgages that Freddie Mac acquired during 1993. Freddie Mac requests that HUD accord proprietary treatment to certain data elements of those loan registries because they contain confidential, proprietary Freddie Mac information. In support of our request, I enclose a memorandum that discusses the reasons those data elements must be accorded proprietary treatment and an attachment that identifies the individual data elements that contain confidential, proprietary Freddie Mac information. We would have no objection to your publishing the letter, memorandum and attachment in the Federal Register should you find it appropriate to do so. Please feel free to contact me if you wish to discuss this matter or if there is anything further we can provide. ␣␣␣Sincerely, Allan G. Ratner, Vice President and Deputy General Counsel. Enclosure The Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation's Request for Proprietary Treatment of Certain Loan-Registry Data Elements The U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (``HUD'') has required the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (``Freddie Mac'') to provide HUD with extensive information on the mortgages that Freddie Mac acquired in 1993. HUD identified the general types of data required, in its Notice of Interim Housing Goals, 58 FR 53,047&hyph;53,096 (Oct. 13, 1993), and specified the form in which Freddie Mac was to submit the data, in a letter dated January 14, 1994. As so directed, Freddie Mac submitted the required information to HUD in the form of two sets of computer tapes and 19 tables. The computer tapes contain loan-level information for every mortgage that Freddie Mac acquired during 1993. One set of tapes includes information on Freddie Mac's 1993 single-family mortgages, and it includes from 51 to 66 required data elements for each loan, depending on the number of units in the property. The other set of tapes contains comparable information for Freddie Mac's 1993 multifamily mortgages, and it includes a minimum of 42 elements for each loan, with additional sets of elements for each additional ``unit type'' in the property. These two sets of tapes are referred to as the ``loan registries.'' Freddie Mac requests that HUD accord proprietary treatment to certain of the data elements contained in the loan registries because they contain confidential, proprietary Freddie Mac information. Freddie Mac does not, however, object to the public release of the 19 tables submitted on March 31, 1994, which contain much of the categories of information that Freddie Mac seeks to protect from public disclosure_but which disclose the information in an aggregated form that is both useful and less likely to reveal confidential, proprietary Freddie Mac information. We discuss below the reasons that certain loan-registry data elements must be treated as proprietary information, and we designate the specific data elements affected in an attachment to this request. Freddie Mac also requests that any confidential treatment accorded to Fannie Mae data apply equally to data submitted by Freddie Mac, and vice-versa, so that the same data elements will be treated equally for both enterprises. I. Proprietary Information Generally A. The Proprietary-Information Balance HUD requested the loan registries under section 307(e) of the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation Act (12 U.S.C. 1456(e)). While HUD is generally authorized to make such section 307(e) loan-registry data available to the public (section 1323 of the Federal Housing Enterprises Safety and Soundness Act of 1992 (``FHEFSSA''), 12 U.S.C. 4543), HUD is expressly not permitted to make proprietary loan-registry data available to the public (FHEFSSA 1326, 12 U.S.C. 4546). In fact, FHEFSSA provides that no such information is to be made available to the public unless and until a final decision has been made that the data are not proprietary (FHEFSSA 1326(c), 12 U.S.C. 4546(c)). In effect, FHEFSSA recognizes the inherent tension between (1) the provision that directs HUD to make available data that might be useful for housing-related research and (2) the provision that directs HUD to prevent the financial or competitive harm to the enterprises that could flow from providing public access to proprietary information. FHEFSSA, however, also provides guidance on how the balance between these conflicting directives is to be struck. That is, FHEFSSA suggests that where reasonable people might disagree as to whether information is proprietary or not, the issue should be resolved in favor of according the data proprietary treatment. Under FHEFSSA, information is not to be made public until HUD makes a final determination as to whether the information is proprietary. It follows, therefore, that where HUD is unable to make that determination to a reasonable degree of certainty, the information should not be made public. This treatment of data where its proprietary character is uncertain would seem to be especially appropriate during the 1993&hyph;1994 interim time period.
