FR940228-1-00168 FR940228-1-00010 •Any schedule developed for the review of institutions for this purpose should be published. [New York] •Regulations and standards in this area are not necessary; the statute is specific enough. [San Francisco] •In cases where the eligibility process requires a site visit, and the Secretary is unable to perform the site visit in a timely manner, eligibility should continue beyond the expiration date until the eligibility process is completed. [Atlanta] I. Section 498(h) provides that the Secretary may provisionally certify an institution for not more than one year for initial certification, or three years under certain conditions. Provisional certification may be withdrawn if the institution is unable to meet its responsibilities. Also, if an accrediting agency's recognition is withdrawn, the Secretary may continue the eligibility of accredited institutions for up to 18 months. Issues that the community was asked to address and the community's views: 1. What standards should be used to determine whether an institution may be granted provisionally certification? •An institution could be provisionally certified if it does not meet the third criterion for financial responsibility in section 498(c) of the HEA. [Kansas City] •For an initial application, the Secretary should rely on the statutory language. [New York] •An institution should be provisionally certified if it is unable to meet a regulatory standard for a reason beyond the institution's control. [New York] •The Secretary should use the same standards that are used for determining financial responsibility and administrative capability. [San Francisco] •An institution that meets all requirements for certification other than the completion of a required site visit should be provisionally certified if the Secretary is unable to conduct the site visit in a timely manner. [Atlanta] 2. What procedures and standards should the Secretary use to decide whether an institution that has received provisional certification is unable to meet its responsibilities? •Before revoking an institution's participation, the Secretary should conduct proceedings for a hearing, and should provisionally certify an institution until the completion of those proceedings. [New York] •The Secretary should use the same standards that are used for determining financial responsibility and administrative capability. [San Francisco] •The Secretary should use the results of audits, audited financial statements, and program reviews to determine whether to certify an institution provisionally and conduct a site visit at the institution. [Atlanta] 3. Under what circumstances should the Secretary continue the eligibility of accredited institutions where their accrediting agency loses its recognition? Should the period of extension be the same for all institutions? •According to a minority of participants, an institution identified as having administrative capability problems should be provisionally certified for no more than one year. [Kansas City] •All institutions should be provisionally certified for 18 months, and the Secretary should ensure that a process is available for such institutions to become accredited by another agency. [San Francisco] •Eligibility should be continued in all cases and for the same period of time for all institutions. The Secretary should notify an institution promptly of the Secretary's action, the institution should promptly apply for accreditation with another agency and notify the institution of that fact, and the institution should make a good-faith effort to expedite its accreditation. [Atlanta] [FR Doc. 94&hyph;3879 Filed 2&hyph;25&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4000&hyph;01&hyph;P
