FR940830-2-00033 FR940830-2-00014 Office of Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy Public Meeting AGENCY: Office of Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy, DOE. ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: Notice is hereby given that the U.S. Department of Energy's Office of Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy (EE) will conduct a workshop to discuss issues related to the Office's draft strategic plan. A notice of availability for public comment on the draft strategic plan was published in the Federal Register on June 14, 1994. DATES: The workshop will be held on September 19&hyph;20 at the Sheraton Crystal City, 1000 Jefferson Davis Highway, in Arlington, Virginia. The meeting will open at 1:00 p.m. on Monday the 19th, adjourning for the day at approximately 6:00 p.m. The workshop will reconvene at 8:00 a.m. on the 20th and close at approximately 4:00 p.m. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Jerry Dion, Office of Planning and Assessment, Office of Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy, U.S. Department of Energy, 1000 Independence Ave., S.W., EE&hyph;72, Washington, DC 20585, (202) 586&hyph;9470. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The draft strategic plan sets forth EE's goals, objectives, and strategies for program implementation. EE will use this draft document as part of a comprehensive planning process involving stakeholders and oriented toward careful identification and thorough analysis of strategic issues. The outcome of the effort will be a final version of the strategic plan and a five-year program plan. The draft strategic plan is divided into four sections: overview, mission and vision, goals and objectives, and EE strategy. The EE goals and objectives are aligned with those expressed in the Department of Energy's strategic plan, Fueling a Competitive Economy. The strategy section addresses EE's technology, market, and organizational strategies. A series of short appendices is also included in the draft strategic plan: situation analysis, description of EE stakeholder categories, description of EE sectors' individualized missions, and evolution of EE's strategic planning process. As part of its strategic planning process, EE is sponsoring the development of ten issue papers that analyze driving forces and trends and present options for EE's objectives and strategies vis-a-vis sustainable development, pollution prevention, electric utility restructuring, natural gas utilization, and other issues. Participation in the workshop discussion is by invitation, and limited to individuals who have been actively involved in the analysis and review of these issues on behalf of EE. The purpose of the workshop is to provide feedback to EE on whether its draft strategic plan adequately addresses needs identified in issues analyses. Workshop participants will review the goals, objectives and strategies in the draft strategic plan to see if they are consistent with the issues analyses. Anticipated products from the workshop include options for revised or new goals and objectives; technology, market, and organizational strategies that better reflect the insights gained in the issues analyses; and ideas for near-term activities designed to set an immediate course for progress on each issue. The workshop will be structured to elicit individual views, not to reach consensus. Members of the general public are invited to observe the workshop, and submit written comments on the draft strategic plan by the previously noticed September 30 deadline. The views expressed at the meetings will be considered in revising the strategic plan. Issued in Washington, D.C. on August 23, 1994. Christine Ervin, Assistant Secretary for Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;21376 Filed 8&hyph;29&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6450&hyph;01&hyph;P
