FR940407-0-00093 FR940407-0-00014 Economic incentive program (EIP) means a program which may include State established emission fees or a system of marketable permits, or a system of State fees on sale or manufacture of products the use of which contributes to O 3 formation, or any combination of the foregoing or other similar measures, as well as incentives and requirements to reduce vehicle emissions and vehicle miles traveled in the area, including any of the transportation control measures identified in section 108(f). Such programs may be directed toward stationary, area, and/or mobile sources, to achieve emissions reductions milestones, to attain and maintain ambient air quality standards, and/or to provide more flexible, lower-cost approaches to meeting environmental goals. Such programs are categorized into the following three categories: Emission-limiting, market-response, and directionally-sound strategies. Emission-limiting strategies are strategies that directly specify limits on total mass emissions, emission-related parameters (e.g., emission rates per unit of production, product content limits), or levels of emissions reductions relative to a program baseline that are required to be met by affected sources, while providing flexibility to sources to reduce the cost of meeting program requirements. Indian governing body means the governing body of any tribe, band, or group of Indians subject to the jurisdiction of the U.S. and recognized by the U.S. as possessing power of self-government. Maintenance plan means an implementation plan for an area for which the State is currently seeking designation or has previously sought redesignation to attainment, under section 107(d) of the Act, which provides for the continued attainment of the NAAQS. Market-response strategies are strategies that create one or more incentives for affected sources to reduce emissions, without directly specifying limits on emissions or emission-related parameters that individual sources or even all sources in the aggregate are required to meet. Milestones means the reductions in emissions required to be achieved pursuant to section 182(b)(1) and the corresponding requirements in section 182(c)(2) (B) and (C), 182(d), and 182(e) of the Act for O 3 nonattainment areas, as well as the reduction in emissions of CO equivalent to the total of the specified annual emissions reductions required by December 31, 1995, pursuant to section 187(d)(1). Mobile sources means on-road (highway) vehicles (e.g., automobiles, trucks and motorcycles) and nonroad vehicles (e.g., trains, airplanes, agricultural equipment, industrial equipment, construction vehicles, off-road motorcycles, and marine vessels). National ambient air quality standard (NAAQS) means a standard set by the EPA at 40 CFR part 50 under section 109 of the Act. Nonattainment area means any area of the country designated by the EPA at 40 CFR part 81 in accordance with section 107(d) of the Act as nonattainment for one or more criteria pollutants. An area could be a nonattainment area for some pollutants and an attainment area for other pollutants. Nondiscriminatory means that a program in one State does not result in discriminatory effects on other States or sources outside the State with regard to interstate commerce. Program baseline means the level of emissions, or emission-related parameter(s), for each affected source or group of affected sources, from which program results (e.g., quantifiable emissions reductions) shall be determined. Program uncertainty factor means a factor applied to discount the amount of emissions reductions credited in an implementation plan demonstration to account for any strategy-specific uncertainties in an EIP. Reasonable further progress (RFP) plan means any incremental emissions reductions required by the CAA (e.g., section 182(b)) and approved by the EPA as meeting these requirements.
