FR941019-2-00136 FR941019-2-00081 Although Pilkington's ``taint'' claim was rejected by the Shenzhen arbitrators, the language of the Proposed Final Judgment does not clearly resolve the issue and may be used to revive Pilkington's anti-competitive claims. The ambiguity may be easily remedied by amending the term ``Subject Float Technology'' to encompass technologies developed by licensees whether or not developed with the use or aid of subject float technology. 3. Confidentiality Provisions Change: Paragraph IV.A.3.(b) should be changed to read: ``CONFIDENTIALITY of the transferred SUBJECT FLOAT TECHNOLOGY.'' Reason for Change: The reference to FLOAT TECHNOLOGY (instead of SUBJECT FLOAT TECHNOLOGY) appears to be an oversight because, as drafted, the provision would require licensees to protect the confidentiality of all float technology, whatever its source. 4. Litigation Commenced Before the Stipulation Date Change: Paragraph IV.A.4 should be deleted and paragraph IV.A.1 should be changed to ensure that Pilkington may not enforce new unadjudicated claims arising under any FLA regardless of whether a proceeding was instituted prior to the date of the stipulation. Reason for Change: In August 1992, only two days after the High Court denied Pilkington leave to appeal from the award in the Shenzhen Arbitration, Pilkington notified PPG of is intent to commence a new arbitration. Although a 1978 Settlement Agreement between PPG and Pilkington explicitly permits PPG to use the LB process in Canada and Italy, Pilkington now alleges that PPG's operation of its LB lines in those countries is not permitted because the width of the glass ribbons in those lines has not always been ``from 70% to 90% of the constant spacing between the sidewalls,'' which Pilkington argues is required under the Agreement, notwithstanding the fact that any variation in the width of the ribbons at those lines does not implicate any Pilkington trade secrets or other intellectual-property interests. United States antitrust consent decrees commonly provide that the defendants are enjoined from any future enforcement of anticompetitive restraints. However, paragraph IV.A.4 of the Proposed Final Judgment would permit Pilkington to continue its monopolistic practices by pursuing its recently commenced arbitration proceedings against PPG and its subsidiaries to punish PPG for its efforts to end Pilkington's monopolistic interference with United States trade in the worldwide float technology market. No good reason exists why Pilkington's claims in those proceedings, in which earnings have not yet commenced, should be exempted from the Proposed Final Judgment. 5. Subsidiaries and Affiliates Change: Paragraph II.Q should be changed to read: ``U.S. LICENSEE'' means any LICENSEE that was or is incorporated in the United States, and shall include any subsidiaries, affiliates or parents of any such LICENSEE. *␣*␣*'' Reason for Change: As currently constituted, the Final Judgment offers no protection for subsidiaries and affiliates of U.S. companies, although Pilkington's actions directed at such entities have had and could continue to have anticompetitive effects in the United States. PPG and other U.S. competitors often participate in float glass manufacturing projects outside the United States through joint ventures and through their non-U.S. subsidiaries or affiliates. The use of U.S. licensees of subsidiaries, joint ventures and affiliates is often necessary to accommodate participation of local investors. Because effective competition with Pilkington by U.S. Licensees will necessarily entail the use of subsidiaries and affiliates in foreign countries, PPG's ability to participate in such ventures would be impaired (and U.S. commerce thereby affected) if Pilkington were free to continue to enforce its monopolistic restrictions against these U.S.-related entities. 6. Protection of Flat Glass Exports Change: Paragraph IV.D. should be changed to add ``or from'' to the caption after the word ``to'' and in the second line of text after the word ``to.'' Reason for Change: The Consent Decree should protect exports from the United States as well as imports to the United States. Exports from the United States are part of the foreign commerce of the United States and Pilkington and its subsidiaries and affiliates have engaged in a variety of exclusionary practices, unlawful under the United States antitrust laws, intended to interfere with export of Float Glass from the United States into, e.g., Mexico, Brazil, Argentina and Australia. 7. Perpetual Confidentiality Obligations Should Not Revive Upon the Expiration of This Final Judgment Change: Paragraph VII.(A) should be changed to provide: ``Other than the provisions of paragraphs IV.A. and B., which provisions shall remain in effect permanently, this Final Judgment shall expire on the tenth anniversary of its entry.''
