FR941116-0-00198 FR941116-0-00023 List of Subjects 41 CFR Parts 51&hyph;2 Through 51&hyph;6 Government procurement, Handicapped, Organization and functions (Government agencies), Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. 41 CFR Part 51&hyph;8 Freedom of information. 41 CFR Part 51&hyph;9 Privacy. For the reasons set out in the preamble, parts 51&hyph;2 through 51&hyph;6, 51&hyph;8 and 51&hyph;9 of title 41, chapter 51 of the Code of Federal Regulations are amended as follows: 1. The authority citation for parts 51&hyph;2 through 51&hyph;6 continues to read as follows: Authority: 41 U.S.C. 46&hyph;48C. PART 51&hyph;2_COMMITTEE FOR PURCHASE FROM PEOPLE WHO ARE BLIND OR SEVERELY DISABLED 2. Section 51&hyph;2.2 is amended by adding the following sentence at the end of paragraph (b): §51&hyph;2.2 Powers and responsibilities. * * * * * (b) *␣*␣* Authorize and deauthorize central nonprofit agencies and nonprofit agencies to accept orders from contracting activities for the furnishing of specific commodities and services on the Procurement List. * * * * * 3. Section 51&hyph;2.3 is revised to read as follows: §51&hyph;2.3 Notice of proposed addition or deletion. At least 30 days prior to the Committee's consideration of the addition or deletion of a commodity or service to or from the Procurement List, the Committee publishes a notice in the Federal Register announcing the proposed addition or deletion and providing interested persons an opportunity to submit written data or comments on the proposal. Interested persons submitting comments in bound form should also submit an unbound copy that is capable of being legibly photocopied. 4. Section 51&hyph;2.4 is amended by removing paragraph (d), redesignating the introductory text and paragraphs (a) through (c) as paragraphs (a) through (a)(3), redesignating paragraphs (e) through (e)(3) as paragraphs (a)(4) through (a)(4)(ii), revising the newly redesignated paragraphs (a), introductory text, (a)(4) through (a)(4)(ii), and adding paragraph (b) to read as follows: §51&hyph;2.4 Determination of suitability. (a) For a commodity or service to be suitable for addition to the Procurement List, each of the following criteria must be satisfied: * * * * * (4) Level of impact on the current contractor for the commodity or service. (i) In deciding whether or not a proposed addition to the Procurement List is likely to have a severe adverse impact on the current contractor for the specific commodity or service, the Committee gives particular attention to: (A) The possible impact on the contractor's total sales, including the sales of affiliated companies and parent corporations. In addition, the Committee considers the effects of previous Committee actions. (B) Whether that contractor has been a continuous supplier to the Government of the specific commodity or service proposed for addition and is, therefore, more dependent on the income from such sales to the Government. (C) Any substantive comments received as the result of the notice of the proposed addition in the Federal Register . (ii) If there is not a current contract for the commodity or service being proposed for addition to the Procurement List, the Committee may consider the most recent contractor to furnish the item to the Government as the current contractor for the purpose of determining the level of impact. (b) In determining the suitability of a commodity or service for addition to the Procurement List, the Committee also considers other information it deems pertinent, including comments on a proposal published in the Federal Register to add the commodity or service to the Procurement List and information submitted by Government personnel and interested persons. 5. Section 51&hyph;2.5 is revised to read as follows: §51&hyph;2.5 Committee decision. The Committee considers the particular facts and circumstances in each case in determining if a commodity or service is suitable for addition to the Procurement List. When the Committee determines that a proposed addition is likely to have a severe adverse impact on a current contractor, it takes this fact into consideration in deciding not to add the commodity or service to the Procurement List, or to add only a portion of the Government requirement for the item. If the Committee decides to add a commodity or service in whole or in part to the Procurement List, that decision is announced in the Federal Register with a notice that includes information on the effective date of the addition. 6. Section 51&hyph;2.6 is amended by redesignating the current text of the section as paragraph (a) and adding paragraph (b) to read as follows: §51&hyph;2.6 Reconsideration of Committee decision. (a) *␣*␣* (b) In reconsidering its decision, the Committee will balance the harm to the party requesting reconsideration if the item remains on the Procurement List against the harm which the nonprofit agency or its employees who are blind or have other severe disabilities would suffer if the item were deleted from the Procurement List. The Committee may also consider information bringing into question its conclusions on the suitability criteria on which it based its original decision as factors weighing toward a decision to delete the item, and information concerning possible harm to the Government and the JWOD Program as factors weighing toward confirmation of the original decision.
