FR940906-2-00014 FR940906-2-00012 Federal Information Processing Standard Publication 188 (date) Announcing A Standard Security Label for Information Transfer Federal Information Processing Standards Publications (FIPS PUBS) are issued by the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) after approval by the Secretary of Commerce pursuant to Section 111(d) of the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949 as amended by the Computer Security Act of 1987, Public Law 100&hyph;235. Name of Standard: Standard Security Label for Information Transfer. Category of Standard:! Computer Security, Security Labels. Explanation: Security labels convey information used by protocol entities to determine how to handle data communicated between open systems. Information on a security label can be used to control access, specify protective measures, and determine additional handling restrictions required by a communications security policy. This standard defines a security label syntax for information exchanged over data networks and provides label encodings for use at the Application and Network Layers. The syntactic constructs defined in this standard are intended to be used along with semantics provided by the authority establishing the security policy for the protection of the information exchanged. A separate NIST document, referenced in an informative appendix, defines a Computer Security Objects Register (CSOR) that serves as repository for label semantics. The CSOR assigns a unique identifier to each set of interpretation and handling rules. This enables the communicating parties to agree on the semantics for the interpretation of the labels. The separation of the label syntax from its semantics enables a few basic label structures to support multiple security policies. The label presented here defines security tags that may be combined into tag sets to carry security-related information. Five basic security tag types allow security information to be represented as bit maps, attribute enumerations, attribute range selections, hierarchical security levels, or as user-defined data. Because of inherent differences in layer functionality, the security label defined in this document is expressed both as an abstract label syntax specification for the OSI Application Layer and an encoding optimized for use at the Network Layer. Approving Authority: Secretary of Commerce. Maintenance Agency: Computer Systems Laboratory, National Institute of Standards and Technology. Cross Index: Federal Information Resources Management Regulations, subpart 201&hyph;20.303, Standards, and subpart 201&hyph;39.1002, Federal Standards. General Procedures for Registering Computer Security Objects, NISTIR 5308, December 1993. Security Labels for Open Systems_An Invitational Workshop, NISTIR 4362, June 1990. Standard Security Label for GOSIP_An Invitational Workshop, NISTIR 4614, June 1991. Scope: This standard defines syntactic constructs for conveying security label information when Government sensitive but unclassified data is exchanged over computer networks. The syntactic constructs defined in this standard are intended to be used along with semantics provided by the authority establishing security policy for the protection of the information exchanged. NIST has established a Computer Security Objects Register (CSOR) that will serve as repository for label semantics. Informative Appendix A of this standard provides further details on the CSOR. This standard does not discuss the physical labeling of information or storage media and information displayed on a computer screen or other peripherals. Labeling of information stored in internal memory and storage media (e.g. hard disks, compact disks, magnetic tapes, etc.) is also outside of the scope of this standard. The protection of data in transit and their associated labels along with the binding between the data and the labels is the responsibility of the communications protocols involved in the transfer and therefore not discussed here. Compliance with this standard does not provide assurance of the suitability of an implementation for the protection of data according to specific security policies. That assessment must be made through the appropriate evaluation and certification processes. Applicability: This standard applies to U.S. Government communications systems required by agency security policy to label sensitive but unclassified data when exchanged over data networks. Although this standard is intended for use on systems handling unclassified information, it could be adopted by the appropriate authorities for use on systems handling classified information. Complying implementations shall be capable of transmitting, receiving, and obtaining information from security labels based on the specifications in this document. Specifications: Federal Information Processing Standard (FIPS 188) Standard Security Label for Information Transfer (affixed). Implementation Schedule: This standard becomes effective 1 March 1995.
