FR940930-0-00147 FR940930-0-00028 Section 244 states that EPA shall use California administration and enforcement procedures unless EPA determines that doing so will not meet the criteria for a waiver of preemption under section 209. EPA believes that the application of current California procedures would meet the criteria for a section 209 waiver. However, in a letter dated February 17, 1994, CARB requested that EPA waive preemption under section 209 for certain proposed amendments to California certification test procedures. EPA is currently analyzing this waiver request to determine whether these test procedure amendments meet the criteria for a waiver under section 209. For example, EPA must determine if the California enforcement procedures, as amended, are consistent with section 202(a) of the Act. Until it has completed its analysis of the waiver request, EPA cannot present a determination that the amended California regulation, and thus California administration and enforcement, do not meet the criteria for a waiver under section 209. Given that section 244 directs EPA to adopt California's procedures unless it makes such a determination, EPA believes that it is required to adopt today California's administration and enforcement procedures. EPA believes this adoption is in accordance with the plain language of section 244. If EPA later determines that the California enforcement procedures do not meet the section 209 waiver criteria, it will propose to amend its regulation regarding enforcement of CFVs according to California procedures. California procedures currently require certification testing of gasoline vehicles either on California reformulated gasoline or on the current federal gasoline test fuel called ``indolene.'' EPA believes that adopting this requirement as a part of adopting California administration and enforcement procedures will allow manufacturers to certify vehicles both for California as well as the other 49 states. In most cases, EPA believes that vehicle designs likely to be certified on California reformulated gasoline to the CFV standards will be capable of being certified to those standards on indolene as well with no technological changes. It is possible that some manufacturers may wish to certify vehicles on a gasoline formulation different from either California reformulated gasoline or indolene. For example, a manufacturer may wish to certify and market a CFV engine family for use by fleet operators only in areas where federal reformulated gasoline requirements apply, but where California reformulated gasoline is unavailable or expensive. A CFV engine family certified only on California reformulated gasoline would not be an attractive option to fleet operators in areas covered by federal reformulated gasoline requirements because the vehicles in that family will not have been demonstrated to comply with the CFV standards on federal reformulated gasoline. If certifying that family to the CFV standards on indolene would require additional emission control development effort over the California-fuel version, but certifying on a federal reformulated fuel would not, the manufacturer might prefer to certify on a fuel representative of federal reformulated gasoline. Thus, such a manufacturer might choose to market a line of CFVs which could use the local fuel (reformulated gasoline) instead of only marketing California-fuel versions. In this kind of situation, then, allowing manufacturers the option of certifying to the CFV standards on other gasoline formulations might provide fleets covered by the CFF program with an additional vehicle choice, one which may help them comply in a cost-effective manner with the requirement that they operate their CFVs in covered areas only on fuels on which the vehicles comply with the CFV standards. While the California procedures adopted here do not appear to permit certification on gasoline different from California reformulated gasoline or indolene, EPA is considering whether it has the authority to propose and promulgate a provision which would permit manufacturers to request certification on a different gasoline formulation. Particularly if interest is shown in such a provision on the part of fleets, vehicle manufacturers, fuel producers, states, or other interested parties, EPA may issue a proposed rule to permit certification on any gasoline formulation. With respect to the NMOG standard, CAA sections 241(3) and 241(4) provide definitions for NMOG and base gasoline to be used in determining reactivity adjustments for alternative fuels. Section 241(4) further provides that EPA is to modify these definitions and the method used for determining reactivity adjustment factors to conform to the definitions and method used by CARB, provided CARB's definitions are, in the aggregate, at least as protective of public health and welfare as the CAA definitions. CARB's definition of NMOG, contained in the ``definitions'' section of its LEV program regulations, is identical to the CAA definition. The CAA section 241(4) specifications for ``base gasoline'' for the most part fall within the specification ranges for CARB's ``baseline'', i.e., ``conventional'', gasoline used by CARB in establishing the RAF for methanol-fueled vehicles. 18 Thus, EPA concludes that CARB's regulatory definition of ``conventional gasoline'' is at least as protective as the CAA definition of base gasoline for determining RAFs. 18 California Exhaust Emission Standards and Test Procedures for 1988 and Subsequent Model Passenger Cars, Light-Duty Trucks, and Medium-duty Vehicles, Appendix VIII. To ensure that the administration and enforcement of the CFV exhaust emission standards is undertaken in conformance with section 244, EPA incorporates by reference CARB's test procedures and other regulatory provisions regarding administration and enforcement. (The California Regulatory Requirements Applicable to the Clean Fuel Fleet and California Pilot Programs, April 1, 1994, have been incorporated by reference in 40 CFR 88.104&hyph;94(k)(2).) Any vehicle certified by CARB in California to the same CFV exhaust emission standards promulgated today will be considered to satisfy the requirements for certification to the federal CFV exhaust standards although the vehicle must meet all other Title II requirements as well as qualify as a CFV. For federal standards which are not currently identical to CARB requirements (e.g., cold CO emissions, evaporative emissions, THC, NMHC), the existing federal administration and enforcement provisions, including the applicable test procedures, will apply.
