FR940930-0-00245 FR940930-0-00029 §234.243 Wire on pole line and aerial cable. Wire on a pole line shall be securely attached to an insulator that is properly fastened to a crossarm or bracket supported by a pole or other support. Wire shall not interfere with, or be interfered with by, other wires on the pole line. Aerial cable shall be supported by messenger wire. An open-wire transmission line operating at voltage of 750 volts or more shall be placed not less than 4 feet above the nearest crossarm carrying active warning system circuits. §234.245 Signs. Each sign mounted on a highway-rail grade crossing signal post shall be maintained in good condition and be visible to the highway user. Inspections and Tests §234.247 Purpose of inspections and tests; removal from service of relay or device failing to meet test requirements. The inspections and tests set forth in §§234.249 through 234.271 shall be made to determine if the warning system and its component parts are maintained in a condition to perform their intended function. Any electronic device, relay, or other electromagnetic device that fails to meet the requirements of tests required by this part shall be removed from service and shall not be restored to service until its operating characteristics are in accordance with the limits within which such device or relay is designed to operate. §234.249 Ground tests. A test for grounds on each energy bus furnishing power to circuits that affect the safety of warning system operation shall be made when such energy bus is placed in service and at least once each month thereafter. §234.251 Standby power. Standby power shall be tested at least once each month. §234.253 Flashing light units and lamp voltage. (a) Each flashing light unit shall be inspected when installed and at least once every twelve months for proper alignment and frequency of flashes in accordance with installation specifications. (b) Lamp voltage shall be tested when installed and at least once every 12 months thereafter. (c) Each flashing light unit shall be inspected for proper visibility, dirt and damage to roundels and reflectors at least once each month. §234.255 Gate arm and gate mechanism. (a) Each gate arm and gate mechanism shall be inspected at least once each month. (b) Gate arm movement shall be observed for proper operation at least once each month. (c) Hold-clear devices shall be tested for proper operation at least once every 12 months. §234.257 Warning system operation. (a) Each highway-rail crossing warning system shall be tested to determine that it functions as intended when it is placed in service. Thereafter, it shall be tested at least once each month and whenever modified or disarranged. (b) Warning bells or other stationary audible warning devices shall be tested when installed to determine that they function as intended. Thereafter, they shall be tested at least once each month and whenever modified or disarranged. §234.259 Warning time. Each crossing warning system shall be tested for the prescribed warning time at least once every 12 months. Electronic devices that accurately determine actual warning time may be used in performing such tests. §234.261 Highway traffic signal pre-emption. Highway traffic signal pre-emption interconnections, for which a railroad has maintenance responsibility, shall be tested at least once each month.
