FR940516-1-00084 FR940516-1-00006 Background On the basis of the Nonroad Study, EPA has proposed its determination that emissions of CO, NO X , and VOCs from nonroad engines and vehicles contribute significantly to ozone or CO in more than one NAAQS nonattainment area (see 58 FR 28809, May 17, 1993). According to the Nonroad Study, nonroad engines and vehicles contribute an average of ten percent of summer VOCs in the 19 ozone nonattainment areas included in the study. Small SI engines are the source of half of those nonroad summer VOC emissions. In the 16 CO nonattainment areas included in the study, nonroad engines and vehicles account on average for nine percent of winter CO emissions. Small SI engines are the source of 56 percent of the nonroad winter CO contribution, according to the study. Since March 1992, EPA has held several public workshops and meetings to solicit information on technical characteristics, emissions, potential regulatory strategies, and general regulatory issues related to small SI engines. Public notice of such meetings may be found in the docket for this rulemaking. At the March 1992 public workshop, the Engine Manufacturers Association and the Outdoor Power Equipment Institute encouraged federal regulation of nonhandheld small SI engines and expressed interest in working in a cooperative program with EPA to develop regulations by November 1993. Likewise, the Portable Power Equipment Manufacturers Association encouraged federal regulation of portable 2-stroke power equipment and expressed interest in working cooperatively with EPA. Industry's interest in federal regulation of small SI engines may be traced to California's efforts to develop a statewide regulatory program. CAA section 209(e)(2) authorizes California to enforce emission standards for certain nonroad engines if: (1) California determines that such standards will be, in the aggregate, at least as protective of public health and welfare as applicable Federal standards, and such standards are not arbitrary and capricious, (2) California needs such standards to meet compelling and extraordinary conditions, and (3) California standards and accompanying enforcement procedures are consistent with section 209(e)(2). (See 58 FR 45866, September 6, 1991, for EPA's Notice of Proposed Rulemaking for implementing section 209(e). This rulemaking is ongoing and the exact criteria for EPA granting an authorization to California will be prescribed in the final section 209(e) rule. Definitions of farm and construction equipment are also provided in this section 209(e) rule.) CAA section 209(e)(2) also authorizes other states to opt into California standards. The California Air Resources Board (CARB) has adopted standards for nonroad lawn and garden and utility SI and CI engines from 0&hyph;25 horsepower (0&hyph;19 kilowatts). EPA is currently reviewing CARB's section 209(e) authorization request for its lawn and garden and utility rule. A decision will be issued once EPA's section 209(e) procedural rule is finalized. There is potential for other states to adopt the California standards, which are scheduled to become effective in 1995, if EPA decides to approve California's waiver request. Following the March 1992 workshop, EPA determined that setting emission standards for the small SI engine category might be suitable for a consultative approach to rulemaking, such as negotiated rulemaking. The Negotiated Rulemaking Act (5 U.S.C. 581&hyph;590) establishes a framework for conducting negotiated rulemaking. Under that Act, in deciding whether to conduct a negotiated rulemaking, the head of an agency must consider several factors, including whether, at the preproposal stage of development, the number of identifiable parties who would come to the negotiating table is relatively limited, the number of specific issues for which sufficient information and technology is in hand for resolution is limited, and a time-forcing factor exists that lends an air of urgency to issuance of the rule in question. Negotiations are conducted through a committee chartered under the Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App. II section 9(c)). The goal of a regulatory negotiation committee is to reach consensus on the language or issues involved in a rule. If consensus is reached, it is used as the basis of the Agency's proposal. EPA initiated a convening process to determine the best way to work with industry and other interested parties in developing regulations for small SI engines. The conveners interviewed individuals in leadership roles in key organizations identified by EPA to determine what parties were interested in these regulations, what issues were important to interested parties, and whether a consultative rulemaking process would be feasible and appropriate. A copy of the convening report, dated August 24, 1992, is available in the docket for this rulemaking. The convening report recommended an exploratory meeting of interested parties to discuss, but not initiate, a consultative process. EPA determined that the number of parties who would come to the negotiating table would be relatively limited, the number of specific issues for resolution would be limited, sufficient information and technology would be in hand or could be timely developed for resolution of issues, and time-forcing factors existed. (See 58 FR 34389, June 25, 1993, for a complete discussion of the application of the factors in this case.) Time-forcing factors lending an air of urgency to issuance of the rule include the potential threat to industry of patchwork regulation if a number of states opt into California's program in order to attain national air quality goals. More recently, an air of urgency has been created by the settlement of Sierra Club v. Browner , Civ. No. 93&hyph;0197 NHJ (D.D.C. 1993), which requires EPA to propose emission standards for small SI engines by April 1994 and to promulgate such standards by May 1995.
