FR940630-0-00112 FR940630-0-00036 (d) Approved apprenticeship and trainee programs. Certain apprenticeship and trainee programs have been approved by various Federal agencies. Approved apprenticeship and trainee programs include: an apprenticeship program approved by the Bureau of Apprenticeship and Training of the Department of Labor, or a State Apprenticeship Agency, or an on-the-job training program approved by the Bureau of Apprenticeship and Training, in accordance with the regulations at 29 CFR part 5; or a training program approved by HUD in accordance with HUD policies and guidelines, as applicable. Participation in an approved apprenticeship program does not, in and of itself, demonstrate compliance with the regulations of this part. (e) Compliance with Executive Order 11246. Certain contractors covered by this part are subject to compliance with Executive Order 11246, as amended by Executive Order 12086, and the Department of Labor regulations issued pursuant thereto (41 CFR chapter 60) which provide that no person shall be discriminated against on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, or national origin in all phases of employment during the performance of Federal or Federally assisted construction contracts. Subpart B_Economic Opportunities for Section 3 Residents and Section 3 Business Concerns §135.30 Numerical goals for meeting the greatest extent feasible requirement. (a) General. (1) Recipients and covered contractors may demonstrate compliance with the ``greatest extent feasible'' requirement of section 3 by meeting the numerical goals set forth in this section for providing training, employment, and contracting opportunities to section 3 residents and section 3 business concerns. (2) The goals established in this section apply to the entire amount of section 3 covered assistance awarded to a recipient in any Federal Fiscal Year (FY), commencing with the first FY following the effective date of this rule. (3) For recipients that do not engage in training, or hiring, but award contracts to contractors that will engage in training, hiring, and subcontracting, recipients must ensure that, to the greatest extent feasible, contractors will provide training, employment, and contracting opportunities to section 3 residents and section 3 business concerns. (4) The numerical goals established in this section represent minimum numerical targets. (b) Training and employment. The numerical goals set forth in paragraph (b) of this section apply to new hires. The numerical goals reflect the aggregate hires. Efforts to employ section 3 residents, to the greatest extent feasible, should be made at all job levels. (1) Numerical goals for section 3 covered public and Indian housing programs. Recipients of section 3 covered public and Indian housing assistance (as described in §135.5) and their contractors and subcontractors may demonstrate compliance with this part by committing to employ section 3 residents as: (i) 10 percent of the aggregate number of new hires for the one year period beginning in FY 1995; (ii) 20 percent of the aggregate number of new hires for the one period beginning in FY 1996; (iii) 30 percent of the aggregate number of new hires for one year period beginning in FY 1997 and continuing thereafter. (2) Numerical goals for other HUD programs covered by section 3. (i) Recipients of section 3 covered housing assistance provided under other HUD programs, and their contractors and subcontractors (unless the contract or subcontract awards do not meet the threshold specified in §135.3(a)(3)) may demonstrate compliance with this part by committing to employ section 3 residents as 10 percent of the aggregate number of new hires for each year over the duration of the section 3 project; (ii) Where a managing general partner or management agent is affiliated, in a given metropolitan area, with recipients of section 3 covered housing assistance, for an aggregate of 500 or more units in any fiscal year, the managing partner or management agent may demonstrate compliance with this part by committing to employ section 3 residents as: (A) 10 percent of the aggregate number of new hires for the one year period beginning in FY 1995; (B) 20 percent of the aggregate number of new hires for the one year period beginning in FY 1996; (C) 30 percent of the aggregate number of new hires for the one year period beginning in FY 1997, and continuing thereafter. (3) Recipients of section 3 covered community development assistance, and their contractors and subcontractors (unless the contract or subcontract awards do not meet the threshold specified in §135.3(a)(3)) may demonstrate compliance with the requirements of this part by committing to employ section 3 residents as: (i) 10 percent of the aggregate number of new hires for the one year period beginning in FY 1995; (ii) 20 percent of the aggregate number of new hires for the one year period beginning in FY 1996; and (iii) 30 percent of the aggregate number of new hires for the one year period beginning in FY 1997 and continuing thereafter. (c) Contracts. Numerical goals set forth in paragraph (c) of this section apply to contracts awarded in connection with all section 3 covered projects and section 3 covered activities. Each recipient and contractor and subcontractor (unless the contract or subcontract awards do not meet the threshold specified in §135.3(a)(3)) may demonstrate compliance with the requirements of this part by committing to award to section 3 business concerns:
