FR940722-0-00096 FR940722-0-00019 21. The following sections of this Fifth Report and Order discuss in detail the actions we have outlined above. III. Auctionability of Broadband PCS 22. Section 309(j)(1) of the Communications Act, as amended, 47 U.S.C. §309(j)(1), permits auctions only where mutually exclusive applications for initial licenses or construction permits are accepted for filing by the Commission and where the principal use of the spectrum will involve or is reasonably likely to involve the receipt by the licensee of compensation from subscribers in return for enabling those subscribers to receive or transmit communications signals. In the Second Report and Order, we concluded that PCS as a class of service would satisfy the section 309(j)(1) criteria for auctionability. See Second Report and Order at ¶¶54&hyph;58. Specifically, based on the record in this proceeding and in GEN Docket No. 90&hyph;314, we concluded that the principal use of broadband PCS spectrum satisfied these auction criteria. Id. at ¶56. Thus, if mutually exclusive applications for a broadband PCS license are accepted for filing, we will award that license through competitive bidding. 8 8 In the Second Report and Order, we addressed the only commenter who argued that the Commission should not find that the principal use of PCS is likely to be for the provision of service to subscribers for compensation. See Second Report and Order at ¶¶ 55&hyph;56. The Commission rejected the argument of Millin Publications, a publisher of specialized information services that intends to utilize PCS frequencies on a non-subscription basis, that the Commission should refrain from making the principal use finding because PCS does not yet exist. We concluded that the overwhelming weight of the comments in this proceeding, as well as our experience with the PCS experiments that we have licensed, reflect that licensed PCS spectrum is likely to be used principally for the provision of service to subscribers for compensation. See id . at ¶ 56. We find no basis in the record to depart from this conclusion. 23. As noted above, we concluded in the Second Report and Order that the criteria in Section 309(j)(3) will be satisfied by competitive bidding for broadband PCS licenses, and thus that broadband PCS should be subject to our competitive bidding procedures. We determined that the use of competitive bidding to award broadband PCS licenses, as compared with other licensing methods, will speed the development and deployment of new services to the public with minimal administrative or judicial delay, and will encourage efficient use of the spectrum as required by Section 309(j)(3) (A) and (D). We also concluded that competitive bidding would recover for the public a portion of the value of the spectrum, as envisioned in Section 309(j)(3)(C). Id. Finally, in accordance with Section 309(j)(3)(B), we adopted a set of open competitive bidding procedures and a menu of special provisions designed to increase opportunities for designated entities who might otherwise face entry barriers. Our views on this matter remain unchanged since adoption of the Second Report and Order. We therefore affirm in this Order the use of competitive bidding procedures to award broadband PCS licenses.
