FR940803-1-00037 FR940803-1-00010 DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION Research and Special Programs Administration 49 CFR Parts 192 and 195 [Docket No. PS&hyph;94; Notice 2] [RIN 2137&hyph;AB 38] Qualification of Pipeline Personnel AGENCY: Research and Special Programs Administration (RSPA), DOT. ACTION: Notice of Proposed Rulemaking. SUMMARY: This notice proposes qualification standards for personnel who perform, or directly supervise those persons performing, regulated operation, maintenance, and emergency-response functions. This action would amend current standards for training personnel performing operating or maintenance activities on hazardous liquid and carbon dioxide pipelines, and extend those standards to personnel performing similar functions on gas pipelines. This action is taken to ensure that pipeline personnel have the necessary knowledge and skills to competently perform these regulated functions. The intended effect of this proposed rulemaking is to improve pipeline safety by requiring operators to assure the competency of pipeline personnel through training, testing, and periodic refresher training. DATES: Interested persons are invited to submit written comments in duplicate by October 3, 1994. Late filed comments will be considered to the extent practicable. Interested persons should submit as part of their written comments all the material that is considered relevant to any statement of fact or argument made. ADDRESSES: Send comments to the Dockets Unit, Room 8421, Office of Pipeline Safety (OPS), Research and Special Programs Administration, U.S. Department of Transportation, 400 Seventh Street, SW., Washington, DC 20590. Identify the docket and notice numbers stated in the heading of this notice. All comments and materials cited in this document will be available in the docket for inspection and copying in Room 8421 between 8:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. each working day. Non-Federal employee visitors are admitted to DOT headquarters building through the southwest quadrant at Seventh and E Streets. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Albert C. Garnett, (202) 366&hyph;2036, regarding the subject matter of this notice, or Dockets Unit, (202) 366&hyph;5046, for copies of this notice or other material in the docket. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background The pipeline safety regulations in 49 CFR Parts 192 and 195 cannot be fully effective in preventing and mitigating pipeline accidents unless personnel who perform regulated functions, or directly supervise persons performing regulated functions, understand the applicable regulations and have the knowledge and skills needed for competent performance. Therefore, requiring operators to ensure that such personnel are qualified to perform operating, maintenance, and emergency response functions is an essential step in making the pipeline safety regulations effective. Also, requiring operation, maintenance, and emergency-response personnel to be knowledgeable about safety-related elements, such as flammability, toxicity, potential ignition sources, and to be able to recognize and appropriately react to abnormal and emergency conditions should further minimize the causes and consequences of pipeline accidents. In accidents clearly recognized as involving human error, circumstances often indicate that a deficiency in knowledge or skill, i.e. lack of qualification, has been a significant accident factor. However, the effects of personnel lacking qualifications are not always apparent. The effects may be too subtle to be recognized as an accident factor. For example, accidents that operators have attributed to equipment failure or corrosion may have actually been set in motion by poorly performed operation or maintenance procedures. In addition, the pipeline safety regulations require operators to report ``incidents'' (49 CFR 191.3) and ``accidents'' (49 CFR 195.50) only in instances meeting threshold requirements set out in those regulations. Thus, there may be many more accidents involving personnel lacking qualifications than commonly reported. Recommendations by National Transportation Safety Board In a letter to RSPA dated May 14, 1987, the National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) stated that incorrect human performance has already caused, or contributed to the severity of, many pipeline accidents, and that most of the errors involved could be linked to inadequate training. NTSB identified 110 related Safety Recommendations it had issued from 1975 through 1986 based on pipeline accidents indicating that training of pipeline personnel needed improvement. The following two accidents are among those cited by NTSB in its correspondence:
