FR940304-1-00156 FR940304-1-00014 However, other than at the max tech level, consumers do not purchase units of the same efficiency. At each candidate standard level, the Department determines the average change in life-cycle costs by considering only those consumers who are being forced by the standard to move from a lower efficiency unit to one which just meets the standard level being considered. This is done by assuming in the base case a distribution of purchases of units meeting the efficiencies of the various standard levels. The base case distribution is based on the distribution of current sales as a function of efficiency. As each standard level is examined, the change in life-cycle cost reported is the average change only for affected consumers. Under this scenario, standard level 1 would cause reductions in life-cycle costs for the average affected consumer of $73.09 for the representative class of gas non-self-cleaning ovens; standard level 2 would reduce average life-cycle costs by $42.07; standard levels 3 and 4, by $26.37; while standard level 5 would result in an increase of $59.83. For the representative class of electric non-self-cleaning ovens, standard level 1 would cause reductions in life-cycle costs for the average consumer of $27.29; standard level 2 would reduce average life-cycle costs by $38.05; standard levels 3 and 4, by $53.25; while standard level 5 would result in an increase of $61.41. The life-cycle cost reductions indicate that no standard level, other than max tech, would cause any economic burden on the average consumer. See Technical Support Document, Tables 4.12 and 4.14. The Department examined the effect of different discount rates (4, 6, and 10 percent) on the life-cycle cost curves and generally found little impact. The Department did not consider higher discount rates, since such rates would be beyond the range of real, after-tax rates that consumers would likely face in financing the purchase of ovens. Similarly, DOE did not consider different energy prices, including regional prices, in the life-cycle cost analysis. Since any standard is to be a national standard, DOE believed that national average energy prices were appropriate. The net present value analysis, a measure of the net savings to society, indicates that for all classes of conventional ovens, standard level 1 would produce a net present value of $1.20 billion to consumers. The corresponding net present values for levels 2&hyph;5 are $0.52 billion, $1.09 billion, $1.12 billion, and negative $2.38 billion, respectively. See Technical Support Document, Table 3.6. Conventional cooking tops. A life-cycle cost is calculated for a unit meeting each of the candidate standard levels. For the representative classes, life-cycle costs at all standard levels are less than the baseline unit. However, it should be noted that for another class, electric smooth element cooking tops, there are life-cycle cost increases for units meeting levels 4 and 5. Of the five candidate standard levels, units meeting level 2 have the lowest consumer life-cycle costs for the representative classes. See Technical Support Document, Tables 4.1 to 4.3. However, other than at the max tech level, consumers do not purchase units of the same efficiency. At each candidate standard level, the Department determines the average change in life-cycle costs by considering only those consumers who are being forced by the standard to move from a lower efficiency unit to one which just meets the standard level being considered. This is done by assuming in the base case a distribution of purchases of units meeting the efficiencies of the various standard levels. The base case distribution is based on the distribution of current sales as a function of efficiency. As each standard level is examined, the change in life-cycle cost reported is the average change only for affected consumers. Under this scenario, standard level 1 would cause reductions in life-cycle costs for the average affected consumer of $8.96 for the representative class of gas cooking tops; standard level 2 would reduce average life-cycle costs by $66.08 and standard levels 3, 4 and 5, by $18.05. For the representative class of electric-coil cooking tops, standard level 1 would cause no change in life-cycle costs for the average consumer since it is the same as the baseline; standard level 2 would reduce average life-cycle costs by $5.69 and standard levels 3, 4, and 5 by $1.64. These life-cycle cost reductions indicate that no standard level would cause any economic burden on the average consumer. See Technical Support Document, Tables 4.9 and 4.11.
