FR940627-0-00245 FR940627-0-00019 (v) Lungs and trachea of the whole-body perfusion-fixed test animals cited in paragraph (d)(1)(ii)(A) of this section are examined for inhaled particle distribution. (e) Interpretation of results. All observed results, quantitative and incidental, shall be evaluated by an appropriate statistical method. The specific methods, including consideration of statistical power, shall be selected during the design of the study. (f) Test report. In addition to the reporting requirements as specified under §§79.60 and 79.61(e), the following individual animal data information shall be reported: (1) Date of death during the study or whether animals survived to termination. (2) Date of observation of each abnormal sign and its subsequent course. (3) Individual body weight data, and group average body weight data vs. time. (4) Feed consumption data, when collected. (5) Hematological tests employed and all results. (6) Clinical biochemistry tests employed and all results. (7) Necropsy findings. (8) Type of stain/fixative and procedures used in preparing tissue samples. (9) Detailed description of all histopathological findings. (10) Statistical treatment of the study results, where appropriate. (g) References. For additional background information on this test guideline, the following references should be consulted. (1) 40 CFR 798.2450, Inhalation toxicity. (2) 40 CFR 798.2675, Oral Toxicity with Satellite Reproduction and Fertility Study. (3) General Statement of Work for the Conduct of Toxicity and Carcinogenicity Studies in Laboratory Animals (revised April, 1987/modifications through January, 1990) appendix G, National Toxicology Program_U.S. Dept. of Health and Human Services (Public Health Service), P.O. Box 12233, Research Triangle Park, NC 27709. §79.63 Fertility assessment/teratology. (a) Purpose. Fertility assessment/teratology is an in vivo study designed to provide information on potential health hazards to the fetus arising from the mother's repeated inhalation exposure to vehicle/engine emissions before and during her pregnancy. By including a mating of test animals, the study provides preliminary data on the effects of repeated vehicle/engine emissions exposure on gonadal function, conception, and fertility. Since this is a one-generation test that ends with examination of full-term fetuses, but not of live pups, it is not capable of determining effects on reproductive development which would only be detected in viable offspring of treated parents. (b) Definitions. For the purposes of this section, the following definitions apply: Developmental toxicity means the ability of an agent to induce in utero death, structural or functional abnormalities, or growth retardation after contact with the pregnant animal. Estrous cycle means the periodic recurrence of the biological phases of the female reproductive system which prepare the animal for conception and the development of offspring. The phases of the estrous cycle for a particular animal can be characterized by the general condition of the cells present in the vagina and the presence or absence of various cell types.
