FR940617-1-00104 FR940617-1-00012 ( 9 ) Dilution fluid. Butterfield's phosphate buffered water adjusted to pH 7.2 and containing an antimicrobial inactivator specific for the test formulation. Adjust pH with 0.1 Normal hydrochloric acid or 0.1 Normal sodium hydroxide. ( 10 ) Plating medium. Soybean-casein digest agar plus a suitable inactivator. ( 11 ) Broth. Soybean-casein digest: 1,000 milliliters per 2-liter flask is recommended. (C) Test Organism. ( 1 ) Serratia marcescens ATCC No. 14756 (available from American Type Culture Collection, 12301 Parklawn Dr., Rockville, MD 20852) is to be used as a marker organism. This is a strain having stable pigmentation. ( 2 ) The application of micro-organisms to the skin may involve a health risk. Prior to applying the Serratia marcescens strain to the skin, the antimicrobial sensitivity profile of the strain should be determined. If the strain is not sensitive to Gentamicin, do not use it. If an infection occurs, the antibiotic sensitivity profile should be made available to the attending clinician. ( 3 ) Following the last contamination and wash with the test formulation, the panelists' hands are to be sanitized by scrubbing with a 70 percent ethanol solution. The purpose of this alcohol scrub is to destroy any residual Serratia marcescens . ( 4 ) Preparation of marker culture suspension. From stock culture inoculate Serratia marcescens ATCC No. 14756 in a 2-liter flask containing 1,000 milliliters of Soybean-casein digest broth. Incubate for 24 # 4 hours at 25 ○C. Stir or shake the suspension before each aliquot withdrawal. Assay the suspension for number of organisms by membrane filtration technique or surface inoculation at the beginning and end of the use period. Do not use a suspension for more than 8 hours. (D) Test panelists. Recruit a sufficient number of healthy adult male and female human volunteers who have no clinical evidence of dermatosis, open wounds, hangnail, or other skin disorders that may affect the integrity of the test, and enroll sufficient subjects per product being tested to satisfy the statistical criteria of the clinical trial design. (E) Preparation of volunteers. Instruct the volunteers to avoid contact with antimicrobials (other than the test formulation) for the duration of the test. This restriction includes antimicrobial containing antiperspirants, deodorants, shampoos, lotions, soaps, and materials such as acids, bases, and solvents. Bathing in chlorinated pools and hot tubs is to be avoided. Volunteers are to be provided with a kit of nonantimicrobial personal care products for exclusive use during the test and rubber gloves to be worn when contact with antimicrobials cannot be avoided. (F) Number of subjects required. The standard deviations for antiseptic handwash or health-care personnel handwash obtained when an inoculant such as Serratia marcescens is used are more homogeneous than those for surgical hand scrub products discussed in paragraph (b)(1)(iii)(F) of this section. The standard deviations extracted from data submitted to the agency as part of applications under part 314 of this chapter for these drug products range from 0.31 to 0.92; the median standard deviation is 0.71. The sample size estimation equation in paragraph (b)(1)(iii)(F) of this section may be used to estimate sample sizes required. For example, assume the active control hand scrub produces an immediate mean log reduction of 2.0 and the test hand scrub is to be within 20 percent of this, i.e., D=0.4. If S 2 =0.71, then n=50 subjects per arm of the study. Because blocks of 6 are recommended, the sample size per treatment arm is 54 subjects. (G) Study design. Randomization of subjects to time periods and treatment to hands will be accomplished in accordance with the plan presented previously. (H) Procedure. ( 1 ) Initial wash. After panelists have refrained from using antimicrobials for at least 7 days, perform a 30-second practice wash in the same manner as is described for the test and control formulations, except that a solution of nonantimicrobial bland soap is used. This procedure removes oil and dirt and familiarizes the panelists with the washing technique. (2) Contaminant suspension and hand contamination. The contaminant is a liquid suspension of Serratia marcescens containing at least 10 8 organisms per milliliter. Five milliliters of the contaminant culture are dispensed onto the hands then rubbed over the surfaces of the hands, not reaching above the wrist. Application and spreading should involve about 45 seconds. The hands are then held still away from the body and allowed to air dry for 2 minutes. (3) Contamination schedule. The panelists' hands are contaminated with the marker organism according to the following schedule: ( i ) Prior to the baseline bacterial sample collection. ( ii ) Prior to all 10 washes with the test material. ( 4 ) Baseline recovery. Baseline sample is taken after contamination of the hands to determine the number of marker organisms surviving on the hands after washing with a baseline control soap as described in paragraph (b)(2)(iii)(H)( 1 ) of this section. Bacterial sampling will follow the procedures outlined in paragraph (b)(2)(iii)(H)( 6 ) of this section.
