FR940606-2-00029 FR940606-2-00022 Decision and Order of The Department of Energy Implementation of Special Refund Procedures Name of Petitioner: N. C. Ginther Company Date of Filing: July 20, 1993 Case Number: LEF&hyph;0060 Under the procedural regulations of the Department of Energy (DOE), the Economic Regulatory Administration (ERA) may request that the Office of Hearings and Appeals (OHA) formulate and implement special refund procedures. 10 CFR 205.281. These procedures are used to refund monies to those injured by actual or alleged violations of the DOE price regulations. In this Decision and Order, we consider a Petition for Implementation of Special Refund Procedures filed by the ERA on July 20, 1993, for funds obtained due to alleged pricing violations in the sale of propane, butane, and natural gasoline (natural gas liquids products). The funds at issue in that Petition were obtained through settlement of DOE enforcement proceedings involving N. C. Ginther Company (Ginther), pursuant to 10 CFR part 205, subpart V. The present Decision will set forth final procedures for the distribution of these funds to qualified purchasers of Ginther's natural gas liquids (NGL) products. I. Background During the period covered by the Consent Order (September 1, 1973, through March 31, 1977), Ginther was a ``gas plant operator'' (as defined in 10 CFR 212.162) and its sales were subject to DOE price regulations. Accordingly, Ginther was subject to the DOE Mandatory Petroleum Price Regulations. An ERA audit of Ginther's records revealed possible violations of the Mandatory Petroleum Price Regulations, 10 CFR part 212 subparts E and K, in specified transactions during the period September 1, 1973, through March 31, 1977 (the consent order period). 1 Consequently, the ERA issued a Notice of Probable Violation (NOPV) to Ginther on December 31, 1980, alleging pricing violations in the sale of propane, butane, and natural gasoline during the audit period. On March 25, 1983, Ginther and the DOE entered into a Consent Order. The Consent Order refers to the ERA's allegations of regulatory violations. It also includes Ginther's denials that any such violations occurred. 1 Ginther owned all or a portion of four gas processing plants for various lengths of time during the audit period. In addition, Ginther owned and operated Ginther Energy Marketing Company and A & V Gas Service, Inc. In accordance with the definition of a firm in 10 CFR 212.31, the four gas processing plants, Ginther Energy Marketing Company, and A & V Gas Service, Inc., constitute one firm and were regarded as such by ERA in the audit. Notice of Probable Violation issued to N. C. Ginther dated December 31, 1980. As a result of the Consent Order, there is a total of $144,864.85, plus accrued interest, available for restitution. This Decision concerns the distribution of all funds in the Ginther escrow account. II. The Proposed Decision and Order On April 14, 1994, the OHA issued a Proposed Decision and Order (PDO) establishing tentative procedures to distribute the alleged violation amount obtained from Ginther. 59 FR 19005 (April 21, 1994). The OHA tentatively outlined procedures under which purchasers of Ginther's NGL products could apply for refunds. In order to permit applicants to make refund claims without incurring disproportionate costs as well as to allow the OHA to equitably and efficiently consider those claims, we set forth a number of presumptions pertaining to refund procedures. First, we presumed that the alleged refined product overcharges were spread evenly over all of Ginther's sales of NGL products during the Consent Order period. We therefore proposed that an applicant's potential refund generally should be computed by multiplying the per-gallon refund amount by the number of gallons of Ginther's NGL products that the claimant purchased during the Consent Order period. The resulting figure is referred to as the claimant's ``volumetric share'' of the Ginther Consent Order funds. Because an applicant may have been overcharged by more than the volumetric amount, we proposed that an applicant could rebut the volumetric refund presumption by showing that it sustained a greater amount of the overcharge. Because it is potentially difficult, time-consuming, and expensive to demonstrate that one was forced to absorb any overcharges from Ginther, we proposed to adopt a number of presumptions concerning injury. We proposed that resellers and retailers claiming refunds of $5,000 or less, end-users, agricultural cooperatives, and certain types of regulated firms would be presumed injured by Ginther's alleged overcharges. We proposed that refiners, resellers, and retailers seeking refunds greater than $5,000 could receive a maximum of $20,000 based upon 40 percent of their volumetric share without having to prove injury. We also proposed to presume that claimants who made only spot purchases from Ginther were not injured and must rebut that presumption to receive a refund. We stated that applicants not covered by one of the injury presumptions would be required to demonstrate that they were forced to absorb any overcharge by Ginther in order to receive their full volumetric shares of the Ginther Consent Order funds. Finally, we proposed that any money remaining after all Ginther refund claims are analyzed should be disbursed as indirect restitution in accordance with the provisions of the Overcharge Distribution and Restitution Act of 1986 (PODRA), 15 U.S.C. §§4501&hyph;4507 (1988). The PDO provided a period of 30 days from the date of publication in the Federal Register in which comments could be filed regarding the tentative refund process. More than 30 days have elapsed and the OHA has received no comments concerning the proposed procedures for the distribution of the Ginther settlement funds. Consequently, the procedures will be adopted as proposed.
