FR940217-2-00077 FR940217-2-00037 DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR Fish and Wildlife Service Availability of the Technical/Agency Draft Recovery Plan for the Pygmy Madtom for Review and Comment AGENCY: Fish and Wildlife Service, Interior. ACTION: Notice of document availability and public comment period. SUMMARY: The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (Service) announces the availability for public review of a draft recovery plan for the pygmy madtom. This small catfish presently has a very fragmented distribution, but the species was probably formerly much more widespread within the Tennessee River system. The pygmy madtom is currently known to inhabit only two short river reaches within the Duck River, Humphreys County, Tennessee, and the Clinch River, Hancock County, Tennessee. The species has been and continues to be impacted by water quality deterioration. This deterioration occurred as a result of siltation (contributed by coal mining and poor land use practices), other water pollution, and impoundments. The Service solicits review and comments from the public on this draft plan. DATES: Comments on the technical/agency draft recovery plan must be received on or before April 18, 1994 to receive consideration by the Service. ADDRESSES: Persons wishing to review the draft recovery plan may obtain a copy by contacting the Asheville Field Office, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, 330 Ridgefield Court, Asheville, North Carolina 28806. Written comments and materials regarding the plan should be addressed to the Field Supervisor at the above address. Comments and materials received are available on request for public inspection, by appointment, during normal business hours at the above address. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mr. Richard Biggins at the address and telephone number shown above (Ext. 228). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background Restoring endangered or threatened animals and plants to the point where they are again secure, self-sustaining members of their ecosystems is a primary goal of the Service's endangered species program. To help guide the recovery effort, the Service is working to prepare recovery plans for most of the listed species native to the United States. Recovery plans describe actions considered necessary for conservation of the species, establish criteria for recognizing the recovery levels for downlisting or delisting them, and estimate time and cost to implement the recovery measures needed. The Endangered Species Act of 1973, as amended (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq .) (Act), requires the development of recovery plans for listed species unless such a plan would not promote the conservation of a particular species. Section 4(f) of the Act, as amended in 1988, requires that a public notice and an opportunity for public review and comment be provided during recovery plan development. The Service will consider all information presented during a public comment period prior to approval of each new or revised recovery plan. The Service and other Federal agencies will also take these comments into account in the course of implementing approved recovery plans. The primary species considered in this draft recovery plan is the pygmy madtom ( Noturus stanauli ). The area of emphasis for recovery actions is the Duck River, Humphreys County, Tennessee, and the Clinch River, Hancock County, Tennessee. The protection of existing populations, habitat restoration, preservation of genetic material, and public education are among the management actions outlined in the plan. Public Comments Solicited The Service solicits written comments on the recovery plan described. All comments received by the date specified above will be considered prior to approval of the plan. Authority The authority for this action is section 4(f) of the Endangered Species Act, 16 U.S.C. 1533(f). Dated: February 8, 1994. Richard G. Biggins, Acting Field Supervisor. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;3667 Filed 2&hyph;16&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4310&hyph;55&hyph;M
