FR941102-0-00035 FR941102-0-00005 (ii) The bank holding company has previously received Board approval to engage in the activity involved in the acquisition; and (iii) The bank holding company meets the Board's Capital Adequacy Guidelines (Appendix A of subparts A through E of this part). (4) Action on notice. Within 5 business days after the close of the comment period specified in the Federal Register notice or within 15 calendar days after receipt by the Reserve Bank of the newspaper notice, the Reserve Bank shall either approve the proposal or refer it to the Board for decision if action under delegated authority is not appropriate. The Board shall act in accordance with paragraph (d)(2) of this section on a notice under this paragraph that is referred to it for decision. The Reserve Bank, upon written notice to the notificant, may extend the time period for approval under this paragraph for a reasonable period of time not to exceed 30 days. (f) Hearings_ (1) Procedure to request hearing. Any request for a hearing on a notice under this section shall comply with the provisions of 12 CFR 262.3(e). (2) Determination to hold hearing. The Board may order a formal or informal hearing or other proceeding on a notice as provided in 12 CFR 262.3(i)(2). The Board shall order a hearing only if there are disputed issues of material fact that cannot be resolved in some other manner. (3) Extension of period for hearing. The Board may extend the time for action on any notice for such time as is reasonably necessary to conduct a hearing and evaluate the hearing record. Such extension shall not exceed 91 calendar days after the date of submission to the Board of the complete record on the notice. The procedures for computation of the 91-day rule as set forth in ยง225.14(g) apply to notices under this subpart that involve hearings. (g) Notice to expand or alter nonbanking activities_ (1) De novo expansion. A notice under paragraph (a)(1) of this section is required to open a new office or to form a subsidiary to engage in, or to relocate an existing office engaged in, a nonbanking activity that the Board has previously approved for the bank holding company under this regulation, only if: (i) The Board's prior approval was limited geographically; (ii) The activity is to be conducted in a country outside of the United States and the bank holding company has not previously received prior Board approval under this regulation to engage in the activity in that country; or (iii) The Board or appropriate Reserve Bank has notified the company that a notice under paragraph (a)(1) of this section is required. (2) Activities outside United States. With respect to activities to be engaged in outside the United States that require approval under this subpart, the procedures of this section apply only to activities to be engaged in directly by a bank holding company that is not a qualifying foreign banking organization or by a nonbank subsidiary of a bank holding company approved under this subpart. Regulation K (12 CFR part 211) governs other international operations of bank holding companies. (3) Alteration of nonbanking activity. A notice under paragraph (a)(1) of this section is required to alter a nonbanking activity in any material respect from that considered by the Board in acting on the application or notice to engage in the activity. (h) Emergency thrift institution acquisitions. In the case of a notice to acquire a thrift institution, the Board may modify or dispense with the public notice and hearing requirements of this section if the Board finds that an emergency exists that requires the Board to act immediately and the primary Federal regulator of the institution concurs. ยง225.24 Factors considered in acting on nonbanking proposals. (a) In general. In evaluating a notice under ยง225.23, the Board shall consider whether the performance by the notificant of the activities can reasonably be expected to produce benefits to the public (such as greater convenience, increased competition, and gains in efficiency) that outweigh possible adverse effects (such as undue concentration of resources, decreased or unfair competition, conflicts of interest, and unsound banking practices). (b) Financial and managerial resources. Consideration of the factors in paragraph (a) of this section includes an evaluation of the financial and managerial resources of the notificant, including its subsidiaries, and any company to be acquired, and the effect of the proposed transaction on those resources. (c) Competitive effect of de novo proposals. Unless the record demonstrates otherwise, the commencement or expansion of a nonbanking activity de novo is presumed to result in benefits to the public through increased competition. (d) Denial for lack of information. The Board may deny any notice submitted under this subpart if the notificant neglects, fails, or refuses to furnish all information required by the Board. By order of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, effective October 26, 1994. William W. Wiles, Secretary of the Board. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;27057 Filed 11&hyph;1&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6210&hyph;01&hyph;P
