FR940419-1-00009 FR940419-1-00003 Management Accountability Finally, as previously mentioned, the NCUA Board is concerned about situations in which management of a corporate credit union reports to the officials of an affiliated league or trade association. For corporate FCUs, this may violate several provisions of the standard corporate FCU bylaws. Article VI, Section 5, provides that the board shall have the general direction and control of the affairs of the credit union. The bylaw states that the board may delegate the performance of administrative duties but is not relieved of its responsibility for their performance. Article VII, Section 6, provides that the board may employ a management official who shall not be a member of the board and who shall be under the direction and control of the board. Although the Board cannot speak to the bylaws of state-chartered corporate credit unions, the practice of the management of one entity reporting to officials of another entity violates fundamental principles of general corporate law. Accordingly, the Board is considering amending its regulations to require that management of a corporate credit union report solely to the board of directors of that credit union. The Board welcomes comment on these and any other considerations with respect to the management and control of corporate credit unions. F. Effect on State-Chartered Corporate Credit Unions Part 704 applies to all federally insured corporate credit unions. Further, non-federally insured corporate credit union must agree to comply with NCUA's corporate credit union regulation as a condition of receiving funds from natural person FCUs. Thus, the regulatory changes will affect all corporate credit unions. The Board believes this result is essential, given that the vast majority of funds held in the corporate system represent investments by federally insured credit unions. By the National Credit Union Administration Board on April 12, 1994. Becky Baker, Secretary of the Board. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;9324 Filed 4&hyph;18&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 7535&hyph;01&hyph;M
