FR940429-0-00166 FR940429-0-00015 Finally, as part of the commitment to providing leadership to the triad, the Secretary will convene representatives of the triad members and institutions to exchange information about the gatekeeping process and to discuss how the triad is functioning, both in identifying institutions whose performance is questionable and in reporting requirements that have proven to be unreasonably burdensome. The Secretary invites comments concerning the functioning of the triad, as it is implemented through these and other regulations governed by part H. The Secretary will seek improvement, where possible, within existing regulations and will propose modifications to regulations and to the statute itself if experience indicates those changes are both necessary to achieve effective gatekeeping, with minimal burden, and compatible with the need to maintain, and assure the public of, the integrity of the Title IV, HEA programs. Substantive Changes to the NPRMs Part 668_Student Assistance General Provisions Subpart A_General Section 668.2␣General Definitions Academic Year. In the February 28, 1994 NPRM, the Secretary requested comment on how to implement the technical amendment that provided that the Secretary may reduce, for good cause on a case-by-case basis, the required minimum of 30 weeks of instructional time to not less than 26 weeks of instructional time in the case of an institution of higher education that provides a 2-year or 4-year program of instruction for which it awards an associate or baccalaureate degree. The Secretary did not propose specific criteria to implement this technical amendment in the February 28, 1994 NPRM, but instead requested comments on a definition of ``good cause'' and requested comments on ways of implementing this provision that addressed the Secretary's concern that reductions in the award year would encourage many institutions to seek that treatment routinely. After reviewing public comments on defining good cause, and developing safeguards to discourage routine requests for reductions in the academic year, the Secretary has implemented this technical amendment in new §668.3. Under this section, for the purpose of awarding Title IV, HEA funds, the Secretary may reduce the length of an academic year for an institution that submits a written request to the Secretary. Section 668.3 provides for a two-year ``phase-in'' period for institutions that are currently participating, have an academic year of 26&hyph;29 weeks, and meet the other applicable standards of the section. The Secretary will consider all other requests for a reduction in the minimum number of weeks of instructional time to not less than 26 weeks on a case-by-case basis in accordance with the requirements of §668.3. Section 668.3 is discussed in greater detail in the section of the Analysis of Comments and Changes that addressed the definition of an academic year (§668.2). In the February 28, 1994 NPRM, the Secretary requested comment on how to address an abuse of the definition of an academic year whereby an institution that has programs that are measured in credit hours without terms could claim that it meets the requirements for the minimum amount of work to be performed by a full-time student over an academic year by giving a full- time student a minimal amount of instruction over a 30-week (or more) period, which the institution claims to be equivalent to 24 semester or 36 quarter hours. The Secretary requested comment on whether a minimum full-time workload for students enrolled in these educational programs should be established to address this abuse. Several commenters agreed that this abuse should be addressed. However, rather than changing the proposed definition of full-time student to require measurement of student workloads, a modification has been made to require that, for educational programs using credit hours, but not using a semester, trimester, or quarter system, a week of instructional time is any week in which at least five days of regularly scheduled instruction, examinations, or preparation for examinations occurs, as opposed to one day of regularly scheduled instruction, examinations, or preparation for examinations for all other programs. The Secretary believes it is important to ensure that full-time students are performing comparable workloads regardless of the type of institution they are attending, and that such work should be ratably allocated throughout the period of instruction. The Secretary notes that this is an area of abuse that is not fully addressed by the implementation of the ``clock hour/credit hour'' regulations. A corresponding change has been made to the definition of an eligible program. One-third of an academic year and two-thirds of an academic year. In response to public comment, the Secretary has defined one-third of an academic year and two-thirds of an academic year in order to clarify the procedure for prorating awards under the FFEL and NDSL programs. Undergraduate student. Because the Secretary recognizes that, at this time, there are legitimate reasons supported by statute for separate definitions of an undergraduate student under the various Title IV, HEA program regulations the definition of undergraduate student has been deleted in these final regulations. Section 668.8␣Eligible Program Qualitative factors. Section 668.8(e)(1)(iii) requires that, for a short-term program, the length of the program may not exceed by more than 50 percent the minimum number of clock hours required for training in the recognized occupation for which the program prepares students, as established by the State in which the program is offered, if the State has established such a requirement. In response to public comment, this provision has been amended to also prohibit a short-term eligible program from exceeding by 50 percent any applicable minimum number of clock hours required by a Federal agency for training in the recognized occupation for which the program prepares students. In response to public comment, §668.8(e)(2) has been revised to clarify that, since a certified public accountant cannot certify the accuracy of an institution's completion or placement-rate calculations, the institution shall substantiate these calculations by having the certified public accountant follow the procedures of an attestation engagement. Calculation of completion rate. Section 668.8(f)(4) has been amended to require that a student must complete the educational program in which he or she is enrolled within 150 percent of the published length of the educational program in order to be counted as a completer for purposes of this calculation. This change was made to conform with the calculation of a completion rate under the Student Right-to-Know provisions. The Secretary notes that the Department will continue to evaluate the feasibility of replacing this methodology with the methodology developed relative to the Student Right-to-Know Act once that methodology has been published in final regulations.
