FR940406-0-00069 FR940406-0-00005 It is DoD policy to help communities affected by base closures achieve rapid economic recovery through effective reuse of the assets of closing bases_more quickly, more effectively and in ways based on local market conditions and locally developed reuse plans. This will be accomplished by: (a) Selling properties quickly for public or private development to speed up job creation where a ready market exists. (b) Making property available without initial consideration for economic development where a ready market does not exist. (c) Sharing the net profits between the DoD and the local redevelopment authority if a property conveyed without initial consideration for economic development is subsequently sold or leased. ยง91.5 Responsibilities. (a) The Assistant Secretary of Defense for Economic Security, after coordination with the General Counsel of the Department of Defense and other officials as appropriate, may issue such guidance and instructions as may be necessary to implement Laws, Directives and Instructions on the retention or disposal of real and personal property at closing or realigning bases. (b) The Heads of the DoD Components shall ensure compliance with this part and guidance issued by the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Economic Security on revitalizing base closure communities. ยง91.6 Delegations of authority. (a) The authority provided by sections 202 and 203 of the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949, as amended (40 U.S.C. 483 et seq. ) for disposal of property at closing and realigning bases has been delegated by the Administrator, GSA, to the Secretary of Defense by delegations dated March 1, 1989; October 9, 1990; and, September 13, 1991. 2 Authority under these delegations has been previously redelegated to the Secretaries of the Military Departments, who may redelegate further. 2 These documents available from the Office of the Assistant Secretary of Defense (Economic Security), Pentagon, Washington, DC 20301. (b) Authorities delegated to the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Technology by 32 CFR 90.5 are hereby redelegated to the Secretaries of the Military Departments, unless otherwise provided within this part. These authorities may be redelegated further. ยง91.7 Procedures. (a) Real property screening. (1) When the Department of Defense no longer needs to retain real property, the Department is required to dispose of the property in accordance with the prescribed screening process in the General Services Administration property disposal regulations and the expedited process described in this part. This process permits DoD entities, other Federal Agencies and homeless providers to identify property they would like to acquire when the base closes. The Secretary concerned will work with the other DoD Components, Federal Agencies, homeless providers and reuse planners, early in the closure process, to sort out these requests. This process will provide for the early identification of property which will become available for reuse that is critical to the local redevelopment authority's ability to develop a realistic reuse plan. (2) The Military Departments should complete the internal DoD real property screening of closing and realigning base property: (i) By April 1, 1994, for 1988, 1991 and 1993 closures and realignments. (ii) Within 4 months of the date of approval of the 1995 closures and realignments. (3) Military Departments should seek local redevelopment authority input in making determinations on the retention of property and should consider their input, if provided. Transfer of real property at closing and realigning bases between any of the Military Departments, or retention of real property at a closing base by a Military Department, must be approved by the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Economic Security, unless such a transfer has already been approved by the Secretary of the Military Department concerned. (4) Formal screening of real property excess to the DoD with other Federal Agencies must be completed: (i) By June 1, 1994, for 1988, 1991, and 1993 closures and realignments unless the community requests a postponement of the surplus determination as provided in paragraph (a)(7) of this section.
