FR941003-2-00087 FR941003-2-00049 (g) Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, and Firearms. (1) One hundred positions of criminal investigator for special assignments. (h) (Reserved). (i) Bureau of Government Financial Operations. (1) Clerical positions at grades GS&hyph;5 and below established in Emergency Disbursing Offices to process emergency payments to victims of catastrophes or natural disasters requiring emergency disbursing services. Employment under this authority may not exceed 1 year. Section 213.3106␣Department of Defense (a) Office of the Secretary. (1)&hyph;(5) (Reserved). (6) One Executive Secretary, US-USSR Standing Consultative Commission and Staff Analyst (SALT), Office of the Assistant Secretary of Defense (International Security Affairs). (b) Entire Department (including the Office of the Secretary of Defense and the Departments of the Army, Navy, and Air Force). (1) Professional positions in Military Dependent School Systems overseas. (2) Positions in attache 1 systems overseas, including all professional and scientific positions in the Naval Research Branch Office in London. (3) Positions of clerk-translator, translator, and interpreter overseas. (4) Positions of Educational Specialist the incumbents of which will serve as Director of Religious Education on the staffs of the Chaplains in the military services. (5) Positions under the program for utilization of alien scientists, approved under pertinent directives administered by the Director of Defense Research and Engineering of the Department of Defense, when occupied by alien scientists initially employed under the program including those who have acquired United States citizenship during such employment. (6) Positions in overseas installations of the Department of Defense when filled by dependents of military or civilian employees of the U.S. Government residing in the area. Employment under this authority may not extend longer than 2 months following the transfer from the area or separation of a dependent's sponsor: Provided, that (i) a school employee may be permitted to complete the school year; and (ii) an employee other than a school employee may be permitted to serve up to 1 additional year when the military department concerned finds that the additional employment is in the interest of management. (7) Fifteen secretarial and staff support positions at GS&hyph;12 or below on the White House Support Group. (8) Positions in DOD research and development activities occupied by participants in the DOD Science and Engineering Apprenticeship Program for High School Students. Persons employed under this authority shall be bona fide high school students, at least 14 years old, pursuing courses related to the position occupied and limited to 1,040 working hours a year. Children of DOD employees may be appointed to these positions, notwithstanding the sons and daughters restriction, if the positions are in field activities at remote locations. Appointments under this authority may be made only to positions for which qualification standards established under 5 CFR Part 302 are consistent with the education and experience standards established for comparable positions in the competitive service. Appointments under this authority may not be used to extend the service limits contained in any other appointing authority. (c) Defense Contract Audit Agency. (1) Not to exceed two positions of Accounting Fellow, Auditor, GM&hyph;511&hyph;14, filled under the Accounting Fellowship Program. Appointments under this authority may not exceed 2 years. (d) General. (1) Positions concerned with advising, administering, supervising, or performing work in the collection, processing, analysis, production, evaluation, interpretation, dissemination, and estimation of intelligence information, including scientific and technical positions in the intelligence function; and positions involved in the planning, programming, and management of intelligence resources when, in the opinion of OPM, it is impracticable to examine. This authority does not apply to positions assigned to cryptologic and communications intelligence activities/functions. (2) Positions involved in intelligence-related work of the cryptologic intelligence activities of the military departments. This includes all positions of intelligence research specialist, and similar positions in the intelligence classification series; all scientific and technical positions involving the applications of engineering, physical or technical sciences to intelligence work; and professional as well as intelligence technician positions in which a majority of the incumbent's time is spent in advising, administering, supervising, or performing work in the collection, processing, analysis, production, evaluation, interpretation, dissemination, and estimation of intelligence information or in the planning, programming, and management of intelligence resources. (e) Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences. (1) Positions of President, Vice Presidents, Assistant Vice Presidents, Deans, Deputy Deans, Associate Deans, Assistant Deans, Assistants to the President, Assistants to the Vice Presidents, Assistants to the Deans, Professors, Associate Professors, Assistant Professors, Instructors, Visiting Scientists, Research Associates, Senior Research Associates, and Postdoctoral Fellows. (2) Positions established to perform work on projects funded from grants. (f) National Defense University. (1) Not to exceed 16 positions of senior policy analyst, GS&hyph;15, at the Strategic Concepts Development Center. Initial appointments to these positions may not exceed 6 years, but may be extended thereafter in 1-, 2-, or 3-year increments, indefinitely. (g) Defense Communications Agency. (1) Not to exceed 10 positions at grades GS&hyph;10/15 to staff and support the Crisis Management Center at the White House.
