FR940208-2-00161 FR940208-2-00092 (3) Every participant who has filed a brief pursuant to subrule (1) may file a brief replying to the grounds and arguments set forth in the briefs filed pursuant to subrule (2) no later than 15 days after the expiration of the time period for filing of briefs referred to in subrule (2). Reply briefs shall be limited to rebuttal of matters raised in the briefs filed pursuant to subrule (2). (4) An appendix containing authorities cited in all briefs filed under any of subrules (1) to (3) shall be filed with the responsible Secretariat within 10 days after the last day on which a brief under subrule (3) may be filed. (5) Any number of participants may join in a single brief and any participant may adopt by reference any part of the brief of another participant. (6) A participant may file a brief without appearing to present oral argument. (7) Where a panel review of a final determination made by an investigating authority of United States with respect to certain goods involves issues that may relate to the final determination of the other investigating authority with respect to those goods, the latter investigating authority may file an amicus curiae brief in the panel review in accordance with subrule (2). Failure to File Briefs 61. (1) Where a participant fails to file a brief within the time period fixed, the panel may order that the participant is not entitled (a) to present oral argument; (b) to service of any further pleadings, orders or decisions in the panel review; or (c) to further notice of the proceedings in the panel review. (2) Where (a) no brief is filed by any complainant or by any participant in support of any of the complainants within the time periods established pursuant to these rules, and (b) where no motion pursuant to rule 20 is pending, the panel may, on its own motion or pursuant to the motion of a participant, issue an order to show cause why the panel review should not be dismissed. (3) If, on a motion under subrule (1), good cause is not shown, the panel shall issue an order dismissing the panel review. (4) Where no brief is filed by an investigating authority, or by an interested person in support of the investigating authority, within the time period fixed in subrule 60(2), a panel may issue a decision referred to in rule 74. Content of Briefs and Appendices 62. (1) Every brief filed pursuant to subrule 60(1) or (2) shall contain information, in the following order, divided into five parts: Part I (a) A table of contents; and (b) A table of authorities: The table of authorities shall include the authorities cited except references to documents from the administrative record. The table of authorities shall arrange the cases alphabetically, refer to the page(s) of the brief where each authority is cited and mark, with an asterisk in the margin, those authorities primarily relied on. Part II: A statement of the Case (a) in the brief of a complainant or of a participant filing a brief pursuant to subrule 60(1), this Part shall contain a concise statement of the relevant facts; (b) in the brief of an investigating authority or of a participant filing a brief pursuant to subrule 60(2), this Part shall contain a concise statement of the position of the investigating authority or the participant with respect to the statement of facts set out in the briefs referred to in paragraph (a), including a concise statement of other facts relevant to its case; and
