FR940706-0-00080 FR940706-0-00015 (h) Unless otherwise required by statute, the Secretary does not withhold payments for proper charges made by recipients at any time during the project period unless_ (1) A recipient has failed to comply with the project objectives, the terms and conditions of the award, or Federal reporting requirements; or (2) The recipient or subrecipient is delinquent in a debt to the United States as defined in OMB Circular A&hyph;129_Managing Federal Credit Programs. Under these conditions, the Secretary may, upon reasonable notice, inform the recipient that ED does not make payments for obligations incurred after a specified date until the conditions are corrected or the indebtedness to the Federal Government is liquidated. (i) The standards governing the use of banks and other institutions as depositories of funds advanced under awards are as follows: (1) Except for situations described in paragraph (i)(2) of this section, the Secretary does not require separate depository accounts for funds provided to a recipient or establish any eligibility requirements for depositories for funds provided to a recipient. However, recipients must be able to account for the receipt, obligation, and expenditure of funds. (2) Advances of Federal funds shall be deposited and maintained in insured accounts whenever possible. (j) Consistent with the national goal of expanding the opportunities for women-owned and minority-owned business enterprises, recipients shall be encouraged to use women-owned and minority-owned banks (a bank which is owned at least 50 percent by women or minority group members). (k) Recipients shall maintain advances of Federal funds in interest bearing accounts, unless_ (1) The recipient receives less than $120,000 in Federal awards per year; (2) The best reasonably available interest bearing account would not be expected to earn interest in excess of $250 per year on Federal cash balances; or (3) The depository would require an average or minimum balance so high that it would not be feasible within the expected Federal and non-Federal cash resources. (l) For those entities where CMIA and its implementing regulations do not apply, interest earned on Federal advances deposited in interest bearing accounts shall be remitted annually to Department of Health and Human Services, Payment Management System, Rockville, MD 20852. Interest amounts up to $250 per year may be retained by the recipient for administrative expense. State universities and hospitals shall comply with CMIA, as it pertains to interest. If an entity subject to CMIA uses its own funds to pay pre-award costs for discretionary awards without prior written approval from the Secretary, it waives its right to recover the interest under CMIA. (m) Except as noted elsewhere in this part, only the following forms are authorized for the recipients in requesting advances and reimbursements. The Secretary does not require more than an original and two copies of the following: (1) SF&hyph;270_Request for Advance or Reimbursement. The Secretary adopts the SF&hyph;270 as a standard form for all nonconstruction programs when electronic funds transfer or predetermined advance methods are not used. The Secretary may, however, use this form for construction programs in lieu of the SF&hyph;271_Outlay Report and Request for Reimbursement for Construction Programs. (2) SF&hyph;271_Outlay Report and Request for Reimbursement for Construction Programs. The Secretary adopts the SF&hyph;271 as the standard form to be used for requesting reimbursement for construction programs. However, the Secretary may substitute the SF&hyph;270 when the Secretary determines that it provides adequate information to meet Federal needs. (20 U.S.C. 1221e&hyph;3(a)(1) and 3474; OMB Circular A&hyph;110) ยง74.23 Cost sharing or matching. (a) All contributions, including cash and third party in-kind, are accepted as part of the recipient's cost sharing or matching when contributions meet the following criteria: (1) Are verifiable from the recipient's records. (2) Are not included as contributions for any other federally-assisted project or program. (3) Are necessary and reasonable for proper and efficient accomplishment of project or program objectives. (4) Are allowable under the applicable cost principles.
