FR940428-2-00143 FR940428-2-00067 OFFICE OF THE UNITED STATES TRADE REPRESENTATIVE Proposed Import Prohibitions on Wildlife Specimens and Products of Taiwan Pursuant to the Pelly Amendment; Request for Public Comment AGENCY: Office of the United States Trade Representative. ACTION: Notice of Presidential determination to prohibit the importation of wildlife specimens and products of Taiwan pursuant to section 8 of the Fisherman's Protective Act of 1967 (22 U.S.C. 1978) (the ``Pelly Amendment''); request for public comment. SUMMARY: The President has determined to apply import prohibitions against Taiwan pursuant to section 8 of the Fishermen's Protective Act of 1967 (22 U.S.C. 1978)(the ``Pelly Amendment'') in response to Taiwan's failure to undertake sufficient actions to stop illegal trade in internationally recognized endangered species. The President has proposed to apply the import prohibitions against wildlife specimens and products of Taiwan. The Trade Policy Staff Committee (TPSC) seeks public comment concerning the proposed action, in particular the specific product coverage of the import prohibitions. DATES: Written comments from interested persons are requested by May 31, 1994. ADDRESSES: Office of the U.S. Trade Representative, 600 17th Street NW., Washington, DC 20506. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: For general information, Diane Wildman, Director for Press Relations (202) 395&hyph;3350, or Jane Earley, Director for Natural Resources (202) 395&hyph;7320. For technical information concerning product coverage, and wildlife enforcement and import clearance procedures, contact Jerome Smith or Frank Shoemaker, Division of Law Enforcement, United States Fish and Wildlife Service, at (703) 358&hyph;1949. For information on the reasons for the Pelly Amendment certification of Taiwan contact Mr. Marshall Jones, or Dr. Susan Lieberman, Office of Management Authority, United States Fish and Wildlife Service, at (703) 358&hyph;2093. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: On November 8, 1993, the President reported to the Congress pursuant to section 8(b) of the Fishermen's Protective Act of 1967 (22 U.S.C. 1978)b)) (the ``Pelly Amendment'') on the issue of trade by the People's Republic of China (PRC) and Taiwan in rhinoceros and tiger parts and products. The report followed the certification by the Secretary of the Interior that this trade was diminishing the effectiveness of the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES). Five rhinoceros species and the tiger are listed in Appendix I of CITES, which means that the species are threatened with extinction and no trade for primarily commercial purposes is allowed. The President reported that although ``recent actions by the PRC and Taiwan show that some progress has been made in addressing their rhinoceros and tiger trade, the record demonstrates that they still fall far short of the international conservation standards of CITES.'' The President suggested actions that the PRC and Taiwan could take that would demonstrate their commitment to the elimination of the trade and stated that the United States is prepared, through close dialogue and technical aid, to assist them in their efforts. However, the report concluded that, if measurable, verifiable and substantial progress were not made by March 1994, import prohibitions will be necessary, as recommended by the CIGES Standing Committee at its September 1993 meeting. The suggested actions in the November 8 report, based on criteria established by CITES for adequate legislative measures and enforcement that effectively eliminates the trade, were further amplified in letters dated December 21, 1993, to the Chairman of the Council of Agriculture and the Minister of Economic Affairs in Taipei from the Secretary of the Interior, and by CITES and U.S. delegation visits to the PRC and Taiwan in January, February and March 1994. However, at its March 1994 meeting, the CITES Standing Committee noted the progress made by the PRC while pointing out that further actions are still needed. With respect to Taiwan, CITES expressed ``concern that the actions agreed by the authorities in Taiwan, *␣*␣* towards meeting the minimum requirements have not yet been implemented.''
