FR940802-1-00016 FR940802-1-00005 List of Subjects in 42 CFR Part 52 Grant programs_health; Medical research; Occupational safety and health. Dated: May 31, 1994. Philip R. Lee, Assistant Secretary for Health. Approved: July 25, 1994. Donna E. Shalala, Secretary. For reasons set out in the preamble, it is proposed to amend part 52 of title 42 of the Code of Federal Regulations to read as set forth below. PART 52_GRANTS FOR RESEARCH PROJECTS 1. and 2. The authority citation for part 52 would be revised to read as follows: Authority: 42 U.S.C. 216. 3. Section 52.1 would be revised to read as follows: ยง52.1 To which programs do these regulations apply? (a) General. The regulations of this part apply to all health-related research project grants administered by the PHS or its components. These regulations do not apply to research grants that are not for the support of an identified research project (sometimes referred to as general research support grants), grants for the construction or operation of research facilities, grants for prevention or educational programs, demonstration grants, traineeships, training grants, or to the support of research training under the National Research Service Awards program. (b) Specific programs covered. From time to time the Secretary will publish a list of the research project grant programs covered by this part. The list is for informational purposes only and is not intended to restrict the statement of applicability in paragraph (a) of this section. In addition, information on particular research project grant programs, including applications and instructions, may be obtained from the component of the PHS that administers the program. 4. Section 52.2 would be revised to read as follows: ยง52.2 Definitions. As used in this part: Act means the Public Health Service Act, as amended (42 U.S.C. 201 et seq. ). Department means the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS). Grantee means the institution, organization, individual or other person designated in the grant award document as the responsible legal entity to whom a grant is awarded under this part. Principal investigator means a single individual designated by the grantee in the grant application and approved by the Secretary, who is responsible for the scientific and technical direction of the project. Project means the particular activity for which funding is sought under this part as described in the application for grant award. Public Health Service (PHS) means the operating division of the Department that consists of the Agency for Health Care Policy and Research, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the Food and Drug Administration, the Health Resources and Services Administration, the Indian Health Service, the National Institutes of Health, the Office of the Assistant Secretary for Health, the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Administration, and the Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry. Research means a systematic investigation, study or experiment designed to contribute to general knowledge relating broadly to public health by establishing, discovering, developing, elucidating or confirming information about, or the underlying mechanisms relating to, the biological functions, diseases, or related matters to be studied. Secretary means the Secretary of HHS and any other officer or employee of the HHS to whom the authority involved may be delegated. 5. Section 52.3 would be revised to read as follows:
