FR940526-2-00114 FR940526-2-00063 In all areas, Runzheimer attempted to identify the most ``popular'' automobile insurance companies by analyzing market-share reports compiled by an industry rating bureau. The policy described above was then priced again this year for each location. Two or three price quotes were obtained for each area, totalled for each area, and averaged together to produce the final number for this component in each allowance area. 5.3␣Public Transportation Methodology As was done last year, Runzheimer surveyed the cost of air fares as they relate to recreational travel. Runzheimer priced the lowest available round-trip air fare from each allowance area and the Washington, D.C., area to Los Angeles, California. Los Angeles was selected because it is a common point approximately equidistant from most of the allowance areas and the Washington, D.C., area. The cost of the trip from each allowance area to Los Angeles was compared with the cost of the trip from the Washington, D.C., area to Los Angeles to compute the public transportation category indexes. (See Appendix 11.) 5.4␣Transportation Survey Results Runzheimer measured the costs for fuel, maintenance and oil, tires, licensing, taxes, depreciation, finance, and insurance for three types of automobiles in each allowance area and in the Washington, D.C., area to determine typical private transportation costs. Appendix 10A shows the cost of each of these items in each area. As with the housing costs, private transportation costs for Hawaii County, Puerto Rico, and the Virgin Islands, are shown separately for each of the survey areas within these allowance areas. These data are combined to produce composite costs for each allowance area using the respective federal employment distributions. (See sections 2.5 and 2.6 for a discussion of employment weighting in these two areas.) Appendix 11 compares the total cost of the private transportation items for each vehicle in each allowance area with the total cost of the same items in the Washington, D.C., area. Appendix 11 also shows how the private and public transportation indexes were combined using expenditure weights derived from the CES data to produce final transportation indexes. The final transportation indexes are used in Appendix 14 to derive the total overall index. (Refer to section 2.2 for a discussion of the general formulae and how the component indexes are combined.) 6. Miscellaneous Expenses 6.1␣Component Overview The Miscellaneous Expense component consists primarily of four unrelated groups of expenses: •Medical care, •Contributions (including gifts to non-family members), •Personal insurance, and •Savings and investments (including pensions). Runzheimer believes that certain miscellaneous expense items should not affect living-cost differences between locations. For example, Runzheimer considers charitable contributions a personal choice, so we include this expenditure as a constant amount in all locations. Based on research into all of the expenses of this component, Runzheimer also regards expenses related to personal insurance, savings and investments, and pensions as constants, for reasons discussed in section 6.2.2. To measure the miscellaneous expenses, Runzheimer constructed a pricing methodology similar to the one used in the Goods & Services component. Runzheimer selected representative items for medical care, priced them in all areas, and then computed a Miscellaneous Expense component index based on the relative importance of costed items/categories held constant. 6.2␣Miscellaneous Expense Model 6.2.1␣Expenditure Research From the 1988 CES, Runzheimer tabulated the miscellaneous expense data into logical expense groupings and then determined the appropriate item weighting. The table on the following page lists the categories that Runzheimer selected to price and their weights:
