FR940602-0-00004 FR940602-0-00001 (c) Interest rate. (1) If the interest rate charged by the lender (note rate) on a BIB loan is a variable rate in accordance with ยง1980.423 of this subpart, the base rate must be the prime rate as published in the Wall Street Journal and the note rate must not exceed the prime rate as published in the Wall Street Journal by more than 100 basis points. If the note rate is fixed, it must not exceed by more than 100 basis points the prime rate as published in the Wall Street Journal on the day the Loan Note Guarantee is issued. (2) The note rate for a BIB loan must be the same for the entire loan, including both the guaranteed and unguaranteed portion. (d) Interest rate buydown. (1) To be eligible for a BIB loan, the business must provide evidence and the lender and FmHA must determine that, at least for the first year of the loan, the business will not have adequate cash flow to meet all of its financial obligations including the required payments on the proposed loan at the note rate, but that it can meet all obligations if the interest rate is reduced by 100 basis points. (2) During the first year after a Loan Note Guarantee is issued for a BIB loan, FmHA will pay one percentage point of interest on the loan directly to the lender, thereby reducing the interest due from the borrower by this amount. This interest payment shall be applied to both the guaranteed and unguaranteed portion of the loan pro ratably according to FmHA regulations. (3) Interest payments by FmHA may continue in subsequent years if the borrower's cash flow is insufficient to pay all obligations including the required payments on the proposed loan at the note rate. On or about each yearly anniversary of the promissory note the lender may submit a request to FmHA for continued interest payments, along with current profit and loss and cash flow statements and cash flow projections to show that the continued payments are needed for another year. FmHA will promptly review the material submitted, determine whether the continued interest payments by FmHA are needed to provide for sufficient cash flow in the coming year, and notify the lender in writing of the determination. Once interest payments by FmHA are terminated because the borrower's cash flow is determined to be sufficient to pay the note rate, such payments will not be made in subsequent years even if the cash flow decreases. (4) This section does not authorize interest payments by FmHA on B&I loans other than those approved under this section. To be eligible for interest payments by FmHA, the loan must be designated as a BIB loan when approved and funded from funds authorized by Public Law 103&hyph;50.
