FR940527-1-00087 FR940527-1-00014 We are especially interested in comments regarding an adjustment for non-proprietary hospitals that make payments in lieu of taxes and on a methodology for determining such an adjustment. As we previously noted, 13 percent of non-proprietary hospitals report payments in lieu of taxes. The uncertainty about the exact nature of those payments is one reason why we have decided to delay implementation of a specific property tax adjustment for those hospitals. However, our initial limited investigation of this issue suggests that those payments do not reflect assessments that can be categorized as capital-related costs under ยง413.130(a)(3). It appears that some non-proprietary hospitals may have reflected payments made for assessments that are not based on the valuation of the hospital's real or personal property. Thus, the available evidence does not support adoption of an adjustment for non-proprietary hospitals' payments in lieu of taxes. However, we will continue to study this matter. Any property tax adjustment would have to be implemented in a budget neutral fashion, so that total estimated payments under the prospective payment system for capital-related costs with such an adjustment would equal total estimated payments in the absence of a property tax adjustment. A property tax adjustment applied to the Federal rate thus requires a corresponding reduction to the base Federal rate to assure budget neutrality. It is impossible to determine the precise magnitude of the required adjustment to the Federal rate until we determine both the status of those proprietary hospitals that are not currently reporting taxes and the nature of the payments reported by non-proprietary hospitals in lieu of taxes. However, since our preliminary data indicates that tax payments by proprietary hospitals are at least 0.77 percent of total capital costs, we believe that a reduction to the base capital rate of at least 0.77 percent would be necessary. The final amount of the necessary adjustment to the Federal rate would depend upon the ultimate determination concerning the proprietary hospitals not reporting tax payments and the nature of the payments reported by non-proprietary hospitals. We welcome comments on the equity of removing tax amounts from the base Federal rate and distributing them only to tax-paying hospitals in the form of an adjustment to the Federal rate payment. Our concern is that special payment adjustments recognize only costs that are distinguishable and unique. We also wish to avoid granting unwarranted advantages to any particular class of hospitals. We plan to conduct further analysis on this issue prior to the publication of the final rule. We will also analyze comments and recommendations submitted in response to this discussion. We will make a determination concerning whether to adopt a property tax adjustment, and the form that any such adjustment would take, when we have obtained sufficient relevant data and have resolved all significant problems inherent to any adjustment methodology. C. Revision of Provision Relating to Exceptions Payment (ยง412.348) Section 412.348 provides that, during the transition period, a hospital may receive additional payment under an exceptions process when its regular payments are less than a minimum percentage, established by class of hospital, of the hospital's reasonable capital-related costs. The amount of the exceptions payment is the difference between the hospital's minimum payment level and the payments the hospital would receive under the capital prospective payment system in the absence of an exceptions payment. The comparison is made on a cumulative basis for all cost reporting periods during which the hospital is subject to the capital prospective payment transition rules. Under current ยง412.348(b)(1), the minimum payment percentages by class of hospitals for FY 1995 are:
