FR940505-1-00250 FR940505-1-00012 ( 2 ) ``Procedures for Certifying Quantity of Volatile Organic Compounds Emitted by Paint, Ink and Other Coatings'' (revised June 1986) EPA&hyph;450/3&hyph;84&hyph;019 (which is available from the National Technical Information Services, 5285 Port Royal Road, Springfield, Virginia, 22161) ( 3 ) ``A Guide for Graphic Arts Calculations'' August 1988 EPA&hyph;340/1&hyph;88&hyph;003 (which is available from the National Technical Information Services, 5285 Port Royal Road, Springfield, Virginia, 22161) (ii) Automobile or Light-Duty Truck Test Protocol. The protocol for testing, including determining the transfer efficiency, of coating applicators at topcoat coating operations at an automobile assembly facility shall follow the procedure in: ``Protocol for Determining the Daily Volatile Organic Compound Emission Rate of Automobile and Light-Duty Truck Topcoat Operations'' December 1988 EPA&hyph;450/3&hyph;88&hyph;018 (which is available from the National Technical Information Services, 5285 Port Royal Road, Springfield, Virginia, 22161). (iii) Capture System Efficiency Test Protocols. (A) Applicability. The requirements of paragraph (a)(4)(iii)(B) of this section shall apply to all VOC emitting processes employing a capture system except those cases noted below. ( 1 ) If a source installs a permanent total enclosure (PTE) that meets U.S.EPA specifications, and which directs all VOC to a control device, then the source is exempted from the requirements described in paragraph (a)(4)(iii)(B) of this section. The U.S.EPA specifications to determine whether a structure is considered a PTE are given in Procedure T of appendix B of 40 CFR 52.742. In this instance, the capture efficiency is assumed to be 100 percent and the source is still required to measure control efficiency using appropriate test methods as specified in paragraph (a)(4)(iv) of this section. ( 2 ) If a source uses a control device designed to collect and recover VOC (e.g., carbon adsorber), an explicit measurement of capture efficiency is not necessary provided that the conditions given below are met. The overall control of the system can be determined by directly comparing the input liquid VOC to the recovered liquid VOC. The general procedure for use in this situation is given in ยง60.433 of this chapter, with the following additional restrictions: ( i ) The source must be able to equate solvent usage with solvent recovery on a 24-hour (daily) basis, rather than a 30-day weighted average, within 72 hours following the 24-hour period. In addition, one of the following two criteria must be met: ( ii ) The solvent recovery system (i.e., capture and control system) must be dedicated to a single process, or ( iii ) If the solvent recovery system controls multiple processes, then the source must be able to demonstrate that the overall control (i.e., the total recovered solvent VOC divided by the sum of liquid VOC input to all processes venting to the control system) meets or exceeds the most stringent standard applicable for any process venting to the control system. ( 3 ) The following facilities are exempted from the requirements described in paragraph (a)(1)(iii)(B) of this section: ( i ) Automobile-related assembly facilities subject to the ``Automobile or Light-Duty Truck Test Protocol'' described in paragraph (a)(4)(ii) of this section. ( ii ) Heatset-web-offset lithographic printing units as defined in paragraph (b)(1)(i)(B) of this section. (B) Specific Requirements. The capture efficiency of a process shall be measured using one of the four protocols given below. Any error margin associated with a test protocol may not be incorporated into the results of a capture efficiency test. If these techniques are not suitable for a particular process, then the source must present an alternative capture efficiency protocol and obtain approval for it by the Administrator as a SIP or FIP revision. ( 1 ) Gas/gas method using temporary total enclosure (TTE). The U.S. EPA specifications to determine whether a temporary enclosure is considered a TTE are given in Procedure T of appendix B of 40 CFR 52.741. The capture efficiency equation to be used for this protocol is: CE = G w /(G w + F w ) where CE = capture efficiency, decimal fraction
