FR940114-1-00081 FR940114-1-00018 a. Criteria The statute requires that, to qualify for a cancellation, the borrower must be ``unable to complete his or her program'' because the school closed. Participants at the San Francisco meeting recommended that the cancellation be available to student borrowers who are in attendance at the school at the time the school closes, or are on a leave of absence or left the school within 60 days prior to the school's closure because of deteriorating conditions at the school. The participants at the New York meeting agreed that students who are registered at the time the school closed should have their loans canceled but recommended that the benefit also be provided to borrowers who left within 90 days prior to the school's closure. Participants at the Kansas City meeting endorsed the 60-day time frame but also recommended that the regulations focus on the date of any announcement that the school is closing if that is earlier than the actual date that the school closed. Participants at the Atlanta meeting recommended that loan cancellation be provided to students who are in attendance or on a leave of absence at the time the school closed. b. Prior Payments Participants at all of the meetings agreed that any payments made by the borrower prior to discharge of the loan should be refunded. c. Teach-Outs Participants at the meetings discussed whether a loan made to a student who is offered a teach-out of the program in which the student was enrolled should be canceled. The participants at the Atlanta meeting concluded that a loan should not be discharged if the student completed a teach-out during the academic year for which the loan was made, but that the loan should be discharged if the borrower did not take or did not complete a teach-out during that time. Participants at the New York and Kansas City meetings concluded that a borrower should have the option of whether to accept a teach-out and should have the loan discharged if the student does not choose or does not complete a teach-out program. Attendees at the San Francisco meeting stated that they believed that teach-outs do not work well in practice and that loans should be canceled if a borrower does not choose to complete the program through a teach-out. d. Extent of Cancellation Attendees at each of the meetings also discussed whether loans should be canceled only for the academic term for which the borrower received the loan or whether all loans received for the program should be canceled. Attendees at the Atlanta meeting agreed that only the loan made for the period in which the school closed should be canceled. Participants at the meetings in New York and San Francisco (and a substantial minority in Atlanta) recommended that the regulations distinguish between students enrolled in certificate programs and students enrolled in degree programs. The attendees at those meetings believed that certificate students were unlikely to be able to transfer the credits earned at the closed school and should have all loans canceled, but that students attending degree-granting schools are likely to be able to transfer their credits and should only receive cancellation of the loan for the period in which the school closed. e. Process and Documentation Requirements Attendees at the San Francisco meeting recommended that the Secretary be responsible for notifying the guaranty agencies when a school closes and that the agencies would be responsible for notifying the lenders of the loans eligible for cancellation. The attendees at that meeting also recommended that collection activity be suspended on the affected loans and that public service announcements be used to notify possibly affected students but that the students not be required to complete any applications or paperwork to prove their entitlement. The attendees at the Atlanta meeting also recommended that the Secretary or a State agency be responsible for determining that a school has closed and that the agencies would notify the affected lenders. The attendees at that meeting also recommended that the borrower not be required to provide documentation and recommended that credit bureau reporting be suspended during the investigation of possibly affected loans. Attendees at the New York meeting recommended that the date of a school's closure be determined by the applicable State licensing authority and also recommended that the student not be required to provide documentation of eligibility for cancellation of the loan. 2. Discharge of Loans for Borrowers Whose Eligibility was Falsely Certified by the School Section 437(c) to the HEA also provided that loans will be canceled for borrowers whose eligibility to borrow was falsely certified by the school. The specific issues described below were discussed in connection with this section. a. Definition of ``False Certification'' Participants at the San Francisco meeting recommended that the Department's regulations provide that the following situations should be considered ``false certification:'' a school certifies an application for a borrower who is not eligible because he or she does not have the ability to benefit from the training offered; there is fraud by the school in completing or certifying the loan application or the school cashes checks without the borrower's endorsement; or the school submits an incorrect budget, wrong expected family contribution, or other information vital to the determination of the borrower's eligibility. The participants at the Atlanta meeting recommended that the definition of ``false certification'' include forged checks, falsification of the student's program eligibility or eligibility for a particular loan amount, and falsification of the borrower's signature. Participants at the New York meeting recommended that the Department define ``false certification'' as including the situation in which the school falsely certifies that it is an eligible institution.
