FR940504-0-00062 FR940504-0-00015 Response: The OCN spawning escapement goal is based on data from many series of years. Body size and fecundity undoubtedly varied depending on ocean feeding conditions, with returning spawners being both above and below the average body size and fecundity for the time series. The spawning escapement goal is based on average conditions, which take into account this variability. Since fishery managers cannot predict whether body size will be larger or smaller than normal prior to the fish appearing in the catch and on the spawning grounds, it is not practical to adjust either the fishing seasons or the annual spawning escapement goals to account for body size. The spawning escapement goal implemented by the Amendment assumes average conditions and is set at a level to accommodate annual variations. Comment: The Amendment fails to require measures or research for reducing the incidental take of OCN coho. Response: Measures for reducing the incidental take of OCN coho are addressed during the annual process for setting management measures. The Council is currently reviewing its list of research and data needs, which includes improving estimates of commercial troll shaker mortality. These estimates will be determined by contact rates in various fisheries. The Council will continue to consider new information as it becomes available, in developing ways to reduce this mortality through gear selectivity or modification. The Council determined that the Amendment provides the best approach at the present time, given the currently available information. Comment: The Amendment establishes OCN coho numerical annual spawning escapement goals at the expense of remaining wild stocks of coho salmon. Response: The OCN spawning escapement goal implemented by this amendment is based solely on wild fish. Current hatchery practices are designed to discourage the intermixing of wild and hatchery stocks. Although some intermixing probably occurs, it is thought to be a small enough proportion of the total spawning population that it does not adversely affect the production of wild coho salmon. Comment: A supplemental environmental impact statement (SEIS) on the FMP should be prepared incorporating new scientific information concerning coho and other salmon since the last SEIS was prepared in 1984. Response: The environmental assessment (EA) for the Amendment was prepared in accordance with NOAA Administrative Order 216&hyph;6 on Environmental Review Procedures. The Assistant Administrator for Fisheries, NOAA (AA), reviewed the EA and concluded that this action will not significantly affect the human environment. Therefore, preparation of an SEIS is not required. While new information on salmon stocks has been developed since the last SEIS, prepared for the framework amendment to the FMP in 1984, there is not sufficient new information specific to the OCN coho stock to warrant preparation of an SEIS for this action. Under the ESA process, a thorough evaluation of salmon stocks in Washington, Oregon, and California is being conducted that may result in preparation of at least one SEIS for the FMP.
