FR941003-0-00070 FR941003-0-00013 (iii) If the applicant submits a supplement for one of the changes listed under paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section and no patents, including previously submitted patents, claim the changed product, it shall so certify. (iv) The applicant shall comply with the requirements for amendment of formulation or composition and method of use patent information under paragraphs (c)(2)(ii) and (d)(3) of this section. (3) Patent information deadline. If a patent is issued for a drug, drug product, or method of use after an application is approved, the applicant shall submit to FDA the required patent information within 30 days of the date of issuance of the patent. (4) Copies. The applicant shall submit two copies of each submission of patent information, an archival copy and a copy for the chemistry, manufacturing, and controls section of the review copy, to the Central Document Room, Center for Drug Evaluation and Research, Food and Drug Administration, Park Bldg., rm. 2&hyph;14, 12420 Parklawn Dr., Rockville, MD 20857. The applicant shall submit the patent information by letter separate from, but at the same time as, submission of the supplement. (5) Submission date. Patent information shall be considered to be submitted to FDA as of the date the information is received by the Central Document Room. (6) Identification. Each submission of patent information, except information submitted with an original application, and its mailing cover shall bear prominent identification as to its contents, i.e., ``Patent Information,'' or, if submitted after approval of an application, ``Time Sensitive Patent Information.'' (e) Public disclosure of patent information. FDA will publish in the list the patent number and expiration date of each patent that is required to be, and is, submitted to FDA by an applicant, and for each use patent, the approved indications or other conditions of use covered by a patent. FDA will publish such patent information upon approval of the application, or, if the patent information is submitted by the applicant after approval of an application as provided under paragraph (d)(2) of this section, as soon as possible after the submission to the agency of the patent information. Patent information submitted by the last working day of a month will be published in that month's supplement to the list. Patent information received by the agency between monthly publication of supplements to the list will be placed on public display in FDA's Freedom of Information Staff. A request for copies of the file shall be sent in writing to the Freedom of Information Staff (HFI&hyph;35), Food and Drug Administration, rm. 12A&hyph;16, 5600 Fishers Lane, Rockville, MD 20857. (f) Correction of patent information errors. If any person disputes the accuracy or relevance of patent information submitted to the agency under this section and published by FDA in the list, or believes that an applicant has failed to submit required patent information, that person must first notify the agency in writing stating the grounds for disagreement. Such notification should be directed to the Drug Information Services Branch (HFD&hyph;84), Center for Drug Evaluation and Research, Food and Drug Administration, 5600 Fishers Lane, Rockville, MD 20857. The agency will then request of the applicable new drug application holder that the correctness of the patent information or omission of patent information be confirmed. Unless the application holder withdraws or amends its patent information in response to FDA's request, the agency will not change the patent information in the list. If the new drug application holder does not change the patent information submitted to FDA, a 505(b)(2) application or an abbreviated new drug application under section 505(j) of the act submitted for a drug that is claimed by a patent for which information has been submitted must, despite any disagreement as to the correctness of the patent information, contain an appropriate certification for each listed patent. 4. Section 314.54 is amended by adding new paragraph (a)(1)(vii) to read as follows: §314.54 Procedure for submission of an application requiring investigations for approval of a new indication for, or other change from, a listed drug. (a) *␣*␣* (1) *␣*␣* (vii) If the applicant believes the change for which it is seeking approval is entitled to a period of exclusivity, the information required under §314.50(j). * * * * *
