FR940204-1-00029 FR940204-1-00002 (3) Responsibilities. At a minimum, the bank audit committee shall: (i) Review the bank's financial statements and significant accounting policies; (ii) Oversee the bank's financial reporting regarding its disclosure to shareholders and to the Funding Corporation for disclosure to investors; (iii) Oversee the audit activities of the external auditor; and (iv) Monitor internal controls, including those relating to compliance with laws and regulations. Subpart B_Annual Report to Investors ยง630.20 Contents of the annual report to investors. The annual report shall contain the following: (a) Description of business. (1) The description shall include a brief discussion of the following: (i) The System's overall organizational structure, its lending institutions by type and their respective authorities, the relationships between different types of institutions, and the overall geographic area and eligible borrowers served by those institutions. (ii) The types of lending activities engaged in and financial services offered by System institutions. (iii) Any significant developments within the last 5 years that have had or could have a material impact on the System's organizational structure and the manner in which System institutions conduct business, including, but not limited to, statutory or regulatory changes, mergers or liquidations of System institutions, termination of System institution status, and financial assistance provided by or to a System institution through loss-sharing or capital preservation agreements or from any other source; (iv) Any acquisition or disposition of material assets during the last fiscal year that took place outside the ordinary course of business. (v) Any concentrations of more than 10 percent of total assets in particular types of agricultural activities or businesses, and any dependence of an institution or a group of institutions of the System upon a specific activity or business, a single customer, or a few customers, including other financing institutions (OFIs), as defined in ยง614.4540(e) of this chapter, the loss of any one of which would have a material effect on the System. (2) List the address of the headquarters of each disclosure entity and service organization of the System. (b) Federal regulation and insurance. (1) Farm Credit Administration. Describe the regulatory and enforcement authority of the FCA over System institutions under the Act. (2) Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation. (i) Describe the role and authorities of the Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation (FCSIC) under part E of title V of the Act. Describe specifically the role of the FCSIC in insuring the timely payment of principal and interest on FCS debt obligations and in providing assistance to System institutions. (ii) Describe the FCSIC's status as a Government corporation and state that System institutions have no control over the management of the FCSIC or the discretionary expenditures from the Insurance Fund, which are the sole prerogative of the FCSIC. (3) Farm Credit System Financial Assistance Corporation. Describe the role and authorities of the Financial Assistance Corporation under title VI of the Act, debt obligations of the Financial Assistance Corporation issued to provide financial assistance to the System, and statutory repayment obligations of System institutions. (c) Description of legal proceedings and enforcement actions. (1) Describe any material pending legal proceedings in which one or more System institutions are a party, or that involve claims that a System institution(s) may be required by contract or operation of law to satisfy, and the potential impact of such proceedings, to the extent known, on the System. (2) Provide a summary of the types and reasons for enforcement actions in effect during the year. (d) Description of liabilities. (1) Describe how the System funds its lending operations, including: (i) System banks' authority to borrow and issue notes, bonds, debentures, and other obligations and limitations thereof under section 4.2 of the Act; (ii) The types of debt obligations that may be issued, the manner and form in which they are issued, the terms and conditions, rights of securities holders, risk factors, use of proceeds, tax effects of holding securities, market information, and other pertinent information; (iii) For each of the types of obligations that may be issued, whether it is insured, and the extent of any joint and several liability for the obligations; (iv) Any applicable statutory and regulatory requirements affecting a bank's ability to incur debt. (2) Describe agreements among System banks and the Funding Corporation affecting a bank's ability to incur debt.
