FR940324-1-00012 FR940324-1-00004 Departmental Considerations Given the noted market dynamics and commercial consideration, the Department considers it necessary to develop a licensing regime that: (1) Is equitable; (2) minimizes government involvement in commercial transactions; (3) makes licenses available to a wide number of participants; (4) reviews license applications expeditiously to allow firms to take advantage of time-sensitive spot market trading opportunities; (5) prevents a firm from obtaining a license and not exporting the oil; (6) allows for economically viable export cargoes; and (7) does not impose unnecessary administrative burdens on exporters. Although the Department proposes to implement the option of first-come-first-served, the Department will consider and may adopt any of the options in this rulemaking, or an alternative proposal that addresses the above considerations. In fact, the Department did consider several different options; they are discussed below. The Department is soliciting comments from interested parties on the most effective approach for the Department to implement the President's decision. Option #1 _First-Come-First-Served Under this option, the Department would grant licenses for the export of California heavy crude oil on a first-come-first-served basis. This option involves the minimum government management of an export licensing regime and intervention in the market. There are numerous variations to this option which involve the number of times per year that the Department would review and authorize export licenses. The Department could grant the licenses annually, quarterly or monthly on a first-come-first-served basis. There are also numerous variations on the volume of oil the Department could authorize per license. Under one variation the Department could license the entire export volume (9.125 million barrels) to the first firm that filed an export license application. Although licensing the entire volume at one time would achieve the Department's objective of minimizing the government's role in export transactions, it may result in limiting this export opportunity to the first firm that filed a license application. The Department, however, wants to ensure that the potential benefits of the program are diffused among many firms and utilized. This option, therefore, calls for limiting the quantity per license (i.e., 25 percent of the total authorized volume) and for each license to have a 90 day limit. In addition, a company and its affiliates can receive only one license per month as long as there are other outstanding applications. The Department considers this option to be the best means available to provide a number of opportunities (at least four) for a number of firms to participate in heavy crude oil exports with a minimum of government interference in the export transaction. The Department also considers that the 90 day license term would assure the utilization of the license or the rapid return of the volume of oil to the quota so others may use it. On the negative side, a single company could request and receive for four months in a row a license covering 25 percent of the authorized volume of oil just by being the earliest applicant to file with the Department. In addition, this option would require the Department to keep running accounts on the amount available for licensing at any one time. The Department, however, should be able to handle this because the authorized export volumes are small and the exports are likely to occur intermittently rather than year round. Option #2 _Prorationing Prorationing procedures, such as the one the Department uses for the Alaskan North Slope/Canada (ANS/Canada) crude oil export regime, offer some advantages but also involve a greater measure of government involvement than does licensing on a first-come-first-served basis.
