FR940414-2-00021 FR940414-2-00013 •Information, data, maps or professional opinion that may contribute to defining the geographical and temporal scope of the analysis and identifying significant environmental issues. •Identification of and information from any other EIS or similar study (previous, on-going, or planned) relevant to the proposed licensing activities in the subject river basin. •Existing information and any data that would aid in describing the past and present effects of the project(s) and other developmental activities on the physical/chemical, biological, and socioeconomic environments. For example, fish stocking/management histories in the subject river, historic water quality data and the reasons for improvement or degradation of the quality, any wetland habitat loss or proposals to develop land and water resources within the basin. •Identification of any federal, state or local resource plans and future project proposals that encompass the subject river or basin. For example, proposals to construct or operate water treatment facilities, recreation areas, or implementation of fishery management programs. •Documentation that would support a conclusion that the project(s) does not contribute, or does contribute to adverse and beneficial cumulative effects on resources and therefore should be excluded for further study or excluded from further consideration of cumulative impacts within the river basin. Documentation should include, but not be limited to: how the project(s) interact with other projects within the river basin or other developmental activities; results from studies; resource management policies; and, reports from federal, state and local agencies. Comments concerning the scope of the environmental document should be filed by deadline date. 2a. Type of Application : Subsequent License. b. Project No. : 2550&hyph;002. c. Date filed : August 16, 1993. d. Applicant : N.E.W. Hydro, Incorporated. e. Name of Project : Weyauwega Hydroelectric Project.
