FR940318-0-00072 FR940318-0-00013 (iii) Application of control test. Among the additional factors that are taken into account in applying the control test are the economic interests in the loss corporation of the option holder or related persons and the influence of those persons over the management of the loss corporation (in either case, through the option or a related arrangement, or through rights in stock). (iv) Application of income test. Among the additional factors that are taken into account in applying the income test are whether, in connection with the issuance or transfer of the option, the loss corporation engages in income acceleration transactions or the holder of the option or a related person purchases stock (including section 1504(a)(4) stock) from, or makes a capital contribution or loan to, the loss corporation that can reasonably be expected to avoid or ameliorate the impact of an ownership change. Examples of income acceleration transactions are those outside the ordinary course of the loss corporation's business that accelerate income or gain into the period prior to the exercise of the option (or defer deductions to the period after the exercise of the option). A stock purchase, capital contribution, or loan is more probative toward an option satisfying the income test the larger the amount received by the loss corporation in the transaction or related transactions. A stock purchase, capital contribution, or loan is generally not taken into account in applying the income test if it is made to enable the loss corporation to continue basic operations of its business ( e.g., to meet the monthly payroll or fund other operating expenses of the loss corporation). (7) Safe harbors. Except as provided in paragraph (d)(7)(i) of this section, an option described in this paragraph (d)(7) is not treated as exercised pursuant to the ownership, control, or income test. The failure of an option to be described in this paragraph (d)(7) does not affect the determination of whether the option satisfies the ownership, income, or control test. The following options are described in this paragraph (d)(7): (i) Contracts to acquire stock. A stock purchase agreement or a similar arrangement, the terms of which are commercially reasonable, in which the parties' obligations to complete the transaction are subject only to reasonable closing conditions, and which is closed on a change date within one year after it is entered into. An option is not exempt from the income test of paragraph (d)(5) of this section solely by reason of its description in this paragraph (d)(7)(i). (ii) Escrow, pledge, or other security agreements. An option that is part of a security arrangement in a typical lending transaction (including a purchase money loan), if the arrangement is subject to customary commercial conditions. For this purpose, a security arrangement includes, for example, an agreement for holding stock in escrow or under a pledge or other security agreement, or an option to acquire stock contingent upon a default under a loan. (iii) Compensatory options. An option to acquire stock in a corporation with customary terms and conditions provided to an employee, director, or independent contractor in connection with the performance of services for the corporation or a related person (and that is not excessive by reference to the services performed) and which_ (A) Is nontransferable within the meaning of ยง1.83&hyph;3(d); and (B) Does not have a readily ascertainable fair market value as defined in ยง1.83&hyph;7(b) on the date the option is issued. (iv) Options exercisable only upon death, disability, mental incompetency, or retirement. An option entered into between stockholders of a corporation (or a stockholder and the corporation) with respect to stock of either stockholder, that is exercisable only upon the death, disability, mental incompetency of the stockholder, or, in the case of stock acquired in connection with the performance of services for the corporation or a related person (and that is not excessive by reference to the services performed), the stockholder's retirement. (v) Rights of first refusal. A bona fide right of first refusal with customary terms, entered into between stockholders of a corporation (or between the corporation and a stockholder), and regarding the corporation's stock. (vi) Options designated in the Internal Revenue Bulletin. An option designated by the Internal Revenue Service in the Internal Revenue Bulletin as being exempt from one or more of the ownership, control, or income tests. See ยง601.601(d)(2)(ii) of this chapter (relating to the Internal Revenue Bulletin). (8) Additional rules_ (i) Contracts to acquire stock. For purposes of this paragraph (d), a contract is considered to be issued or transferred on the date it is entered into or assigned, respectively. (ii) Indirect transfer of an option. If an entity is formed or availed of for a principal purpose of facilitating an indirect transfer of an option by issuing or transferring interests in the entity, an issuance or transfer of an interest in the entity will be treated as a transfer of the option for purposes of applying the ownership, control, and income tests of paragraphs (d) (3) through (5) of this section. (iii) Options related to interests in non-corporate entities. The rules of this paragraph (d) apply, with appropriate adjustments, to options to acquire or transfer interests in non-corporate entities. (iv) Puts. In applying the rules of this section to puts, appropriate adjustments must be made to take into account that the put provides its holder with a right to transfer, instead of acquire, stock. (9) Definition of option_ (i) In general. Any contingent purchase, warrant, convertible debt, put, stock subject to a risk of forfeiture, contract to acquire stock, or similar interest is treated as an option for purposes of this paragraph (d), regardless of whether it is contingent or otherwise not currently exercisable.
