FR940920-2-00111 FR940920-2-00056 [Release No. 34&hyph;34665; File No. SR&hyph;DTC&hyph;94&hyph;07] September 13, 1994. Self-Regulatory Organization; the Depository Trust Company; Order Approving Proposed Rule Change Establishing the Stock Loan Income-Tracking System On May 6, 1994, The Depository Trust Company (``DTC'') submitted a proposed rule change (File No. SR&hyph;DTC&hyph;94&hyph;07) to the Securities and Exchange Commission (``Commission'') pursuant to Section 19(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act''). 1 Notice of the proposal appeared in the Federal Register on June 22, 1994, to solicit comment from interest persons. 2 This order approves the proposal. 1 15 U.S.C. §78s(b) (1988). 2 Securities Exchange Act Release No. 34218 (June 15, 1994), 59 FR 32252 [File No. SR&hyph;DTC&hyph;94&hyph;07] (notice of proposed rule change). I. Description of the Proposal The purpose of the proposed rule change is to establish the stock loan income-tracking system that will eliminate the need for participants to track income distributions on their securities that are the subject of outstanding stock loans. The current DTC procedures enable participants to identify stock loan related deliver orders through the use of reason codes. Proper allocation of income payments arising from the securities that are the subject of these loans currently rests entirely with the lending and borrowing participants because DTC allocates income to participants to whom the securities are credited on the relevant entitlement date ( i.e. , the borrowing participants). Lending participants recover income that DTC has allocated to borrowing participants either through DTC's securities payment order service or through some other mutually agreed upon arrangement by the participants. The proposed rule change will facilitate participants' processing of income attributable to securities that are the subject of outstanding stock loans. The proposed stock loan income-tracking system will track and monitor participants' stock loan related deliver orders; will net the share amounts by participant and CUSIP; and will automatically credit income distributions to the proper participant on income payment date. To execute these functions, DTC will create a special stock loan memo account which will maintain a daily net balance of loan obligations for each stock loan counterparty of each participant. The proposed rule change provides that a party from whom distributions are due to be transferred may unilaterally halt all future distribution transfers by giving a letter of instructions to DTC two or more business days in advance and by giving a copy to the counterparty. DTC will notify the counterparty participant of any action taken by DTC based on the instructions. DTC will not assess the parties legal obligations to each other. 3 3 If the participant submitting the letter of instructions is in fact still legally obligated, the noninstructuring counterparty may seek to enforce its right to receive future distributions outside of DTC. If a participant's account is being transferred to another participant due to a merger or acquisition, DTC will move the transferring participant's open stock loan positions to the transferee participant. If a participant is about to retire, DTC first will verify that the participant has closed out all its entitlements and obligations for future distributions created by stock loans. If DTC has ceased acting on behalf of a participant, DTC will determine which other DTC participants are stock loan counterparties and will adjust those participants' stock loan memo account positions in order to balance the elimination of DTC's obligations to and entitlements from the terminated participant. Before the stock loan income-tracking system is implemented, DTC will provide a means for participants to load DTC's stock loan data base with information about currently outstanding stock loans. Deliveries with a stock loan reason code made after implementation will automatically be added to this data base. II. Discussion The Commission believes that the proposal is consistent with the Act and in particular Section 17A of the Act. 4 Sections 17A (b)(3)(A) and (F) of the Act 5 require that each clearing agency be organized and its rules be designed to assure the safeguarding of funds in the custody or control of the clearing agency or for which it is responsible. Moreover, in Section 17A(a)(1)(B) of the Act, Congress set forth its findings that new data processing and communication techniques create the opportunity for more efficient, effective, and safe procedures for clearing and settlement. 6 4 15 U.S.C. §78q&hyph;1 (1988). 5 15 U.S.C. §78q&hyph;1(b)(3)(A) and (F) (1988). 6 15 U.S.C. §78q&hyph;1(a)(1)(B) (1988). The stock loan income tracking system is an automated system which will eliminate inefficient income processing by stock loan counterparties. Because DTC receives data related to stock loan income attributions in the normal course of its operations, DTC is in a good position to process such data and to maintain appropriate records of the rights and obligations of its participants to the income related to stock loan activity. In addition to being well situated for the centralized processing function, because DTC processes all data through its automated facilities, there should be uniform treatment of the data as opposed to the current system whereby stock loans income attributions are handled differently by each involved DTC participants. The Commission believes that the stock loan income tracking system should improve the efficiency of the income transfer and record keeping. Additional, the stock loan income tracking system is being implemented consistently with DTC's obligation to safeguard securities and funds in its custody or control. In addition to DTC normal safety measures, DTC has built into the system risk reduction measures such as provisions for the termination of future DTC obligations upon a participant's voluntary or involuntary termination of its membership. III. Conclusion For the reasons stated above, the Commission finds that DTC's proposal is consistent with Section 17A of the Act. 7 7 15 U.S.C. §78q&hyph;1 (1988). It is Therefore Ordered, pursuant to Section 19(b)(2) of the Act, 8 that the proposed rule change (File No. SR&hyph;DTC&hyph;94&hyph;07) be, and hereby is, approved. 8 15 U.S.C. §78s(b)(2) (1988). For the Commission by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. 9 9 17 CFR 200.30&hyph;3(a)(12) (1992). Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;23165 Filed 9&hyph;19&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
