FR940930-0-00059 FR940930-0-00010 Under current statutory authority, FRBP issues certificated debentures in multiples of $50, and issues a cash adjustment for the balance. The certificated debenture system is extremely cumbersome and expensive to administer, since FRBP must have the debenture stock printed, store and handle the debenture stock under secure conditions, process the issuance of debentures manually, transmit the debentures physically, and issue the cash adjustment separately. The certificated debentures are also cumbersome and expensive for holders to store and negotiate. Such debentures must be held under secure conditions, and the pledging and assignment through physical transfer could cause delays or lead to loss or theft. Because of these considerations, Treasury and a number of Federal government agencies have switched from certificated to book entry securities, a shift paralleled in the equity and corporate and municipal bond markets. However, since Congress apparently contemplated the use of certificated debentures when it enacted the current provisions of sections 204, 207, and 220 of the National Housing Act, Section 516 of the 1992 Act was enacted to clarify HUD's authority to pay claims through the issuance of book entry debentures. With enactment of section 516, the book entry system administered by FRBP can be put into operation. Effective with this rule, HUD will have authority to issue debentures in book entry form. HUD intends to implement this authority in the very near future with respect to issuance of all new debentures. An announcement of the implementation will be made prior to its effective date. Also, once this new authority is implemented, debentures issued for amounts remaining after payment of mortgage insurance premiums may also be in book entry form. In addition, holders of outstanding certificated debentures may, at their option, exchange such debentures for book entry securities. Debentures in book entry form will not thereafter be exchangeable for debentures in certificated form. Book entry debentures will be issued in a minimum amount of one dollar and increments of one cent. This will allow debentures to be issued in virtually the exact amount payable to the holder, with no cash adjustment. Interest and principal payments on book entry debentures will be made by direct deposit (electronic funds transfer) to the account and financial institution designated by the owners of the debentures. Considerable savings will accrue, both to the Federal government and to holders of debentures, by thus bringing the FHA debenture process into conformity with modern commercial practices. Establish a Statute of Limitations on Payments of Distributive Shares The rule also implements section 508 of the 1992 Act by amending 24 CFR Part 203 to establish a six-year statute of limitations within which an individual who is eligible for the payment of a distributive share could claim his or her distributive share. The amendment also transfers amounts no longer eligible for distribution because of the statute of limitations from the Participating Reserve Account to the General Surplus Account to help ensure the actuarial soundness of the Mutual Mortgage Insurance Fund. Publication as Final Rule It is the policy of the Department to publish rules for public comment before developing a rule for effect. However, in a particular case where notice and public comment are not required by statute, the procedure for advance public comment may be omitted if the Department determines that it is impracticable, unnecessary, or contrary to the public interest. In this case, revisions to the regulations are limited to those needed to reflect the clear Congressional mandate to effect a 6-year statute of limitations on claims for distributive shares and to provide authority to issue debentures in book entry form. The Department would not be able to change the minimal provisions it is setting forth in this rule in response to public comments because of the specificity of the statute being implemented. Consequently, we believe it unnecessary to accept and review public comments before putting into effect these statutory provisions. Other Matters Regulatory Flexibility In accordance with 5 U.S.C. 605(b) (the Regulatory Flexibility Act), the undersigned hereby certifies that this rule does have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. The rule implements Congressional mandates which will prove cost beneficial for affected business entities both large and small.
