FR941012-2-00019 FR941012-2-00007 (3) The Proposed APO Service List The final change to ITA procedures implementing a streamlined APO process is the issuance of an ITA APO Service List that contains the names of the approved applicants. The ITA's current practice is to (1) issue a specific standard APO to the representatives of a party from the same firm or firms, (2) send a letter to parties to the proceeding who are required to serve proprietary information as a result of the APO being issued, and (3) amend the APO as requests for amendment are submitted. The adoption of an APO Service List would provide a single list designating all parties authorized to receive proprietary information under the APO. As requests for amendment are received, the APO Service List would be amended. The proposed APO list would be made available to parties through the Central Records Unit, in Room B&hyph;099 of the main Commerce building. The adoption of this procedure would not, however, address the responsibility of the ITA to provide the APO Service List to counsel who are not located in the Washington, DC. area and parties who do not have counsel and are, also, not located in the Washington, DC. area. In the foreseeable future, the ITA intends to make the service list available electronically, and parties can easily determine who is on the service list. In the meantime, we welcome proposals on how out-of-town parties can most efficiently receive timely notice of the service list. Unchanged APO Administrative Procedures The filing requirements for APO applications will not be changed by the adoption of the proposed procedures for APO. The ITA will continue to approve or deny APOs within the established deadlines (19 CFR 353.34(b)(5) or 355.34(b)(5)). Should there be an objection to either the issuance of an APO to a particular party, or an objection to the release of particular information, the ITA will continue to address these issues in a separate decision memorandum in accordance with 19 CFR 353.34(c) or 355.34(c). Required Regulation Changes Should the proposed APO Application and Standard APO be adopted, it will be necessary to amend the following four sections of the ITA Regulations accordingly: (1) Sections 353.34(b) and 355.34(b) regarding the application deadline; (2) Sections 353.31 and 355.31 regarding the identification of multiple source data; (3) Sections 353.34(a) and 355.34(a) regarding customer names in an investigation only; and (4) Sections 353.32(a)(2) and 355.32(a)(2) to provide a means of identification of customer names in an investigation only, such as double bracketing ([[ ]]). Additional Considerations The Bar Committee requested that the ITA consider alternate means of providing expedited treatment for APO approval. One proposal was to allow one lead signatory to apply from each law firm or consulting firm and to give that individual the authority and responsibility for granting access to other professionals within the firm. We do not believe that this is a workable procedure because it does not permit any representative or the ITA to know who has access to APO material at a given moment. Nor does it permit other parties to the proceeding an opportunity to comment on the acceptability of the individual seeking access under APO. While the ITA does not seek approval from parties prior to the granting of an APO, the ITA does consider objections if any are made. ITA regulations require that the application for APO be served on all parties to the proceeding in order to notify all parties of the APO request and to provide the opportunity for comment. If an applicant needed expedited approval on a request for an amended APO, approval could be obtained by the applicant from the parties whose information would be disclosed under the APO prior to the submission of the APO application, which would then preclude need for a comment period. Another proposal was to have the ITA approve a roster of members of a representative's firm, and the lead representative could add any member of the roster to its APO at any time. If a roster is approved by the ITA, however, it might be just as easy to add all approved members to the service list when they are approved. The ITA seeks comments on these approaches and any other suggestions. It was also suggested that the ITA provide ``APO Guidelines'' to assist firms in handling business proprietary information released under APO. The ITA will make ``APO Guidelines'' available, and will also hold a public training session on implementation of the changes that are adopted. Finally, the Committee report addressed the problem of public summaries at length but did not propose any solutions. The ITA is a strong advocate of public summaries that a representative can use for a constructive dialogue with his or her client. We invite proposals to address the problems parties have in making public summaries of proprietary information.
