FR940513-1-00089 FR940513-1-00017 (3) Materially alter the budgetary impact of entitlements, grants, user fees, or loan programs or the rights and obligations of recipients thereof; or (4) Raise novel legal or policy issues arising out of legal mandates, the President's priorities, or the principles set forth in the Executive Order. Pursuant to the terms of Executive Order 12866, it has been determined that this rule is a ``significant regulatory action'' because an annual effect on the economy of $100 million or more is anticipated. As such, this action was submitted to OMB for review. Changes made in response to OMB suggestions or recommendations will be documented in the public record. D. Regulatory Flexibility Act Compliance The Regulatory Flexibility Act (Pub. L. 96&hyph;354, September 19, 1980) requires consideration of the impacts of regulations on small entities, which are small businesses, small organizations, and small governments. The major purpose of this Act is to ensure consideration of regulatory alternatives that might mitigate adverse economic impacts on small entities. If a preliminary analysis indicates that a proposed regulation is likely to have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities, a regulatory flexibility analysis must be performed to examine alternatives that might lessen such effects. The EPA performed an economic impact analysis of the MACT determination considered for this regulation, which included a preliminary assessment of the potential adverse impacts on small entities. Two types of businesses were identified that could incur adverse small business impacts: marine terminal operations and marine vessel operations. With regard to marine terminal operations, the proposed standards exempt facilities with HAP emissions of less than 1 Mg/yr. This reduces the number of impacted terminals from approximately 1,450 to 264. These exemptions allow the smallest operations to avoid installation of controls. These exemptions greatly reduce per-barrel control cost differentials that, as indicated in the economic impact analysis, would make it difficult for owners of the smallest terminals to pass forward control costs to consumers had no or fewer exemptions been made. With the proposed standards, however, it is expected that a large portion (up to 200) of the 264 regulated terminals will only be able to pass a fraction of the control costs on to consumers in the form of higher prices. This condition is attributable to the EPA's assumption that loading costs will increase by the average cost of control, that terminals are competitive and that higher than average control cost terminals will have to absorb those differences. Thus, the economic impact on these terminal owners is expected to be significant because of the impact of cost absorption on profitability and/or difficulty in raising capital for the control system. On the other hand, of those 200 terminals, it is expected that many are part of large integrated petroleum operations, have easier access to capital and will remain open. Some with higher than average control costs will also be in a position to raise their prices as much as their control costs because of favorable locations or other market conditions. However, the overall number of small business terminal operations significantly affected by this regulation is expected to be substantial. With regard to marine vessel operations, the economic impact analysis considered all of these operations to be small businesses. The number of vessel operations estimated to be impacted by the proposed standards is expected to be substantial since a significant percentage of the petroleum products transported via marine vessels will be affected by the standards. Excluding volume from the three large crude oil terminals affected (these terminals are served by large oil tankers with insignificant estimated retrofit costs ($0.002/bbl), 77 percent of the U.S. marine transported throughput of controlled products and crude oil will be affected by the standards. That same volume percentage of the fleet marine vessels will need to be retrofitted to service regulated terminals. It is expected, however, that many of these vessel owners will be able to pass forward retrofit costs in the form of higher transport prices. The Agency has therefore judged that a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities (namely terminals) will likely result from the proposed standards and that a regulatory flexibility analysis should be performed. List of Subjects in 40 CFR Part 63 Environmental protection, Air pollution control, Intergovernmental relations, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Tank vessel standards. Statutory Authority The statutory authority for this proposal is provided by sections 101, 112, 114, 116, 183(f) and 301 Clean Air Act, as amended; 42 U.S.C. 7401, 7411, 7414, 7416, 7511b(f), and 7601. Dated: April 29, 1994. Carol M. Browner, Administrator. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;10974 Filed 5&hyph;12&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;P
