FR940512-2-00125 FR940512-2-00065 (2) Deleting footnote +++ from Table 3.4&hyph;1 does not involve the physical alteration of any plant system and does not result in a change in the manner in which ESFAS performs its function. Therefore this change does not involve the physical alteration of any plant system and does not result in a change in the manner in which the ESFAS system performs its function. Therefore, the proposed correction to Table 3.4&hyph;1 does not create the possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any previously analyzed. (3) Deleting footnote +++ from Table 3.4&hyph;1 does not alter the manner in which safety limits, limiting safety system setpoints or limiting conditions for operation are determined. Implementation of this change will not alter ESFAS testing. Therefore implementation of this change does not involve any reduction in a margin of safety. d. Proposed editorial change to Technical Specification 3.4.2.c. The editorial change to Technical Specification 3.4.2.c to change ``Containment Hi-Hi pressure channels'' to ``High-High Containment Pressure channels'' is purely an administrative change which has no affect on plant safety. e. Summary. The foregoing analyses demonstrate that the proposed License Amendment to the Zion Station Technical Specifications does not involve a significant increase in the probability of occurrence or consequences of a previously evaluated accident, does not create the possibility of a new or different kind of accident and does not involve a significant reduction in a margin of safety. The NRC staff has reviewed the licensee's analysis and, based on this review, it appears that the three standards of 10 CFR 50.92(c) are satisfied. Therefore, the NRC staff proposes to determine that the amendment request involves no significant hazards consideration. Local Public Document Room location: Waukegan Public Library, 128 N. County Street, Waukegan, Illinois 60085. Attorney for licensee: Michael I. Miller, Esquire; Sidley and Austin, One First National Plaza, Chicago, Illinois 60690. NRC Project Director: James E. Dyer. Consumers Power Company, Docket No. 50&hyph;155, Big Rock Point Plant, Charlevoix County, Michigan Date of amendment request: April 22, 1994. Description of amendment request: The proposed change revises the reactor vessel pressure-temperature limits in the Technical Specifications. The change insures that the vessel fracture toughness requirements of Section V of 10 CFR Part 50, Appendix G, are satisfied through the end of life. Basis for proposed no significant hazards consideration determination: As required by 10 CFR 50.91(a), the licensee has provided its analysis of the issue of no significant hazards consideration, which is presented below: 1. Will the proposed change involve a significant increase in the probability or consequences of an accident previously evaluated? The margin above Nil Ductility Transition Temperature (NDTT) is governed by 10 CFR 50 Appendix G and remains unchanged. The proposed change will not involve a significant increase in the probability or consequences of a previously evaluated accident. 2. Will the proposed change create the possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any accident previously evaluated? The predicted shifts in NDTT are based on a revised reference temperature consistent with Regulatory Guide 1.99, Revision 2, dated May 1988. This method of revising temperature-pressure limits is the same as in the past (ASME Code Section III, Appendix G). 3. Will the proposed change involve a significant reduction in the margin of safety? The proposed curves were generated for an End of Licensed Life (May 31, 2000) Effective Full Power Year exposure and are conservative in nature until that time. The margin of safety [is] unchanged. The NRC staff has reviewed the licensee's analysis and, based on this review, it appears that the three standards of 10 CFR 50.92(c) are satisfied. Therefore, the NRC staff proposes to determine that the amendment request involves no significant hazards consideration. Local Public Document Room location: North Central Michigan College, 1515 Howard Street, Petoskey, Michigan 49770 Attorney for licensee: Judd L. Bacon, Esquire, Consumers Power Company, 212 West Michigan Avenue, Jackson, Michigan 49201. NRC Project Director: L. B. Marsh. Illinois Power Company and Soyland Power Cooperative, Inc., Docket No. 50&hyph;461, Clinton Power Station, Unit No. 1, DeWitt County, Illinois Date of amendment request: April 18, 1994. Description of amendment request: License Amendment No. 81, issued on July 15, 1993, changed the numbering of surveillance requirements for Technical Specifications 3/4.3.1, ``Control Rod Operability,'' 3/4.3.2, ``Control Rod Maximum Scram,'' and 3/4.10.2, ``Rod Pattern Control System.'' However, Action Statements referencing these surveillance requirements were overlooked and were not appropriately renumbered. The purpose of the proposed technical specification change would be to renumber the overlooked references. Basis for proposed no significant hazards consideration determination: As required by 10 CFR 50.91(a), the licensee has provided its analysis of the issue of no significant hazards consideration which is presented below: (1) These changes do not affect the intent or implementation of the applicable Technical Specifications. The changes simply make the affected Technical Specifications consistent. Since these are only editorial changes which do not impact the plant design or operations, they cannot increase the probability or the consequences of any accident previously evaluated.
