FR941110-1-00083 FR941110-1-00011 At the 1992 London meetings, the Parties agreed that Parties may produce fifteen percent of baseline production allowances of all class I controlled substances (except methyl bromide and HBFCs) to meet the basic domestic needs of Article 5 countries starting from the phaseout date (January 1, 1994, for halons, and January 1, 1996, for CFCs, methyl chloroform and carbon tetrachloride). CAA section 604(e)(2) authorizes production of a class I substance at the production percentage specified for a given year (see phaseout schedule in Table I of section A.2. Post-Phaseout Requirements for Essential-Use Production), plus an amount equal to 10 percent of the baseline production allowances for export to developing countries. In the year in which the CAA phases out production of class I controlled substances, section 604(e)(2)(B) authorizes production of a class I controlled substance for export to developing countries up to 15 percent of baseline allowances. Under the CAA, production of listed class I controlled substances terminates on January 1, 2000, except for methyl bromide on January 1, 2001, and methyl chloroform on January 1, 2002. CAA section 604(e)(2) permits production based on limits imposed under section 604(a) plus 10 percent of the baseline allowance. Thus, in the example cited above for 1996, the CAA authorizes 40 percent of baseline production for CFC&hyph;12 as listed in Table I in this preamble, plus an additional 10 percent for export to Article 5 countries, for a total production of 50 percent of total baseline production for that year. Under today's proposal, because the Protocol phases out production of CFCs in 1996, up to 50 percent of baseline could be produced through a combination of destruction credits, transformation credits, essential use allowances and Article 5 allowances. A person's total production in 1996 could not exceed 50 percent of baseline allowances. Of this total production, production for export to Article 5 countries could not exceed 15 percent of baseline allowances as authorized under the Protocol. In addition, any amount of production in excess of 40 percent of baseline allowances would have to be for export to Article 5 countries. This same scenario would pertain to the production of halons for export to Article 5 countries from 1994. EPA invites comment on this interpretation. In proposing today's changes to the procedures for Article 5 allowances, EPA considered the following changes to the provisions for transfers and conversions in §82.12. Inter-pollutant transfers of Article 5 allowances, as currently defined in §82.12, will continue to be permitted within the Groups of class I substances listed in Appendix A and F of Subpart A. Inter-pollutant transfers of Article 5 allowances will continue to require a one percent offset, as required by section 607 of the CAA and stipulated in the current regulation. The Agency is also proposing that inter-company transfers of Article 5 allowances be permitted as currently defined in §82.12 and inter-Party trades of Article 5 allowances be permitted as currently described in §82.9. However, the requirement that the controlled substance in an inter-Party trade return to the country from whom the allowances were traded will not apply in the case of Article 5 allowances as stipulated in §82.9(a)(b)(1)(vi). As an example, if one Party to the Protocol wants to trade Article 5 allowances to another Party to achieve improved economies of scale, the controlled substance produced with the allowances would not need to be returned to the Party from whom the allowances were traded; instead, the substance could be sold directly to an Article 5 country. The Agency proposes maintaining the requirement that the contract contain the statement that the controlled substance exported to an Article 5 country will only be used to meet basic domestic needs, as defined by the Montreal Protocol, and will not be reshipped. In addition, EPA understands that the Parties to the Protocol are considering, for future discussion, that reports be sent from the exporter to Article 5 countries indicating that they should expect to receive a shipment of a specific quantity of controlled substance. The Parties may discuss requirements that the exporting company send a copy of the sales contract for an export to the head of the Montreal Protocol delegation of the Article 5 country or to the stratospheric ozone unit in the Article 5 country. EPA seeks comments on the proposed changes to the system for controlling and monitoring exports of controlled substances to Article 5 countries. 2. Administrative Changes to the Consumption Allowance Requirements for Exports
