FR940516-0-00089 FR940516-0-00029 DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration 50 CFR Part 638 [Docket No. 940425&hyph;4125; I.D. 040694D] Coral and Coral Reefs of the Gulf of Mexico and the South Atlantic AGENCY: National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS), National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), Commerce. ACTION: Emergency interim rule. SUMMARY: NMFS publishes this interim emergency rule at the request of the Gulf of Mexico Fishery Management Council (Gulf Council) to prohibit the taking of live rock in the exclusive economic zone (EEZ) of the Gulf of Mexico (Gulf) from the Pasco/Hernando County line in Florida to the Alabama/Mississippi boundary; and, in the Gulf EEZ off Florida south of the Pasco/Hernando County line, to prohibit the use of power-assisted tools to break up or dislodge pieces of live rock and to establish a daily vessel harvest and possession limit for live rock of 25 5-gallon (19-liter) buckets. The intended effect of this rule is to protect live rock resources and fishery habitat in the Gulf. EFFECTIVE DATES: May 16, 1994 through August 14, 1994. ADDRESSES: Copies of documents supporting this action, including an environmental assessment, may be obtained from Georgia Cranmore, Southeast Regional Office, NMFS, 9721 Executive Center Drive, St. Petersburg, FL 33702. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Georgia Cranmore, 813&hyph;893&hyph;3161. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Coral and coral reefs in the EEZ off the southern Atlantic states and in the Gulf are managed under the Fishery Management Plan for Coral and Coral Reefs of the Gulf of Mexico and the South Atlantic (FMP). The FMP was prepared by the Gulf Council and the South Atlantic Fishery Management Council (South Atlantic Council) and is implemented through regulations at 50 CFR part 638 under the authority of the Magnuson Fishery Conservation and Management Act (Magnuson Act). Live rock consists of living marine organisms, or an assemblage thereof, attached to a hard substrate, including dead coral or rock (excluding mollusk shells), and therefore is a ``fish'' within the meaning of the Magnuson Act. Live rock is collected by SCUBA divers and sold to the marine aquarium industry, which markets it as the basis for mini-reef aquaria. In 1992, reported live rock landings in Florida from the EEZ totaled 783,145 lbs (355,228 kg) with an ex-vessel value of $864,521. (Florida had previously banned the harvest of live rock in its waters.) In 1992, Florida implemented regulations to phase out landings of live rock from the EEZ off Florida over a 3-year period ending in 1995. In 1993 a Federal court overturned these regulations (Southeastern Fisheries Ass'n, Inc. v. Chiles, 979 F.2d 1504 (11th Cir. 1992). At the request of Gulf Council members from Florida and Alabama, the Gulf and South Atlantic Councils initiated development of Amendment 2 to the FMP to address management of live rock in the EEZ. Similar to coral reefs, the current focus of the FMP, live rock resources are essentially nonrenewable and serve as habitat for a variety of other organisms. In the recent public review process during the development of Amendment 2, the Gulf and South Atlantic Councils received testimony that rock outcroppings, that are important reef fish habitats, are being removed and sold as live rock for marine aquariums. Testimony from about 60 divers and fishermen indicated that removal of live rock by harvesters in the northern Gulf is causing severe damage to the limited outcroppings or rock ledges and reefs that occur in state and Federal waters. Divers and fishermen testified that some small banks have disappeared and many ledges off the Florida Panhandle have been seriously damaged. Such outcroppings are not nearly as abundant in this area as they are off southern Florida. These nonrenewable resources serve as essential habitat for reef fish and invertebrates. Accordingly, the Gulf Council requested an emergency rule to prohibit the taking of live rock in the EEZ of the Gulf from the Pasco/Hernando County line in Florida to the Alabama/Mississippi boundary. The Gulf and South Atlantic Councils also heard testimony that pneumatic drills and hammers are being used to break large rock ledges into harvestable pieces. This results in large-scale destruction of reef fish habitat. Testimony indicated that large vessels with numerous divers and equipped with power-assisted gear can devastate a rock ledge very quickly. To prevent further acceleration of harvest of live rock before the management measures proposed for inclusion in Amendment 2 can be implemented, the Gulf Council also requested a prohibition on the use of power-assisted tools and a daily vessel harvest and possession limit, both of which would apply to the harvest of live rock in the EEZ of the Gulf south of the Pasco/Hernando County line. Live rock or live bottom habitats are at such a premium in the northern Gulf that local government and private organizations have been active in constructing artificial reefs to supplement natural habitats off the coasts of Alabama and Florida. Loss of these natural, nonrenewable, habitat areas because of live rock collections presents a serious threat to marine habitat resources. According to the Florida Department of Environmental Protection, the closure of the Gulf EEZ from Florida's Pasco/Hernando County line to the Alabama/Mississippi boundary to live rock collecting will affect approximately 16 fishermen and live rock dealers who reported landings of live rock in Florida and Alabama in 1993. The daily vessel harvest and possession limit and the prohibition on the use of power tools were widely supported by industry representatives during the last three public hearings conducted in conjunction with Gulf Council meetings. These restrictions are expected to affect only a few individuals who allegedly are taking up to 10,000 lbs (4,536 kg) of live rock per trip using power tools.
