FR940930-0-00124 FR940930-0-00025 Issue: Over-collection of this species is not likely, and placing emphasis on this issue will make scientific research and horticultural conservation of the species more difficult. Response: The Service feels that unrestricted collecting should not be allowed, since only two populations totaling 12 individuals are known. This should not adversely affect non-destructive scientific research and ex situ conservation efforts, since permits would still be available for these purposes. Summary of Factors Affecting the Species Section 4 of the Endangered Species Act (16 U.S.C. 1533) and regulations (50 CFR Part 424) promulgated to implement the Act set forth the procedures for adding species to the Federal Lists. A species may be determined to be an endangered species due to one or more of the five factors described in section 4(a)(1). These factors and their application to Tetramolopium capillare (Gaud.) St. John are as follows: A. The present or threatened destruction, modification, or curtailment of its habitat or range. The habitat of Tetramolopium capillare has undergone extreme alteration because of past and present land management practices, including grazing and alien plant introductions. Cattle ( Bos taurus ), the wild progenitor of which was native to Europe, north Africa, and southwestern Asia, were introduced to the Hawaiian Islands in 1793. This animal eats native vegetation, tramples roots and seedlings, causes erosion, creates disturbed areas into which alien plants invade, and spreads seeds of alien plants (Cuddihy and Stone 1990). Feral cattle were formerly found on Maui and affected areas within the historic range of Tetramolopium capillare (Lowrey 1981). B. Overutilization for commercial, recreational, scientific, or educational purposes. Unrestricted collecting for scientific or horticultural purposes and substrate damage by individuals interested in seeing rare plants could result from increased publicity. This is a potential threat to Tetramolopium capillare , which has only two populations and a total of 12 known individuals. Any collection of whole plants of this species could cause an adverse impact on the gene pool and threaten the survival of the species. C. Disease or predation. No evidence of disease or predation of Tetramolopium capillare has been reported. D. The inadequacy of existing regulatory mechanisms. No State or Federal regulations currently protect Tetramolopium capillare . However, Federal listing will automatically invoke endangered species status under Hawaii's endangered species act. E. Other natural or manmade factors affecting its continued existence. The small number of individuals and populations of Tetramolopium capillare increases the potential for extinction from stochastic events. The limited gene pool may depress reproductive vigor, or a single human-caused or natural environmental disturbance could destroy a significant percentage of the individuals or an entire population. Erosion due to natural weathering in areas where Tetramolopium capillare grows can result in the death of individual plants as well as habitat destruction. This process especially affects the continued existence of taxa or populations with limited numbers and/or narrow ranges, such as Tetramolopium capillare , and can be exacerbated by human disturbance and land use practices. Erosion provides a suitable site for colonization by alien plants. Three alien plant taxa, naturalized in dry, disturbed areas on all the main Hawaiian islands, compete with Tetramolopium capillare . Natal redtop, an annual or perennial grass, is a major threat to both populations of Tetramolopium capillare (HPCC 1992a, 1992b; O'Connor 1990). Both koa haole, often the dominant species in dry, disturbed, low elevation areas, and lantana, an aggressive, thicket-forming shrub, have also invaded the habitat of Tetramolopium capillare (Geesnick et al. 1990; HPCC 1992a; S. Perlman, pers. comm., 1992). Because both populations of Tetramolopium capillare grow in dry areas, fire is considered a threat to the species (HPCC 1992a; S. Perlman, pers. comm., 1992).
