FR940505-1-00362 FR940505-1-00012 Manufacturing process means the process of making goods or articles by hand or by machinery. Medical equipment means equipment used by physicians to cure diseases or conditions requiring surgical procedures that are implanted in the body or used during invasive medical procedures. Medical equipment includes, but is not limited to, heart valves, catheters, oxygenenators, pressure monitors, pharmaceutical and dental equipment. Non-absorbent containers mean containers made of nonporous material which do not allow the migration of the liquid solvent through them. Non-atomized solvent flow means the use of a solvent to remove uncured adhesives, uncured inks, uncured coatings, and contaminants from an article in the form of a liquid stream without atomization. Non-leaking containers mean containers without liquid leaks. Printing means any operation that imparts color, design, alphabet, or numerals on a substrate. Remote reservoir cold cleaner means a cleaning device in which liquid solvent is pumped from a solvent container to a sink-like work area and the solvent from the sink-like area drains into an enclosed solvent container while parts are being cleaned. Repair cleaning means a solvent cleaning operation carried out during a repair process. Repair process means the process of returning a damaged object or an object not operating properly to good condition. Screen printing means a process in which the printing ink passes through a web or a fabric to which a refined form of stencil has been applied. The stencil openings determine the form and dimensions of the imprint. Solvent means a VOC-containing liquid used to perform solvent cleaning operations. Solvent cleaning operation means the removal of loosely held uncured adhesives, uncured inks, uncured coatings, and contaminants which include, but are not limited to, dirt, soil, and grease from parts, products, tools, machinery, equipment, and general work areas. Each distinct method of cleaning in a cleaning process which consists of a series of cleaning methods shall constitute a separate solvent cleaning operation. Solvent container means that part of a cleaning device that holds the solvent. Solvent flushing means the use of a solvent to remove uncured adhesives, uncured inks, uncured coatings, or contaminants from the internal surfaces and passages of the equipment by flushing solvent through the equipment. Stripping means the removal of cured coatings, cured inks, and cured adhesives. Surface preparation means the removal of contaminants such as dust, soil, oil, grease, etc., prior to coating, adhesive, or ink applications. Ultraviolet inks mean inks which dry by polymerization reaction induced by ultraviolet energy. VOC composite partial pressure means the following: PP c =A/B Where: E:GRAPHICSEP05MY94.095 and: W i =weight of the ``i''th VOC compound, in grams; W w =weight of water, in grams; W e =weight of exempt compound, in grams; MW i =molecular weight of the ``i''th VOC compound, in g/(g-mole); MW w =molecular weight of water, in g/(g-mole); MW e =molecular weight of exempt compound, in g/(g-mole); PP c =VOC composite partial pressure at 20 C, in mm Hg; and VP i =vapor pressure of the ``i''th VOC compound at 20 C, in mm Hg. Wipe cleaning means the method of cleaning a surface by physically rubbing it with a material such as a rag, paper, or a cotton swab moistened with a solvent.
