FR940223-1-00071 FR940223-1-00015 2. Section 538.203&hyph;71 is amended by revising the heading and adding paragraph (e) to read as follows: 538.203&hyph;71 Solicitation provisions and contract clauses. * * * * * (e) Contracting officers shall insert the clause at 552.238&hyph;75, Price Reductions, in all MAS solicitations and contracts. 3. Section 538.272 is added to read as follows: 538.272 MAS price reductions. (a) Prior to the award of an MAS contract, the contracting officer and the offeror shall reach an agreement as to the customer (or category of customer), price lists, and discounts which will serve as the basis of contract award. The award document shall expressly state the price/discount relationship between the Government and the identified commercial customer which is the basis of contract award. The Price Reductions clause is intended to maintain this price/discount relationship (and/or term and condition) between the Government and the offeror's customer or category of customer upon which the MAS contract was predicated, for the contract term. (b) During the term of the contract any changes in discount/pricing practices by the contractor which result or will result in a less advantageous relationship between the Government and the customer or category of customer upon which the MAS contract discount/price was predicated, shall result in a price reduction to the Government to the extent necessary to reflect the original relationship. 4. Section 552.238&hyph;76 is added to read as follows: 552.238&hyph;76 Price reductions. As prescribed in 538.203&hyph;71(e), insert the following clause: Price Reductions (XXX 1994) (a) Before award of a contract, the Contracting Officer and the Offeror will agree upon (1) the customer (or category of customers) which will be the basis of award, and (2) the Government's price or discount relationship to the identified customer or category of customers. This relationship shall be maintained throughout the contract period. Any change in the Contractor's commercial pricing arrangement applicable to the identified customer or category of customers, which disturbs this relationship, will constitute a price reduction. (b) During the contract period, the Contractor shall report to the Contracting Officer all price reductions to the Contractor's identified customer or category of customers upon which the contract award was predicated. The Contractor's report shall include an explanation of the conditions under which the reductions were made. (c) A price reduction shall apply to purchases under this contract if, after the date negotiations conclude, the Contractor: (1) Reduces prices (or grants any more favorable discounts, or terms and conditions) contained in the commercial catalog, pricelist, schedule or other documents upon which contract award by the Government was predicated; or (2) Grants special discounts to the identified customer or category of customers, upon which the contract award by the Government was predicated, so as to disturb the discount/price relationship of the Government to the identified customer or category of customers. (3) The price reduction shall be offered to the Government with the same effective date, and for the same time period as extended to the commercial customer or category of customers. (d) The Contractor shall extend to the Government, any general price reductions (including temporary reductions) offered to all customers (or category of customers). The price reduction shall be offered to the Government with the same effective date, under the same terms and conditions, and for the same time period as extended to commercial customers. (e) The Contractor may offer the contracting officer a voluntary Government wide price reduction at any time during the contract period. (f) The Contractor will notify the Contracting Officer of any price reduction subject to this clause as soon as possible, but not later than 15 calendar days after its effective date. (g) The contract will be modified to reflect any price reduction which becomes applicable in accordance with this clause. (h) This clause does not apply to price reductions based upon: (1) firm fixed price definite quantity contracts with specified delivery in excess of the maximum order limitation specified in this contract, or (2) any sale caused by an error in quotation or billing, provided adequate documentation is furnished by the Contractor to the Contracting Officer. (End of Clause) Dated: December 28, 1993. Richard H. Hopf, III, Associate Administrator for Acquisition Policy. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;3707 Filed 2&hyph;22&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6820&hyph;61&hyph;M
