FR941202-2-00217 FR941202-2-00099 Individuals who use a telecommunications device for the deaf (TDD) may call the Federal Information Relay Service (FIRS) at 1&hyph;800&hyph;877&hyph;8339 between 8:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m., Eastern time, Monday through Friday. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Over the last decade, three pieces of Federal legislation have been enacted that impact on the transition of students with disabilities from school to postsecondary settings, including gainful employment. These include amendments to the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA), and the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, and the School-to-Work Opportunities Act of 1994. Each piece of legislation is described below. The Individuals with Disabilities Education Act, as amended, now requires that a statement of needed transition services be included in the individualized education program (IEP) of all eligible students beginning no later than age 16, and at a younger age if appropriate, and that the statement of required services be updated on an annual basis. 20 U.S.C. 1401(a)(20)(D). Transition services are defined as ``a coordinated set of activities for a student, designed within an outcome-oriented process, which promotes movement from school to post-school activities *␣*␣* and shall include instruction, community experiences, the development of employment and other post-school adult living objectives, and, when appropriate, acquisition of daily living skills and functional vocational evaluation.'' 20 U.S.C. 1401(a)(19). The Rehabilitation Act now requires the State Vocational Rehabilitation programs to enter into formal interagency cooperative agreements with education officials responsible for the provision of a free appropriate public education to students with disabilities in order to facilitate the development and accomplishment of long term rehabilitation goals, intermediate rehabilitation objectives, and goals and objectives to enable students with disabilities to live independently before leaving the school setting. State vocational rehabilitation plans must address: (i) Provisions for determining State lead agencies and qualified personnel responsible for transition services; (ii) procedures for outreach to and identification of youth in need of such services; and (iii) a timeframe for evaluation and follow-up of youth who have received such services. 29 U.S.C. 721(a)(24). In May of 1994, President Clinton signed into law the School-to-Work Opportunities Act of 1994. This law, administered jointly by the Departments of Education and Labor, establishes a national framework within which all States can create statewide School-to-Work Opportunities systems. These systems will be designed to help youth acquire the knowledge, skills, abilities, and labor market information they need to make a smooth and effective transition from school to career-oriented work and to further education and training. Under the School-to-Work Opportunities Act of 1994, 20 U.S.C. 6101 et seq., States and local partnerships are developing and implementing plans for school-to-work opportunities systems that will provide opportunities for all students, including those with disabilities, to prepare successfully for high-skill, high-wage jobs or further education and training. Any student who completes a School-to-Work Opportunities program of study will receive: (1) A high school diploma, (2) a certificate or diploma recognizing one or two years of postsecondary education, if appropriate, and (3) a portable, industry-recognized skill certificate. While each State and locality will have broad latitude to design its own system, every system will have common core components: • Work-based learning. Providing students with a planned program of job training and work experiences in a broad range of tasks in an occupational area, as well as workplace mentoring. • School-based learning. Including a coherent multi-year sequence of instruction_typically including at least 2 years of secondary education and at least 1 or 2 years of postsecondary education_tied to occupational skills standards and challenging academic standards such as those established by States under Goals 2000. • Connecting activities. To ensure coordination of the work- and school-based learning components, such as providing technical assistance in designing work-based learning, matching students with employers' work-based learning opportunities, and collecting information on what happens to students after they complete the program. This award will be jointly funded in fiscal year 1995 under three statutory authorities: (1) The Secondary Education and Transitional Services for Youth with Disabilities Program authorized by section 626 of the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act; (2) Sections 202(b)(4) and (6) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973; and (3) The Cooperative Demonstration Program authorized by section 420A of the Carl D. Perkins Vocational and Applied Technology Education Act (the Perkins Act). In fiscal year 1996, the award will include funding from section 311(d) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973. The Secretary has determined that this joint award is necessary because of the need to provide technical assistance to support students with disabilities in a wide range of school to work experiences and promote their successful transition to a variety of postsecondary settings including gainful employment. The funds provided under the Cooperative Demonstration Program must meet the cost-sharing requirement of section 420A(b)(2) of the Perkins Act implemented by 34 CFR 426.30. In the first year of the project, we anticipate providing $25,000 from the Cooperative Demonstration program. The funds provided under section 311(d) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 must be used only for youth with severe disabilities.
