FR940524-1-00014 FR940524-1-00005 A functioning sprinkler system should activate prior to the onset of flashover. Flashover is a phenomena that occurs in many building fires. In the initial (preflashover) stages, fire development is controlled by the amount, type, and location of combustible materials in the area and the speed with which it spreads. As the fire develops, however, the hot smoke and fire gases accumulate at the ceiling, heating all of the un-ignited materials in the room. The hot ceiling gases radiate energy onto the burning fuel causing it to burn faster. As the fire grows, the available air cannot support the combustion of all of the fuel that is produced. The unburned fuel collects in the smoke layer; the smoke normally blackens at this time. When this combination of events reaches a temperature of about 550 to 600 ○C (1000 to 1100 ○F), the radiant heat from the hot gas layer will quickly ignite all of the exposed combustible material. Frequently any combustible gases accumulated in the smoke layer will find air and burn out at this time. When this rapid ignition of combustible material or gases occurs, the fire often violently erupts from the room of origin spouting flame, hot fuel laden gases, and toxic smoke into adjacent spaces. This transition is called flashover, and a fire that has undergone this transition is called a flashed over fire. Sprinklers would provide the level of life safety prescribed in the Act by controlling the spread of fire and its effects beyond the room of origin. Alternative methods which provide equivalent levels of life safety must prevent the spread of the fire and its affects beyond the room of fire origin. A typical room fire will not pose a hazard to the rest of the building until flashover. Smoldering fires can have significant life safety impact beyond the room of origin. However, a typical sprinkler system would not activate in response to a smoldering fire. Therefore, the sprinkler system would have little or no impact on life safety in the smoldering fire. To achieve the level of safety prescribed in the Act, the office building or housing unit must be designed, constructed, and maintained to prevent flashover in the room of fire origin, limit fire size to no more than 1 megawatt (50 Btu/sec), or prevent flames from leaving the room of origin. For the purposes of this regulation, flashover is intended to describe a fire in which the upper layer temperature in a room reaches approximately 600 ○C (1100 ○F) and the heat flux at floor level exceeds 20 kW/m 2 (1.8 Btu/ft 2 /sec). As with the prevent flashover criteria, the limitation on maximum heat release rate and the requirement to keep flames within the room of fire origin are designed to limit the size of the fire. A 1 megawatt fire is approximately equivalent to a single burning easy chair or two burning 1.8m (6 ft) tall Christmas trees. In a 3.6m (12 ft) by 4.6m (15 ft) gypsum board lined room with a 1.4m (4 ft) wide open doorway, a fire growing proportionally with time will produce an upper gas temperature of 425 to 480 ○C (800 to 900 ○F) in 300 seconds. The fire heat release rate at 300 seconds would be approximately 1 megawatt assuming a medium growth rate t-squared fire as referenced in Appendix B of the National Fire Protection Association Standard 72, National Fire Alarm Code. This fire is about the largest that can occur in such a room without a substantial likelihood of flames discharging out the room doorway. For the reasons mentioned previously, the life safety impact of a smoldering fire is not addressed in this regulation. In addition, this regulation does not attempt to provide guidance in determining acceptable levels of protection against property loss or business interruption. Finally, this regulation does not attempt to address the issue of firefighter safety. Thorough prefire planning, required by the Act, will allow firefighters to determine whether or not to enter a burning building; building occupants do not have a similar choice. D. Summary As required by the Federal Fire Safety Act of 1992, this regulation is intended to provide a further definition of the term equivalent level of safety. The regulation establishes certain criteria which alternative approaches must satisfy to be judged equivalent. These criteria have been selected to provide the level of life safety prescribed in the legislation. The impact of the legislation requirements and these criteria on property protection, business interruption potential, and firefighter safety has not been assessed. The requirements of the Act and these regulations apply to all Federal agencies and all Federally owned and leased buildings in the United States, except those of the Postal Service and those under the control of the Resolution Trust Corporation. The Head of the agency responsible for physical improvements in a facility must judge the acceptability of any equivalency analysis. This regulation provides guidance in conducting an analysis and judging its acceptability. The General Services Administration (GSA) has determined that this rule is a significant regulatory action for the purposes of Executive Order 12866. List of Subjects in 41 CFR Part 101&hyph;6 Civil rights, Government property management, Grant programs, Intergovernmental relations, Surplus Government property, Relocation assistance, Real property acquisition, Fire safety, Fire protection. Accordingly, it is proposed to amend 41 CFR 101&hyph;6 as follows:
