FR940713-2-00076 FR940713-2-00051 Availability of the Draft Environmental Assessment for the Issuance of a Special Use Permit to the Government of Guam for the Proposed Ritidian Point Territorial Park, Guam National Wildlife Refuge, Dededo, Guam AGENCY: Fish and Wildlife Service, Interior. ACTION: Notice of availability. SUMMARY: This notice advises the public that the draft Environmental Assessment (EA) for the issuance of a Special Use Permit to the Government of Guam for the proposed Ritidian Point Territorial Park on the Guam National Wildlife Refuge, Dededo, Guam is available for public review. WRITTEN COMMENTS INFORMATION: Interested agencies, organizations, and individuals are encouraged to provide written comments to the Fish and Wildlife Service within 30 days after publication of this Notice. Address comments to the Field Supervisor as shown below: FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Jerry Leinecke Field Supervisor, Refuges, Hawaiian and Pacific Islands NWR Complex, P.O. Box 50167, Honolulu, HI 96850, (808) 541&hyph;1201. Individuals wishing copies of this draft EA for review should immediately contact the above named individual. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Field Supervisor, Jerry Leinecke, Hawaiian and Pacific Islands NWR Complex, is the primary author of this document. The Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior, has prepared a draft EA on its proposal to issue a Special Use Permit to the Government of Guam for the proposed Ritidian Point Territorial Park within the Guam National Wildlife Refuge. The Government of Guam proposes to establish and operate the Ritidian Point Territorial Park (RPTP) within an approximate 20.24 ha (50 acres) site of the Ritidian Point Unit of the Guam National Wildlife Refuge (NWR). The RPTP would be operated by the Guam Department of Parks and Recreation with the biological support of the Guam Department of Agriculture, Division of Aquatic and Wildlife Resources, in coordination with the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (Service). The proposed RPTP would provide the public with natural history educational and recreational opportunities within the setting of the Ritidian Point Unit of the Guam NWR. The proposed RPTP would be managed to be compatible with the purposes for which the Guam NWR was established and in accordance with a Special Use Permit issued by the Service to the Government of Guam for the use of the approximate 20.24 ha site within the Ritidian Point Unit. The proposed action is anticipated to have only minimal direct, indirect, and cumulative effects on the human environment. The establishment, operation and maintenance of the park will occur on a site that has been previously disturbed by construction of fields, pavilions, shelters and Navy buildings and by the past use of the area for recreational purposes by the Navy. The major alternatives under consideration that were analyzed and evaluated during planning are: (A) PREFERRED ALTERNATIVE, establishment of the proposed RPTP on an approximate 20.24 ha (50 acre) site within the Ritidian Point Unit by the Guam Department of Parks and Recreation; (Alternative 2) establishment of a Territorial Park at Tarague Basin, South Finegayan, Falcona Beach, or the Anao Conservation Area at the present time; (Alternative 3) establishment of a public use area at the Ritidian Point Unit by the Service; (Alternative 4) which is the No Action alternative. Staffs of the Government of Guam, Department of Parks and Recreation and the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service jointly cooperated to plan, prepare and evaluate the proposals and prepare this draft EA. Detailed information concerning consultation and coordination is contained in Section VII of the draft EA. All agencies and individuals are urged to provide comments and suggestions for improving this EA as soon as possible. All comments received during the designated comment period will be considered in preparation of the final EA for this proposed action. Dated: June 28, 1994. Marvin L. Plenert, Regional Director, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;16971 Filed 7&hyph;12&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4310&hyph;55&hyph;M
