FR941219-0-00037 FR941219-0-00014 (6) Increased opportunities for wildlife observation resulting from restoration of riparian and tidal marsh habitat and ecosystem health; and (7) Improved commercial fishery harvest as a result of increased populations of fish. EPA (1994) assigned a monetary value to several of the use benefits. The economic benefits of EPA's standards are broader than protection of the delta smelt, since EPA's standards are expected to positively affect all components of the food web. The total economic benefit of EPA's water quality standards and the designation of critical habitat for the delta smelt are reported as follows. The ecological benefits of improved estuarine conditions are expected to generate at least $2.1 million or more in net economic benefits to commercial and recreational fisheries (particular salmon fisheries), and will have an associated employment gain of approximately 145 full-time equivalent jobs (EPA 1994). Benefits to the ocean sport fishery for salmon is estimated at about $708,000 annually (EPA 1994). This increase would result in positive employment effects on sport fishing-related industry, adding approximately 70 jobs in this area. Annual benefits to the striped bass sport fishing industry is estimated to be $57,500 annually (EPA 1994). An important avoided cost is associated with further declines in the recreational and commercial fisheries industry of the Bay/Delta, which is valued at $200 million annually (EPA 1994). Other avoided costs include government costs associated with crop deficiency payments, agricultural drainage costs, and costs associated with the potential reduction in property value. Summary of the Exclusion Process In order to determine the specific extent of designation of critical habitat pursuant to section 4(b)(2) of the Act, the Service must analyze: (1) The benefits of excluding an area as critical habitat, (2) The benefits of including an area, and (3) The effects of exclusions on the probability of species extinction. This process consists of (1) estimating the benefits of retaining or excluding land and water areas contained within Suisun Bay or river reaches within the Delta and Montezuma, Goodyear, Suisun, Cutoff, and First Mallard (Spring Branch) sloughs; (2) weighing those benefits; and (3) determining if exclusion of an area or areas from critical habitat will lead to the extinction of the species. If the exclusion of an area or areas from critical habitat will result in eventual species extinction, then the exclusion would be prohibited under the Act. Extinction Critical habitat consists of areas with habitat characteristics that are essential to the conservation of a listed species. However, the exclusion process focuses upon a threshold for species extinction. Conservation (recovery) and extinction are separate standards. Recovery and extinction are at opposite ends of a continuum, with the likelihood of a species' continued survival increasing the closer the species is to the recovery end of the continuum. It may be more difficult to predict the point at which extinction would be inevitable than to determine where recovery may occur. The analysis to determine whether extinction will occur will be different for each species, depending on many variables, including a species' geographic range. The exclusion analysis also may be related to a number of factors, such as the number of individuals, amount of habitat, condition of the habitat, and reproductive success. Extinction of an annual species, like the delta smelt, most likely would occur when rearing habitat conditions are poor enough for two consecutive years that some minimum number of fish fail to survive to reproduce. Habitat conditions could become poor enough if pumping at Federal and State water project facilities and private diversions significantly reduce outflow from the Delta. If a sufficient number of delta smelt were entrained in Federal and State water project facilities and private diversions so that a minimal number survived to reproduce, the population could decline. Extinction could result. The focus of the exclusionary analysis was on those factors that pertain to these issues and included consideration of habitat condition, functioning of the Estuary ecosystem, and proximity of the delta smelt population to the Federal and State pumps during various life stages.
