FR941227-2-00091 FR941227-2-00062 Permit No. PRT&hyph;6677215 Applicant: Western Ecological Services Company, Inc., Novato, California The applicant requests amendment of their permit to include take (harass by survey, collect and sacrifice voucher specimens) of the conservancy fairy shrimp ( Branchinecta conservatio ), longhorn fairy shrimp ( Branchinecta longiantenna ), Riverside fairy shrimp (Streptocephalus wootoni), and vernal pool tadpole shrimp ( Lepidurus packardi ) in vernal pools throughout the species' range in California to determine presence or absence of the species for the purpose of enhancement of survival of the species. Permit No. PRT&hyph;797232 Applicant: KAS Consultants, Visalia, California The applicant requests a permit to take (harass by survey, collect and sacrifice voucher specimens) the conservancy fairy shrimp ( Branchinecta conservatio ), longhorn fairy shrimp ( Branchinecta longiantenna ), and vernal pool tadpole shrimp ( Lepidurus packardi ) in vernal pools throughout the species' range in central California to determine presence or absence of the species and to conduct vernal pool community studies for the purpose of enhancement of survival of the species and scientific research. Permit No. PRT&hyph;797233 Applicant: Entomological Consulting Services, Pleasant Hill, California The applicant requests a permit to take (harass by survey, collect and sacrifice voucher specimens) the conservancy fairy shrimp ( Branchinecta conservatio ), longhorn fairy shrimp ( Branchinecta longiantenna ), Riverside fairy shrimp (Streptocephalus wootoni), and vernal pool tadpole shrimp ( Lepidurus packardi ) in vernal pools throughout the species' range in California to determine presence or absence of the species for the purpose of enhancement of survival of the species. Permit No. PRT&hyph;797234 Applicant: LSA Associates, Inc., Point Richmond, California The applicant requests a permit to take (harass by survey, collect and sacrifice voucher specimens) the conservancy fairy shrimp ( Branchinecta conservatio ), longhorn fairy shrimp ( Branchinecta longiantenna ), Riverside fairy shrimp (Streptocephalus wootoni), and vernal pool tadpole shrimp ( Lepidurus packardi ) in vernal pools throughout the species' range in California to determine presence or absence of the species for the purpose of enhancement of survival of the species. Permit No. PRT&hyph;769304 Applicant: Halstead and Associates, Clovis, California The applicant requests amendment of their permit to include take (harass by survey, collect and sacrifice voucher specimens) of the conservancy fairy shrimp ( Branchinecta conservatio ), longhorn fairy shrimp ( Branchinecta longiantenna ), and vernal pool tadpole shrimp ( Lepidurus packardi ) in vernal pools throughout the species' range in central California to determine presence or absence of the species for the purpose of enhancement of survival of the species. Permit No. PRT&hyph;796835 Applicant: Thomas E. Kucera, Berkeley, California The applicant requests a permit to take (trap, mark and release) the salt marsh harvest mouse ( Reithrodontomys raviventris ) throughout the range of the species in California to determine presence or absence of the species and to conduct population studies for the purpose of enhancement of survival of the species and scientific research. DATES: Written comments on the permit applications must be received on or before January 26, 1995. ADDRESSES: Written data or comments should be submitted to the Chief, Division of Consultation and Conservation Planning, Ecological Services, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, 911 N.E. 11th Avenue, Portland, Oregon 97232&hyph;4181. Please refer to the respective permit number for each application when submitting comments. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Documents and other information submitted with these applications are available for review, subject to the requirements of the Privacy Act and Freedom of Information Act, by any party who submits a written request for a copy of such documents, within 30 days of the date of publication of this notice, to the following office: Division of Consultation and Conservation Planning, Ecological Services, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, 911 N.E. 11th Avenue, Portland, Oregon 97232&hyph;4181. Telephone: 503&hyph;231&hyph;2063; FAX: 503&hyph;231&hyph;6243. Please refer to the respective permit number for each application when requesting copies of documents. Dated: December 19, 1994. Thomas Dwyer, Deputy Regional Director, Region 1, Portland, Oregon. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;31735 Filed 12&hyph;23&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4310&hyph;55&hyph;P
