FR940805-1-00070 FR940805-1-00013 (6) Freedom of personal grooming . Inmates shall have the right to determine the length and style of scalp or facial hair, unless health and safety reasons exist. (7) Treatment . Inmates shall have the right to medical, dental, mental health and substance abuse treatment and rehabilitative services as directed by the health authority. (f) Booking _(1) Booking process . Written procedures for booking new inmates shall include, at a minimum: (i) verification of court commitment papers or other legal documentation for detention; (ii) complete search of the individual and possessions; (iii) inventory and storage of clothing and personal property; (iv) health screening, including tests for infectious diseases as required by the health authority; (v) emergency health assessment, as required by law, regulations or policies of the health authority; (vi) opportunity to make at least three local or collect long-distance telephone calls; (vii) shower, hair care and treatment for ectoparasites if necessary; (viii) issue of clean clothing and personal hygiene items; (ix) completion of a booking form as required by these standards; (x) suicide screening; (xi) orientation, classification and assignment to a housing unit; and (xii) optional photographing and/or fingerprinting. (2) Mass arrests . Written plans shall govern temporary space arrangements and procedures to be followed in the event of a mass arrest that exceeds the maximum capacity of the facility. The administrator or designee shall update the plans as needed and review them at least annually. (3) Suicide screening . The administrator shall ensure that all inmates shall be screened for risk of suicide at the time of booking. When a risk is identified, detention staff shall make an emergency referral to the health authority for evaluation by a health care professional and shall monitor the inmate until the assessment has been completed. (4) Orientation . All newly admitted inmates shall receive written or oral information in the language they understand. The admitting officer shall document completion of orientation by a statement that shall be signed and dated by the inmates. The facility shall separate newly admitted inmates until completion of the orientation process. The orientation shall include, but is not limited to: (i) inmate rules of conduct and potential disciplinary actions that may be taken; (ii) programs and services available in the facility; (iii) procedures for accessing health care services; and (iv) inmate rights and privileges. (5) Personal property inventory . The admitting officer shall complete a written, itemized inventory of all personal property of newly admitted inmates and shall store securely all inmate property, including money and other valuables. The admitting officer shall give the inmate a receipt for all property held until release. (6) Regulation of inmate property . The administrator or designee shall identify personal property that inmates may receive or keep in their possession while in the facility, the sources from which these items may be obtained and how these items are received and inspected. (g) Classification _(1) Classification policy . The administrator or designee shall provide for inmate classification in terms of the custody level, housing assignment and program participation. The administrator shall review these policies and procedures annually and update them as necessary. (2) Classification plan . The administrator or designee shall develop a written classification plan, which includes, at a minimum: (i) criteria and procedures for determining and changing the status of an inmate relative to custody, transfer and major changes in program participation; (ii) an appeals process for classification decisions; and (iii) the separate management of the following categories of inmates: male and female, criminal and witnesses/civil, education and work release, special needs inmates (substance abusers, disabled, etc.), juveniles (if detained if held in this facility in accordance with standards) and special management (disciplinary segregation, administrative segregation, protective custody and medical segregation). (3) Prohibited segregations . The administrator shall prohibit the segregation of inmates by race, color, creed, tribal affiliation, national origin, political beliefs, nepotism, favoritism or other prohibited criteria. (h) Food service _(1) Food service records . At a minimum, the facility shall maintain records of the number of meals served to the inmate population, the expenditures for food supplies and menus (planned and as served). (2) Dietary allowances . The facility shall document that a registered dietician reviews dietary allowances at least annually to ensure compliance with nationally recommended food allowances. A diet manual, approved by a registered dietician, shall guide dietary allowances, including special diets. (3) Menu planning . The administrator or designee shall plan, date and make all menus available for review at least one week in advance. The administrator or designee shall make notations of any substitutions, which shall be of equal nutritional value, in the meals actually served. The administrator or designee shall consider Native American food preferences in menu planning. The administrator or designee shall direct that menu evaluations shall be conducted at least quarterly to verify adherence to the nationally recommended basic daily servings. (4) Medical special diets . The administrator or designee shall provide for special diets that are prescribed by appropriate medical or dental personnel. (5) Religious preference special diets . The administrator or designee shall provide for special diets for inmates whose beliefs require adherence to religious dietary laws. (6) Food and discipline . The administrator shall prohibit the use of food as a disciplinary measure.
