FR940407-2-00081 FR940407-2-00042 [AK&hyph;060&hyph;4230&hyph;03; FF&hyph;91037] Realty Action: Recreation and Public Purpose (R&PP) Act Classification; Alaska AGENCY: Bureau of Land Management, Interior. ACTION: Notice of realty action. SUMMARY: The following public lands have been examined and found suitable for classification for lease to the University of Alaska Fairbanks, Institute of Arctic Biology for the use as a research facility under the provisions of the Recreation and Public Purpose Act, as amended (43 U.S.C. 869 et seq.). T. 9 S., R. 11 E., Umiat Meridian Sections 29 and 32, partial Containing 26.84 acres more or less. The lands are not needed for Federal purposes. Lease of these lands is consistent with current land use planning for the area and would be in the public interest. The lease, when issued, will be subject to the following terms, conditions and reservations: 1. Provisions of the Recreation and Public Purpose Act and to all applicable regulations of the Secretary of the Interior. 2. A right-of-way for ditches and canals constructed by the authority of the United States. 3. All minerals shall be reserved to the United States, together with the right to prospect for, mine, and remove the minerals. Detailed information concerning this action is available for review at the office of the Bureau of Land Management, Arctic District Office, 1150 University Avenue, Fairbanks, Alaska, 99709. Upon publication of this notice in the Federal Register , the lands will be segregated from all other forms of appropriation under the public land laws, including the general mining laws, except for lease under the Recreation and Public Purpose Act and leasing under the mineral leasing laws. For a period of 45 days from the date of publication of this notice in the Federal Register , interested parties may submit comments regarding the proposed lease or classification of the lands to the District Manager, Arctic District Office, 1150 University Avenue, Fairbanks, Alaska 99709. Classification comments: Interested parties may submit comments involving the suitability of the land for a research facility. Comments on the classification are restricted to whether the land is physically suited for the proposal, whether the use will maximize the future use or uses of the land, whether the use is consistent with local planning and zoning, or if the use is consistent with State and Federal programs. Application comments: Interested parties may submit comments regarding the specific use proposed in the application and plan of development, whether the BLM followed proper administrative procedures in reaching the decision, or any other factor not directly related to the suitability of the land for a research facility. Any adverse comments will be reviewed by the State Director. In the absence of any adverse comments, the classification will become effective 60 days from the date of the publication of this notice in the Federal Register . Dated: March 25, 1994. Dee R. Ritchie, Arctic District Manager. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;8288 Filed 4&hyph;6&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4310&hyph;JA&hyph;M
