FR940406-2-00085 FR940406-2-00048 This program is covered under Executive Order 12372, Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs, and 45 CFR Part 100, Intergovernmental Review of Department of Health and Human Services Programs and Activities. Under the Order, States may design their own processes for reviewing and commenting on proposed Federal assistance under covered programs. All States and Territories except Alabama, Alaska, Connecticut, Hawaii, Idaho, Kansas, Louisiana, Minnesota, Montana, Nebraska, Oklahoma, Oregon, Pennsylvania, Virginia, Washington, American Samoa and Palau have elected to participate in the Executive Order process and have established Single Points of Contact (SPOCs). Applicants from these seventeen jurisdictions need take no action regarding E.O. 12372. Applicants for projects to be administered by Federally-recognized Indian Tribes are also exempt from the requirements of E.O. 12372. Applicants must submit any required material to the SPOCs as soon as possible so that the program office can obtain and review SPOC comments as part of the award process. It is imperative that the applicant submit all required materials, if any, to the SPOC and indicate the date of this submittal (or the date of contact if no submittal is required) on the Standard Form 424, item 16a. Under 45 CFR 100.8(a) (2), a SPOC has 60 days from the application deadline date to comment on proposed new or competing continuation awards. Applicants should contact their SPOCs as soon as possible to alert them of the prospective applications and receive any necessary instructions. SPOCs are encouraged to eliminate the submission of routine endorsements as official recommendations. Additionally, SPOCs are requested to clearly differentiate between mere advisory comments and those official State process recommendations which may trigger the ``accommodate or explain'' rule. When comments are submitted directly to ACF, they should be addressed to: Department of Health and Human Services Administration for Children and Families Division of Discretionary Grants, 6th Floor 370 L'Enfant Promenade, SW. Washington, DC 20447. A list of the Single Points of Contact for each State and Territory is included as Attachment E of this Announcement. 4. Application Consideration Applications which meet the screening requirements in Section 5 below will be reviewed competitively. Such applications will be referred to reviewers for a numerical score and explanatory comments based solely on responsiveness to program guidelines and evaluation criteria published in this Announcement. Applications will be reviewed by persons outside of the OCS unit which would be directly responsible for programmatic management of the grant. The results of these reviews will assist the Director and OCS program staff in considering competing applications. Reviewers' scores will weigh heavily in funding decisions but will not be the only factors considered. Applications will generally be considered in order of the average scores assigned by reviewers. However, highly ranked applications are not guaranteed funding since the Director may also consider other factors deemed relevant including, but not limited to, the timely and proper completion of projects funded with OCS funds granted in the last five (5) years: Comments of reviewers and government officials; staff evaluation and input; geographic distribution; previous program performance of applicants; compliance with grant terms under previous DHHS grants; audit reports; investigative reports; and applicant's progress in resolving any final audit disallowances on OCS or other Federal agency grants. OCS reserves the right to discuss applications with other Federal or non-Federal funding sources to ascertain the applicant's performance record. 5. Criteria for Screening Applications a. Initial Screening All applications that meet the published deadline for submission will be screened to determine completeness and conformity to the requirements of this Announcement. Only those applications meeting the following requirements will be reviewed and evaluated competitively. Others will be returned to the applicants with a notation that they were unacceptable. (1) The application must contain a completed and signed Standard Form SF&hyph;424. (2) The SF&hyph;424 must be signed by an official of the organization applying for the grant who has authority to obligate the organization legally. b. Pre-rating Review Applications which pass the initial screening will be forwarded to reviewers for analytical comment and scoring based on the criteria detailed in the Section below and the specific requirements contained in Part A of this Announcement. Prior to the programmatic review, these reviewers and/or OCS staff will verify that the applications comply with this program announcement in the following areas: (1) Eligibility: Applicant meets the eligibility requirements found in Part B. (2) Number of Projects: The application contains only one project. (3) Target Populations: The application clearly targets the specific outcomes and benefits of the project to low-income participants and beneficiaries as defined in the DHHS Poverty Income Guidelines (Attachment A). (4) Grant Amount: The amount of funds requested does not exceed $50,000 (except for nationwide programs). (5) Program Focus: The application addresses the purposes described in Part A of this Announcement. c. Evaluation Criteria Applications which pass the initial screening and pre-rating review will be assessed and scored by reviewers. Each reviewer will give a numerical score for each application reviewed. These numerical scores will be supported by explanatory statements on a formal rating form describing major strengths and major weaknesses under each applicable criterion published in this Announcement. Part G_Contents of Application and Receipt Process (Approved by the OMB under Control Number 0970&hyph;0062) 1. Contents of Application Each application submission must include: A signed original and four additional copies of the application. Each copy of the application must contain in the order listed each of the following: a. Table of Contents with page numbers noted for each major section and subsection of the proposal and each section of the appendices. Each page in the application, including those in all appendices, must be numbered consecutively. b. Standard Form 424. Application for Federal Assistance. The SF&hyph;424 should be completed in accordance with instructions provided with the form, as well as OCS specific instructions set forth in Part E of this Announcement. The SF&hyph;424 must contain an original signature of the certifying representative of the applicant organization. Applicants must also be aware that the applicant's legal name as required in SF&hyph;424 (Item 5) must match that listed as corresponding to the Employer Identification Number (Item 6). c. Standard Form 424A, Budget Information. Pages 1 and 2 should be completed. d. Standard Form 424B, Assurances_Non-Construction Programs. This form must be signed and submitted with the Application. e. Restriction on Lobbying Activities _Fill out, sign and date form found at Attachment F. Certification for Contracts, Grants, Loans, and Cooperative Agreements. f. Disclosure of Lobbying Activities_ SF&hyph;ILL: Fill out, sign and date form found at Attachment F, (required only if lobbying has actually taken place or is expected to take place in trying to obtain the grant for which the applicant is applying.) g. Project Narrative_ (See Part E, Section 3.)
