FR941110-1-00084 FR941110-1-00011 The current regulation requires that production of controlled substances for export to Parties meet the requirements for both consumption and production allowances. The current rule requires producers to expend both production and consumption allowances to produce class I controlled substances. If the controlled substance is then exported to a Party, the producer (or exporter) may request that EPA ``refund'' consumption allowances equal to the amount exported. EPA considered not proposing any changes to the administrative procedures because only one year remains before the phaseout of class I controlled substances begins on January 1, 1996. However, EPA recognizes that the administrative process of expending consumption allowances to produce class I controlled substances for export, with the subsequent request to have the consumption allowances refunded for these exported substances, is cumbersome for the producer, especially at this point in the schedule of the phaseout. In the last control period before the phaseout (from January 1, 1995 to January 1, 1996), producers are reducing their production to a fraction of the quantity they produced in previous years (see schedule for phaseout in ยง82.8). EPA believes United States companies should be able to respond in a timely manner to requests for controlled substances. If United States companies are not able to respond to requests for controlled substances in a timely manner due to the administrative procedures created by the current rule, these business opportunities will be lost to foreign competitors. According to reports from producers, the time lag between the expenditure of consumption allowances during production and the receipt of the refunded consumption allowances for an export can often mean missing the opportunity to fulfill a request for a controlled substance. As a result, the Agency is proposing to reduce the time taken to refund consumption allowances for an exported controlled substance. By changing the reporting requirements so companies report earlier to the Agency, EPA proposes to reduce the time taken to refund the consumption allowances expended in the production of controlled substances that are exported. This proposal would permit a U.S. company to report the export of a controlled substance to a Party at the time the export is initiated, rather than requiring the producer to submit the completed bill of lading and the invoice with the request for additional refunded consumption allowances. This change in the reporting procedures would allow the company to submit a preliminary report of export earlier. Therefore, EPA would be able to authorize the refund of consumption allowances earlier, contingent upon verification of the export when the company submitted the bill of lading and invoice. Today's proposal would permit companies to expend the contingent consumption allowances to meet their production or importation needs in a more timely manner. The contingent authorization of consumption allowances will accelerate the time in which companies receive the allowances, allowing them to meet requests for controlled substances in a timely manner. Thus, companies will be less constrained by the time lag caused by current administrative requirements. However, in the event that documentation submitted by the company does not support the export, EPA will consider that the granting of the consumption allowances never occurred, potentially putting the company in violation of the requirements. EPA also considered another option in making today's proposal. The option considered would exempt the production of class I controlled substances from the consumption allowance requirements, if the substance is exported to Parties during the one remaining control period before the phaseout (from January 1, 1995 to January 1, 1996). This option would include an exemption for methyl bromide from the consumption allowance requirements for exports beginning January 1, 1995, and extending until January 1, 2001. Producers would be allowed to produce class I controlled substances for export to a Party with only the expenditure of production allowances. Under the second option described above, exports would be exempt from the requirements to expend consumption allowances. If the producer is certain that a person purchasing the controlled substance in the United States would export to a Party, there would be no requirement to expend consumption allowances in the production of that substance under this option. The exporter would certify to the producer, either in the sales agreement or in a letter, that the controlled substance would be exported. When the producer has no guarantee that the substance would, or would not, be exported to a Party, they would expend both production and consumption allowances in producing the controlled substance. Under the current regulation, a person in the United States may receive both production and consumption allowances from a Party to the Protocol in an inter-Party trade (under the Protocol this is called industrial rationalization). The U.S. company that receives the allowances from the other Party expends the production and consumption allowances to produce a controlled substance. The controlled substance produced with the traded allowances is then exported to the Party from whom the allowances were traded. The U.S. company expends consumption allowances in the production of the controlled substance for an inter-Party trade and then asks EPA for a ``refund'' of these consumption allowances because the controlled substance was exported. Due to the redundant cycling of consumption allowances in inter-Party trades to the United States described above, EPA is also considering the option that a person not receive additional consumption allowances through inter-Party trades for the remaining control period from January 1, 1995, to January 1, 1996. Under this option, consumption allowances would not be expended in the production of controlled substances as part of an inter-Party trade. The option of eliminating consumption allowances for inter-Party trades to the United States for methyl bromide would begin January 1, 1995, and extend until January 1, 2001. EPA seeks comments on this considered option to alleviate administrative requirements for consumption allowances for the export of controlled substances to Parties to the Protocol.
