FR940304-1-00086 FR940304-1-00014 While it would be desirable to analyze the impact of standards on the distribution of firms in an industry, fundamentally, this requires detailed information on how individual firms differ from the norm. Stating that the primary concern to manufacturers is the short-run industry impact from standards, Whirlpool Corporation and the Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers called for the Department to present greater focus on, or explanation of, short-run impacts. (Whirlpool Corporation, No. 31 at 1; Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers, No. 61A at 69&hyph;70). There are limitations to such an analysis. While general impacts may be understood, the specific details of how each firm reacts at each point of the short-run adjustment process are beyond the ability of economic theory to elucidate. The Department believes that it has treated the short run properly by modeling it on the short-run impact of the downturn from a business cycle. In addition, in considering standard levels to propose, the Department did take explicit account of the short-run Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory-Manufacturer Impact Model results. The Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers suggested that more detailed analysis of the impacts on individual firms and other areas should be done. The Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers commented that an analysis of how industry will fare, on average, belies the very serious effects that adjustment can have, especially if standards force a company in a small community to close. Therefore, it is important, the Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers believes, that DOE evaluate these potential short-term and individual company impacts. (Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers, No 61A at 70). In the analyses to date, the Department has used industry profitability as the best single indicator of plant closures and other significant disruptions on manufacturers. Further, the primary impact variables of returns on equity, net income, revenue, price, and shipments have been presented as the best summary statistics with which to capture the significant impacts resulting from standards. 5. Multiple standards. In another comment, the Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers stated that firms face constraints on the share of their resources that can be devoted to meeting each new wave of conservation standards from DOE. The cumulative impact of each new rulemaking on manufacturers' resources must be considered in evaluating manufacturer impacts. (Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers, No. 61A at 70&hyph;72). The Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory-Manufacturer Impact Model is designed to analyze the impact of standards on industry profitability for an individual appliance. To date, this has involved treating each manufacturer of a subject product as a separate company. Recognizing, however, that many of the manufacturers produce more than one appliance type subject to these rulemakings, and recognizing that those companies may have limited resources to comply with the requirements of all of the relevant regulations, the Department is presently seeking approaches to account for the cumulative effects on a multi-product company of the appliance conservation standards that it promulgates and requests comments in this regard. 6. Variable costs. On another manufacturer issue, Whirlpool Corporation criticized the Department's assumption that pricing relates only to variable costs. Whirlpool Corporation suggested, instead, that changes in fixed costs do have an impact on pricing in an industry. (Whirlpool Corporation, No. 31 at 1). The Department acknowledges that firms may try to pass on fixed costs; however, standard economic theory concludes that even monopolists will find this unprofitable, and will eventually decide not to try it. The Department has seen no argument or evidence to the contrary. It is interesting to note that if Whirlpool Corporation were correct, the manufacturers who decided to do so would be impacted far more favorably by standards than the Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory-Manufacturer Impact Model predicted. Consumer Demand Whirlpool Corporation stated the Department assumes that consumers will pay more for energy efficiency. Whirlpool Corporation claims studies have shown this has not been true. In support, Whirlpool Corporation supplied a list of 20 key buying factors from an August 1988 McKinsey study. Energy efficiency placed tenth in consideration for kitchen products. (Whirlpool Corporation, No. 31, at Attachment 2). The Department notes that energy efficiency placed ahead of other factors such as ``lowest price available among similar makes and models,'' ``has an extended service agreement at a fair price,'' and ``runs quietly.'' These results tend to support the Department's position that consumers are willing to pay for energy efficiency.
