FR941006-0-00022 FR941006-0-00006 FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORPORATION 12 CFR Part 304 RIN 3064&hyph;AB33 Forms, Instructions, and Reports AGENCY: Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC). ACTION: Final rescission of rule. SUMMARY: On April 5, 1994, the FDIC published for comment a proposal to rescind a section of its regulations on notification of rapid growth. The FDIC is publishing herewith a final rule to rescind this section. The section, known as the ``rapid growth rule,'' currently requires all insured banks, with the exception of insured bankers' banks, to give the FDIC prior notice of planned rapid growth as a result of any ``special funding plan or arrangement.'' For purposes of this requirement, such a funding plan is any effort to increase the assets of a bank through the solicitation and acceptance of fully insured deposits obtained from or through the mediation of brokers or affiliates (which would include insured brokered deposits); the solicitation of fully insured deposits outside a bank's normal trade area; or secured borrowings, including repurchase agreements. This rescission is intended to lessen the regulatory burden on banks which are currently also required to comply with the FDIC's brokered deposit regulation and the prompt corrective action rule, both of which were designed in part to address the same risks resulting from rapid growth. EFFECTIVE DATE: November 7, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: William G. Hrindac, Examination Specialist, (202) 898&hyph;6892, Division of Supervision, FDIC, 550 17th Street NW., Washington, DC 20429, or Adrienne George, Attorney, (202) 898&hyph;3859, Legal Division, FDIC, 550 17th Street NW., Washington, DC 20429. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background Although rapid growth is not necessarily an indicator of unsafe or unsound banking practices, and many banks have been able to manage rapid growth safely, rapid growth does present special risks to a bank (and to the FDIC's insurance fund). Because these risks warrant special monitoring, the FDIC adopted a rule requiring advance notice to the FDIC of planned rapid growth. That provision of the FDIC's regulations, 12 CFR 304.6, known as ``the rapid growth rule,'' states that an insured bank may not undertake any special funding plan or arrangement designed to increase its assets by more than 7.5 percent during any consecutive three-month period without first notifying the appropriate FDIC regional director for supervision in writing at least 30 days before the implementation of the special funding plan or arrangement. A special funding plan or arrangement is defined as any effort to increase the assets of a bank through (1) the solicitation and acceptance of fully insured deposits obtained from or through the mediation of brokers or affiliates (which would include insured brokered deposits), (2) the solicitation of fully insured deposits outside a bank's normal trade area (depending upon the circumstances, these may be insured brokered deposits) or (3) secured borrowings, including repurchase agreements.
