FR941220-1-00014 FR941220-1-00005 14 CFR Part 39 [Docket No. 94&hyph;CE&hyph;17&hyph;AD] Airworthiness Directives; Schempp-Hirth Cirrus and Cirrus VTC Sailplanes AGENCY: Federal Aviation Administration, DOT. ACTION: Notice of proposed rulemaking (NPRM). SUMMARY: This document proposes to adopt a new airworthiness directive (AD) that would apply to Schempp-Hirth Cirrus and Cirrus VTC sailplanes. The proposed action would require modifying the airbrake actuating lever and replacing the airbrake system coupling balls. Reports of the coupling balls on the airbrake actuating lever breaking at the threaded end on several of the above-referenced sailplanes prompted the proposed action. The actions specified by the proposed AD are intended to prevent airbrake system failure caused by the above condition, which, if not detected and corrected, could result in sailplane controllability problems. DATES: Comments must be received on or before February 28, 1995. ADDRESSES: Submit comments in triplicate to the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), Central Region, Office of the Assistant Chief Counsel, Attention: Rules Docket No. 94&hyph;CE&hyph;17&hyph;AD, Room 1558, 601 E. 12th Street, Kansas City, Missouri 64106. Comments may be inspected at this location between 8 a.m. and 4 p.m., Monday through Friday, holidays excepted. Service information that applies to the proposed AD may be obtained from Schempp-Hirth Flugzeubau GmbH, Krebenstr. 25, D&hyph;7312 Kirchheim/Teck, Germany. This information may also be examined at the Rules Docket at the address above. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mr. Herman C. Belderok, Project Officer, Small Airplane Directorate, Airplane Certification Service, FAA, 1201 Walnut, suite 900, Kansas City, Missouri 64106; telephone (816) 426&hyph;6932; facsimile (816) 426&hyph;2169. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Comments Invited Interested persons are invited to participate in the making of the proposed rule by submitting such written data, views, or arguments as they may desire. Communications should identify the Rules Docket number and be submitted in triplicate to the address specified above. All communications received on or before the closing date for comments, specified above, will be considered before taking action on the proposed rule. The proposals contained in this notice may be changed in light of the comments received. Comments are specifically invited on the overall regulatory, economic, environmental, and energy aspects of the proposed rule. All comments submitted will be available, both before and after the closing date for comments, in the Rules Docket for examination by interested persons. A report that summarizes each FAA-public contact concerned with the substance of this proposal will be filed in the Rules Docket. Commenters wishing the FAA to acknowledge receipt of their comments submitted in response to this notice must submit a self-addressed, stamped postcard on which the following statement is made: ``Comments to Docket No. 94&hyph;CE&hyph;17&hyph;AD.'' The postcard will be date stamped and returned to the commenter. Availability of NPRMs Any person may obtain a copy of this NPRM by submitting a request to the FAA, Central Region, Office of the Assistant Chief Counsel, Attention: Rules Docket No. 94&hyph;CE&hyph;17&hyph;AD, Room 1558, 601 E. 12th Street, Kansas City, Missouri 64106. Discussion The Luftfahrt-Bundesamt (LBA), which is the airworthiness authority for Germany, recently notified the FAA that an unsafe condition may exist on Schempp-Hirth Cirrus and Cirrus VTC sailplanes. The LBA advises that the coupling balls on the airbrake actuating lever located inside the fuselage have broken at the threaded end on several of the above referenced sailplanes. This condition, if not detected and corrected, could result in sailplane controllability problems. Schempp-Hirth has issued Technical Note 265&hyph;10, dated November 5, 1992, which specifies procedures for modifying the airbrake actuating lever and replacing the airbrake system coupling balls. The LBA classified this technical note as urgent in order to assure the continued airworthiness of these airplanes in Germany.
