FR940324-0-00016 FR940324-0-00005 The rudder is hydraulically powered and electronically positioned without manual reversion modes. Pilots position the rudder by pedal position transducers connected to the rudder pedals. The transducers supply rudder pedal position to two electronic rudder control units which have two channels each. The rudder control units position two rudder servos which control two actuators that drive the rudder. Parallel and cross channel signals provide redundancy. The rudder limiting function is built into the rudder control units. The rudder system is checked by a preflight built in test system (PBIT) and a continuous built in test system (CBIT). One pedal force cam unit (spring and cam) generates artificial pedal forces. The pedal force cam unit is controlled by the trim actuator which in turn is controlled by a relay connected to manual trim or automatic trim from the autopilot. The rudders two hydraulic actuators are supplied by two hydraulic circuits and each circuit is driven by an engine driven pump. To protect against common failures including engine burst, fire and tire/wheel failures, two back-up pumps, two emergency shut-off valves, together with a transfer valve, have been added aft of the debris zones. The back-up pumps are driven by a common motor with shear out features. Accumulators aft on both hydraulic circuits provide further reserves against hydraulic power loss and loss of damping. The rudder system is electrically supported by two redundant system sides, a left hand (LH) and a right hand (RH) side. The electrical system is normally powered by two AC generators, each driven by a propeller gear box. An APU equipped with a standby generator is optional. Each system side includes a DC system with a Transformer Rectifier Unit (TRU). When only one TRU unit is working, the LH and RH buses are tied together with power being received from the remaining TRU. Two DC feeders in addition to two AC feeders provide power aft of the debris zone. The DC feeders are supplied by battery or a TRU unit. The LH is routed through the ceiling and the RH side is routed through the floor. The proposed elevator system, to be introduced for follow-on certification, is in many respects similar to the rudder design. Control columns, connected to Linear Variable Differential Transducers (LVDT), provide signals to two Powered Elevator Control Units (PECU). The PECUs are connected to the Flight Control Computer, Air Data Computers and servo actuators. Each PECU has built in test circuitry and two channels for direct control and crossmonitoring. Type Certification Basis The applicable requirements for U.S. type certification must be established in accordance with §§21.16, 21.17, 21.19, 21.29, and 21.101 of the Federal Aviation Regulations (FAR). Accordingly, based on the application date of June 9, 1989, the TC basis for the SAAB Model 2000 airplane is as follows: Part 25 as amended by Amendments 25&hyph;1 through 25&hyph;66, except where superseded by the following: §25.963(e) as amended by Amendment 25&hyph;69, Design Standards for Fuel Tank Access Covers. §25.1423 as amended by Amendment 25&hyph;70, Independent Power Sources for the Public Address System. Part 25 as amended by Amendment 25&hyph;71. §25.365, Pressurized Compartment Loads. Part 25, the following sections as amended by Amendment 25&hyph;72:
