FR941012-0-00065 FR941012-0-00011 For these reasons, in the final rule OSHA has adopted the proposed provision requiring that leg protection be worn on each leg by all chain-saw operators. However, OSHA has revised the final rule to require that where the employer provides leg protection made of material other than ballistic nylon, the employer is responsible for demonstrating that it provides protection which is at least equivalent to ballistic nylon, such as KEVLAR. This requirement ensures that employees are protected against moving saw chains, while at the same time providing flexibility for the employer. b. Area to be protected and disadvantages of leg protection. The other issues raised regarding leg protection concerned the parts of the chain-saw operator's body that should be covered and its effect on mobility and other potential safety disadvantages of wearing leg protection. The proposed rule specified that leg protection extend from the upper thigh to the boot or shoe top. Many commenters supported the proposed rule (Ex. 9&hyph;2, 9&hyph;3, 9&hyph;4, 9&hyph;5, 9&hyph;11, 9&hyph;13, 9&hyph;15, 9&hyph;16, 9&hyph;20). One commenter said that the proposed rule followed the requirements of the European draft standard (Ex. 9&hyph;11B). Some commenters said the proposed rule was not protective enough and said the equipment for protecting chain-saw operators should be expanded (Ex. 5&hyph;14, 5&hyph;68). One of these commenters said: [W]e would recommend that a standard be developed defining the minimum coverage these garments should have, for example from crotch to ankle bone with a minimum width measured at the knee of 9.5 (Ex. 5&hyph;68). The other commenter recommended leg protection be extended to also provide foot protection that is cut resistance to a chain saw (Ex. 5&hyph;14). This commenter said that the additional foot covering protection would also assure that the entire leg and ankle were covered if the chaps were not long enough to cover the boot top. Several commenters, however, said leg protection should be limited in the final rule (Ex. 5&hyph;17, 5&hyph;45, 5&hyph;56, 5&hyph;65, 9&hyph;1; Tr. OR 227, 633&hyph;34). Most of these commenters said that OSHA should not require leg protection to extend from the upper thigh to the boot or shoe top. First, these commenters said that extending leg protection from the thigh to the boot or shoe top was not necessary because most of the injuries occur to the area around the knee. For example, one commenter stated: A person using a chain saw would have to do some pretty spectacular gymnastics to receive a chain saw cut more than 4 ’ ’ below the knee. Once again, we have no recordable injuries for the last 7 years involving chain saw cuts more than 4 ’ ’ below the knee (Ex. 5&hyph;45). Another commenter stated that leg protection was not necessary for climbers and bucket truck operators: The major hazards for these individuals are cuts to the upper body from saw kick-backs and falling material. Leg protection should not be required, however the use of some of the new lighter and more pliable pads sewn into pants should be encouraged whenever feasible (Ex. 5&hyph;19). Second, commenters stated that the small risk of injury to the lower leg was outweighed by the risks due to lack of mobility caused by full-length leg protection. For example, one said: We have received numerous comments from our membership throughout the country who use leg protection (or chaps) suggesting that chaps only extend to just below the knee. Chaps that extend to the boot top, or shoe top, as required in proposed Section (e)(1)(ii), impede mobility and cause a greater safety hazard than the standard works to protect against. Our members believe that the highest risk for chain saw cuts occurs from the knee to the thigh. Thus, chaps that cover the leg from the upper thigh to just below the knee are sufficient (Ex. 5&hyph;56). Third, one commenter testified that leg protection to the boot or shoe top would pose an unreasonable financial burden on employers (Tr. OR 633&hyph;34). According to the participant, different loggers use the employer-provided leg protection each day. Because all loggers are not the same height, the leg protection provided may not reach to the boot or shoe top or may be too long for other loggers to wear safely. This participant suggested that the only way an employer could guarantee compliance with the required fit of the leg protection would be to provide fitted leg protection to each individual logger. The participant recommended the following: We suggest [leg protection extend] to below the knee because these come in various lengths. And certainly in those times you can't always stretch a pair of chaps that somebody maybe having to put on to operate a chain saw all of a sudden to get it down to the boot top (Tr. OR 633&hyph;34). Fourth, some commenters stated that leg protection that extends to the boot or shoe top might cause mobility problems, and would therefore be hazardous for chain-saw operators (Ex. 5&hyph;19, 5&hyph;20, 5&hyph;55). For example, one commenter stated: Rigging crews will occasionally use a power saw. If they are required to wear leggings, it could be more dangerous than not having anything. This is one of the reasons rigging crews prefer suspenders rather than a belt because you don't get ``hung up'' so often. Anything that is going to hinder mobility is a problem (Ex. 5&hyph;20). Another commenter recommended that OSHA limit leg protection to just one leg for cutters (i.e., the leg in front that is used to maintain balance during cutting) (Ex. 5&hyph;65). However, this commenter also admitted that any chain-saw operator who is clearing brush needs to wear protection on both legs because the saw is continuously and perilously close to either leg at all times. Other commenters said leg protection should be limited because heat and humidity could increase worker fatigue or cause problems that might exceed the benefits of leg protection (Ex. 5&hyph;25, 5&hyph;26, 5&hyph;59, Tr. W2 206&hyph;07). For example, one commenter stated: OSHA proposes that employees are assigned duties that require an operator of a chain saw to wear ballistic nylon or equivalent protection that must cover each leg from the upper thigh to the boot top. This does not take into consideration the various temperature factors which could increase fatigue. Fatigue is a major cause of injuries. As stated, on Page 11802 [of the preamble to the proposed standard], Alabama and Georgia are states that are among the leaders in logging activities. Due to the high heat and humidity of these states, the requirement to wear ballistic nylon chaps could possibly increase injuries as a result of the fatigue caused by hot, humid summer weather (Tr. W2 206&hyph;07). Another comment added:
