FR940503-1-00003 FR940503-1-00001 Now, however, most mutual associations are healthy. While a relatively small number of capital deficient mutual associations undertake conversions primarily to recapitalize, most healthy mutual thrifts now convert for other reasons. These reasons include financing the expansion of their operations and taking advantage of the benefits available to a public company, such as the ability to establish stock benefit plans for management and employees. The OTS is aware that account holders and consumer groups recently have voiced significant concerns regarding the conversion of well-capitalized associations, particularly in light of the compensation and stock benefits that management typically receives in such transactions. Such groups also have expressed concerns regarding the proper deployment of conversion proceeds, i.e. , the extent to which the capital raised in such transactions should be used to support credit and loan programs and related services tailored to the community's credit needs. In addition, management of many well-capitalized converting associations recently have expressed concern to the OTS that their institutions do not need_or are unable efficiently to deploy_substantial amounts of the capital required to be raised under current regulations. 1 Managers of such associations also have voiced concern about the negative impact of what they view as ``excess capital'' on the price/earnings ratio of the converted association's stock. 1 The conversion regulations require that stock be sold in the amount of the converting association's pro forma market value. See 12 CFR 563b.7(f). The OTS is responding to these concerns by issuing an interim final regulation that, among other things, restricts management benefit plans and requires converting institutions to file with the OTS a business plan that adequately addresses the deployment of conversion proceeds. 2 The interim rule, which appears elsewhere in this issue of the Federal Register , solicits public comment on the conversion regulations, both as to the amendments adopted there and the issues on which comment is specifically sought, and as to any other current provisions of the conversion regulations as they relate to the interim rule. 2 See OTS Order No. 94&hyph;48. As noted in the interim final rule, a convenience and needs standard has not, to date, been applied to mutual stock conversions of savings associations. Similarly, a convenience and needs standard generally has not been applied to MHC stock offerings. 3 Upon review of this area, however, the OTS is proposing to apply a convenience and needs standard to these transactions for the reasons discussed below. 3 A convenience and needs standard is already being applied to mutual holding company reorganizations because these transactions require the OTS's approval under the Bank Merger Act (BMA). See 58 FR 44105 (August 19, 1993) (adopting part 575 governing mutual holding company reorganizations and related stock issuances). The BMA requires that the responsible agency consider the convenience and needs of the community to be served in acting on any BMA application. See 12 U.S.C. 1828(c)(5). Because mutual holding company reorganizations and stock issuances to date generally have been effected simultaneously as a two part transaction, the OTS has, as a practical matter, reviewed the entire transaction under a convenience and needs standard. First, the OTS has broad authority under sections 5(i)(1) and 5(i)(2) of the Home Owners' Loan Act (HOLA) to regulate mutual to stock conversions by savings associations, and under section 10(o)(7) of the HOLA to regulate mutual holding companies. 4 These authorities give the agency considerable discretion in reviewing a conversion application or MHC stock offering application. For example, the OTS has exercised this authority to determine whether a transaction is in the best interests of depositors, the association and the Savings Association Insurance Fund. 5 The OTS believes that inherent in this broad grant of authority is the ability to assess the impact of a proposed transaction on the convenience and needs of the communities to be served by a savings association. 4 See 12 U.S.C. 1464(i)(1), 1464(i)(2) and 1467a(o)(7). See also Charter Federal S. & L. Ass'n. v. Office of Thrift Supervision , 912 F.2d 1569 (11th Cir. 1990). 5 See Charter Federal; York v. Fed. Home Loan Bank Bd. , 624 F.2d 495 (4th Cir. 1980), cert. denied , 449 U.S. 1043 (1980). Second, section 4(a)(3) of the HOLA supports the adoption of the proposed regulations addressing housing credit needs. 6 Section 4(a)(3) of the HOLA provides that the Director ``shall exercise all powers granted to the Director under this chapter so as to encourage savings associations to provide credit for housing safely and soundly.'' The powers granted to the Director include the general regulatory authority under sections 5(i)(1), 5(i)(2), and 10(o)(7) of the HOLA mentioned above. Because savings associations are predominantly housing lenders, the admonition in section 4(a)(3) of the HOLA that the Director use his or her statutory powers to encourage savings associations to provide credit for housing provides a substantial additional basis for the Director to assess community needs when reviewing applications. 6 12 U.S.C. 1463(a)(3). Third, the OTS believes it is appropriate to apply a convenience and needs standard to conversion transactions and MHC stock offerings as a part of the OTS's responsibility to consider the ongoing CRA performance of savings associations. The CRA expresses Congress's judgment that regulated financial institutions must demonstrate that their deposit facilities serve the convenience and needs of the communities in which they are chartered to do business and that regulated financial institutions have continuing and affirmative obligations to help meet the credit needs of those local communities. 7 7 12 U.S.C. 2901.
