FR940930-1-00052 FR940930-1-00016 By contrast, if a vehicle is converted after the first sale to a consumer, different requirements apply. 49 U.S.C. 30122(b) provides that: A manufacturer, distributor, dealer, or motor vehicle repair business may not knowingly make inoperative any part of a device or element of design installed on or in a motor vehicle *␣*␣* in compliance with an applicable Federal motor vehicle safety standard. This includes a vehicle's fuel system. (The prohibition only applies to a converter which is functioning as a ``manufacturer, distributor, dealer, or motor vehicle repair business,'' not to an individual or to a commercial entity which converts a vehicle for its own purposes.) This provision differs from requirements before first sale in that the converter does not ``certify'' compliance with the standard, but instead must not ``knowingly make inoperative.'' Using the above example of conversion from gasoline to EV, if a converter after first sale to the consumer converted a gasoline-powered vehicle to an EV, and if NHTSA regulated electrolyte spillage for that model year vehicle, the converter need not certify compliance to the electrolyte spillage standard. However, the converter could not knowingly perform the conversion in such a way that the vehicle would fail to meet the requirements of the electrolyte spillage standard. If this standard was tested for compliance by means of crash tests, this might be impractical for converters. Therefore, for aftermarket conversions, NHTSA is exploring the promulgation of regulations which would define ``make inoperative'' in terms of design requirements as a surrogate for the FMVSS requirements. The penalty for noncompliance with Section 30122(b)'s make inoperative provision is $1000 per violation, up to a maximum of $800,000. In addition to Federal motor vehicle safety standards, NHTSA has the statutory authority to issue vehicle safety inspection standards which can serve as guidelines for those States which conduct safety inspection programs. The agency could issue such inspection standards for EVs, which a State could voluntarily use if it opts to conduct vehicle inspections for converted EVs. Thus, in this notice NHTSA seeks comments on a variety of possible approaches to address the potential safety hazards of EV battery electrolyte spillage and electric shock hazard. Among the possible options are: (1) Federal safety regulation for EVs and EVs converted before the first sale to a consumer. These would most likely be primarily performance oriented requirements, such as in FMVSS No. 301, Fuel System Integrity, which limits the amount of allowable fuel leakage for liquid fuels after a barrier crash and rollover test. Although the agency's goal in establishing safety standards is to have performance oriented requirements, the agency does have some latitude to establish design oriented requirements when necessary or more appropriate.
