FR941110-0-00222 FR941110-0-00016 As we reviewed all of the comments supporting a dispute resolution process, it became apparent that, while the words ``informal'' and ``formal'' were used to distinguish the type of process a specific commenter preferred, many commenters, regardless of which word was used, preferred the same process. The majority of those in favor of a dispute resolution process have asked that it be required by HCFA. Since many believe that a process can be required only through rulemaking, most commenters, therefore, prefer a regulatory process. We note that the Administrative Dispute Resolution Act of 1990 and the Executive Order 12778 of October 23, 1991, Civil Justice Reform (56 FR 55195), encourage, but do not direct dispute resolution, as some commenters have claimed. We are not accepting those comments proposing that we adopt a specific State's process on a national level, nor those suggesting that each State be permitted to design its own process in its entirety. While we have concluded that all States offer some opportunity to resolve disputes, we have no evidence that suggests that any particular State's process is more successful or effective than that of another State. However, we are accepting, with modification, the suggestion that HCFA adopt one process to be used by all States. Just as participation requirements and the survey and certification process for nursing homes are consistent from State to State, so should the opportunity for providers to challenge survey findings. In §488.331, we are requiring several core elements that all informal dispute resolution processes must include as a minimum: • The entity conducting the survey must offer nursing home providers the opportunity, if they request it, to refute survey findings beginning with their receipt of the official HCFA&hyph;2567 with which they disagree; • Providers must be able to advance their disagreements to survey agency or HCFA regional office officials, or both; • In no case, will dispute resolution delay the effective date of an enforcement action; • The dispute resolution process (whether or not it exceeds the minimum requirements specified in this final rule) must be available to providers, upon their request, in written form. HCFA regional offices provide dispute resolution to providers upon request, relative to Federal surveys. We believe that specific procedural requirements that determine the manner in which dispute resolution proceeds, for example, such things as how the request is made, the method by which the process is conducted, and who may participate in the process, should be left to the individual States. Upon the facility's request, the State will provide a written summary of that State's procedures relative to the informal dispute resolution process. Any attempt on our part to codify procedural aspects of dispute resolution that would be applicable to all States would limit States' as well as providers' flexibility in utilizing and refining the process, as necessary, to satisfy their needs. To allay commenters' fears that dispute resolution would stall the survey process and delay enforcement action, we are providing in §488.331 the opportunity for providers to dispute survey findings upon receipt of the official HCFA&hyph;2567 with which they disagree, while prohibiting challenges by providers from postponing or otherwise delaying the enforcement process. In no case will dispute resolution delay the effective date of an enforcement action. Thus, while it is our hope that dispute resolution procedures could be completed in all cases before the effective date of the enforcement action, we wish to make it clear that where the completion of these procedures does not occur by that time, this will not be grounds to either delay the enforcement action or give providers a right to challenge the inadequacy of these procedures. We believe that to have a process that would allow for enforcement to be deferred pending the scheduling and completion of this informal appeals process is far outweighed by the needs of residents to face a minimum of time during which they receive care that does not meet the requisite health and safety standards. We also believe that not delaying the effective date of the enforcement action until the conclusion of the dispute resolution process will encourage facilities to make the kind of swift corrections the Congress obviously intended when it enacted nursing home reform. If a provider is subsequently successful, during the dispute resolution process, at demonstrating that deficiencies should not have been cited, the deficiencies are removed from the HCFA&hyph;2567 and any enforcement actions that had been imposed as a result of those cited deficiencies are lifted.
