FR940414-2-00151 FR940414-2-00084 3. For a subsequent violation where the merchandise is not properly marked with the true country of origin, the claim should be cancelled upon payment of an amount equal to no less than 50 percent of the value of the merchandise. G. Quota/visa violative merchandise. 1. If the importer fails to redelivery visa-violative merchandise, but subsequent to the assessment of the claim produces a valid visa or visa waiver, cancel the claim upon payment of an amount between one and five percent of the value of the merchandise, but not less than $100, depending on the presence of aggravating or mitigating factors. 2. If no visa is ever produced, and it is a first-time violation, cancel the claim upon payment of an amount between 20 and 30 percent of the value of the merchandise, depending on the presence of aggravating or mitigating factors. 3. If no visa is ever produced, and it is a subsequent violation, cancel the claim upon payment of no less than 40 percent of the value of the merchandise. 4. If the importer fails to redeliver quota merchandise, and it is a first-time violation, cancel the claim upon payment of an amount between 25 and 50 percent of the value of the merchandise, depending on the presence of aggravating or mitigating circumstances. 5. For subsequent quota redelivery violations, cancel the claim upon payment of no less than 50 percent of the value of the merchandise. 6. For merchandise that is not redelivered which is subject to both quota and visa restrictions, follow guidelines for cancellation of claims relating to quota-violative merchandise. H. Copyright-violative merchandise. 1. If the importer fails to redeliver copyright-violative merchandise, but after assessment of liquidated damages receives a retroactive licensing of the merchandise from the copyright holder, cancel the claim upon payment of an amount between one and five percent of the value of the merchandise, but not less than $100. 2. If no authorization is received from the copyright holder, cancel a first-time violation upon payment of an amount between 20 and 50 percent of the value of the merchandise, depending on the presence of aggravating or mitigating factors. 3. For subsequent violations where no authorization of the copyright holder is received, cancel the claim upon payment of an amount equal to no less than 50 percent of the value of the merchandise. In order to receive any relief, extraordinary mitigating factors must be shown. I. Trademark-violative merchandise. 1. If the importer fails to redeliver trademark-violative merchandise, but after assessment of liquidated damages receives a retroactive licensing of the merchandise from the trademark holder, cancel the claim upon payment of an amount between one and five percent of the value of the merchandise, but not less than $100.
