FR940203-2-00115 FR940203-2-00068 (2) Describe the manner in which the Governor; the State educational agency; the State agency officials responsible for job training and employment, economic development and postsecondary education; and other appropriate officials, will collaborate in the implementation of the State School-to-Work Opportunities system; (3) Describe the manner in which the State has obtained and will continue to obtain the active and continued involvement in the statewide School-to-Work Opportunities system of employers and other interested parties such as locally elected officials, secondary and postsecondary educational institutions or agencies, business associations, employees, labor organizations or associations thereof, teachers, related services personnel, students, parents, community-based organizations, rehabilitation agencies and organizations, registered apprenticeship agencies, human services agencies, language minority communities, Private Industry Councils established under the Job Training Partnership Act, vocational student organizations, State or regional cooperative education associations, and local vocational educational agencies; (4) Describe the manner in which the School-to-Work Opportunities system will coordinate with or integrate local school-to-work programs, including programs financed from State and private sources with funds available from related Federal programs such as the Adult Education Act (20 U.S.C. 1201 et seq. ), the Carl D. Perkins Vocational and Applied Technology Education Act (20 U.S.C. 2301 et seq. ), the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 2701 et seq. ), the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1001 et seq. ), part F of title IV of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 681 et seq. ) (authorizing the Job Opportunity Basic Skills Training Program), the Goals 2000: Educate America Act, the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (20 U.S.C. 1400 et seq. ), the Job Training Partnership Act (29 U.S.C. 1501 et seq. ), the National Apprenticeship Act (29 U.S.C. 50 et seq. ), the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 701 et seq. ), and the National and Community Service Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12501 et seq. ); (5) Describe the State's strategy for providing training for teachers, employers, mentors, counselors, and other parties involved in the State's School-to-Work Opportunities System; (6) Describe the resources, including private sector resources, the State intends to employ in maintaining the State's School-to-Work Opportunities system when Federal School-to-Work Opportunities funds are no longer available; (7) Describe how the State will ensure effective and meaningful opportunities for all students to participate in School-to-Work Opportunities programs; (8) Describe the goals of the State and the methods the State will use, such as awareness and outreach, to ensure opportunities for young women to participate in School-to-Work Opportunities programs in a manner that leads to employment in high-performance, high-paying jobs, including non-traditional employment; (9) Describe how the State will ensure opportunities for low-achieving students, students with disabilities, and former students who have dropped out of school to participate in School-to-Work Opportunities programs in a manner that leads to employment in high-performance, high-paying jobs; (10) Describe the State's process for assessing the skills and knowledge required in career majors, and awarding skill certificates that take into account the work of the proposed National Skill Standards Board and the criteria established under the Goals 2000: Educate America Act; (11) Describe the performance standards that the State intends to meet; (12) Designate a fiscal agent to receive and be accountable for School-to-Work Opportunities funds awarded under the program; and (13) Describe how the State will stimulate and support local School-to-Work Opportunities programs that meet the requirements of this notice and how the State's system will be expanded over time to cover all geographic areas in the State, including those with high concentrations of poor and disadvantaged youth. General Program Requirements A School-to-Work Opportunities program under this priority must include the following common features and basic program components: (a) The basis of the School-to-Work Opportunities system is_
