FR940512-2-00068 FR940512-2-00052 Antitrust Division United States v. Electronic Payment Services, Inc.; Proposed Final Judgment and Competitive Impact Statement Notice is hereby given pursuant to the Antitrust Procedures and Penalties Act, 15 U.S.C. 16(b)&hyph;(h), that a proposed Stipulation, Final Judgment, and a Competitive Impact Statement have been filed in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware in United States of America v. Electronic Payment Services, Inc., Civ. No. 94&hyph;208. The Complaint alleges that the defendant, Electronic Payment Services, Inc. (``EPS''), the owner of the MAC automatic teller machine network, has forced MAC member institutions to purchase ATM processing from EPS and that this is a per se unlawful tying arrangement between regional ATM network access and ATM processing. The Complaint also alleges that the tying arrangement is a means by which EPS has maintained a monopoly in regional ATM network access in Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Delaware, West Virginia and New Hampshire, and in substantial portions of Ohio. The proposed Final Judgment enjoins EPS from requiring MAC members to purchase ATM processing from EPS, requires EPS to ensure that independent providers of ATM processing can obtain communication links to the MAC network, and enjoins EPS from forbidding MAC members to join other regional ATM networks. Public comment on the proposed Final Judgment is invited within the statutory 60-day comment period. Such comments and responses thereto will be published in the Federal Register and filed with the Court. Comments should be directed to Richard Rosen, Chief, Communications and Finance Section, room 8104, U.S. Department of Justice, Antitrust Division, 555 4th Street, NW., Washington, DC 20001. Constance K. Robinson, Director of Operations, Antitrust Division. Complaint The United States of America, by its attorneys, acting under the direction of the Attorney General of the United States, brings this civil action to obtain equitable and other relief against the defendant named herein and complains and alleges as follows: Nature of This Action 1. The United States brings this civil antitrust action to obtain permanent injunctive relief against an anticompetitive practice of defendant Electronic Payment Services, Inc. (``EPS'') that constitutes a tying arrangement that is per se unlawful under Sherman Act section 1, 15 U.S.C. 1, and that constitutes a means whereby EPS unlawfully has maintained a monopoly in access to regional automatic teller machine (``ATM'') networks in the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and the States of New Jersey, Delaware, West Virginia and New Hampshire, and in substantial portions of the State of Ohio (collectively the ``affected states''), all in violation of Sherman Act section 2, 15 U.S.C. 2. 2. EPS owns and operates the Money Access Service (``MAC'') ATM network, which has market power or monopoly power in the market for regional ATM network access in the affected states. EPS generally prohibits its customers_banks, savings and loan associations and credit unions (collectively ``banks'') that seek to make ATM network services available to their depositors_from obtaining ATM processing services (described at paragraph 6 below) from independent data processing firms who seek to compete for that business. Instead EPS requires MAC customers either to obtain those services from EPS or to provide them in-house, at a cost that is prohibitive for many smaller banks. 3. As more fully described below, EPS's tying practice not only serves to raise the cost to banks of processing services, but also prevents banks from participating in more than one regional ATM network. Defendant thereby has maintained its monopoly in the affected states. 4. The United States seeks a permanent injunction, pursuant to Sherman Act section 4, 15 U.S.C. 4, prohibiting EPS from refusing to allow its customers to obtain ATM processing from third party processors; requiring EPS to connect to those third party processors on nondiscriminatory terms; and other and further relief appropriate to remedy these violations.
