FR941213-2-00107 FR941213-2-00061 C. Family Impact The General Counsel, as the Designated Official for Executive Order 12606, the Family, has determined that the provisions of this NOFA do not have the potential for significant impact on family formation, maintenance and general well-being within the meaning of the Order. To the extent that the funding provided through this NOFA results in additional or improved housing, the effects on the family will be beneficial. D. Prohibition Against Lobbying Activities: The Byrd Amendment The use of funds awarded under this NOFA is subject to the disclosure requirements and prohibitions of section 319 of the Department of Interior and Related Agencies Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 1990 (31 U.S.C. 1352) and the implementing regulations at 24 CFR part 87. These authorities prohibit recipients of Federal contracts, grants, or loans from using appropriated funds for lobbying the Executive or Legislative Branches of the Federal Government in connection with a specific contract, grant, or loan. The prohibition also covers the awarding of contracts, grants, cooperative agreements, or loans unless the recipient has made an acceptable certification regarding lobbying. Under 24 CFR part 87, applicants, recipients, and subrecipients of assistance exceeding $100,000 must certify that no Federal funds have been or will be spent on lobbying activities in connection with the assistance. A certification is required, at the time the application for funds is made, that Federally appropriated funds are not being or have not been used in violation of section 319 and that disclosure will be made of payments for lobbying with other than Federally appropriated funds. Also, there is a standard disclosure form, SF-LLL, ``Disclosure Form to Report Lobbying,'' which must be used to disclose lobbying with other than Federally appropriated funds. E. Prohibition Against Lobbying of HUD Personnel Section 13 of the Department of Housing and Urban Development Act (42 U.S.C. 3537b) contains two provisions dealing with efforts to influence HUD's decisions with respect to financial assistance. The first imposes disclosure requirements on those who are typically involved in these efforts_those who pay others to influence the award of assistance or the taking of a management action by the Department and those who are paid to provide the influence. The second restricts the payment of fees to those who are paid to influence the award of HUD assistance, if the fees are tied to the number of housing units received or are based on the amount of assistance received, or if they are contingent upon the receipt of assistance. HUD's regulation implementing section 13 is codified at 24 CFR part 86. If readers are involved in any efforts to influence the Department in these ways, they are urged to read the final rule, particularly the examples contained in Appendix A of the rule. Appendix A of this rule contains examples of activities covered by this rule. Any questions concerning the rule should be directed to the Office of Ethics, Room 2158, Department of Housing and Urban Development, 451 Seventh Street, SW, Washington DC 20410. Telephone: (202) 708&hyph;3815 (voice/TDD). This is not a toll-free number. Forms necessary for compliance with the rule may be obtained from the local HUD office. F. Prohibition Against Advance Information on Funding Decisions Section 103 of the HUD Reform Act proscribes the communication of certain information by HUD employees to persons not authorized to receive that information during the selection process for the award of assistance. HUD's regulation implementing section 103 is codified at 24 CFR part 4. That regulation applies to the funding competition announced today. The requirements of the rule continue to apply until the announcement of the selection of successful applicants. HUD employees involved in the review of applications and in the making of funding decisions are restrained by 24 CFR part 4 from providing advance information to any person (other than an authorized employee of HUD) concerning funding decisions, or from otherwise giving any applicant an unfair competitive advantage. Persons who apply for assistance in this competition should confine their inquiries to the subject areas permitted by 24 CFR part 4. Applicants who have questions should contact the HUD Office of Ethics (202) 708&hyph;3815 (voice/TDD). (This is not a toll-free number.) The Office of Ethics can provide information of a general nature to HUD employees, as well. However, a HUD employee who has specific program questions, such as whether particular subject matter can be discussed with persons outside the Department, should contact his or her Regional or Field Office Counsel, or Headquarters Counsel for the program to which the question pertains. G. Accountability in the Provision of HUD Assistance HUD's regulations at 24 CFR part 12 implement section 102 of the HUD Reform Act. Section 102 contains a number of provisions designed to ensure greater accountability and integrity in the provision of certain types of assistance administered by HUD. The following requirements concerning documentation and public access disclosures are applicable to assistance awarded under this NOFA. 1. Documentation and public access. HUD will ensure that documentation and other information regarding each application submitted pursuant to this NOFA are sufficient to indicate the basis upon which assistance was provided or denied. This material, including any letters of support, will be made available for public inspection for a five-year period beginning not less than 30 days after the award of the assistance. Material will be made available in accordance with the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552) and HUD's implementing regulations at 24 CFR part 15. In addition, HUD will include the recipients of assistance pursuant to this NOFA in its quarterly Federal Register notice of all recipients of HUD assistance awarded on a competitive basis. (See 24 CFR 12.14(a) and 12.16(b), and the notice published in the Federal Register on January 16, 1992 (57 FR 1942), for further information on these requirements.) 2. Disclosures. HUD will make available to the public for five years all applicant disclosure reports (HUD Form 2880) submitted in connection with this NOFA. Update reports (also Form 2880) will be made available along with the applicant disclosure reports, but in no case for a period of less than three years. All reports_both applicant disclosures and updates_will be made available in accordance with the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552) and HUD's implementing regulations at 24 CFR part 15. (See 24 CFR part 12, subpart C, and the notice published in the Federal Register on January 16, 1992 (57 FR 1942), for further information on these disclosure requirements.) [FR Doc. 94&hyph;30569 Filed 12&hyph;12&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4210&hyph;33&hyph;P
