FR940110-1-00058 FR940110-1-00006 (3) Increase in household income or sale of project before end of required long-term period. (i) Increase in household income. Section 960.5(a)(2) of the proposed rule provides that all households occupying a rental housing unit subject to the income-targeting requirement of paragraph (a)(1) of this section must satisfy the income-eligibility requirement applicable to such income-targeted unit, as committed to in the AHP application, upon initial occupancy. The household may continue to occupy the income-targeted unit even if its income increases above the income-eligibility requirement for such unit. The unit may continue to count toward meeting the income-targeting requirement committed to in the AHP application, provided the rent charged remains affordable to the household as defined in proposed ยง960.1 (as further discussed below). However, if the household's income rises above 140 percent of the income-targeting level committed to in the AHP application, the sponsor must make the next available rental housing unit in the project affordable to and available for occupancy by a household whose income is at or below the income-targeting level committed to in the AHP application for the original unit. Once the next available rental housing unit is so occupied, the rent charged on the unit occupied by the household whose income has risen shall no longer be subject to the requirement that it be affordable for households at the income-targeting level committed to in the AHP application. This approach is consistent with the approach followed in the LIHTC program. Under the LIHTC program, a unit is in compliance with the occupancy requirements until the tenant's income has risen to 140 percent of the qualifying income. See 26 U.S.C. ยง42(g)(2)(D)(i). The next available unit must then be rented to an income-eligible tenant at an affordable rent. See id. Section 42(g)(2)(D)(ii). This approach allows the household to achieve stability by allowing increases in income without fear of displacement or increased rents. In addition, it does not cause destabilization of the project's cash flow by having the project sponsor provide additional income-eligible units with reduced rents that may reduce the income of the project. It also would be consistent with the treatment of rents under the AHP's 20 percent requirement (also known as the maximum subsidy rule), which is currently an interim rule of the Board, and which is incorporated in ยง960.9(c) of this proposed rule. (See discussion of 20 percent requirement below.) Section 960.1 of the proposed rule defines ``affordable for very low-income households'' to mean: (1) For purposes of rental housing units, that rents, including reasonable utility costs, charged to households for such units do not exceed 30 percent of the income of a household (assuming a household size of 1.5 persons per bedroom or 1.0 person per unit without a separate bedroom) which has an income of 50 percent of the median income for the area, as adjusted and published by HUD, except that in areas where the Secretary adjusts this income figure downward because of prevailing construction costs, low housing costs, or unusually high household incomes, then ``affordable for very low-income households'' means that rents, including reasonable utility costs, charged to households for such units do not exceed 30 percent of the income of a household which has an income of 50 percent of the median income for the area, as published by HUD, with adjustment for household size, but without the adjustments made by the Secretary for prevailing construction costs, low housing costs, or unusually high household incomes; (2) If a rental unit is targeted to a household whose income is less than 50 percent of the median income for the area, then ``affordable for very low-income households'' means that the rent, including reasonable utility costs, charged to a household for such unit does not exceed 30 percent of the maximum qualifying income of the targeted households of the size expected to occupy the unit. This proposed definition implements section 10(j)(13)(D) of the Act, which defines ``affordable for very low-income households'' to mean that rents charged to tenants for units made available for occupancy by low-income families shall not exceed 30 percent of the adjusted income of a family whose income equals 50 percent of the income for the area (as determined by the Secretary of HUD) with adjustment for family size. 12 U.S.C. 1430(j)(13)(D). Section 960.1(b) of the Board's existing AHP regulation contains a definition of the term that is similar to the statutory definition. See 12 CFR 960.1(b).
