FR940930-2-00002 FR940930-2-00001 DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE Office of the Secretary Provincial Interagency Executive Committees (PIEC) Advisory Committees AGENCY: Office of the Secretary, USDA. ACTION: Notice of intent to establish a Federal Advisory Committee. SUMMARY: In response to the need of the United States Department of Agriculture and the United States Department of the Interior for advice on coordination and implementation of the Record of Decision of April 13, 1994 for management of habitat for late-successional and old-growth forest related species within the range of the Northern Spotted Owl, the Departments have agreed to establish twelve advisory committees. The purpose of the Advisory Committees is to provide advice on coordinating the implementation of the Record of Decision. The Advisory Committees will provide advice and recommendations to promote better integration of forest management activities among Federal and non-Federal entities to ensure that such activities are complementary. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Susan Yonts-Shepard, Staff Assistant for National Forest System Operations, Forest Service, USDA, (202) 205&hyph;1519. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Pursuant to the Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.), notice is hereby given that the United States Department of Agriculture in consultation with the Department of the Interior intends to establish twelve Advisory Committees to the Provincial Interagency Executive Committees (PIECs) The purpose of the PIECs is to facilitate the coordinated implementation of the Record of Decision (ROD) of April 13, 1994. The PIECs consist of representatives of some or all of the following Federal Agencies; the Forest Service, Bureau of Land Management, Fish and Wildlife Service, National Marine Fisheries Service, National Park Service, Bureau of Indian Affairs, and Environmental Protection Agency. The purpose of the PIEC Advisory Committees is to advise the PIECs on coordinating the implementation of the ROD. Each PIEC Advisory Committee also will provide advice regarding implementation of a comprehensive ecosystem management strategy for Federal land within a province (provinces are defined in the ROD at E&hyph;19). The PIEC Advisory Committees will provide advice and recommendations to promote better integration of forest management activities among Federal and non-Federal entities to ensure that such activities are complementary. The PIEC Advisory Committees are necessary and in the public interest in connection with the duties and responsibilities of the United States Department of Agriculture and of the United States Department of the Interior. The ROD provides direction to the Forest Service and the Bureau of Land Management for developing an ecosystem management approach that is consistent with statutory authority for land use planning. Ecosystem management at the province level requires improved coordination among governmental entities responsible for land management decisions and the public they serve. The Chairperson of each PIEC Advisory Committee will alternate annually between the Forest Service representative and the Bureau of Land Management representative in provinces where both agencies administer land. When the Bureau of Land Management is not represented on the PIEC, the Forest Service representative will serve as Chairperson. The Chairperson will serve as the Executive Secretary and as the designated Federal official under sections 10 (e) and (f) of the Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. APP.). Appointments to the PIEC Advisory Committees will be made by the Regional Forester, Pacific Northwest Region after consultation with the State Director, Bureau of Land Management, Oregon State Office, when appropriate (in provinces where the Bureau of Land Management administers land), and the Regional Interagency Executive Committee. The Regional Forester, Pacific Northwest Region, also shall consult with the Regional Forester, Pacific Southwest Region, when appropriate. The Bureau of Land Management State Director, Oregon State Office, shall consult with the Bureau of Land Management State Director, California State Office, when appropriate. The action of establishing the Advisory Committees does not require amendment of Bureau of Land Management (BLM) and Forest Service planning documents because these explanatory statements that appear in the ROD (Attachment A, E&hyph;17) are not standards and guidelines or land allocations, which would require an amendment process to change. The BLM and Forest Service will provide further notices, as needed, for additional actions or adjustments when implementing interagency coordination, public involvement, and other aspects of the ROD. Equal opportunity practices will be followed in all appointments to the Advisory Committee. To ensure that the recommendations of the Advisory Committee have taken into account the needs of the diverse groups served by the Departments, membership should include individuals with demonstrated ability to represent minorities, women, and persons with disabilities. Dated: September 8, 1994. Wardell C. Townsend, Assistant Secretary for Administration. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;24172 Filed 9&hyph;29&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3410&hyph;11&hyph;M
