FR940404-2-00028 FR940404-2-00020 Federal Energy Regulatory Commission [Project No 1999&hyph;WI] Wisconsin Public Service Corp.; Environmental Impact Statement Scoping March 29, 1994. The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (Commission) has received an application for a new license for the Wausau Project No. 1999 on the Wisconsin River in Marathon County, Wisconsin. The Commission has determined that due to the Wausau Project's proximity to nine other Wisconsin River hydroelectric projects, and the similar filing time of their license applications, Wausau will be incorporated in the Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) currently being prepared for those nine projects. This multiproject EIS was noticed in the Federal Register on May 6, 1993, and includes; Wisconsin Valley Project No. 2113, Rothschild Project No. 2212, Kings Dam Project No. 2239, Centralia Project No. 2255, Wisconsin Rapids Project No. 2256, Port Edwards Project No. 2291, Nekoosa Project No. 2292, Jersey Project No. 2476, and Wisconsin River Division Project No. 2590. The Commission is conducting scoping for the Wausau Project to identify any significant issues related to the continued operation of this project. You are invited to send your written scoping comments on the Wausau Project to the Commission (see below). Staff will review all issues raised in the scoping process. Comments for the Wausau Project will be integrated with those received for the ongoing Wisconsin River Basin EIS. A public scoping meeting will not be held for the Wausau project, and a separate scoping document (beyond this notice) will not be prepared for Wausau. The Commission previously conducted 3 public scoping meetings (the week of July 12, 1993) and issued scoping documents (Scoping Document 1 in June 1993, Scoping Document 2 in September 1993, and Supplement to Scoping Document 2 in October 1993) for the ongoing Wisconsin River Basin nine-project EIS. Proposed Action The Applicant proposes no new construction or increases in hydroelectric capacity for the Wausau Project. The Applicant proposes only a minor change in project operations. A 25 cubic feet per second (cfs) minimum flow through a kayak channel is proposed to enhance recreation and aesthetics. The project would continue to be operated in a run-of-river mode and maintain headpond levels on a daily basis within +/^ 0.3 feet of normal headpond elevation. The Applicant would continue a 0.5 feet drawdown during the winter to prevent water from splashing over the Taintor gates and forming ice on the braces. The Applicant would provide a new barrier-free fishing area for the public. Project Alternatives The Commission Staff (Staff) will consider alternatives, including enhancement measures not proposed by the Applicant. The Staff will review and consider alternative recommendations for additional resource protection, or enhancement measures that may be appropriate to include in a new license. Modifications could include recommendations by the agencies, the general public, and the Staff. In addition to these alternatives, Staff will evaluate the no-action alternative, which maintains the existing environment or status quo at the projects. Under this alternative the projects would continue to operate as required by the original license on an annual license basis, and no enhancement measures would be provided. We use this alternative to set baseline environmental conditions for comparison with other alternatives. Scope of the Environmental Impact Statement The geographic scope of analysis defines the physical limits or boundaries of the proposed actions' effects on the resources. Since the proposed actions affect each resource differently, the geographic scope for each resource varies. For fishery resources, flow analysis, water quality, flood control, and power, the geographic scope of analysis will encompass the main stem Wisconsin River. The temporal scope includes a discussion of the past, present, and future actions and their effects on the resources. Based on the license term, the temporal scope will look 30 to 50 years into the future, concentrating on the effect on the resource from reasonably foreseeable future actions (e.g., the effect on water quality from potential future water withdrawals within the basin). The historical discussion will, by necessity, be limited to the amount of available information for each resource. Environmental Issues A preliminary list of environmental issues identified by the Staff for coverage in the EIS is presented in this section. The list is not intended to be exhaustive or final, but is an initial listing of issues that have been raised and appear to be important. The staff will review all issues raised during the scoping process and make decisions as to the level of analysis needed. If preliminary analysis indicates that any issues presented in this scoping document have little potential for causing significant impacts, the issue or issues will be identified and the reasons for not providing a more detailed analysis will be given. The following issues apply to the Wausau Project: •Reservoir water level fluctuation and drawdown limitations and their effect on fish habitat, riparian wetlands, wildlife, cultural resources, recreation, and shoreline development. •Minimum flow needs for protection or enhancement of recreation, water quality, and the riverine fishery. •Fish passage needs at the dam. Fishery protection and enhancement measures related to turbine entrainment and fish mortality. •Effects of project operation on vegetation and wildlife resources. •Impacts of project structures on visual resources and potential for enhancements. •Opportunities for recreational facility improvements and public access enhancements. The EIS will assess the project-specific impacts on the above resources and whether these impacts contribute to significant adverse impacts. Both project-specific impacts and cumulative effects will weigh in selecting an action to recommend for the licensing decision on the projects. EIS Preparation Schedule The preliminary schedule for preparing the EIS for the Wausau Hydroelectric Projects is: ␣ 1Milestones 1Target date Public scoping Early spring 1994. Draft EIS Late summer 1994. Final EIS Winter 1995. Request for Comments The Commission's scoping objectives are to: •Identify significant environmental issues,
