FR940928-0-00063 FR940928-0-00020 As announced in the Federal Register on July 13, there will be two final FY 1995 FMR publications. Today's notice makes effective final FMRs for all areas on October 1, 1994. The FMRs in this notice are based on the proposed FMRs included in the June 23 notice for all areas except eight with RDD and AHS surveys that will have proposed reductions in their FMRs postponed pending the outcome of the review of comments submitted (see AHS and RDD surveys). A second publication later this year will announce revised final FMRs for the areas for which HUD makes a determination that the rental housing surveys submitted as public comments provided a sufficient basis for such revision. EFFECTIVE DATE: The FMRs published in this notice are effective on October 1, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Shirley C. Stone, Rental Assistance Division, Office of Elderly and Assisted Housing, telephone (202) 708&hyph;0477. (TDD: (202) 708&hyph;0850). For technical information on the development of schedules for specific areas or the method used for the rent calculations, contact Michael R. Allard, Economic and Market Analysis Division, Office of Economic Affairs, telephone (202) 708&hyph;0577 (TDD: (202) 708&hyph;0770). (These are not toll-free numbers.) SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Section 8 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (the Act) (42 U.S.C. 1437f) authorizes housing assistance to aid lower income families in renting decent, safe, and sanitary housing. Assistance payments are limited by FMRs established by HUD for different areas. In general, the FMR for an area is the amount that would be needed to pay the gross rent (shelter rent plus utilities) of privately owned, decent, safe, and sanitary rental housing of a modest (non-luxury) nature with suitable amenities. Method Used to Develop FMRs FMR Standard: The FMRs are gross rent estimates; they include shelter rent and the cost of utilities, except telephone. HUD sets FMRs to assure that a sufficient supply of rental housing is available to program participants. To accomplish this objective, FMRs must be both high enough to permit a selection of units and neighborhoods and low enough to serve as many families as possible. The level at which FMRs are set is expressed as a percentile point within the rent distribution of standard quality rental housing units. The current definition used is the 45th percentile rent, the dollar amount below which 45 percent of the standard quality rental housing units rent. The 45th percentile rent is drawn from the distribution of rents of units which are occupied by recent movers (renter households who moved into their unit within the past 15 months). Public housing units and newly built units less than two years old are excluded. Data Sources: HUD used the most accurate and current data available to develop the FMR estimates. Three sources of survey data were used for the base-year estimates. They are: (1) The 1990 Census; (2) RDD telephone surveys conducted of individual FMR areas since the 1990 Census; and (3) the post-1990 Census American Housing Surveys (AHSs) available at the time the FMR estimates were prepared. The base-year FMRs were then updated using Consumer Price Index (CPI) data for rents and utilities or the HUD regional rent change factors developed from RDD surveys. Annual average CPI data are available individually for 103 metropolitan FMR areas. RDD Regional rent change factors are developed annually for the metropolitan and nonmetropolitan parts of each of the 10 HUD regions (a total of 20 separate factors). The RDD factors are used to update the base year estimates for all FMR areas that do not have their own local CPI survey. The decennial Census provides statistically reliable rent data for use in establishing base-year FMRs. AHSs are conducted by the Bureau of the Census for HUD and have accuracy comparable to the decennial Census. These surveys enable HUD to develop between-census revisions for the largest metropolitan areas on a revolving schedule. The RDD telephone survey technique is based on a sampling procedure that uses computers to select random samples of rental housing, dial and keep track of the telephone numbers and tabulate the responses. Manufactured Home Space FMRs: The final manufactured home space FMRs are established at 30 percent of the applicable Section 8 Rental Certificate program two-bedroom FMR. HUD accepts public comments requesting modifications of manufactured home space FMRs. To be accepted for approval, such comments must contain statistically valid survey data that show the 45th percentile space rent (excluding the cost of utilities) for the FMR area. This program uses the same FMR area definitions as the Section 8 Rental Certificate program. All manufactured home space FMR revisions approved will be published as final FMRs in Schedule D. In addition HUD has retained all of the modifications approved since 1990 because they are based on recent survey data that HUD had determined to be valid. New Metropolitan Area This publication makes final the FMRs for the newly designated Hattiesburg, Mississippi Metropolitan Statistical Area (MSA), which was defined by OMB on July 1, 1994 (OMB Bulletin 94&hyph;07) to include Forrest and Lamar Counties. HUD has determined that the new metropolitan area definition is appropriate for use as an FMR area definition. AHS and RDD Surveys The eight areas identified in the proposed FMR notice with reduced FMRs resulting from RDD and AHS surveys will continue to use the FY 1994 FMRs, which are republished in this notice. Final FY 1995 FMRs for these areas, including any revisions resulting from public comments, will be included in the second publication later this year. The eight areas are: RDD AREAS Gage County, NE Holmes County, FL Jamestown, NY, MSA Las Cruces, NM, MSA Reading, PA, MSA Washington County, FL AHS AREAS Memphis, TN&hyph;AR&hyph;MS, MSA Oklahoma City, OK, MSA
