FR941006-0-00005 FR941006-0-00003 Section 8601.102␣Prior Approval for Outside Employment 5 CFR 2635.803 authorizes individual agencies to issue supplemental regulations to require agency employees to obtain prior approval before engaging in outside employment, with or without compensation. The Board has long had a prior approval requirement to ensure that any problems relating to an employee's outside employment are resolved before an employee begins such an undertaking. Section 8601.102 continues that prior approval requirement, but differs from the old Board requirement because it contains a definition of employment that clarifies the circumstances under which prior approval must be obtained. The outside employment must be approved by the employee's office director. In the written request, the employee is required to describe the organizations, duties, hours of work, and remuneration pertaining to the outside employment. An employee must submit the written request through his or her immediate supervisor, unless the immediate supervisor is the employee's office director. In addition to approval by the employee's office director, if the outside employment involves teaching, speaking, or writing that relates to the employee's official duties, the employee must also obtain the advance written approval of the Executive Director of the Board. The Executive Director may approve or disapprove such outside employment, or may permit the performance of the teaching, speaking, or writing as an official duty (for which no compensation may be received). This requirement does not apply to teaching, speaking, or writing that relates to the purely private interests of the employee that are nonwork-related. III. Repeal of Board Standards of Conduct Regulations Because the Board's retained Standards of Conduct at 5 CFR part 1633 are superseded by the supplemental regulations contained in new 5 CFR part 8601, the Board is repealing all of existing 5 CFR part 1633. To ensure that employees are on notice of the ethical standards to which they are subject, the Board is replacing its old standards at 5 CFR part 1633 with a provision that cross-references 5 CFR parts 2634 and 2635 and the Board's new supplemental regulations at 5 CFR part 8601. IV. Matters of Regulatory Procedure Administrative Procedure Act The Board has found that good cause exists under 5 U.S.C. 553(b) and (d)(3) for waiving, as unnecessary and contrary to the public interest, the general notice of proposed rulemaking and the 30-day delay in effectiveness as to these rules and repeals. The supplemental regulations are essentially a restatement of rules previously contained in the standards of conduct, and the Board believes that it is important to a smooth transition from the Board's standards of conduct to the executive branch standards that these rules become effective as soon as possible. Furthermore, this rulemaking is related to the Board's organization, procedure and practice. Regulatory Flexibility Act The Board has determined under the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. chapter 6) that these regulations will not have a significant impact on small business entities because they affect only Board employees. Paperwork Reduction Act The Board has determined that the Paperwork Reduction Act (44 U.S.C. chapter 35) does not apply because these regulations do not contain any information collection requirements that require the approval of the Office of Management and Budget.
