FR941216-1-00162 FR941216-1-00013 DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION Coast Guard 33 CFR Part 100 [CGD11&hyph;94&hyph;010] RIN 2115&hyph;AE46 Special Local Regulations; Citizen Cup Defender Semi-Final and Final Series, Louis Vuitton Cup Challenger Semi-Final and Final Series, and America's Cup Match Races; San Diego Bay and Mission Bay, CA AGENCY: Coast Guard, DOT. ACTION: Notice of proposed rulemaking. SUMMARY: The Coast Guard proposes to adopt temporary special local regulations for those portions of the International America's Cup Class (IACC) Citizen Cup Defender Semi-Final and Final Series, Louis Vuitton Cup Challenger Semi-Final and Final Series, and America's Cup Match Races that are being conducted in the waters of the Pacific Ocean adjacent to San Diego Bay and Mission Bay on the following dates: March 18, 1995 through April 2, 1995; April 9, 1995 through April 23, 1995; and May 6, 1995 through May 27, 1995, inclusive. These regulations are necessary to provide for the safety of life, property, and navigation on the navigable waters of the United States during the scheduled events. DATES: Comments should be received on or before January 30, 1995. ADDRESSES: Comments may be mailed to Lieutenant Cam Lewis, USCG America's Cup Patrol, Naval Training Center, Building 302, San Diego, California 92133&hyph;5000, Attn: CGD11&hyph;94&hyph;010, or may be delivered to the same address between 9 a.m. and 3 p.m., Monday through Friday, except federal holidays. The Eleventh Coast Guard District Commander maintains the public docket for this rulemaking. Comments will become part of this docket and will be available for inspection or copying at the Eleventh Coast Guard District Office, Operations Division, 501 West Ocean Boulevard, Suite 6200, Long Beach, California 90822&hyph;5399. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Lieutenant Cam Lewis, America's Cup Patrol; telephone number (619) 557&hyph;2920. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Request for Comments The Coast Guard encourages interested persons to participate in this rulemaking by submitting written data, views, or arguments. Persons submitting comments should include their name and address, identify this notice (CGD11&hyph;94&hyph;010), the specific section of the proposal to which their comments apply, and give the reason for each comment. Persons wanting acknowledgment of receipt of comments should enclose a stamped, self-addressed postcard or envelope. A public comment period of only 45 days is necessary in order to permit publication of a final rule at least 30 days prior to commencement of the effective period, yet still allow opportunity for submission and consideration of comments from the public. The Coast Guard will consider all comments received during the comment period. It may change this proposal in view of the comments. The Coast Guard plans no public hearing. Persons may request a public hearing by writing to the Project Officer at the address under ADDRESSES . If it is determined that the opportunity for oral presentations will aid this rulemaking, the Coast Guard will hold a public hearing at a time and place announced by a later notice in the Federal Register . Drafting Information The principal persons involved in drafting this document are Lieutenant Cam Lewis, Project Officer for the Patrol Commander, and Lieutenant Commander Craig Juckniess, Project Attorney, Eleventh Coast Guard District Legal Office. Discussion of Proposed Regulation The event prompting a need for these proposed Special Local Regulations is the IACC Citizen Cup and Louis Vuitton Cup Semi-Finals and Finals, and the America's Cup Match Races which will be conducted in the San Diego area on several series of dates during the period mid-March through May 1995. In addition, races in the Citizen Cup Defender Selection Series and Louis Vuitton Cup Challenger Selection Series will be held on several series of dates during the period January through mid-March 1995; Special Local Regulations establishing measures promoting the safety of these races are the subject of separate rulemaking (CGD11&hyph;94&hyph;009). These proposed regulations are intended to promote safe navigation on the waters of the San Diego Bay, Mission Bay and the IACC race venue during the IACC Citizen Cup, Louis Vuitton Cup, and America's Cut Match Races by controlling the traffic entering, exiting, and traveling within these waters. The anticipated concentration of spectator and participant vessels associated with these races poses a safety concern, which is addressed in these special local regulations.
