FR940328-2-00005 FR940328-2-00004 Forest Service Suitability Study for a Portion of the North Fork of the Clearwater River, Kelly Creek, and Cayuse Creek Being Considered for National Wild & Scenic River Status; Clearwater National Forest; Clearwater & Idaho Counties, ID AGENCY: Forest Service, USDA. ACTION: Notice of intent to prepare a legislative environmental impact statement. SUMMARY: The Forest Service, USDA, will prepare a draft and final legislative Impact Statement (LEIS) associated with a study of the suitability of a portion of the North Fork of the Clearwater River, Kelly Creek, and Cayuse Creek in the Clearwater National Forest in Idaho for inclusion in the National Wild and Scenic River System. The three streams were found eligible for consideration as Wild and Scenic Rivers in the 1987 Clearwater National Forest Land and Resource Management Plan (Forest Plan). All three streams are found within the boundaries of the Clearwater National Forest. The agency invites written comments and suggestions on the suitability of these rivers. In addition, the agency gives notice of the environmental analysis and decision-making process associated with the study so that interested and affected people are aware of how they may participate and contribute to the decision. DATES: Comments on the scope of the study should be received by May 15, 1994. ADDRESSES: Send written comments to James Caswell, Forest Supervisor, Clearwater National Forest, 12730 Highway 12, Orofino, Idaho 83544. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Direct questions about the proposed study and EIS to Brian Hensley, River Study Team Leader, North Fork Ranger District, Clearwater National Forest, P.O. 2139, Orofino, Idaho 83544, phone (208) 476&hyph;3775. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Clearwater National Forest Land and Resource Management Plan was approved in 1987. Segments of the North Fork of the Clearwater River, Kelly Creek, and Cayuse Creek were identified as eligible for inclusion in the National Wild & Scenic Rivers System as part of the planning process, but were not studied for their suitability at that time. The decision to be made, based upon the environmental impact statement, is whether or not to recommend any or all of the above mentioned rivers for designation and inclusion in the National Wild & Scenic Rivers System. The Forest Plan will be amended accordingly. The area of consideration for each of the rivers is a corridor a minimum of 1/4 mile in width from each stream bank for the length of the eligible river segments. The eligible segment of the North Fork of the Clearwater River is a 60-mile stretch flowing from the Road No. 250 bridge crossing (Section 6, Township 40 North, Range 11 East, Boise Meridian) downstream to the beginning of slack water in Dworshak Reservoir (Section 34, Township 41 North, Range 6 East, Boise Meridian).
