FR940418-2-00022 FR940418-2-00005 Comment 4 Petitioners argue that the scope of operations of the various entities that produce(d) electrical steel ( i.e., Terni, TAS, and the Specialty Steels Division of ILVA) has changed significantly over the years as a result of a series of restructurings. Petitioners argue that since TAS was created during the 1987 restructuring out of the assets of Terni, I.A.I. and Terninoss, Terni between 1978 and 1986 was not the same as the Specialty Steels Division of ILVA after 1989, which includes the assets of I.A.I. and Terninoss. According to petitioners, the Department must use a denominator which represents the ability to generate sales at the time a subsidy was given. According to petitioners, the significant difference between 1986 sales of Terni and 1992 sales of ILVA's Specialty Steels Division indicates that these two entities are similar in name only. Petitioners note that, in cases involving a merger, it is the Department's practice to perform a ``tying analysis'' in order to measure the benefits to the entity originally receiving the subsidy. Petitioners argue that since the 1987 restructuring of Terni cannot be separated from the overall Finsider restructuring, the Department, as it did in the preliminary determination of Certain Steel from Italy, should adjust ILVA's sales denominator in order to ``reflect steel activities prior its restructuring.'' According to petitioners, the Department should use the sales of ILVA's Specialty Steels Divisions Terni plant (plus its share of intercompany sales) as the denominator for Terni-specific loans and grants, thereby excluding the stainless steel activities of ILVA's Specialty Steels Division. Respondents argue that, since Terni's stainless steel producing subsidiaries (I.A.I. and Terninoss), and other Terni assets were merely merged into a new entity, TAS, which subsequently became the Specialty Steels Division of ILVA, the restructurings did not dramatically alter the entity producing the subject merchandise. As such, according to respondents, the Department should reject suggestions that stainless steel sales be subtracted from the denominator. Respondents further argue that the difference between Terni sales in 1986 and ILVA's Specialty Steels Division sales in 1992 can be explained by increased activity in areas whose production capability was enhanced pursuant to restructuring. Moreover, respondents argue that a company's sales cannot be expected to remain ``static'' as petitioners suggest. Finally, respondents also argue that, according to the Department's ``pass-through'' methodology, the Department should find that the price paid by TAS for I.A.I. and Terninoss represented the exchange of one ``subsidized'' asset for another asset. DOC Position We disagree with petitioners that the 1987 restructuring was so fundamental that a comparison cannot be made between Terni and the Specialty Steels Division of ILVA. We believe that it is incorrect to characterize the merger of I.A.I. and Terninoss into TAS as the introduction of unrelated assets to the producer of the subject merchandise. Since I.A.I. and Terninoss were both subsidiaries of Terni prior to the 1987 restructuring, we find no reason to eliminate stainless steel sales from the Terni-specific denominator. We do not disagree with petitioners that ILVA's sales have to be adjusted to properly measure subsidies given to Terni/TAS. As noted by petitioners, in Certain Steel from Italy the Department adjusted ILVA sales to calculate subsidy margins for benefits accruing to Italsider and/or Nuova Italsider. To accomplish the same results in this investigation, we have used the sales of the Specialty Steels Division of ILVA to calculate the subsidy margin for Terni-specific benefits, rather than the sales of ILVA. Finally, we agree with respondents that a company's sales cannot be expected to remain the same over time; i.e., a comparison of nominal sales values separated by six years does not take into consideration inflation or the internal economies of scale resulting from restructuring. Comment 5 Petitioners state that the Department did not use the highest interest rate on the record of the investigation for calculating the benchmark in its preliminary determination. Petitioners note that the IMF interest rates that it submitted in the petition are higher in some instances than the interest rate used by the Department. The GOI, on the other hand, argues that petitioners' suggestion that the Department use the Italian ``lending rate,'' as provided by the IMF, should be rejected since this is a short-term interest rate. Therefore, according to the GOI, this interest rate should not be considered representative of the highest long-term interest rate in Italy. Respondents state that the Department, as it did in the final determination of Certain Steel, correctly used the reference rate provided by the Bank of Italy to calculate benchmark rates.
