FR940323-1-00025 FR940323-1-00005 (3) Be determined by the State agency to be capable of making presumptive eligibility determinations on the basis of preliminary information on family income; and (4) Meet one of the following conditions: _Be receiving funding from the migrant health centers or community health centers programs under sections 329, 330, or 340 of the Public Health Service Act; funding from the maternal and child health services block grant program under title V of the Social Security Act; or funding under title V of the Indian Health Care Improvement Act. _Be participating in the Special Supplemental Food Program for Women, Infants, and Children established under section 17 of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966, or in the Commodity Supplemental Food Program established under section 4(a) of the Agriculture and Consumer Protection Act of 1973. _Be participating in a State perinatal program. _Be the Indian Health Service or a health program or facility operated by a tribe or tribal organization under the Indian Self-Determination Act (Pub. L. 93&hyph;638). All providers who meet the criteria listed above must be considered qualified providers. Therefore, if a State determines that a provider is not capable of making presumptive eligibility determinations for pregnant women, that provider would not be considered ``qualified'' to make these determinations. We would permit States to exclude a provider that is qualified only under very narrow circumstances; that is, if a State can demonstrate that there is good cause to exclude the provider. In addition, we wish to give States maximum flexibility in meeting the needs of pregnant women and, therefore, propose to allow States to determine whether a program is a ``State perinatal program.'' In interpreting the provisions of section 1920(b), we would require States to provide qualified providers with proper screening forms for pregnant women to request a decision of presumptive eligibility. We also would require the States to provide instructions to qualified providers on how to apply the gross income criteria under the various eligibility groups under the State's approved Medicaid plan and how to determine the highest income criteria group under which the pregnant woman is most likely to be eligible if she applies for regular Medicaid. We are not prescribing the specific content and format of the screening forms or instructions. However, we expect State instructions to be in enough detail to allow a qualified provider (based on preliminary information provided by a pregnant woman) to make reasonably accurate income eligibility determinations. In accordance with section 1920(c)(1), we would require State agencies to furnish qualified providers with regular Medicaid application forms and train them to assist pregnant women who wish to apply in completing and filing these forms. As provided by section 1920(c)(3) of the Act as amended by section 4605 of OBRA '90, the application provided may be an application developed by the State for use by pregnant women who wish to apply as low-income pregnant women described in section 1902(l)(1)(A) of the Act. Section 1920(c)(3) of the Act seems to contemplate an application for regular Medicaid that is separate from the screening form for presumptive eligibility for ambulatory prenatal care. We believe the presumptive eligibility screening form and the regular Medicaid application can be combined. However, pregnant women cannot be required to provide all of the information necessary for a full-scale Medicaid application when applying for only presumptive eligibility. If the forms are combined, a State agency can offer the pregnant woman the option to complete the entire application but cannot require that she do so in order to establish presumptive eligibility. A qualified provider must make a presumptive eligibility determination once a pregnant woman has provided information about her family income and cannot require additional information. A presumptive eligibility screening form alone cannot be used to establish a filing date for a regular Medicaid application. If a combined presumptive eligibility screening form and Medicaid application is used and the woman chooses to complete the entire application, the completed application form must be forwarded promptly to the appropriate State agency for a decision on regular Medicaid eligibility under the plan once the qualified provider makes a decision on presumptive eligibility. In this situation, the date the completed form is received by the State agency is the Medicaid filing date for Medicaid eligibility. If the woman is determined to be eligible, this date will determine the beginning of the period in which she qualifies for the more extensive services under the plan and will establish the month used to determine the dates of the 3 months of retroactive eligibility, if the woman would have been eligible during the retroactive period. Under this latter approach, pregnant women would not be required to file another application. However, they would not be exempt from meeting with State agency staff as appropriate or from providing additional information necessary to determine eligibility under the plan.
