FR940721-2-00030 FR940721-2-00022 Federal Energy Regulatory Commission [Project No. 11346&hyph;001, IA] FORIA Hydro Corp.; Environmental Assessment Scoping July 15, 1994. On March 28, 1994, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (Commission) issued a notice indicating that staff is ready to conduct an environmental analysis (REA Notice) for the proposed Fort Dodge Mill Dam Project, located on the Des Moines River, in Webster County, Iowa. The REA Notice also requested comments from federal, state, and local resource agencies, licensees and developers, Indian tribes, and any other interested groups (parties). Parties were given until May 28, 1994, to file comments. The purpose of this notice is to advise all parties as to the scope of our environmental analysis and to seek additional information pertinent to this analysis. The scope as presented herein is based on the information filed with the Commission by FORIA Hydro Corporation (the Applicant), comments received from the parties thus far, and the staff's independent analysis. Proposed Action The Applicant proposes to install new generating equipment at an existing dam, reservoir and powerhouse to be called the Fort Dodge Mill Dam Project. The proposed project would include the following features: (1) an existing dam 372 feet long and 18 feet high; (2) an existing impoundment with a surface area of 90 acres with a normal surface elevation of approximately 990 feet above mean sea level; (3) an existing powerhouse containing two new turbine-generator units at a total installed capacity of 1,260 kilowatts; and (4) a proposed 13.8-kilovolt transmission line. In addition to the proposed two new turbine-generator units, the Applicant proposes install a new flat trashrack (with 2.75&hyph;3.5-inch clear bar spacing) above the project intake. To enhance public recreation, the Applicant proposes to develop a new boat ramp at the Fort Dodge Park, located adjacent to proposed project. The Applicant proposes measures relating to project operation to protect environmental resources in the project area. A 24-cubic feet per second minimum flow over the project dam is proposed to protect water quality and fishery resources in the downstream pool area and side channel. The project would be operated in a run-of-river mode, with only minor fluctuations in the headpond elevation to account for natural variations in river flow. In the operational plan for the Fort Dodge Mill Dam Project, the Applicant also proposes to implement a plan to verify run-of-river operation and a seasonal water quality monitoring program for the impoundment. Project Alternatives The Commission staff will consider alternatives, including enhancement measures not proposed by the Applicant. The staff will review and consider alternative recommendations for additional resource protection, or enhancement measures that may be appropriate to include in an original license. Modifications could include recommendations by the agencies, the general public, and the staff. In addition to these alternatives, the staff will evaluate the no-action alternative, which maintains the existing environment or status quo at the project. Scope of the Environmental Impact Statement The geographic scope of analysis defines the physical limits or boundaries of the proposed actions' effects on the resources. Since the proposed actions affect each resource differently, the geographic scope for each resource varies. For fishery resources, flow analysis, water quality, flood control, and power, the geographic scope of analysis will encompass the mainstem Des Moines River. The temporal scope includes a discussion of the past, present, and future actions and their effects on the resources. Based on the license term, the temporal scope will look 30 to 50 years into the future, concentrating on the effect on the resource from reasonably foreseeable future actions (e.g., the effect on water quality from potential future water withdrawals within the basin). The historical discussion will, by necessity, be limited to the amount of available information for each resource. Environmental Issues A preliminary list of environmental issues identified by the staff for coverage in an Environmental Assessment (EA) is presented in this section. The list is not intended to be exhaustive or final, but is an initial listing of issues that have been raised and appear to be important. The staff will review all issues raised during the scoping process and make decisions as to the level of analysis needed. If preliminary analysis indicates that any issues presented in this scoping document have little potential for causing significant impacts, the issue or issues will be identified and the reasons for not providing a more detailed analysis will be given. The following issues apply to the Fort Dodge Mill Dam Project: •An evaluation of the project's potential effect on dissolved oxygen (DO) downstream of the project and the need for additional studies of DO. •Effects of project operation and non-project factors on vegetation and wildlife. •Effects of project operation on any federally listed threatened or endangered species in the project area. •Probability of eligibility of dam and powerhouse on the National Register of Historic Places. •Opportunities for recreational facility improvements and public access enhancements. The EA will assess the project-specific impacts on the above resources and whether these impacts contribute to significant adverse impacts. Both project-specific impacts and cumulative effects will weigh in selecting an action to recommend for the licensing decision on the project. EIS Preparation Schedule The preliminary schedule for preparing the EA for the Fort Dodge Mill Dam Project is: ␣ 1Milestones 1Target date Public Scoping Summer 1994. Draft EA September 30, 1994. Final EA November 30, 1994. Request for Comments The Commission's scoping objectives are to: •identify significant environmental issues, •determine the depth of analysis appropriate to each issue,
