FR940603-1-00020 FR940603-1-00007 The control date notice stated that ``due consideration'' would be given to vessels that were under construction or under contract for purchase or construction and that had harvested or processed groundfish, crab, or halibut by January 15, 1992. In response to the delay of the 1992 trawl groundfish season from January 1, 1992, until January 20, 1992, the Council decided at its September 1991 meeting to change the final ``due consideration'' date to February 9, 1992. The control date notice indicated that the Council was examining a change in the current open-access nature of the groundfish, crab, and halibut fisheries as part of a long-term solution to chronic conservation and management problems. The Council is continuing its study of long-term solutions to problems in these fisheries in its comprehensive management plan. The moratorium is not expected to resolve the problem of excess capacity. However, the Council considers it necessary as an interim management measure to curtail increases in fishing capacity and provide temporary industry stability. While the moratorium is in effect, the Council can prepare and the Secretary can review and, if approved, implement a comprehensive management plan. The Council also determined that the moratorium would aid in the achievement of optimum yield by freezing the number of vessels allowed to participate in these fisheries and limiting increases in fishing capacity, both of which would increase economic benefits to fishermen and reduce the risk of overfishing. Vessel Moratorium Program The following section provides a summary of the provisions included in the motion, clarifications, and the Council's rationale for selecting those provisions. The subsequent section, ``Implementation of the Moratorium,'' explains how the moratorium would be implemented if approved by the Secretary and includes changes proposed by NMFS to supplement the Council's proposed moratorium. The Council adopted a moratorium by approving a motion at its June 1992 meeting, with clarification in August 1992 and January 1993. Section 304(a)(1)(D) of the Magnuson Act, as amended, requires the Secretary to publish regulations proposed by a Council within 15 days of receipt of the FMP amendments and regulations. At this time, the Secretary has not determined that the FMP amendments these regulations would implement are consistent with the national standards, other provisions of the Magnuson Act, and other applicable law. The Secretary, in making final determinations, will take into account the data, views, and comments received during the comment period. Provisions Contained in the Council's Motions 1. Moratorium Fisheries The proposed moratorium fisheries would be: a. All groundfish fisheries managed under the GOA FMP; b. all groundfish fisheries managed under the BSAI FMP; c. all crab fisheries managed under the FMP for the Commercial King and Tanner Crab Fisheries in the BSAI; and d. the commercial Pacific halibut fishery conducted in the waters in and off of the State of Alaska (State). 2. Affected Sectors of the Industry The moratorium would apply only to catcher vessels and catcher-processor vessels participating in one or more of the moratorium fisheries. The Council designed the moratorium to stem the growth in harvesting capacity. It determined that restricting motherships, tendering vessels, and other support vessels would not accomplish this goal. 3. Qualifying Period A vessel could be used to participate in any of the moratorium fisheries during the moratorium, if a reported landing in one of the moratorium fisheries was made from that vessel between January 1, 1980, and February 9, 1992. Such a vessel would be called a ``qualifying vessel.'' The Council determined that a date earlier than January 1, 1980, would have increased the size of the fleet eligible to participate during the moratorium period and placed a greater weight on past participation. A date later than January 1, 1980, would have restricted the size of the fleet eligible to participate during the moratorium period only to current or very recent participants. The Council selected February 9, 1992, as the ending date for the qualifying period instead of the announced control date of September 15, 1990, with its ``due consideration'' requirements. Determining which vessels should be allowed to participate during the moratorium under ``due consideration'' would have required extensive review of documents submitted by the vessel owners and investigation as to whether the documents proved that vessels were qualifying vessels under the ``due consideration'' criteria. The Council deemed the submission and review of documents as too burdensome and expensive to implement. By selecting February 9, 1992, the Council included all vessels that were under ``due consideration'' without having to make any findings concerning construction or vessels under contract. The qualifying period adopted by the Council would allow approximately 13,500 vessels to be eligible to participate in the moratorium fisheries during the moratorium. Substantially fewer vessels participate in any one year. In 1991, only about 4,500 vessels participated in the moratorium fisheries. NMFS particularly requests public comment on the effect of this qualifying period on the objectives of the moratorium. 4. Minimum Qualifying Poundage The Council did not require landing of a specific minimum poundage from a moratorium fishery. A qualifying vessel would be one that made a reported landing from a moratorium fishery during the qualifying period. The Council reasoned that basing moratorium eligibility on landing a minimum amount from a moratorium fishery would become allocative among different segments of the industry and should be addressed in the comprehensive management plan. 5. Duration of Moratorium The moratorium would be in effect for no longer than 3 years from the date of implementation. The proposed FMP amendment language states that the Council may extend the moratorium for up to 2 years if a permanent limited access program is imminent. This provides flexibility in the duration of the moratorium if progress is made on a permanent limited access program, but does not unnecessarily prolong the moratorium in the absence of further progress on the underlying overcapitalization problem. If no further action is taken concerning a limited access program during the moratorium, the moratorium would expire, because its justification would no longer be valid.
