FR940621-2-00015 FR940621-2-00010 [I.D. 060994K] Groundfish of the Bering Sea and Aleutian Islands AGENCY: National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS), National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), Commerce. ACTION: Issuance of an experimental fishing permit. SUMMARY: NMFS announces the issuance of an experimental fishing permit #94&hyph;1 (EFP) to Coastal Villages Fishing Cooperative (CVFC) and Golden Age Fisheries (GAF). The EFP authorizes CVFC, GAF, and the factory trawler (F/T) REBECCA IRENE to conduct a trawl survey limited to 500 metric tons (mt) of groundfish in Kuskokwim Bay, Etolin Strait, and the area north of Nunivak Island. Results of the survey will be used to assess whether sufficient amounts of marketable groundfish are located in near-shore waters to support the development of a small-boat fishery in this area. This EFP will provide information not otherwise available through research or commercial fishing operations. The intended effect of this action is to promote the purposes and policies of the Magnuson Fishery Conservation and Management Act. ADDRESSES: Copies of the EFP and the Environmental Assessment (EA) are available by writing to Ronald J. Berg, Chief, Fisheries Management Division, Alaska Region, NMFS, P.O. Box 21668, Juneau, AK 99802 (Attn: Lori Gravel). FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Ellen R. Varosi, Fisheries Management Biologist, 907&hyph;586&hyph;7228. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Issuance of an EFP is authorized by the Fishery Management Plan for the Groundfish Fishery of the Bering Sea and Aleutian Islands area and its implementing regulations at 50 CFR part 675. Regulations at ยง675.6 set out the procedures for issuing EFPs to authorize fishing that would otherwise be prohibited. NMFS announced the receipt of an application for an EFP from CVFC and GAF in the Federal Register on May 4, 1994 (59 FR 23054). The application requested authorization for CVFC to conduct a 1994 summer trawl survey limited to 500 mt of groundfish in Kuskokwim Bay, Etolin Strait, and an area north of Nunivak Island. The vessel that will participate in the trawl survey is the F/T REBECCA IRENE. Results of the survey will be used to ascertain the abundance of marketable fish species in near-shore waters that could be harvested from small fishing vessels in this area. CVFC consists of the Yukon-Kuskokwim Delta communities of Chefornak, Chevak, Eek, Goodnews Bay, Hooper Bay, Kipnuk, Kwigillingok, Mekoryuk, Newtok, Nightmute, Platinum, Quinhagak, Scammon Bay, Toksook Bay, Tuntutuliak, and Tununak. One of the goals of CVFC is to train individuals from these villages to work at all levels of the groundfish industry, including harvesting, processing, marketing, and corporate management. The North Pacific Fishery Management Council reviewed the EFP application at its April 18&hyph;24, 1994, meeting and recommended to the Director of the Alaska Region, NMFS (Regional Director), that the EFP be approved. The Regional Director has approved the EFP application and has issued an EFP to CVFC, GAF, and the F/T REBECCA IRENE. The EFP authorizes the F/T REBECCA IRENE to harvest 500 mt of groundfish in the Yukon-Kuskokwim Delta area during the time period extending from June 15 through September 30, 1994. The objective of this allocation is to support a survey of fishery resources in this area so that CVFC, in cooperation with GAF, may assess the feasibility of a future near-shore fishery for fishing vessels in this area. This EFP will provide information not otherwise available through research or commercial fishing operations because this area is not fished during NMFS assessment surveys and it is not economically feasible for a commercial vessel to survey this area during the open access fishery. Groundfish and prohibited species amounts associated with this permit will not be deducted from total allowable catch and prohibited species catch (PSC) amounts specified for 1994. Under this EFP, all vessels must comply with existing Federal regulations at 50 CFR parts 620 and 675, except ยง675.21 and 675.20(a). PSC limits established for fishing activities authorized under this EFP are as follows: 1,250 red king crab; 2.5 mt Pacific halibut; and 0.5 mt Pacific herring. Classification Based on the EA prepared for this EFP, the Assistant Administrator for Fisheries, NOAA, determined that no significant impact on the quality of the human environment will result from this EFP. The Regional Director determined that this experiment will not affect species listed as threatened or endangered, or areas that are critical habitat for these species under the Endangered Species Act in a way that was not already considered in previous formal and informal section 7 consultations. Additional information, including gear restrictions, scientific sampling procedures, project design, and disposition of harvested fish, is contained in the EFP. This notice is exempt from OMB review under E.O. 12866. Authority: 16 U.S.C. 1801 et seq . Dated: June 13, 1994. David S. Crestin, Acting Director, Office of Fisheries Conservation and Management, National Marine Fisheries Service. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;14988 Filed 6&hyph;20&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3510&hyph;22&hyph;F
