FR941202-1-00049 FR941202-1-00009 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY 40 CFR Part 180 [OPP&hyph;300363; FRL&hyph;4912&hyph;6] RIN 2070&hyph;AC18 Revocation of Folpet Tolerances AGENCY: Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). ACTION: Proposed rule. SUMMARY: This document proposes to revoke the tolerances for residues of the fungicide folpet ( N -(trichloromethylthio)phthalimide) in or on the following raw agricultural commodities: apples, blackberries, blueberries, boysenberries, celery, cherries, citrus fruits, crabapples, cranberries, cucumbers, currants, dewberries, garlic, gooseberries, grapes, huckleberries, leeks, lettuce, loganberries, melons, onions (dry bulb), onions (green), pumpkins, raspberries, shallots, strawberries, summer squash, tomatoes, and winter squash. EPA is revoking the tolerances because it does not have adequate data to make a finding that the tolerances will protect the public health. DATES: Written comments, identified by the OPP document control number [OPP&hyph;300363], must be received on or before January 3, 1995. ADDRESSES: By mail, submit comments to Public Response and Program Resources Branch, Field Operations Division (7506C), Office of Pesticide Programs, 401 M St., SW., Washington, DC 20460. In person, deliver comments to Rm. 1132, Crystal Mall #2, 1921 Jefferson Davis Hwy., Arlington, VA. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: By mail: Jeff Morris, Special Review and Reregistration Division (7508W), Environmental Protection Agency, 401 M St., SW., Washington, DC 20460. Office location and telephone number: Special Review Branch, Crystal Station #1, 3rd Floor, 2800 Crystal Drive, Arlington, VA 22202, (703)-308-8029. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Introduction Folpet is a broad-spectrum fungicide that is registered for industrial use in paints, stains, coatings, and plastics. In addition, two folpet products are registered for food use. One product is actively registered for use on avocados in Florida only; the other is a suspended registration for all folpet food uses, which include the food uses subject to this document. Legal Background The Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (FFDCA) [21 U.S.C. 301 et seq.] authorizes the establishment of tolerances (maximum legal residue levels) and exemptions from the requirement of a tolerance for residues of pesticide chemicals in or on raw agricultural commodities pursuant to section 408 (21 U.S.C. 346a, 348). Without such tolerances or exemptions, a food containing pesticide residues is considered to be ``adulterated'' under section 402 of the FFDCA, and hence may not legally be moved in interstate commerce (21 U.S.C. 342). To establish a tolerance or an exemption under section 408 of the FFDCA, EPA must make a finding that the promulgation of the rule would ``protect the public health'' (21 U.S.C. 346a(b)). For a pesticide to be sold and used in the production of a food crop or food animal, the pesticide must not only have appropriate tolerances under the FFDCA, but must be registered under the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act (FIFRA, 7 U.S.C. 136 et seq.). FIFRA requires the registration of pesticides that are sold and distributed in the United States. Regulatory Background EPA issued a Registration Standard under FIFRA for folpet in June 1987. At that time, folpet was registered for industrial use on paints, stains, coatings, and plastics, as well as for use on a variety of food and terrestrial crops. The Registration Standard states that EPA classifies folpet as a B2 (probable) human carcinogen. In November 1987, EPA issued a Notice of Intent to Suspend (NOIS) letter for all nonindustrial uses of folpet, because no data had been submitted_including residue data for the food uses identified in this document_to support folpet's nonindustrial uses. Makhteshim-Agan (America), Inc., the folpet registrant, and Chevron Chemical Co. formed a task force to share the development of data identified as data gaps in the folpet Registration Standard. The Folpet Task Force indicated that it would only support folpet's industrial uses. At this point, the NOIS became a final order of suspension, and the only remaining folpet registrations with food uses, EPA Reg. Nos. 11678-51 and 11678-52, were suspended. In 1990, Makhteshim purchased these suspended registrations, which had on their labels the commodities subject to this document. Makhteshim subsequently provided data to support the avocado use and deleted all food uses except avocados from EPA Reg. No. 11678-51. In 1992, EPA Reg. No. 11678-51 was changed to EPA Reg. No. 66222-7 (the avocado only label), and EPA Reg. No. 11678-52 was changed to EPA Reg. No. 66222-8 (the suspended label containing all food uses). In a 1993 letter to EPA, Makhteshim indicated that it desired import tolerances for some of the uses for which the suspended product number 66222-8 is registered, stating that folpet is an important pesticide product in many countries. To date, however, EPA has not received adequate data to support any folpet tolerances_imported or domestic_for the raw agricultural commodities subject to this document. Current Proposal This document proposes the revocation of all folpet tolerances_except the avocado tolerance_established under section 408 of FFDCA, 21 U.S.C. 346a, for residues of the fungicide folpet ( N -(trichloromethylthio)phthalimide) in or on the following commodities listed in 40 CFR 180.191: 50 parts per million in or on celery, cherries, leeks, lettuce, onions (green), and shallots; 25 parts per million in or on apples, blackberries, blueberries, boysenberries, crabapples, cranberries, currants, dewberries, gooseberries, grapes, huckleberries, loganberries, raspberries, strawberries, and tomatoes; and 15 parts per million in or on citrus fruits, cucumbers, garlic, melons, onions (dry bulb), pumpkins, summer squash, and winter squash. EPA is proposing this action because the establishment of a tolerance under section 408 of FFDCA requires a finding that the tolerance will protect the public health. EPA does not have adequate data to make such a finding. The registrant has not submitted the following residue chemistry data, which, according to the June 1987 folpet registration standard, are needed to make a public-health finding on folpet for the commodities subject to this document: Nature of the residues (metabolism) studies (guideline no. 171-4a) for representative crops; storage stability studies (guideline no. 171-4e) for representative crops; analytical method validation; crop field trials (guideline no. 171-4k) for the subject commodities; and processing studies (guideline no. 171-4l) for applicable commodities. These studies, which are important to assessing the health risks posed by folpet use, have not been submitted to EPA. Makhteshim indicated in 1987 that it would not provide the necessary data to support the commodities subject to this document, and Makhteshim has not attempted to provide any such data since that time, except for data to support the avocado use. Domestically produced commodities subject to this proposal should no longer contain folpet residues following revocation of the tolerances. In the absence of folpet tolerances, any agricultural commodity or processed food domestically produced and/or imported into the United States found to contain folpet residues is adulterated under section 402 of the FFDCA. There is no expectation of a residue problem due to environmental contamination. Consequently, EPA will not recommend action levels to replace the tolerances upon their revocation. Other Regulatory Requirements Executive Order 12866 Under Executive Order 12866 (58 FR 51735, Oct. 4, 1993), the Agency must determine whether the regulatory action is ``significant'' and therefore subject to review by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) and the requirements of the Executive Order. Under section 3(f), the order defines a ``significant regulatory action'' as an action that is likely to result in a rule: (1) having an annual effect on the economy of $100 million or more, or adversely and materially affecting a sector of the economy, productivity, competition, jobs, the environment, public health or safety, or State, local or tribal governments or communities (also referred to as ``economically significant''); (2) creating serious inconsistency or otherwise interfering with an action taken or planned by another agency; (3) materially altering the budgetary impacts of entitlement, grants, user fees, or loan programs or the rights and obligations of recipients thereof; or (4) raising novel legal or policy issues arising out of legal mandates, the President's priorities, or the principles set forth in this Executive Order. Pursuant to the terms of this Executive Order, it has been determined that this rule is not a ``significant regulatory action,'' because over the past few years there has been only very minor domestic usage of folpet on the suspended use sites. The time elapsed since suspension of the food uses, along with the recent usage data showing a very limited amount of usage, indicate that the loss of the tolerances subject to this document should not cause a significant economic impact on domestic users. Although overseas usage of folpet on grapes_one of the commodities subject to this document_is substantial, U.S. imports of grapes are relatively small and mostly from Chile, which does not use folpet. Thus, this action was not submitted to OMB for review. Regulatory Flexibility Act This proposed rule has been reviewed under the Regulatory Flexibility Act of 1980 (Pub. L. 96-354; 94 Stat. 1164, 5 U.S.C. 601 et seq.), and EPA has determined that it will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small businesses, small governments, or small organizations. Accordingly, I certify that this proposed rule does not require a separate regulatory flexibility analysis under the Regulatory Flexibility Act. Paperwork Reduction Act This proposed regulatory action does not contain any information collection requirements subject to review by OMB under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980, 44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq. Public Comment Procedures Interested persons are invited to submit written comments, information, or data in response to this proposed rule. Comments must be submitted by ( insert date 30 days after date of publication in the Federal Register ). Comments must bear a notation indicating the document control number. Three copies of the comments should be submitted to either location listed under ADDRESSES above in this document. Information submitted as a comment concerning this document may be claimed confidential by marking any or all of that information as ``Confidential Business Information'' (CBI). Information so marked will not be disclosed except in accordance with procedures set forth in 40 CFR part 2. A copy of a comment that does not contain CBI must be submitted for inclusion in the public record. Information not marked confidential may be disclosed publicly by EPA without prior notice. Documents considered and relied upon by EPA pertaining to this action, and all written comments filed pursuant to this Notice, will be available for public inspection in Rm. 1132, Crystal Mall #2, 1921 Jefferson Davis Hwy., Arlington, VA 22202, between 8 a.m. and 4 p.m., Monday through Friday, except public holidays. Any person who has registered, or who has submitted an application for registration of folpet under FIFRA, may request that this proposal be referred to an advisory committee. Such a request must be made within 30 days of the publication of this proposal. To satisfy requirements for analysis specified by Executive Order 12866 and the Regulatory Flexibility Act, EPA has analyzed the impacts of this proposal. This analysis is available for public inspection in Rm. 1132 at the Virginia address given above. List of Subjects in 40 CFR Part 180 Environmental protection, Administrative practice and procedure, Agricultural commodities, Pesticides and pests, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. Dated: October 31, 1994. Louis P. True, Director, Special Review and Reregistration Division, Office of Pesticide Programs. Therefore, it is proposed that part 180 be amended as follows: PART 180_[AMENDED] 1. The authority citation for part 180 continues to read as follows: Authority: 21 U.S.C. 346a and 371. 2. Section 180.191 is revised to read as follows: ยง180.191 Folpet; tolerances for residues. A tolerance of 25 parts per million is established for the fungicide folpet ( N -(trichloromethylthio)phthalimide) in or on avocados. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;29689 Filed 12&hyph;1&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;F
