FR940412-1-00074 FR940412-1-00012 Sections 148.300 and 148.305. These sections would be revised to reflect recent amendments to the HMR and the BC Code which have redefined low specific activity (LSA) radioactive materials and added a new entry for Radioactive Material, Surface Contaminated Objects. Section 148.330. In spite of the stated intention of this rulemaking to harmonize U.S. regulations with the BC Code, this section, which applies to zinc ashes, zinc dross, zinc residues, and zinc skimmings, differs significantly from the BC Code. The provisions of this section are based on two Coast Guard Special Permits, SP 8&hyph;83 and SP 4&hyph;84. The terms of these permits were developed as the result of a number of incidents involving fires or explosions in cargoes of zinc skimmings, including at least one with loss of life. The intention of this section is to reduce the possibility of hydrogen gas generation caused by the reaction of seawater and zinc. Under the proposed section, the cargo hold of vessels selected to carry zinc ashes, zinc dross, zinc residues or zinc skimmings must be equipped with mechanical ventilation using motors approved for use in hydrogen gas atmospheres, permanently installed combustible gas detectors, and temperature-sensing thermocouples. Section 148.450. On April 11, 1991, off the coast of California, a foreign-flag vessel that had loaded a bulk solid cargo in a U.S. port developed a severe list due to shifting of the cargo. Fortunately, this vessel was able to return to port and off-load its cargo. The Coast Guard investigation of this marine casualty determined that the cargo shifted because its moisture content exceeded the safe transportable limit, and that this caused the cargo to behave as a liquid. Due to this marine casualty and others of a similar nature, the Coast Guard proposes to add a new section that prescribes requirements for bulk solid cargoes that are subject to liquefaction. The proposed regulations are adapted from the BC Code and would only apply to calcined pyrites, coal, and metal sulfide concentrates as indicated in table 148.10. The proposed rules would recommend, but not require, use of the test procedures in appendix D of the BC Code to determine the moisture content and transportable moisture limit of bulk solid cargoes. Incorporation by Reference The following material would be incorporated by reference in §§148.55, 148.205, 148.220, and 148.450: The Code of Safe Practice for Bulk Solid Cargoes, Appendices B, D.1, D.4 and D.5. Copies of the material are available for inspection where indicated under ADDRESSES . Copies of the material are available at the addresses given in §148.8. Before publishing a final rule, the Coast Guard will submit this material to the Director of the Federal Register for approval of the incorporation by reference. Regulatory Assessment This proposal is not a significant regulatory action under Executive Order 12866 and not significant under the ``Department of Transportation Regulatory Policies and Procedures'' (44 FR 11040; February 26, 1979). A draft Regulatory Assessment is available in the docket for inspection and copying where indicated under ``ADDRESSES''. These proposed regulations would have a multifaceted economic impact on the bulk solids transportation industry. The Coast Guard estimates that if these regulations are adopted there would be an economic impact on the entire bulk solid shipping industry of $391,653 per year, after an initial investment of $168,000. Costs associated with preparation of the vessels and operation and maintenance of the equipment are estimated to be $373,440 annually. The cost of doing the paperwork necessary under the proposed revisions to this part is estimated to be $18,213 annually, which is less than half of the $43,745 estimated for the current regulations due to the elimination of the need to apply for Special Permits for most cargoes. Amendments to add those materials currently carried under Special Permit to those listed in 46 CFR part 148 that may be carried with special handling, will, if adopted, reduce the paperwork burden on the regulated industry and the Coast Guard, and provide greater flexibility for shippers of bulk solid materials. Small Entities Under the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. 501 et seq. ), the Coast Guard must consider whether this proposal, if adopted, will have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. ``Small entities'' include independently owned and operated small businesses that are not dominant in their field and that otherwise qualify as ``small business concerns'' under section 3 of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 632). It is estimated that the bulk solid materials affected by this proposal would be shipped on 18 vessels, by at least one hundred different shippers. Therefore, the cost of these regulations would be divided among numerous interests and would not significantly impact any particular interest. Therefore, the Coast Guard certifies under 5 U.S.C. 605(b) that this proposal, if adopted, will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. If, however, you think that your business qualifies as a small entity and that this proposal will have a significant economic impact on your business, please submit a comment (see ADDRESSES ) explaining why you think your business qualifies and in what way and to what degree this proposal will economically affect your business. Collection of Information Under the Paperwork Reduction Act (44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq. ), the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) reviews each proposed rule that contains a collection of information requirement to determine whether the practical value of the information is worth the burden imposed by its collection. Collection of information requirements include reporting, recordkeeping, notification, and other, similar requirements. This proposal contains collection of information requirements in the following sections: 46 CFR part 148, subpart B and 148.60 and 148.70. The following particulars apply: DOT No: 2115. OMB Control No: 2115&hyph;0100. Administration: U.S. Coast Guard. Title: Carriage of Bulk Solid Materials Requiring Special Handling. Need for Information: Special Permits allow the Coast Guard to ensure safety while allowing the shipping industry the flexibility to ship new materials. Shipping papers are necessary to identify the cargo being shipped and the hazard associated with the cargo. The Dangerous Cargo Manifest provides information on the location and quantity of hazardous materials on board a vessel. Shipper's certificates ensure that certain cargoes are acceptable for shipment by vessel. Proposed Use of Information: This information is used by the Coast Guard to ensure safety on board vessels and in administering and enforcing the laws, regulations, and international treaties for the safe transportation and stowage of hazardous materials. Responses: 1521 per year.
