FR941110-0-00002 FR941110-0-00001 DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE Agricultural Marketing Service 7 CFR Parts 932 and 944 [Docket No. FV94&hyph;932&hyph;1FIR] Olives Grown in California and Imported Olives; Final Rule Establishing Limited Use Olive Requirements During the 1994&hyph;95 Crop Year AGENCY: Agricultural Marketing Service, USDA. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: The Department of Agriculture (Department) is adopting as a final rule without change, the provisions of an interim final rule which authorized the use of smaller sized olives in the production of limited use styles for California olives during the 1994&hyph;95 crop year. This rule is intended to allow more olives into fresh market channels and is consistent with current market demand for olives. As required under section 8e of the Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act of 1937, this rule also changes the olive import regulation. EFFECTIVE DATE: December 12, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Caroline C. Thorpe, Marketing Order Administration Branch, Fruit and Vegetable Division, AMS, USDA, P.O. Box 96456, Room 2523&hyph;S, Washington, D.C. 20090&hyph;6456; telephone (202) 720&hyph;5127, or Terry Vawter, California Marketing Field Office, Fruit and Vegetable Division, AMS, USDA, 2202 Monterey Street, Suite 102&hyph;B, Fresno, CA 93721, telephone (209) 487&hyph;5901. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: This rule is issued under Marketing Agreement No. 148 and Order No. 932 (7 CFR Part 932), as amended, regulating the handling of olives grown in California, hereinafter referred to as the order. The order is effective under the Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act of 1937, as amended (7 U.S.C. 601&hyph;674), hereinafter referred to as the Act. This rule is also issued under section 8e of the Act, which requires the Secretary of Agriculture to issue grade, size, quality, or maturity requirements for certain listed commodities, including olives, imported into the United States that are the same as, or comparable to, those requirements imposed upon the domestic commodities regulated under the Federal marketing orders. The Department is issuing this rule in conformance with Executive Order 12866. This rule has been reviewed under Executive Order 12778, Civil Justice Reform. This rule is not intended to have retroactive effect. This rule will not preempt any State or local laws, regulations, or policies, unless they present an irreconcilable conflict with this rule. The Act provides that administrative proceedings must be exhausted before parties may file suit in court. Under section 608(15)(A) of the Act, any handler subject to an order may file with the Secretary a petition stating that the order, any provision of the order, or any obligation imposed in connection with the order is not in accordance with law and requesting a modification of the order or to be exempted therefrom. A handler is afforded the opportunity for a hearing on the petition. After the hearing the Secretary would rule on the petition. The Act provides that the district court of the United States in any district in which the handler is an inhabitant, or has his or her principal place of business, has jurisdiction in equity to review the Secretary's ruling on the petition, provided a bill in equity is filed not later than 20 days after date of the entry of the ruling. There are no administrative procedures which must be exhausted prior to any judicial challenge to the provisions of import regulations issued under section 8e of the Act. Pursuant to the requirements set forth in the Regulatory Flexibility Act (RFA), the Administrator of the Agricultural Marketing Service (AMS) has considered the economic impact of this action on small entities. The purpose of the RFA is to fit regulatory actions to the scale of business subject to such actions in order that small businesses will not be unduly or disproportionately burdened. Marketing orders issued pursuant to the Act, and rules issued thereunder, are unique in that they are brought about through group action of essentially small entities acting on their own behalf. Thus, both statutes have small entity orientation and compatibility. Import regulations issued under the Act are based on those established under Federal marketing orders. There are 5 handlers of California olives that will be subject to regulation under the order during the current season, and there are about 1,200 olive producers in California. There are approximately 25 importers of olives subject to the olive import regulation. Small agricultural producers have been defined by the Small Business Administration (13 CFR 121.601) as those whose annual receipts are less than $500,000, and small agricultural service firms, which include handlers and importers, have been defined by the Small Business Administration as those having annual receipts of less than $5,000,000. None of the domestic olive handlers may be classified as small entities. The majority of olive producers and importers may be classified as small entities. Nearly all of the olives grown in the United States are produced in California. The growing areas are scattered throughout California with most of the commercial production coming from inland valleys. The majority of olives are produced in central California. California olives are primarily used for canned ripe whole and whole pitted olives which are eaten out of hand as hors d'oeuvres or used as an ingredient in cooking and in salads. The canned ripe olive market is essentially a domestic market. A few shipments of California olives are exported.
