FR940603-0-00132 FR940603-0-00029 G. Approval of Officials 1. Comments The proposal clarified that NCUA must approve all prospective officials and management personnel of a newly chartered credit union during the first two years. A few comments opposed this provision. 2. NCUA Board Decision The Board has adopted the proposal in the final IRPS since the requirement is statutory; the reason for its inclusion in the IRPS is to be a reminder to credit union officials. H. Appeal Rights 1. Comments The proposal clarified the appeal rights for new charters and for those credit unions denied requests for a field of membership amendment, spin-offs and mergers. Eight commenters supported the appeal procedure. Nine commenters believed the appeal procedure was insufficient. Four of these commenters requested that appeals be sent directly to the central office and bypass the region. One commenter questioned whether central office staff would act independently of the regional director. One commenter stated the proposal was unclear on what rights of appeal an overlapped credit union had involving the field of membership of another credit union. The appeal process in the proposal did not include a provision for oral argument. Six commenters agreed that oral argument before the Board was unnecessary. Fourteen commenters disagreed. One commenter suggested the proposal clarify that a resubmission or additional information for consideration to the Regional Director within 90 days of a denial should be considered a new request for purposes of the appeal time limit. Furthermore, the commenter stated, if the resubmission was denied, the credit union should then have another 60 days to appeal. 2. NCUA Board Decision The Board is currently undertaking a complete review of its appeal process. The final IRPS makes the agency's standard appeal process applicable. I. Professional Organizations 1. Comments The proposal included language to minimize potential conflicts of interest when adding certain professional organizations to the field of membership of a federal credit union. Four commenters concurred with the guidance provided when adding a professional organization to a field of membership. 2. NCUA Board Decision The final IRPS includes this portion of the proposal. J. Corporate Federal Credit Unions 1. Comments The proposal clarified that corporate credit union chartering and field of membership issues were handled by the Office of Examination and Insurance. Four commenters agreed with the proposed change. 2. NCUA Board Decision The final IRPS includes this portion of the proposal. K. Appendix C_Type of Membership Classification System 1. Comments One commenter stated the classification was fixed at the time of chartering and it was his understanding that it never changed. Furthermore, in recognition that the membership composition of a credit union can undergo substantial change over time, this commenter suggested a procedure be created to provide classification changes. Otherwise, this commenter believed classification related data would become increasingly flawed. 2. NCUA Board Decision Since the coding is used for internal analytical purposes, Appendix C has been deleted from the final IRPS. As a note, the codes are changed periodically by NCUA staff. L. Format of the Manual 1. Comments One commenter was concerned with the terminology ``field of membership expansion.'' This commenter believed that all changes in the field of membership were not for the purpose of expansion and some field of membership ``modifications'' were based on considerations other than the mere decision of a credit union to expand. This commenter recommended replacing the term ``expansion'' with ``modification.'' Two commenters believed the manual should be reorganized so it would be more accessible to the user. 2. NCUA Board Decision
