FR940919-2-00086 FR940919-2-00046 If dissatisfied with the hearing decision, a claimant (or representative) may request Appeals Council review within 60 days of receiving the ALJ decision. In FY 1993, about 23 percent of hearing decisions were unfavorable. The Appeals Council considers about 18 percent of all ALJ dispositions, including cases it reviews on its own motion. Requests for Appeals Council review are typically received directly from the claimant's representative. The Appeals Council may deny or dismiss a request for review, issue a decision, or remand the claim to an ALJ. The Appeals Council remands claims to the ALJ level about 27 percent of the time for subsequent development and decision. Denied claims, representing about 70 percent of the Appeals Council dispositions, are held in the Appeals Council for possible appeal to Federal District court. Allowed claims are sent to a processing center or field office for further action as in hearing cases. According to processing time reports, this part of the process takes on average about 100 days; however, according to the Office of Workforce Analysis study, a claimant has spent almost 2 years dealing with SSA since initially contacting the Agency. At least part of the processing time results from the time added as the claim moves from one employee or facility to another (handoffs), and waits at each employee's workstation to be handled (queues). As workloads increase, the amount of time a claim waits at each processing point grows. ``Task time'' is the time employees actually devote to working directly on a claim, rather than the total amount of time it takes for a claimant to receive a final decision. Based on the Office of Workforce Analysis study, a claimant can wait as long as 155 days from the first contact with SSA until receiving an initial claim decision notice_of which only 13 hours of this is actual task time. The same study reveals a claimant can wait as long as 550 days from that initial contact through receipt of the hearing decision notice_of which only 32 hours is actual task time. BILLING CODE 4190&hyph;29&hyph;P E:GRAPHICSEN19SE94.069 BILLING CODE 4190&hyph;29&hyph;C
