FR940722-0-00136 FR940722-0-00019 209. Officers, Directors and Key Employees. Under the SBA's affiliation rules, affiliations also generally arise where persons serve as the officers, directors or key employees of another concern and they represent a majority or controlling element of that other concern's board of directors and/or management of the outside entity. 189 We shall adopt an identical rule. Thus, if a person with an attributable interest in a broadband PCS applicant, through his or her other key employment positions or positions on the board of another firm, controls that other firm, then the other firm will be considered an affiliate of the applicant. Such affiliations may or may not result in the applicant's exceeding our size limitations. As this rule reflects, for purposes of attributing the financial position of an outside entity in this context, officers and directors of an outside concern are not foreclosed entirely from holding attributable or non-attributable interests in a PCS applicant. Whether or not such persons control the outside entity, we also do not want to prohibit these persons, who may be experienced in the telecommunications, finance, or communications and equipment industries, from assisting start-up companies in PCS by serving as officers or directors of the applicant. Thus, under our general attribution rule, if such persons serving as officers or directors of the applicant do not control the applicant or otherwise have an attributable interest in the applicant, their outside affiliations (even if controlling) will not be considered at all for purposes of determining the applicant's eligibility under our rules. 190 189 See 13 CFR §121.401(h). A key employee is an employee who, because of his/her position in the concern, has a critical influence in or substantive control over the operations or management of the concern. 13 CFR §121.405. 190 SBA's size standard affiliation rules also provide that affiliations can arise in a variety of other scenarios, such as where one concern is dependent upon another for contracts and business, where firms share joint facilities, or have joint venture of franchise license agreements. To the extent we believe these rules may have general applicability in the context of our policies for broadband PCS, we shall codify them in our affiliate rules. We caution parties that issues relating to de facto control of the applicant (or parties with attributable interests in the applicant) could also arise under arrangements not expressly codified in the rules. 210. Affiliation Through Identity of Interest: Family and Spousal Relationships. As expressed in the SBA's rules, an affiliation may arise not only through control, but out of an ``identity of interest'' between or among parties. See 13 CFR §121.401(a)(2)(iii). For example, affiliation can arise between or among members of the same family or persons with common investments in more than one concern. In determining who controls or has the power to control an entity, persons with an identity of interests may be treated as though they were one person. 13 CFR §121.401(d). For example, if two shareholders in Corporation X are both attributable shareholders in the PCS applicant, to the extent that together they have the power to control Corporation X, Corporation X may be deemed an affiliate of the applicant. 211. Similarly, as under the SBA rules, we must consider spousal and other family relationships in determining whether an affiliation exists. Under the SBA rules for determining small business status, for example, members of the same family may be treated as though they were one person because they have an ``identity of interest.'' 13 CFR §121.401(d). Likewise, in order to determine whether individuals are economically disadvantaged, the SBA rules governing eligibility for participation in the government's ``section 8(a)'' program for socially and economically disadvantaged small businesses have special provisions for attributing spousal interests. The latter rules provide generally that half of the jointly-owned interests of an applicant and his or her spouse must be attributed to the applicant for purposes of determining the applicant's net worth. See 13 CFR §124.106(a)(2)(i)(A)(1). 212. In the context of the auction eligibility rules at issue here, we begin by clarifying that our reason for considering spousal and kinship relationships is not to determine whether the spouse or other kin of a woman-owned applicant actually is controlling the applicant, thereby violating our eligibility rules for woman-owned businesses. As discussed above, our rules do not embody any presumptions concerning spousal control in that context. 191 Rather, our objective here is to ensure both that entities permitted to bid in the entrepreneurs' blocks are actually in need of special financial assistance and that otherwise ineligible entities do not circumvent the rules prohibiting entry by funding family members that purport to be eligible applicants. 191 See supra ¶189. 213. In formulating these rules, we need to consider also that, as a practical matter, it will not be possible for us prior to the auctions to resolve all questions that pertain to the individual circumstances of particular applicants. Furthermore, if we determine subsequent to an auction that a winning bidder in fact was ineligible to bid because of spousal or kinship relationships, not only will authorization of service be delayed but, as discussed above, disqualified applicants may be subject to substantial penalties. In these circumstances, we think that the public interest requires that we endeavor, insofar as possible, to establish brightline tests for determining when the financial interests of spouses and other kin should be attributed to the applicant. 214. We have decided that, for purposes of determining whether the financial limitations in our eligibility rules have been met, we will in every instance attribute the financial interests of an applicant's spouse to the applicant. This will resolve any concern that an applicant might transfer his or her assets to a spouse in order to satisfy the personal net worth or control restrictions that apply to eligible entities. For example, an applicant could not transfer stock or other assets to his or her spouse and thereby dispose of interests that, if held by the applicant, would render the applicant ineligible. Just as importantly, this approach will resolve any concern that an applicant might participate in bidding in the entrepreneurs' blocks by using the personal assets of an ineligible spouse, which would defeat entirely the objective of excluding very large entities from bidding in these blocks. 215. In adopting this rule, we fully recognize that instances could arise in which, if all factors were considered, attributing a spouse's financial interests to the applicant could lead to harsh results. As a general matter, however, we think it provides a workable bright-line standard that resolves fully our policy concerns and avoids undesirable ambiguity concerning the nature of our requirements. As in the SBA rules, however, one exception is clearly warranted; this affiliation standard would not apply if the applicant and his or her spouse are subject to a legal separation recognized by a court of competent jurisdiction. In calculating their personal net worth, investors in the applicant who are legally separated must, of course, still include their share of interests in community property held with a spouse.
