FR940228-0-00021 FR940228-0-00002 (3) That is not: (i) Interplanted with another crop except as allowed in paragraph 6.(a)(2); (ii) Planted into an established grass or legume; or (iii) Planted as a nurse crop, unless planted as a nurse crop for new forage seeding, but only if seeded at a normal rate and intended for harvest as grain. (4) We may agree, in writing, to insure a crop prohibited under paragraph 6.(a)(3) if you so request. Your request to insure such crop must be in writing, and submitted to your agent not later than 15 days after the acreage reporting date. (b) If you anticipate destroying any acreage prior to harvest you: (1) May report all planted acreage when you report your acreage for the crop year and specify any acreage to be destroyed as uninsurable acreage. (By doing so, no coverage will be considered to have attached on the specified acreage and no premium will be due for such acreage. If you do not destroy such acreage, you will be subject to the under-reporting provisions contained in subsection 6.(f) of the Common Crop Insurance Policy (ยง457.8)); or (2) If the actuarial table provides a reduced premium rate for acreage destroyed by a date designated in the Special Provisions, you may report all planted acreage as insurable when you report your acreage for the crop year. Premium will be due on all the acreage. Your premium amount will be reduced by the amount shown on the Actuarial Table for any acreage you destroy prior to a date designated in the Special Provisions if you do not claim an indemnity on such acreage. In accordance with subsection 14.(b) of the Common Crop Insurance Policy (ยง457.8), you must obtain our consent before and give us notice after you destroy any of the insured crop so your acreage report can be revised to make you eligible for this reduction in premium. (c) In counties for which the Wheat Special Provisions designate both fall and spring final planting dates, you may elect a winter coverage endorsement for wheat. This endorsement provides two options for alternative coverage for wheat that is damaged between the fall final planting date and the spring final planting date. Coverage under the endorsement will be effective only if you designate the coverage option you elect by executing the endorsement by the sales closing date for winter wheat in the county. 7. Insurance Period In lieu of the requirements under section 11 (Insurance Period) of the Common Crop Insurance Policy (ยง457.8), and subject to any provisions provided by the Wheat crop insurance winter coverage endorsement (ยง457.102) if you have elected such endorsement, the insurance period is as follows: (a) Insurance attaches on each unit or part thereof on the later of the date we accept your application or the date the insured crop is planted. (1) For oats, rye and flax, the following limitations apply: (i) The acreage must be planted on or before the final planting date designated in the Special Provisions for the insured crop except as allowed in subsection 12.(c). (ii) Any acreage of the insured crop damaged before the final planting date, to the extent that growers in the area would normally not further care for the crop, must be replanted unless we agree that replanting is not practical (see subsection 1.(o)). (2) For barley and wheat, the following limitations apply: (i) The acreage must be planted on or before the final planting date designated in the Special Provisions for the type (winter or spring) except as allowed in subsection 12.(c). (ii) Whenever the Special Provisions designate only a fall final planting date, any acreage of winter barley or wheat damaged before such final planting date, to the extent that growers in the area would normally not further care for the crop, must be replanted to a winter type of the insured crop unless we agree that replanting is not practical. (iii) Whenever the Special Provisions designate both fall and spring final planting dates, winter barley or wheat planted on or before the final planting date which is damaged: (A) Before the fall planting final planting date, to the extent that growers in the area would normally not further care for the crop, must be replanted to a winter type of the insured crop unless we agree that replanting is not practical. (B) On or after the fall final planting date, but before the spring final planting date, to the extent that growers in the area would normally not further care for the crop, must be replanted to an appropriate variety of the insured crop unless we agree that replanting is not practical. If you have elected coverage under one of the available wheat winter coverage options available in the county, the insurance period for wheat will be in accordance with the selected options. (iv) Whenever the Special Provisions designate a spring final planting date, any acreage of spring barley or wheat damaged before such final planting date, to the extent that growers in the area would normally not further care for the crop, must be replanted to a spring type of the insured crop unless we agree that replanting is not practical. (v) Whenever the Special Provisions designate only a spring final planting date, any acreage of fall planted barley or wheat is not insured unless you request such coverage and we agree in writing that the acreage has an adequate stand in the spring to produce the yield used to determine your production guarantee. Insurance will then attach to acreage having an adequate stand on the earlier of the spring final planting date or the date we agree to accept the acreage for insurance. If such fall planted acreage is not to be insured it must be recorded on the acreage report as an uninsured fall planted crop. (b) Insurance ends on each unit at the earliest of: (1) Total destruction of the insured crop on the unit;
