FR940822-0-00057 FR940822-0-00019 FRA received written comments on the proposal from seven entities and conducted a public hearing at the request of one. The public hearing was held in Washington, DC, on December 14, 1992, at which four organizations were represented. As a result of these comments and further analysis of the amendments proposed, FRA now publishes its final rule. FRA recognizes the importance of a railroad's operating rules and its radio rules for moving trains and other pieces of rolling equipment safely. The requirements promulgated in the final rule take this factor into account by balancing FRA's interest in reviewing pertinent documents against the railroads' interest in reducing their paperwork burden. The final rule reflects reconsideration of the proposals announced in the NPRM. In the interest of reducing certain paperwork requirements, FRA has adopted certain proposed revisions to the regulations. FRA has also authorized railroads to retain information electronically so long as the railroads satisfy the stated conditions. Nevertheless, FRA has retained the filing requirements prescribed in existing ยง217.7 for Class I railroads and Class II railroads. See Interstate Commerce Commission (``ICC'') regulations at 49 CFR Part 1201 and ICC General Instructions 1&hyph;1. FRA has determined that its headquarters office, located in Washington, DC, needs to continue receiving copies of the operating rules of national and regional railroads to remain apprised of such rules. Finally, FRA believes that operational test and inspection records require more specific data elements. FRA has concluded that the newly identified data points serve to clarify the existing information requirements by defining the individual sources comprising each operational test and inspection. See Section-by-Section Analysis for details. Discussion of Comments and Conclusions FRA received written comments from the American Public Transit Association, Association of American Railroads (``AAR''), The American Short Line Railroad Association (``ASLRA''), Consolidated Rail Corporation (``Conrail''), New Jersey Transit Rail Operations, Union Pacific Railroad Company, and United Transportation Union (``UTU''). At the public hearing held December 14, 1992, four organizations participated: the Railway Labor Executives' Association (``RLEA''), the Brotherhood of Locomotive Engineers (``BLE''), AAR, and Conrail. The discussions that follow examine the issues raised by the commenters and analyze the reasons behind the adoption of the final rule. 1. Whether FRA should abolish requirements that railroads file their operating rules, radio rules, and certain other documents with FRA. Two unions representing railroad employees objected to the proposal that railroads merely retain their operating rules, programs of operational tests and inspections, programs of instruction on operating rules, and annual summaries. The UTU declared that FRA was abdicating its responsibility of reviewing the documents for regulatory compliance. The UTU alleged that requiring the relocation of records to the railroad's system headquarters and division headquarters would vest FRA's field inspectors with total enforcement responsibility and that, consequently, document inspection would be entirely discretionary and no longer an integral part of FRA's safety assessment of a railroad. In other words, the UTU claimed, FRA was sending a message that administering the operating rules regulations was no longer a priority. The BLE echoed the UTU's concerns, stating that the removal of agency review at the headquarters level represented a priority shift by FRA to no longer monitor a railroad's compliance with its operating rules or operational testing and inspection program (i.e. , efficiency testing program). The purpose of these regulations was to afford FRA headquarters the opportunity to analyze the data from the submitted documents. FRA needed to review incidents where railroad employees violated their employers' operating rules to determine whether these violations compromised railroad safety. The AAR, however, fully endorsed FRA's proposals to eliminate filing. The AAR saw the filing of operating rules and related documents as unnecessary, burdensome, and serving no safety objective. Furthermore, the AAR noted that the railroad divisions comprising each railroad's system already provide the regulatory documents that FRA field inspectors request for review. Requiring relocation of these records to offices that are visited by FRA field personnel would facilitate document accessibility and retrieval. The ASLRA also supported an end to the filing requirements. The ASLRA commented that these amendments would improve efficiency and economy for the short line railroads and would promote review by inspectors familiar with a railroad's operations. Three Class I railroads agreed that these measures would relieve burdensome requirements of photocopying and mailing these documents. Although FRA proposed redesignating the locations of these records, FRA has reconsidered the impact this measure would have on enforcement, accident investigation, and other functions. A railroad's operating rules and timetables are valuable resources that are used by personnel of all disciplines in FRA's headquarters Office of Safety. For example, at FRA headquarters, these documents are reviewed in conjunction with accident reports filed at headquarters under 49 CFR Part 225 by the railroad. The railroads' rules and timetables are also consulted during FRA headquarters' analysis of draft accident investigation reports submitted by FRA field personnel. By maintaining a copy of the operating rules and timetables of major railroads, FRA retains its ability to determine whether the operating rules themselves, or violations of them, contributed to an accident. Retaining immediate access to these documents in Washington, DC, provides FRA's headquarters office with an efficient means to identify unsafe or inadequate procedures and to recommend practices that will ensure protection of train movements.
