FR940228-0-00069 FR940228-0-00016 Response to Comments Comment 1: Prohibiting fishing gear types not defined in the regulations will stifle gear innovations and development by the industry. Response: This rule will not stifle gear innovations or the development of new fishing gear by the industry. Gear innovations and development can be accomplished within existing regulations governing experimental fishing at §§672.6 and 675.6. Under an experimental fishing permit, otherwise unauthorized gear could be assessed relative to fishing efficiency, bycatch mortality rates, and the effects on the biological and physical environment. Fishing gear types assessed under this process could be subsequently authorized under future regulatory amendments. Comment 2: Prohibiting gear types not defined in the regulations is supported because new gear types should be thoroughly tested. However, the proposed rule did not assess and does not prevent the use of imported gear, in particular the use of pair trawls, as an authorized gear type. Response: The purpose of this action is to limit the fishing gear types employed in the groundfish fisheries off Alaska to those traditionally used, including pair trawls. Any vessels participating in a fishery with pair trawls are subject to observer requirements by §§672.27 and 675.25. The use of imported gear would be inconsistent with regulations unless it conforms to the authorized fishing gear definition. NMFS will continue to obtain information from observers about performance of each authorized fishing gear type used in the groundfish fisheries. Technical Amendment The rule by technical amendment moves existing definitions of fishing gear types from alphabetic locations at §§672.2 and 675.2 and reorganizes them under a new definition, Authorized fishing gear. Although the final rule does not change existing definitions from the proposed rule, it redesignates the fishing gear definitions by removing them from their alphabetical order and placing them as paragraphs under this new definition. Three definitions, Trawl, Non-trawl , and Longline are modified to provide consistency in the fishing gear definitions in the GOA and BSAI regulations. Classification This rule is not subject to review under E.O. 12866. List of Subjects in 50 CFR Parts 672 and 675 Fisheries, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. Dated: February 22, 1994. Rolland A. Schmitten, Assistant Administrator for Fisheries, National Marine Fisheries Service. For the reasons set out in the preamble, 50 CFR parts 672 and 675 are amended as follows:
