FR941004-0-00047 FR941004-0-00019 DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 48 CFR Part 225 Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement; Offset Administrative Costs AGENCY: Department of Defense (DoD). ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: The Director of Defense Procurement has issued a final rule amending the Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement (DFARS) to change the criteria for contractor recovery of offset administrative costs under foreign military sales. EFFECTIVE DATE: September 28, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: LTC Ed King, (703) 604&hyph;5929. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: A. Background This revision originated based on a Defense Security Assistance Agency (DSAA) procedural change on offset administrative costs. A proposed rule was published at 59 FR 17756 on April 14, 1994. The proposed rule is adopted as final without change. DSAA will issue a corresponding revision to the Security Assistance Manual. B. Regulatory Flexibility Act The Department of Defense certifies that this final rule will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities under the Regulatory Flexibility Act, 5 U.S.C. 601, et seq., because it is unlikely that a substantial number of small entities have foreign military sales contracts. No comments were received on the impact of this rule on small entities during the public comment period. C. Paperwork Reduction Act The final rule does not impose any reporting or recordkeeping requirements which require the approval of OMB under 44 U.S.C. 3501, et seq . List of Subjects in 48 CFR Part 225 Government procurement. Claudia L. Naugle, Deputy Director, Defense Acquisition Regulations Council. Accordingly, 48 CFR Part 225 is amended as follows: 1. The authority citation for 48 CFR Part 225 continues to read as follows: Authority: 41 U.S.C. 421 and 48 CFR Chapter 1. PART 225_FOREIGN ACQUISITION 2. Section 225.7303&hyph;2(a) is revised to read as follows: ยง225.7303&hyph;2 Cost of doing business with a foreign government or an international organization. (a) In pricing FMS contracts where non-U.S. Government prices as described in ยง225.7303&hyph;1 do not exist, recognize the reasonable and allocable costs of doing business with a foreign government or international organization, even though such costs might not be recognized in the same amounts in pricing other defense contracts. Examples of such costs include, but are not limited to_ (1) Selling expenses (not otherwise limited by FAR part 31), e.g._ (i) Maintaining international sales and service organizations; (ii) Sales commissions and fees in accordance with FAR subpart 3.4; (iii) Sales promotions, demonstrations, and related travel for sales to foreign governments. Paragraph 126.8 of the International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR) (22 CFR part 121) may require Government approval for these costs to be allowable. If Government approval is required for promotion or demonstration costs to be allowable, the approval must be obtained. (iv) Configuration studies and related technical services undertaken as a direct selling effort to a foreign country. (2) Product support and post-delivery service expenses, such as_ (i) Operations or maintenance training, training or tactics films, manuals, or other related data; and (ii) Technical field services provided in a foreign country related to accident investigations, weapon system problems, operations/tactics enhancement, and related travel to foreign countries. (3) Offset administrative costs. (i) A U.S. defense contractor may recover costs incurred to administer specific requirements of its offset agreement with a foreign government or international organization if the foreign military sale Letter of Offer and Acceptance is financed wholly with customer cash or repayable foreign military finance credits. (ii) The U.S. Government assumes no obligation to satisfy or administer the offset requirement or to bear any of the associated costs. (iii) Some examples of offset administrative costs are_ ((A) In-house and/or purchased: organizational, administrative and technical support, including offset staffing; quality assurance, manufacturing, purchasing support; data acquisition; proposal, transaction and report preparation; broker/trading services; legal support; and similar support activities; (B) Off-shore operations for technical representative and consultant activities, office operations, customer and industry interface, capability surveys; (C) Marketing assistance and related technical assistance, transfer of technical information and related training; (D) Employee travel and subsistence costs; and (E) Taxes and duties. (4) Costs that are the subject of advance agreement under the appropriate provisions of FAR part 31; or where the advance understanding places a limit on the amounts of cost that will be recognized as allowable in defense contract pricing, and the agreement contemplated that it will apply only to DoD contracts for the U.S. Government's own requirement (as distinguished from contracts for FMS). * * * * * [FR Doc. 94&hyph;24461 Filed 10&hyph;3&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 5000&hyph;04&hyph;M
