FR940317-2-00026 FR940317-2-00017 Alaska Power Administration Snettisham Surplus Power Marketing Plan AGENCY: Alaska Power Administration, Department of Energy. ACTION: Final surplus power marketing plan and call for application for power. SUMMARY: The final marketing plan for the sale of surplus energy from the Snettisham Project is published herein together with a discussion of the issues raised during the public comment process. Alaska Power Administration (APA) published the Draft Surplus Power Marketing Plan on January 7, 1994 (59 FR 1013), to start the process to establish allocations of surplus energy and surplus energy sales contracts for the Snettisham Project. The Marketing Plan is fully compatible with the Department of Energy's legislative proposal for APA divestiture which is currently undergoing Congressional consideration. DATES: Applications for an allocation of surplus energy must be received in APA's Headquarters Office by the close of business on May 6, 1994. See section II for further details. ADDRESSES: Applications for an allocation of surplus energy should be submitted to Mr. Michael Deihl, Alaska Power Administration, 2770 Sherwood Lane, Suite # 2B, Juneau, AK 99801. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mr. Scott Willis, Alaska Power Administration, P.O. Box 020889, Juneau, AK 99802&hyph;0889, (907) 586&hyph;6963. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Draft Surplus Marketing Plan_Snettisham Project I. Background APA published the Draft Surplus Power Marketing Plan in the Federal Register on January 7, 1994 (FR 59 1013). A public information and comment forum was held January 18, 1994. Written comments were accepted until February 7, 1994. Two written comments were received. A discussion of the comments is presented in section III. APA has considered the comments received and is publishing herein the Final Surplus Power Marketing Plan. This Federal Register notice also formally invites requests for allocation of surplus energy in accordance with the plan. Based on the provisions of the Plan, APA will then allocate surplus energy and sign contracts with customers receiving allocations. An Environmental Assessment was prepared for these power marketing activities and a Finding of No Significant Impact was issued by the Department of Energy. II. Application Procedures APA formally invites requests for allocations of surplus energy from the Snettisham Project from qualified applicants. Applicants should advise APA's Administrator in writing of their requests. Written requests must be received at the APA Headquarters Office at 2770 Sherwood Lane, Suite # 2B, Juneau, AK 99801, by the close of business on May 6, 1994. Applicants must identify the amount of energy desired. III. Discussion of Public Comments and Summary of Revisions APA received two written comments on the Draft Surplus Power Marketing Plan. The points raised in the comments are discussed below. 1. Comment: As originally proposed, a ``major industrial load'' would have been one which was not currently a firm customer of AEL&P, does not conduct utility type operations, and which has the capability to meet its own energy requirement in the absence of Snettisham energy. Both commentators objected to the definition excluding a potential major industrial load, such as a mine, simply because it is presently a firm customer of AEL&P for a small amount of firm energy used at an office facility. They proposed that the definition be changed so as not to preclude such loads. One commentator suggested that the definition be strengthened as to the requirement for being able to meet its own energy requirement. They pointed out that a qualified load should be able to meet its own baseload energy requirement rather than its peak requirements or its requirement during intermittent curtailment of Snettisham energy. Discussion: APA believes these suggestions clarify the intent of the marketing plan. As revised, a major industrial load is one which does not conduct utility-type operations and whose major load is not currently served as a firm load by AEL&P. The major industrial load must also have the capability to meet its own baseload energy requirement in the long-term absence of Snettisham energy. 2. Comment: One commentator felt that there was apparently a conflict between the provision in section C that ``entities receiving an allocation of Snettisham resources will be offered an electric service contract␣.␣.␣.'' and the provision in section B.3. that ``allocations will be made to AEL&P.'' They asked for clarification as to whether a major industrial load would enter into a contract with APA, with AEL&P, or with both. Discussion: Potential surplus energy customers are encouraged to work directly with AEL&P. In this case, AEL&P will make the request, the allocation will be to AEL&P, and the contract will be between APA and AEL&P. The major industrial customer and AEL&P will presumably have their own contractual arrangements. As indicated in the plan, if service through AEL&P is demonstrated to be infeasible, then APA will consider an allocation and contract directly with the major industrial customer. 3. Comment: The contracts for surplus energy should not only include assurance that the allocation will continue after divestiture with APA, but that the rates charged for energy will continue also. Discussion: The contracts will contain language to assure that the allocation continues, but will not contain language which binds the new owner to a given rate structure. The existing purchase agreement for Snettisham was negotiated to assure only that allocations would continue, but that the new owner would set their own rates. The contracts will not ``guarantee'' rates for APA, but will allow APA to adjust rates within its own procedures and guidelines. This has been clarified in the final plan. 4. Comment: The allocation reservation fee should be refundable to the extent that allocated energy is not made available for taking during the year. Discussion: This has been clarified in the final plan. 5. Comment: APA should not allocate energy among competing applicants by dividing it equally, but should be made some other way, such as proportionate to the size of the requests, or by benefit to the local economy, etc. Discussion: There are any number of ways to allocate a limited resource. APA expects that if there are competing requests for allocation, they will all be in excess of the resource available and they will all be based on estimates of future loads rather than historic use. For this reason APA will divide the resource equally as explained in the plan.
