FR941222-0-00026 FR941222-0-00003 Response . Consistent with the applicable procedure, the NRC does not intend to hold formal trial-type public hearings on the Standardized NUHOMS rule or separate hearings at each reactor site before the use of the dry cask technology approved by the Commission in this rulemaking. Rulemaking procedures, used by the NRC for generic approval of the Standardized NUHOMS, including the underlying NRC staff technical reviews and the opportunity for public input, are more than adequate to obtain public input and assure protection of the public health and safety and the environment. In this rulemaking, the NRC has taken additional steps to elicit and fully consider public comments on the Standardized NUHOMS technology. These steps included NRC participation in public meetings near Davis-Besse and extension of the public comment period by 45 days in response to public requests. This extension provided a total public comment period of almost 4 months. Section 133 of the Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982 authorizes the NRC to approve spent fuel storage technologies by rulemaking. When it adopted the generic process in 1990 for the review and approval of dry cask storage technologies, the Commission stated that ``casks *␣*␣* [are to] be approved by rulemaking and any safety issues that are connected with the casks are properly addressed in that rulemaking rather than in a hearing procedure'' (July 18, 1990; 55 FR 29181). Rulemaking under NRC rules of practice, described in 10 CFR 2.804 and 2.805, provides full opportunity for expression of public views but does not use formal trial-type hearings of the kind requested by commenters. In this proceeding, rulemaking clearly provided adequate avenues for members of the public to provide their views regarding NRC's proposed approval of the Standardized NUHOMS, including the opportunity to participate through the submission of statements, information, data, opinions and arguments. In this connection, technical evaluations for Standardized NUHOMS and detailed documented findings of compliance with NRC safety, security, and environmental requirements were prepared by the NRC staff for public examination. In November 1993, the NRC staff reviewed the Standardized NUHOMS and approved the design for the purpose of initiating this rulemaking to grant a generic approval of the design. In addition, the NRC staff conducted a second review in response to the public comments on the Standardized NUHOMS in this rulemaking, again finding compliance with NRC requirements as discussed in this document. In addition to reviewing systematically and in depth the technical issues important to protecting public health and safety, and the environment, the NRC has taken extra steps to obtain and fully consider public views on the Standardized NUHOMS technology and has made every effort to respond to public concerns and questions about the Standardized NUHOMS compliance with NRC safety, security, and environmental requirements. The initial public comment period opened on June 2, 1994, and was scheduled to close on August 16, 1994. On August 29, 1994, the public comment period was extended to September 30, 1994. The NRC also participated in an earlier meeting near the Davis-Besse site. Under these circumstances, formal hearings would not appreciably add to NRC's efforts to ensure adequate protection of public health, safety, and the environment and they are unnecessary to NRC's full understanding and consideration of public views on the Standardized NUHOMS. G.3. Comment . One commenter stated that because there is not now and there may not be a permanent high-level radioactive waste (HLWR) repository for commercial reactor fuel, and since the NUHOMS 24P and 52B casks are non- transportable, any distinction between so called ``temporary storage'' and ``permanent disposal'' of this waste is moot. Because of the lack of a permanent repository or Monitored Retrievable Storage (MRS) in the foreseeable future, a case of a serious spill and the resultant contamination at an environmentally unsuitable site like Davis-Besse where ``short and long-term adverse impacts associated with the occupancy and modification of (a) floodplain *␣*␣* potential release of radioactive material during the lifetime of the ISFSI *␣*␣* (and location) over an aquifer which is a major water resource'' have been inadequately dealt with. Response . This rulemaking to certify the Standardized NUHOMS is for interim storage of spent fuel in an approved cask for 20 years. It does not authorize or approve the ultimate disposal in a permanent HLRW repository, which is under the responsibility of the DOE. During interim storage, the user (holder of a Part 50 license) must protect the spent fuel against design basis threats, and against environmental conditions and natural phenomena such as tornadoes, tornado missiles, earthquakes, and floods. In regard to flooding, the Certificate of Compliance has a provision (see A&hyph;2 of Certificate of Compliance) for flood condition analysis to ensure that there is no release of radioactive material from flooding.
