FR940513-0-00157 FR940513-0-00034 The Commission instead has determined to require an encircled ``E'' on packages and in catalogs for general service fluorescent lamps that meet or exceed the minimum efficiency standards set by EPCA. This disclosure will be useful to purchasers because it will assure them that the lamps so marked meet or exceed the federal minimum efficiency standards. To ensure that purchasers understand that the encircled ``E'' means that the products meet the minimum efficiency standards established by EPCA, the Commission also has determined to require that a brief explanatory statement appear on the packages for the lamps and in catalogs from which they can be ordered. 221 Specifically, the amendments now adopted require that on each package for general service fluorescent lamps, manufacturers must disclose conspicuously the encircled ``E'' on the principal display panel. The encircled ``E'' will be considered ``conspicuous,'' in terms of size, if it appears at least as large as either the manufacturer's name or logo or another logo disclosed on the package, such as the ``UL'' or ``ETL'' logos, whichever is larger. On the principal display panel or on another panel, manufacturers also must disclose conspicuously the statement, ``(The encircled ``E'' logo, followed by:) means this bulb meets Federal minimum efficiency standards.'' See ยง305.11(e)(2) in ``Text of Amendments,'' below. 221 Catalogs are discussed below in Part IV.E.3., below. 2. Disclosures for Products Without Individual Packaging In the NPR, the Commission proposed two approaches for disclosures for those products (which are usually general service fluorescent lamps) manufacturers might choose to sell without individual packaging or without packaging other than bulk shipping cases. 222 Option One would have required manufacturers to label the products with disclosures on a hang tag or adhesive label attached to each unpackaged product; Option Two would have required manufacturers to include the required information on statements included in each shipping case, and would have required retailers to post the information at point of sale. In addition to these proposals, the Commission asked generally, in ``Questions for Comment,'' whether it should require that labels be attached to individual unpackaged products. 223 222 58 FR 60156. ``Some lamp products, however, are not sold in individual packages. According to industry representatives, for example, general service fluorescent lamps frequently are shipped only in bulk containers, without individual lamp sleeves or packaging, whether the shipment is to a commercial purchaser (who purchases through a catalog) or to a local retail store for resale of unpackaged individual lamps to residential purchasers.'' Id. 223 Id. at 60159. Four comments addressed this issue as it related to general service fluorescent lamps. NEMA and GE suggested that the Commission require that an encircled ``E'' be etched on the general service fluorescent lamps themselves. 224 Osram specifically opposed the labeling of individual products with stickers or hang tags. 225 OR DOE recommended against labels on individual lamps in favor of disclosures on the bulk packaging. 226 224 NEMA, G&hyph;3, 24; GE, G&hyph;2 (Ans.), 8 (``The Commission should not require that individual lamps contain disclosures on any adhesive label hang tag or other kind of label. Such labels will add cost which does not result in any meaningful disclosure being made. GEL has suggested that general service fluorescent lamps be marked with the symbol ``E'' enclosed in a circle to indicate to purchasers that such lamps meet the energy efficiency requirements of the EPA&hyph;92. It is feasible to require limited amounts of information to be marked [etched] on products. The ``E'' enclosed with a circle is an example of such disclosure that fits easily on a product.''). 225 Osram (Supp.), G&hyph;11, 5. 226 OR DOE, GG&hyph;13, 8. EPCA mandates that the Commission's rules shall provide that the labeling shall indicate the information required by the Commission ``on the packaging of the lamp.'' 227 The Commission, therefore, does not have authority under EPCA to require marking directly on lamp products. But, purchasers of general service fluorescent lamps that are not packaged should be informed that the products meet the minimum efficiency standards. The Commission has determined that proposed Option Two would not in many situations result in the required disclosure actually reaching purchasers because the statements enclosed in shipping cases could be lost and a separate requirement in the rules that retailers post them would be difficult to enforce. 227 42 U.S.C.A. 6294(a)(2)(C)(ii) (West Supp. 1993).
