FR940706-2-00064 FR940706-2-00037 Statement of Commissioner Dennis A. Yao In The Dow Chemical Company, File No. 941 0019 I voted to accept for public comment the proposed consent agreement in this matter because I believe it represents a viable solution to the potential anticompetitive effects that resulted from Marion Merrell Dow's (``MMD'') acquisition of Rugby Holding, Inc. (``Rugby''). The acquisition created a monopoly in the market for dicyclomine tablets and capsules by combining the only two manufacturers of the branded and generic product. The proposed consent has the potential of establishing a second competitor through the grant of a nonexclusive license by MMD of certain intangible dicyclomine assets. The order also sets a maximum price at which MMD is allowed to sell dicyclomine tablets and capsules to the licensee for up to seven years. The goal is to replace the competition lost from the dicyclomine market as quickly as possible by establishing a new entrant in the market. The order is the best mechanism to provide quick relief. The order sets a ceiling of 48% of the average wholesale price on July 2, 1993, as the maximum price at which MMD is allowed to sell dicyclomine tablet and capsules to the licensee. The July 2, 1993, wholesale price offers the best available approximation of the price that would exist in a market consisting of only one manufacturer of the branded and one manufacturer of the generic product. The 48% is based on our best approximation of the margin that a generic distributor of another manufacturer's product needs to make a profit. Furthermore, the July 2 price is the firs price increase that reflected the exit of two generic competitors. The timing of the merger announcement and the price increase could suggest that the price on July 2nd were also influenced by the impending merger; however there is no evidence of this. If the ceiling is higher than one would prefer, the licensee and licensor could conceivably arrive at a transfer price that somewhat reduces their incentives to fully compete. Unfortunately, there is no other non-arbitrary method for setting the maximum allowable price, nor would it be easy to determine such a price. The provision, however, does serve the basic purpose of providing the licensee a chance to succeed without injecting a regulator's version of competition into the market. 1 1 I think indexing for inflation might have been more appropriate given the seven year period over which the ceiling would be in effect. I have a mild concern that the licensee will not have sufficient incentives to begin manufacturing dicyclomine on its own under the order. A potential licensee could enter the licensing agreement for a short period of time with the intention of taking advantage of the profit available for selling the licensed product but without the intention of manufacturing dicyclomine on its own. Alternatively, a licensee might initially intend to elf-manufacture, but change its strategy at some later date and sell only the licensed product. 2 In this particular instance, no reasonable fixes to the licensee incentive problem seem available. Therefore, on balance, I support the order because, at a minimum, it should achieve the necessary intermediate relief. Permanent relief, such as divestiture, may not be as needed in this instance because there is a good possibility of future entry, albeit untimely. 2 Such a change of strategy could come about because of the entry of others, or by unanticipated problems associated with gaining FDA approval, or self-manufacturing. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;16279 Filed 7&hyph;5&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6750&hyph;01&hyph;M
