FR940413-2-00116 FR940413-2-00059 B. Resources Applicants are strongly encouraged to be exhaustive in examining available related resources and ongoing activities in order to maximize the potential impact of a microenterprise. The resources that the State will provide to meet the 100 percent matching requirement should be discussed in some detail providing a clear understanding of what is to be provided and what the relevance/linkage of these resources is to the activities proposed and to successfully meeting the primary goal of the project. C. Services and Techniques Applicants shall specify the services and techniques they propose to provide to meet the goal of aiding economically disadvantaged individuals with microenterprises. Examples of key services and techniques that may be included in a proposal are: (1) Recruitment and screening. This is an important element both in identifying program staff to be trained as trainers and in identifying and selecting individuals who show potential for owning an microenterprise. (2) Case management. This would involve assigning an individual who provides guidance in all aspects of program participation and other services to microenterprise owners. (3) Follow-up. Enrollment in and successful completion of a microenterprise training program may well be only the initial challenges facing the entrepreneur. A structured follow-up program involving such counseling and supportive services as deemed appropriate is a critical aspect of the program. (4) Mentoring. This could involve assigning a volunteer businessperson from the community to serve in a one-on-one relationship with the new entrepreneur. Such volunteer service may not be considered for meeting the 100 percent matching requirement. Part IV_Evaluation Criteria Prospective applicants are advised that the selection of grantees for award is to be made after careful evaluation of proposals by a panel of specialists within DOL. The panelists will evaluate the proposals in accordance with the elements set forth in the Statement of Work. The panel results are advisory in nature and not binding on the Grant Officer. A. Ability to Conduct and Monitor the Microenterprise Activities (45 Points) (1) The proposal must describe in specific terms the service delivery strategy that the applicant would utilize to implement its ideas. The applicant must clearly state, particularly when discussing staff training for implementation of proposed microenterprise activities, how this activity will create a new capacity for the State to conduct such training. The proposal must provide assurances that resources under this grant will not be used to substitute for an ongoing commitment to maintain an economic development capacity. (30 points) (2) The application must also contain a clear statement of the need for such a project, including the degree to which the service delivery strategy will assist in meeting that need. (15 points) This overall discussion will be the measure for determining the ability to conduct and monitor such activities.
