FR940816-1-00105 FR940816-1-00012 (b) Violates its agreement with a test administrator; (c) In any way compromises the testing process; or (d) Is unable to document that the student received a passing score on an approved test as specified under ยง668.149(b)(7). (Authority: U.S.C. 1091(d)) ยง668.155 Approved State process. (a)(1) A State that wishes the Secretary to consider its State process as an alternative to achieving a passing score on an approved, independently administered test for the purpose of determining a student's eligibility for Title IV, HEA program funds must apply to the Secretary for approval of that process. (2) To be an approved State process, the State process does not have to include all the institutions located in that State. (b) The Secretary approves a State's process if_ (1) The State administering the process can demonstrate that the students it admits under that process without a high school diploma or its equivalent, who enroll in participating institutions have a success rate as determined under paragraph (h) of this section, that is within 95 percent of the success rate of students with high school diplomas; and (2) The State's process satisfies the requirements contained in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section. (c) A State process must require institutions participating in the process to provide each student they admit without a high school diploma or its recognized equivalent with the following services_ (1) Orientation regarding the institution's academic standards and requirements, and student rights; (2) Assessment of each student's existing capabilities through means other than a single standardized test; (3) Tutoring in basic verbal and quantitative skills, if appropriate; (4) Assistance in developing educational goals; (5) Counseling, including counseling regarding the appropriate class level for that student given the student's individual's capabilities; and (6) Follow-up by teachers and counselors regarding the student's classroom performance and satisfactory progress toward program completion. (d) A State process must_ (1) Monitor on an annual basis each participating institution's compliance with the requirements and standards contained in the State's process; (2) Require corrective action if an institution is found to be in noncompliance with the State process requirements; and (3) Terminate an institution from the State process if the institution refuses or fails to comply with the State process requirements. (e)(1) The Secretary responds to a State's request for approval of its State's process within six months after the Secretary's receipt of that request. If the Secretary does not respond by the end of six months, the State's process becomes effective. (2) An approved State process shall become an effective alternative to determine a student's eligibility for Title IV, HEA program funds under this subpart six months after the date on which the State submits the process to the Secretary for approval, if the Secretary approves the process. (f) The Secretary approves a State process for a period not to exceed five years. (g)(1) The Secretary withdraws approval of a State process if the Secretary determines that the State process violated any terms of this section or that the information that the State submitted as a basis for approval of the State process was inaccurate. (2) The Secretary provides a State with the opportunity to contest a finding that the State process violated any terms of this section or that the information that the State submitted as a basis for approval of the State process was inaccurate. (h) The State shall calculate the success rates as referenced in paragraph (b) of this section by_ (1) Determining the number of students with high school diplomas who, during the applicable award year described in paragraph (i) of this section, enrolled in participating institutions and_
