FR940114-2-00024 FR940114-2-00016 Record of Decision: Relocation of the Woodbridge Research Facility Electromagnetic Pulse Simulators AGENCY: Department of the Army, DoD. ACTION: Availability of record of decision. SUMMARY: This announces the availability of the Record of Decision (ROD) regarding the relocation of the Army's electromagnetic pulse (EMP) simulators currently located at the Woodbridge Research Facility (WRF), in Woodbridge, Virginia, to a new location selected from six candidate relocation sites evaluated for the facility. The Army has decided to relocate its four existing simulators, construct a new simulator, the Vertical EMP Simulator-Second Generation (VEMPS II), and operate the new facility at the Orogrande Site at White Sands Missile Range, New Mexico. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: On October 27, 1989, the Army announced a proposal to relocate the WRF EMP simulators to a new site, citing the following reasons: The need to continue simulated EMP testing in accordance with Army requirements, the desire to use the economics of collocation of test operations, and the concern to adjust to the rapidly expanding population in the Woodbridge and Northern Virginia areas. In 1991, after the Army announced its proposal to relocate the WRF EMP simulators, the WRF was designated for closure in accordance with the Defense Base Closure and Realignment Act (Pub. L. 101&hyph;510). The Army is planning to close the WRF in September 1994. As presented in the Final EIS, the Department of the Army's proposed action is to relocate its existing electromagnetic pulse (EMP) simulators from the Woodbridge Research Facility, Woodbridge, Virginia, construct a new simulator, the Vertical EMP Simulator II (VEMPS II), and operate them at a site selected from six candidate sites at Army installations in Arizona, New Mexico, and Utah. This action entails the dismantling of the existing EMP simulators at the WRF, transporting the equipment to the selected new site, preparation of the site facilities at the new location and the construction and operation of the EMP simulators at the new site. Council on Environmental Quality regulations (40 CFR 1505.2) for implementing the provisions of the National Environmental Policy Act direct the preparation of a public Record of Decision concerning decisions reached on actions considered in Environmental Impact Statements. The relocation of the WRF EMP simulators to a new location and its potential impacts have been discussed in the final environmental documents filed with the Environmental Protection Agency, as announced on November 26, 1993 (58 FR, No. 226; p. 62345). The ROD identifies the Orogrande Site as the site for construction of the new facility and summarizes the alternatives considered, the basis for selection of this site, and measures that will be undertaken to minimize environmental effects. This site was both the Army's preferred site and the environmentally preferred site because Orogrande is the location of the U.S. Army Test and Evaluation Command Nuclear Effects Directorate, and essentially all Army scientists and engineers who perform EMP testing are located in this area, thus simplifying logistics for operating the site. Further, the availability of these technologists and easily accessible operations and maintenance support from the main post area at WSMR simplifies test support logistics, thereby, minimizing the costs and time required to complete tests. Additionally, laboratory and administrative space is available at the existing Nuclear Effects Directorate offices, thereby minimizing the dollar investment to construct the site. The utilization of these spaces also eliminates the ground disturbance and loss of biological habitat and archeological resources associated with constructing the administrative staging areas and buildings, the need to construct four miles of security fencing and perimeter roadways, thus reducing cost and additional loss of biological habitat and archeological resources, and the impact to biological species. Also the roadways and test areas of the EMP facilities can be sited to avoid archeological resources and their operation at the Orogrande Site will have the least impact on the operations and facilities at WSMR. Interested individuals or organizations may obtain copies of the ROD by contacting: U.S. Army Research Laboratory, Attn: David Davison (AMSRL&hyph;CP&hyph;S&hyph;PA), 2800 Powder Mill Road, Adephi, MD 20783&hyph;1145, (301) 394&hyph;3590. Dated: January 6, 1994. Lewis D. Walker, Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Army, (Environment, Safety and Occupational Health) OASA (I,L&E). [FR Doc. 94&hyph;899 Filed 1&hyph;13&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3710&hyph;08&hyph;M
