FR940405-0-00049 FR940405-0-00006 After careful review of the available data, including the comments noted above, the FAA has determined that air safety and the public interest require the adoption of the rule with the changes previously described. The FAA has determined that these changes will neither increase the economic burden on any operator nor increase the scope of the AD. There are approximately 60 Model 747 series airplanes of the affected design in the worldwide fleet. The FAA estimates that 7 airplanes of U.S. registry will be affected by this AD. It would take an average of 15 work hours per airplane to accomplish the proposed inspection actions, at an average labor rate of $55 per work hour. Based on these figures, the total cost impact of the proposed inspection action of this AD on U.S. operators is estimated to be $5,775, or $825 per airplane, per inspection cycle. It would take an average of 240 work hours per airplane to accomplish the proposed bolt replacement action, at an average labor rate of $55 per work hour. Required parts would cost approximately $11,000 per airplane. Based on these figures, the total cost impact of the proposed replacement action of this AD on U.S. operators is estimated to be $169,400, or $24,200 per airplane. (This estimate assumes that H&hyph;11 steel bolts are found at all affected locations.) Accomplishment of this replacement action terminates the repetitive inspection requirement; therefore the accomplishment of the replacement will result in a reduction in costs to affected operators of $275 per airplane per inspection cycle that will no longer be required. The number of required work hours, as indicated above, is presented as if the accomplishment of the actions proposed in this AD were to be conducted as ``stand alone'' actions. However, in actual practice, these actions for the most part would be accomplished coincidentally or in combination with normally scheduled airplane inspections and other maintenance program tasks. Therefore, the actual number of necessary additional work hours would be minimal in many instances. Additionally, any costs associated with special airplane scheduling would be minimal. The total cost impact figure discussed above is based on assumptions that no operator has yet accomplished any of the requirements of this AD action, and that no operator would accomplish those actions in the future if this AD were not adopted. The regulations adopted herein will not have substantial direct effects on the States, on the relationship between the national government and the States, or on the distribution of power and responsibilities among the various levels of government. Therefore, in accordance with Executive Order 12612, it is determined that this final rule does not have sufficient federalism implications to warrant the preparation of a Federalism Assessment. For the reasons discussed above, I certify that this action (1) is not a ``significant regulatory action'' under Executive Order 12866; (2) is not a ``significant rule'' under DOT Regulatory Policies and Procedures (44 FR 11034, February 26, 1979); and (3) will not have a significant economic impact, positive or negative, on a substantial number of small entities under the criteria of the Regulatory Flexibility Act. A final evaluation has been prepared for this action and it is contained in the Rules Docket. A copy of it may be obtained from the Rules Docket at the location provided under the caption ADDRESSES . List of Subjects in 14 CFR Part 39 Air transportation, Aircraft, Aviation safety, Incorporation by reference, Safety. Adoption of the Amendment Accordingly, pursuant to the authority delegated to me by the Administrator, the Federal Aviation Administration amends 14 CFR part 39 of the Federal Aviation Regulations as follows:
