FR940426-0-00090 FR940426-0-00019 Accordingly, under the authority of the Higher Education Act of 1965, as amended, the Secretary announces the criteria for loan origination for the 1995&hyph;1996 academic year, as follows: Criteria for Loan Origination_1995&hyph;1996 Academic Year I. Origination (a) To be eligible to participate in the first level of origination of the Direct Loan Program, a school must meet the following criteria: (1) Be currently participating in the Federal Perkins Loan Program or the Federal Pell Grant Program or, for a graduate and professional school, a similar program. (2) If participating in the Federal Perkins Loan Program, not have exceeded the applicable maximum default rate under section 462(g) of the Higher Education Act (HEA) for the most recent fiscal year for which data are available. (3) Have participated in at least one of the student financial assistance programs under title IV of the HEA for the three years immediately preceding July 1, 1995. (4) Not be provisionally certified to participate in programs under title IV of the HEA. (5) Not be on the reimbursement system of payment in the Federal Pell Grant Program. (6) Not have received notice that the school is subject to an emergency action or a proposed or final limitation, suspension, or termination action under section 428(b)(1)(T), 432(h), or 487(c) of the HEA. (7) Not, in the opinion of the Secretary, have had severe performance deficiencies for any of the programs under title IV of the HEA, including deficiencies demonstrated by audits or program reviews submitted or conducted during the five calendar years immediately preceding the date of application to participate in the Direct Loan Program. These performance deficiencies may also include the school's failure to fulfill its responsibilities as an originating school in the program. (8) If participating in the Federal Pell Grant Program, have submitted Student Aid Reports on a timely basis. (9) Not be overdue on Federal cash transaction reports required under title IV of the HEA. (10) Not be overdue on program or financial reports or audits required under title IV of the HEA. (11) Provide an assurance that the school has no delinquent outstanding debts to the Federal Government, unless (i) those debts are being repaid under or in accordance with a repayment arrangement satisfactory to the Federal Government, or (ii) the Secretary determines that the existence or amount of the debts has not been finally determined by the cognizant Federal agency. (b) To be eligible to participate in the second level of origination, a school must meet the criteria in part I (a)(5), (6), and (7) of this announcement. II. Alternative Origination A school participating in the Direct Loan Program that is not eligible to originate loans under part I of this announcement must use the services of an alternative originator. III. Determination of Origination Status The Secretary may allow a school to originate loans at a level for which it would not otherwise be eligible if the Secretary determines that the school is fully capable of originating loans at that level. The Secretary may also require a school that meets the criteria for the second level of origination to use the services of an alternative originator if the extent to which the school fails to meet other origination criteria merits such an action. A consortium of schools may originate loans at a level of origination for which all members of the consortium are eligible. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1087a et seq ) Dated: April 14, 1994. Richard W. Riley, Secretary of Education. (Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance Number 84.268, Federal Direct Student Loan Program) [FR Doc. 94&hyph;9851 Filed 4&hyph;25&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4000&hyph;01&hyph;P
