FR940805-2-00063 FR940805-2-00040 Request for Nominations for Members on Public Advisory Committees; Veterinary Medicine Advisory Committee AGENCY: Food and Drug Administration, HHS. ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) is requesting nominations for members to serve on the Veterinary Medicine Advisory Committee in FDA's Center for Veterinary Medicine. Nominations will be accepted for vacancies that will or may occur during the next 16 months. FDA has a special interest in ensuring that women, minority groups, and individuals with disabilities are adequately represented on advisory committees and, therefore, extends particular encouragement to nominations for appropriately qualified female, minority, or disabled candidates. DATES: No cutoff date is established for receipt of nominations. ADDRESSES: All nominations for membership should be submitted to Gary E. Stefan (address below). FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Gary E. Stefan, Center for Veterinary Medicine (HFV&hyph;244), Food and Drug Administration, 7500 Standish Pl., Rockville, MD 20855, 301&hyph;594&hyph;1769. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: FDA is requesting nominations for members to serve on the committee. The function of the committee is to review and evaluate available data concerning safety and effectiveness of marketed and investigational new animal drugs, feeds, and devices for use in the treatment and prevention of animal disease and increased animal production. Criteria for Members Persons nominated for membership on the Veterinary Medicine Advisory Committee shall have adequately diversified experience appropriate to the work of the committee in such fields as companion animal medicine, food animal medicine, avian medicine, microbiology, biometrics, toxicology, pathology, pharmacology, animal science, and chemistry. The specialized training and experience necessary to qualify the nominee as an expert suitable for appointment is subject to review, but may include experience in medical practice, teaching, and/or research relevant to the field of activity of the committee. The term of office is 4 years. Nomination Procedures Any interested person may nominate one or more qualified persons for membership on the committee. Nominations shall state that the nominee is willing to serve as a member of the committee and appears to have no conflict of interest that would preclude committee membership. FDA will ask the potential candidates to provide detailed information concerning such matters as employment, financial holdings, consultancies, and research grants or contracts to permit evaluation of possible sources of conflict of interest. This notice is issued under the Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. app. 2) and 21 CFR part 14, relating to advisory committees. Dated: August 1, 1994. Linda A. Suydam, Interim Deputy Commissioner for Operations. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;19094 Filed 8&hyph;4&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4160&hyph;01&hyph;F
