FR940505-1-00150 FR940505-1-00012 (c) Military Aviation. ( 1 ) Overview. ( a ) Military Air Base Operations. Military air bases are defined for the purpose of this proposal as facilities owned and operated by the Department of Defense with the primary mission of aircraft operation. Aircraft operation emissions, defined here as emissions from aircraft themselves, dominate total emissions at a military air base. Like commercial airports, ground support equipment and ground access vehicles also contribute to a military air base's total emissions. Mobile source-related emissions from these ``other base operations'' sources have never been fully inventoried. EPA has established a working group in conjunction with the Department of Defense (DOD) to compile and assess complete emission profiles for all air bases. The information that is currently available is contained in the Technical Support Document, which is available in the rulemaking docket for today's proposal. Table F lists the military installations in the control areas where aircraft activity has been identified, ranging from active air bases with intensive activity, to bases with only minimal transient operations. The South Coast Air Basin contains most of the installations. As an example of their significance in FIP areas, emissions from military aircraft operations in the South Coast air basin currently are about 20 percent of those generated by commercial aircraft operations, or about 0.3 percent of the total South Coast Air basin's 1990 baseline emissions inventory based on current inventory data. A military air base usually has specific aircraft based on-site; the operational characteristics for these aircraft can vary widely depending on the specific mission requirements for the based unit or units. Transient operations resulting from military aircraft based elsewhere can comprise a significant portion of a military air base's total aircraft operations, depending on specific military requirements, but most of these transient operations are unscheduled and difficult to characterize. The military aircraft fleet experiences relatively slow turnover; aircraft remain in service for many years, and new airframe designs enter the fleet at a relatively slow pace. The ongoing base closure and realignment process introduces an important element into the process of developing a control strategy for military aircraft operations. The Secretary of Defense and the Defense Base Closure and Realignment Commission have recommended a series of defense base closures across the nation, including the FIP areas, as well as a concurrent sequence of ``realignment'' actions with shifts in the location and intensity of military activity. The closure of several air bases within the control areas represents the more significant impact on the control strategies described here. Of the seven military air installations located in the South Coast area, three are scheduled for closure and one will be realigned. Aircraft operations at the realigned installation are expected to decrease. (See the table below for the air bases recommended for closure.) As a result of the Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) process, emissions from military aircraft will be significantly reduced by the year 2000. For example, emissions of VOC and NO X will decline by at least 50 percent in the South Coast control area as a result of air base closures, according to current information. (See the Technical Support Document for further discussion.) Certain bases are slated for re-use by civilian entities following closure; this re-use may include aircraft activity. Some of any such activity may represent relocation of current or future growth in civilian aviation from other airports in the respective air basins; some may be activity which would not have occurred in that basin but for the availability of the closed base. Military Air Bases in California FIP Areas Military Agency South Coast Air Basin Production Flight Test-Air Force Plant 42_Air Force El Toro MCAS [closing]_Marine Corps Los Alamitos AAF_Army National Guard March AFB_Air Force Norton AFB [closing]_Air Force San Clemente Island_Navy Tustin MCAS [closing]_Marine Corps Sacramento Air Basin Mather AFB [closing]_Air Force McClellan AFB_Air Force Ventura County Channel Islands_Air National Guard Point Mugu NAWS_Navy Abbreviations AAF_Army Air Field AFB_Air Force Base MCAS_Marine Corps Air Station NAWS_Naval Air Weapons Station
