FR940822-2-00085 FR940822-2-00058 SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION [Release No. 34&hyph;34533; File No. SR&hyph;NASD&hyph;93&hyph;3] Self-Regulatory Organizations; National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc.; Order Approving Proposed Rule Change and Notice of Filing and Order Granting Partial Accelerated Approval to Amendments to Proposed Rule Change Relating to Limited Partnership Rollup Transactions August 15, 1994. I. Introduction On February 3, 1993, the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. (``NASD'' or ``Association'') filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``SEC'' or ``Commission'') a proposed rule change pursuant to Section 19(b)(1) 1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Exchange Act''), and Rule 19b&hyph;4 thereunder. 2 The proposal subsequently was amended eight times. On April 14, 1993, May 7, 1993, May 13, 1993, May 14, 1993, August 26, 1993, October 21, 1993, 3 April 14, 1994, and July 27, 1994, the NASD filed Amendment Nos. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8, respectively, to the proposed rule change. 4 The proposed rule change would amend Article III, Section 34 of the Rules of Fair Practice to include rules which prevent NASD members or persons associated with an NASD member from participating in any ``limited partnership rollup transaction'' (as defined in the proposed rule change) unless the transaction includes certain specified provisions designed to protect the rights of limited partners. The proposed rule change also would amend Article III, Section 34(b)(6) to narrow the scope of transactions in which members are forbidden to receive differential compensation (``Differential Compensation Amendment''). Finally, the proposed rule change would amend Schedule D of the By-Laws (``Schedule D'') to prohibit the authorization for quotation on the Nasdaq National Market (``Nasdaq/NM'') of any security which results from a covered partnership rollup transaction unless the transaction was conducted in accordance with certain specified procedures designed to protect the rights of dissenting limited partners. 1 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1) (1988). 2 17 CFR 19b&hyph;4 (1993). 3 On December 17, 1993, the Limited Partnership Rollup Reform Act of 1993 (``Rollup Reform Act'') was enacted. 4 Amendment No. 1 superseded the original rule filing. Amendment No. 2 amended the rule language and the NASD's Statement of Purpose in response to comments of the Commission staff. Amendment Nos. 3 and 4 made technical changes to the rule. Notice of the proposed rule change (Securities Exchange Act Release No. 32312, May 17, 1993) was then published in the Federal Register (58 FR 29655, May 21, 1993). Amendment No. 5 made technical changes to the rule text and responded to the comment letters that the Commission received in response to the publication of the release in the Federal Register . Amendment No. 6 made changes to the rule text to address issues of state law addressed in comment letters. Amendment No. 7 amended the rule language to partially conform the rule to the Rollup Reform Act and narrowed the scope of transactions in which members were forbidden to receive differential compensation. Amendment No. 8 amended the rule language to conform the rule to the Rollup Reform Act in all relevant parts and reordered the text of the proposed rule change in accordance with Section 34 of the Rules of Fair Practice. Notice of the proposed rule change, together with the substance of the proposal as amended by Amendment Nos. 1&hyph;4, was provided by the issuance of a Commission release (Securities Exchange Act Release No. 32312, May 17, 1993) and by publication in the Federal Register (58 FR 29655, May 21, 1993). Seven comment letters were received in response to the Commission release. Three comment letters expressed support for the proposed rule change. 5 One comment letter stated that the proposed rule change should not be adopted ``in the absence of a legislative mandate.'' 6 Three comment letters neither supported nor opposed the proposed rule change but offered suggestions on how to enhance the NASD's rule. 7 5 See letter from Michael B. Pollack, Chairman, Securities Laws and Regulatory Affairs Committee, Investment Program Association (``IPA'') to Jonathan Katz, Secretary, SEC dated June 9, 1993; letter from Deborah A. DeMott, Professor of Law, Duke University School of Law (``DeMott'') to Jonathan Katz dated June 10, 1993; and letter from John F. Olson and Nicholas S. Hodge, Committee on Federal Regulation of Securities, American Bar Association (``ABA'') to Jonathan Katz dated June 23, 1993. 6 See letter from Joe M. Bridges, President, Kelley Oil Corp. (``Kelley'') to Jonathan Katz dated July 6, 1993. 7 See letter from Gene Oshman, Baker & Botts (``Baker & Botts'') to Jonathan Katz dated June 10, 1993; letter from Patricia Magee Daly, Kutak Rock (``Kutak Rock'') to Jonathan Katz dated June 11, 1993; letter from James E. Showen, Hogan & Hartson (``Hogan & Hartson'') to Jonathan Katz dated November 3, 1993. The Rollup Reform Act was enacted on December 17, 1993, as part of the Government Securities Act Amendments of 1993. Section 3(a) of the Rollup Reform Act added subparagraph (12) to Section 15A(b) of the Exchange Act to require that the rules of a registered securities association prevent members of the association from participating in any limited partnership rollup transaction unless the transaction provides procedures to protect certain rights of limited partners. Section 3(c) of the Rollup Reform Act amended Section 15A(b) of the Exchange Act to require that the rules of a registered securities association prohibit the authorization for quotation on an automated interdealer quotation system sponsored by the association of any security designated by the SEC as a national market system security resulting from a rollup transaction, unless the transaction provides certain rights for limited partners. 8 The NASD subsequently amended the proposed rule change to conform the language of the rule to the Rollup Reform Act. 9 8 Section 3(b) of the Rollup Reform Act added Section 6(b)(9) to the Exchange Act imposing virtually identical requirements upon national securities exchanges. See 15 U.S.C. ยง78f(b)(9). 9 See supra n. 4. By this release, the Commission: (i) solicits comment on the Differential Compensation Amendment; (ii) approves the proposed rule change as amended by Amendment Nos. 1&hyph;4; and (iii) grants approval on an accelerated basis to Amendment Nos. 5, 6 and 8, and grants approval on an accelerated basis to Amendment No. 7, 10 except for that portion of that Amendment proposing the Differential Compensation Amendment, which the Commission is not approving by this release. 11 10 Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views and arguments concerning Amendment Nos. 5&hyph;8 to the proposed rule change. See infra Section V. 11 The Differential Compensation Amendment would eliminate the definition of ``rollup of a direct participation program'' contained in Subsections (b)(6)(A) and (B) of Article III, Section 34, which prohibits the receipt of differential compensation in connection with the solicitation of investor votes in rollup transactions, and substitute the term ``limited partnership rollup transaction'' wherever the term ``roll-up of a direct participation program'' currently appears in these Subsections. The effect would be to permit NASD members to receive diffential compensation in connection with the solicitation of investor votes in any ``roll-up of a direct participation program'' that does not also constitute a ``limited partnership rollup transaction.'' See infra Section III.B.1. The text of the proposed rule change is available at the Office of the Secretary of the NASD and at the Commission. 12 With respect to the Differential Compensation Amendment, language proposed to be added to Subsections (b)(6)(A) and (B) of Article III, Section 34 is in italics; proposed deletions are in brackets. 12 The NASD also will publish the text of the proposed rule change in an NASA Notice to Members. Rules of Fair Practice Article III * * * * * Direct Participation Programs Sec. 34 * * * * * (b) * * * * * Participation in Rollups (6)(A) No member or person associated with a member shall participate in the solicitation of votes or tenders from limited partners [participants] in connection with a limited partnership rollup transaction [of a direct participation program or programs] irrespective of the form of the resulting entity [resulting from the rollup] ( i.e., a partnership, real estate investment trust or corporation), unless [such] any compensation received by the member: (i) is payable and equal in amount regardless of whether the limited partner [participant] votes affirmatively or negatively in the proposed limited partnership rollup transaction ; (ii) in the aggregate, does not exceed 2% of the exchange value of the newly-created securities; and (iii) is paid regardless of whether the limited partners [participants] reject the proposed limited partnership rollup transaction. (B) No member or person associated with a member shall participate in the solicitation of votes or tenders from limited partners [participants] in connection with a limited partnership rollup transaction [of a direct participation program or programs] unless the general partner(s) or sponsor(s) proposing the limited partnership rollup transaction agrees to pay all solicitation expenses related to the limited partnership rollup transaction, including all preparatory work related thereto, in the event the limited partnership rollup transaction is rejected. [For purposes of paragraphs (A) and (B), a rollup of a direct participation program shall mean a transaction involving an acquisition, merger or consolidation of at least one direct participation program, not currently listed on a registered national securities exchange or traded on the Nasdaq System, into another public direct participation program or a public corporation or a public trust.] * * * * * II. Background
