FR941025-0-00023 FR941025-0-00005 Boeing states that the effect of specifying Maintenance Manual page numbers and revision dates in the AD is that operators may be unable to use the procedure contained in the Maintenance Manual to perform certain tests required by the AD. Each operator would be required to maintain an obsolete version of the procedure, or to request FAA approval of an alternative method of compliance with the AD that would allow the use of the current version of the Maintenance Manual. The FAA concurs partially. In light of the information submitted by the commenters, the FAA finds that specific reference to page numbers and dates of the Boeing 737 Maintenance Manual should not be specified in paragraph (a) of the final rule. However, for that paragraph, the FAA does not agree that copies of the specific procedures should be included in the final rule. Therefore, paragraph (a) of the final rule has been revised to cite only the appropriate section specified in the Maintenance Manual for accomplishment of the tests required by that paragraph. The procedures specified in that section of the Maintenance Manual contain the appropriate tests recommended by the manufacturer for verification of the proper operation of the thrust reverser system. However, the FAA would consider requests from individual operators for approval of use of alternative test procedures, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (f) of this AD. Subsequent to the issuance of the proposal and the receipt of Boeing's comments to the proposal, Boeing has submitted to the FAA separate procedures for accomplishment of the operational tests of the sync-lock integrity following its installation. The FAA has included these procedures in paragraph (d) of the final rule; therefore, the Maintenance Manual references specified in paragraph (d) of the proposal have been removed from the final rule. One commenter requests that the compliance times be expressed in terms of cycles, instead of operating hours, since degradation of the thrust reverser system is related to cycles. The FAA does not concur. The FAA finds that the simplest expression of compliance times for purposes of this AD is in terms of a specific number of hours of operation at which compliance is required for affected airplanes. The FAA based this determination on the fact that the maintenance program for these airplanes is based on operating hours, the Maintenance Manual specifies compliance in terms of operating hours, and the maintenance program is based on operating hours. Further, recommended compliance intervals reflected in a safety assessment completed for the affected airplane/engine combination were expressed in terms of hours time-in-service. Two commenters request that the proposed 5-year compliance time for accomplishing the sync-lock installation be revised to 6 years to allow airplanes to be modified during scheduled heavy maintenance visits. The FAA does not concur with the commenters' requests to extend the compliance time. In developing an appropriate compliance time for this action, the FAA considered the safety implications, parts availability, and normal maintenance schedules for timely accomplishment of the modification. In consideration of these items, as well as input from the manufacturer with regard to parts availability, and industry representatives with regard to incorporation schedules, the FAA has determined that 5 years represents the maximum interval of time allowable wherein the modification can reasonably be accomplished and an acceptable level of safety can be maintained.
