FR940208-2-00118 FR940208-2-00077 [Release No. 34&hyph;33558; File No. SR&hyph;NSCC&hyph;93&hyph;14] Self-Regulatory Organizations; National Securities Clearing Corporation; Notice of Filing and Order Granting Accelerated Approval on a Temporary Basis of a Proposed Rule Change Extending a Pilot Program Relating to the Handling of Physical Securities and Paper Transactions for Participants Located in New York City January 31, 1994. Pursuant to section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act''), 1 notice is hereby given that on December 23, 1993, the National Securities Clearing Corporation (``NSCC'') filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``Commission'') the proposed rule change as described in Items I and II below, which Items have been prepared primarily by NSCC. On January 27, 1994 NSCC filed an amendment to the proposal. 2 The Commission is publishing this notice and order to solicit comments from interested persons and to grant accelerated approval of the proposed rule change on a temporary basis through January 31, 1995. This approval order supersedes a previous order that approved the pilot program until April 30, 1994. 3 1 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1) (1988). 2 As explained below, the amendment modified the proposal to seek approval to offer the limited money settlement services to two participant. Letter from Karen L. Saperstein, Vice President/Director of Legal and Associate General Counsel, NSCC, to Jerry W. Carpenter, Branch Chief, Division of Market Regulation, Commission (January 27, 1994). 3 Securities Exchange Act Release No. 32221 (April 26, 1993), 58 FR 26570 [File No. SR&hyph;NSCC&hyph;93&hyph;03] (order approving pilot program on a temporary basis until April 30, 1994). I. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Terms of Substance of the Proposed Rule Change The proposed rule change will allow NSCC (1) to continue to operate the pilot program relating to the handling of physical securities and paper transactions for participants located in New York City and (2) to expand the program to offer limited money settlement services to two participants. II. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change In its filing with the Commission, NSCC included statements concerning the purpose of and basis for the proposed rule change and discussed any comments it received on the proposed rule change. The text of these statements may be examined at the places specified in Item IV below. NSCC has prepared summaries, set forth in sections (A), (B), and (C) below, of the most significant aspects of such statements. A. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change 1. Background On April 26, 1993, the Commission approved until April 30, 1994, NSCC's proposed rule change that established its pilot program to provide direct clearing type services for participants located in New York City (``New York Window'' or ``NYW''). 4 NSCC was asked by several participants to provide such services because New York City participants have been experiencing a continual decline in their activities associated with the processing of physical securities. This decline in activities is a result of the increasing depository eligibility of securities that previously had been settled physically. Consequently, these participants no longer find it desirable to maintain their own window operations. NSCC originally requested approval of the NYW program on a pilot basis because NSCC was seeking to operate the individual participants' window programs at NSCC. After operating the pilot for a period of time, NSCC was to evaluate the program to determine whether any changes should be made and whether to expand and standardize the operations. NSCC is still in the process of evaluating the NYW program and at this time is not ready to implement a standardized, proprietary program to replace the individual participants' operations. 5 Therefore, NSCC is requesting that the NYW pilot program be extended. 4 For a detailed description of the NYW program and a discussion of the various legal, regulatory, and operational issues, refer to Securities Exchange Act Release No. 32221 supra note 3. 5 NSCC is planning to implement a proprietary New York Window program during the third quarter of 1994, which will necessitate the filing of a proposed rule change under section 19(b)(2) of the Act. Telephone conversation between Karen Saperstein, Vice President/Director of Legal and Associate General Counsel, NSCC, and Jerry W. Carpenter, Branch Chief, and Peter R. Geraghty, Attorney, Division of Market Regulation, Commission (January 26, 1994). 2. Limited Money Settlement Service At the request of a participant, NSCC studied the feasibility of providing limited money settlement services. NSCC found that it is feasible to provide such services and, therefore, will provide the following limited money settlement services to two participants on a limited basis. 6 6 Prior to its January 27, 1994, amendment, NSCC had requested that it be allowed to offer limited money settlement services to one participant. Refer to note 2 and accompanying text. To the extent that the NYW processes ``receives'' that result in next-day funds debits for each participant, NSCC will issue a check in payment of such debits. NSCC will not issue such checks until it has verified the receipt of same-day funds from each participant in an amount equal to the gross amount of each participant's payment obligations for that day. To the extent that the NYW processes ``deliveries'' that result in next-day funds credits for each participant, NSCC will pay each participant the aggregate amount of all checks received and deposited by NSCC for the participant each day. The payments will be made in same-day funds on the day following receipt and deposit by NSCC of the checks. To the extent that receives or deliveries processed by the NYW result in same-day funds debits and credits, the wire transfers will continue to be made directly between the NYW participants and the other parties to the transactions. NSCC has stated that the proposed rule change will be implemented consistent with NSCC's statutory obligation under section 17A of the Act to safeguard securities and funds in NSCC's custody or control.
