FR940830-0-00100 FR940830-0-00013 (3) Six-year revision of Comprehensive Plan. Every sixth year following the initial year of participation, the PHA shall submit to HUD, with its Annual Submission, a complete update of its Comprehensive Plan. A PHA may elect to revise some or all parts of the Comprehensive Plan more frequently. (4) Annual revision of Five-Year Action Plan. Annually, the PHA shall submit to HUD, with its Annual Submission, an update of its Five-Year Action Plan, eliminating the previous year and adding an additional year. The PHA shall identify changes in work categories (other than those included in the new fifth year) from the previous year Five-Year Action Plan when making this Annual Submission. * * * * * (Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2577&hyph;0157) 22. Section 968.325 is amended by revising the section heading and paragraph (c); and by adding the OMB control number to the end of the section, to read as follows: ยง968.325 HUD review and approval of Comprehensive Plan (including Five-Year Action Plan). * * * * * (c) Effect of HUD approval of Comprehensive Plan. After HUD approves the Comprehensive Plan (including the Five-Year Action Plan), or any amendments to the plan, it shall be binding upon HUD and the PHA, until such time as the PHA submits, and HUD approves, an amendment to its plan. The PHA is expected to undertake the work set forth in the Annual Statement. However, the PHA may undertake any of the work identified in any of the other four years of the latest approved Five-Year Action Plan, current approved Annual Statement or previously approved CIAP budgets, without further HUD approval. Actual uses of the funds are to be reflected in the PHA annual Performance and Evaluation Report for each grant. See ยง968.340. The PHA is encouraged to inform the residents of significant changes (such as changes in scope of work or whenever it moves items within the approved Five-Year Action Plan). Documentation of that information shall be retained in PHA files. If HUD determines as a result of an audit or monitoring findings that a PHA has provided false or substantially inaccurate data in its Comprehensive Plan/Annual Submission or has circumvented the intent of the program, HUD may condition the receipt of assistance, in accordance with ยง968.345. Moreover, in accordance with 18 U.S.C. 1001, any individual or entity who knowingly and willingly makes or uses a document or writing containing any false, fictitious or fraudulent statement or entry, in any matter within the jurisdiction of any department or agency of the United States, shall be fined not more than $10,000 or imprisoned for not more than five years, or both. (Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2577&hyph;0157)
