FR940513-2-00161 FR940513-2-00081 The Board believes that the proposed rule change is consistent with Section 15B(b)(2)(C) of the Act, which provides that the Board's rules shall be designed to prevent fraudulent and manipulative acts and practices, to promote just and equitable principles of trade, to foster cooperation and coordination with persons engaged in regulating, clearing, settling, processing information with respect to, and facilitating transactions in municipal securities, to remove impediments to and perfect the mechanism of a free and open market in municipal securities, and, in general, to protect investors and the public interest. B. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Burden on Competition The Board does not believe that the proposed rule change will impose any burden on competition not necessary or appropriate in furtherance of the purposes of the Act, since it will apply equally to brokers, dealers, and municipal securities dealers. C. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received From Members, Participants, or Others Written comments were neither solicited nor received. III. Date of Effectiveness of the Proposed Rule Change and Timing for Commission Action The Board has requested that the Commission find good cause, pursuant to Section 19(b)(2) of the Act, for approving the proposed rule change prior to the thirtieth day after publication of the notice of filing in the Federal Register . The Board believes that accelerated approval is necessary to facilitate timely submission of, and public access to, information concerning political contributions by allowing dealers to comply with these requirements by the first reporting deadline of July 31, 1994. The Commission finds that the proposed rule change is consistent with the requirements of the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder applicable to the Board, and, in particular, with Section 15B(b)(2)(C) and (G) of the Act. 7 Section 15B(b)(2)(C) authorizes the MSRB to adopt rules designed to prevent fraudulent and manipulative acts and practices, to promote just and equitable principles of trade, to foster cooperation and coordination with persons engaged in regulating transactions in municipal securities, to remove impediments to and perfect the mechanism of a free and open market in municipal securities and, in general, to protect investors and the public interest. Section 15B(b)(2)(G) authorizes the MSRB to adopt rules that prescribe the records to be made and kept by municipal securities dealers and the periods for which such records shall be preserved. 7 Sections 15B(b)(2)(C), (G); [15 U.S.C. §§78o&hyph;4(b)(2)(C), (G)]. The proposal establishes appropriate due dates and procedures for filing with the Board information concerning political contributions required by rule G&hyph;37(e)(ii). The Commission also finds good cause for approving the proposed rule change prior to the thirtieth day after the date of publication of the notice of filing in the Federal Register . Accelerated approval is appropriate to facilitate the timely submission of, and public access to, information concerning political contributions by allowing dealers to comply with the reporting requirements, pursuant to rule G&hyph;37, by the first reporting deadline of July 31, 1994. IV. Solicitation of Comments Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views and arguments concerning the foregoing. Persons making written submissions should file six copies thereof with the Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of the submission, all subsequent amendments, all written statements with respect to the proposed rule change that are filed with the Commission, and all written communications relations to the proposed rule change between the Commission and any person, other than those that may be withheld from the public in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552, will be available for inspection and copying in the Commission's Public Reference Room. Copies of the filing will also be available for inspection and copying at the principal office of the Board. All submissions should refer to File No. SR&hyph;MSRB&hyph;94&hyph;4 and should be submitted by June 3, 1994. It is therefore ordered, pursuant to Section 19(b)(2) of the Act, 8 that the proposed rule change be, and hereby is, approved. 8 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(2). For the Commission by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority, 17 U.S.C. 200.30&hyph;3(a)(12). Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;11699 Filed 5&hyph;12&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
