FR940830-0-00050 FR940830-0-00009 (c) Procedures for certification. To be certified under this section, a facility must submit to the Secretary, in addition to other materials that the Secretary may from time to time require, copies of the following: (1) Audited financial statements for the three most recent fiscal years or other documents prescribed by the Secretary, sufficient to show that the facility meets the criteria of paragraph (b)(1) or (b)(2) of this section. (2)(i) Where the facility claims qualification under paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(A) of this section, a complete description, and documentation where requested, of its program of discounted health services, including charging and collection policies of the facility, and eligibility criteria and notice and determination procedures used under its program(s) of discounted health services. (ii) Where the facility claims qualification under paragraph (b)(1) or paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(B) of this section, a complete description, and documentation where requested, of its admission, charging, and collection policies. (d) Period of effectiveness. (1) A certification by the Secretary under this section remains in effect until withdrawn. The Secretary may disallow credit under this subpart when the Secretary determines that there has been a material change in any factor upon which certification was based or substantial noncompliance with this subpart. The Secretary may withdraw certification where the change or noncompliance has not been in the Secretary's judgment adequately remedied or otherwise continues. (2) Deficits. _(1) Title VI-assisted facilities with assessed deficits. Where a facility assisted under title VI of the Act has been assessed as having a deficit under ยง124.503(b) that has not been made up prior to certification under this section, the facility may make up that deficit by either_ (A) Demonstrating to the Secretary's satisfaction that it met the applicable requirements of paragraph (b) of this section for each year in which a deficit was assessed; or (B) Providing an additional period of service under this section on the basis of one year (or portion of a year) of certification for each year (or portion of a year) of deficit assessed. The period of obligation applicable to the facility under ยง124.501(b) shall be extended until the deficit is made up in accordance with the preceding sentence. (ii) Where any period of compliance under this subpart of a facility assisted under title VI of the Act has not been assessed, the facility will be presumed to have no allowable credit for such period. The facility may either_ (A) Make up such deficit in accordance with paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section; or (B) Submit an independent certified audit, conducted in accordance with procedures specified by the Secretary, of the facility's records maintained pursuant to ยง124.510. If the audit establishes to the Secretary's satisfaction that no, or a lesser, deficit exists for the period in question, the facility will receive credit for the period so justified. Any deficit which the Secretary determines still remains must be made up in accordance with paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section. (iii) Title XVI-assisted facilities. (A) A facility assisted under title XVI of the Act which has an assessed deficit which was not made up prior to certification under this section shall make up that deficit in accordance with paragraph (d)(2)(i)(A) of this section. If it cannot make the showing required by that paragraph, it shall make up the deficit when its certification under this section is withdrawn. (B) A facility assisted under title XVI of the Act whose compliance with this subpart has not been completely assessed will be presumed to have no allowable credit for the unassessed period. The facility may make up the deficit by_ ( 1 ) Following the procedure of paragraph (d)(2)(iii)(A) of this section; or ( 2 ) Submitting an independent certified audit, conducted in accordance with procedures specified by the Secretary, of the facility's records maintained pursuant to ยง124.510. If the audit establishes that no, or a lesser, deficit exists for the period in question, the facility will receive credit for the period so justified. Any deficit which the Secretary determines still remains must be made up in accordance with paragraph (d)(2)(iii)(A) of this section. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;21354 Filed 8&hyph;29&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4160&hyph;15&hyph;M
