FR940902-0-00159 FR940902-0-00010 §631.16 Complaints, investigations, and penalties. The provisions of this section apply in addition to the sanctions provisions in subpart G of part 627 of this chapter. (a) The Secretary shall investigate a complaint or report received from an aggrieved party or a public official which alleges that a State is not complying with the provisions of the State plan required under section 311(a) of the Act (section 311(e)(1)). (b) Where the Secretary determines that a State has failed to comply with its State plan, and that other remedies under the Act and part 627 of this chapter are not available or are not adequate to achieve compliance, the Secretary may withhold an amount not to exceed 10 percent of the allotment to the State for the program year in which the determination is made for each such violation (section 311(e)(2)(A)). (c) The Secretary will not impose the penalty provided for under paragraph (b) of this section until all other remedies under the Act and part 627 of this chapter for achieving compliance have been exhausted or are determined to be unavailable or inadequate to achieve State compliance with the terms of the State plan. (d) The Secretary will make no determination under this section until the affected State has been afforded adequate written notice and an opportunity to request and to receive a hearing before an administrative law judge pursuant to the provisions of subpart H of part 627 of this chapter (section 311(e)(2)(B)). §631.17 Federal monitoring and oversight. The Secretary shall conduct oversight of State administration of programs under this part, including the administration by each State of the rapid response assistance services provided in such State. The Secretary shall take the appropriate actions to ensure the effectiveness, efficiency and timeliness of services conducted by the State in accordance with §631.30(b) of this part (section 314(b)(3)). §631.18 Federal by-pass authority. (a) In the event that a State fails to submit a biennial State plan that is approved under §631.36 of this part, the Secretary shall make arrangements to use the amount that would be allotted to that State for the delivery in that State of the programs, activities, and services authorized under Title III of the Act and this part. (b) No determination may be made by the Secretary under this section until the affected State is afforded written notification of the Secretary's intent to exercise by-pass authority and an opportunity to request and to receive a hearing before an administrative law judge pursuant to the provisions of subpart H of part 627 of this chapter. (c) The Secretary will exercise by-pass authority only until such time as the affected State has an approved plan under the provisions of §631.36 of this part (section 321(b)). §631.19 Appeals. Except as provided in this part, disputes arising in programs under this part shall be adjudicated under the appropriate State or local grievance procedures required by subpart E of part 627 of this chapter or other applicable law. Complaints alleging violations of the Act or this part may be filed with the Secretary, pursuant to subpart F of part 627 of this chapter. Paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section refer to appeal rights set forth in this part. (a) Section 628.405(g) of this chapter (appeals of denial of SDA designation) shall apply to denial of substate area designations under §631.34(c)(1) and (3) of this part. (b) Section 628.426(e) of this chapter (appeals of final disapproval of SDA job training plans or modifications) shall apply to final disapproval of substate plans under §631.50(f) of this part. (c) Section 628.426(f) of this chapter (appeals of a Governor's notice of intent to revoke approval of all or part of a plan) shall apply to a Governor's notice of intent to exercise by-pass authority under §631.38 of this part. (d) Section 628.430(b) of this chapter (appeals of the Secretary's disapproval of a plan when the SDA is the State) shall apply to plan disapproval when the substate area is the State, as set forth in §631.50(g) and (h) of this part. (e) Decisions pertaining to designations of substate grantees under §631.35 of this part are not appealable to the Secretary. Subpart C_Needs-related payments §631.20 Needs-related payments. (a) Title III funds available to States and substate grantees may be used to provide needs-related payments to participants in accordance with the approved State or substate plan, as appropriate. (b) In accordance with the approved substate plan, needs-related payments shall be provided to an eligible dislocated worker only in order to enable such worker to participate in training or education programs under this part. To be eligible for needs-related payments: (1) An eligible worker who has ceased to qualify for unemployment compensation must have been enrolled in a training or education program by the end of the thirteenth week of the worker's initial unemployment compensation benefit period, or, if later, by the end of the eighth week after an employee is informed that a short-term layoff will in fact exceed 6 months. (2) For purposes of paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the term enrolled in a training or education program means that the worker's application for training has been approved and the training institution has furnished written notice that the worker has been accepted in the approved training program beginning within 30 calendar days. (3) An eligible worker who does not qualify for unemployment compensation must be participating in a training or education program (section 314(e)(1)). (c) Needs-related payments shall not be provided to any participant for the period that such individual is employed, enrolled in, or receiving on-the-job training, out-of-area job search, or basic readjustment services in programs under the Act, nor to any participant receiving trade readjustment allowances, on-the-job training, out-of-area job search allowances, or relocation allowances under Chapter 2 of Title II of the Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 2271, et seq. ) or part 617 of this chapter (section 314(e)(1)). (d) The level of needs-related payments to an eligible dislocated worker in programs under this part shall not exceed the higher of: (1) The applicable level of unemployment compensation; or
