FR940912-0-00062 FR940912-0-00011 DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE Drug Enforcement Administration 21 CFR Part 1308 Schedules of Controlled Substances; Placement of Alpha-Ethyltryptamine Into Schedule I AGENCY: Drug Enforcement Administration, Justice. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: This final rule is issued by the Deputy Administrator of the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA) to place alpha-ethyltryptamine (AET) into Schedule I of the Controlled Substances Act (CSA). This action is based on findings made by the Deputy Administrator of the DEA, after review and evaluation of the relevant data by both the DEA and the Assistant Secretary for Health, Department of Health and Human Services, that AET meets the statutory criteria for inclusion in Schedule I of the CSA. Since this substance has been temporarily placed into Schedule I, the regulatory control mechanisms and criminal sanctions of Schedule I continue to be applicable to the manufacture, distribution, importation and exportation of AET. EFFECTIVE DATE: September 12, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Howard McClain, Jr., Chief, Drug and Chemical Evaluation Section, Drug Enforcement Administration, Washington, D.C. 20537, Telephone: (202) 307&hyph;7183. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: On March 12, 1993, the Administrator of the DEA published a final rule in the Federal Register (58 FR 13533) amending ยง1308.11(g) of Title 21 of the Code of Federal Regulations to temporarily place AET into Schedule I of the CSA pursuant to the temporary scheduling provisions of 21 U.S.C. 811(h). This final rule, which became effective on the date of publication, was based on a finding by the Administrator that the temporary scheduling of AET was necessary to avoid an imminent hazard to the public safety. The CSA (21 U.S.C. 811(h)(2)) requires that the temporary scheduling of a substance expires at the end of one year from the effective date of the order. However, if proceedings to schedule a substance pursuant to 21 U.S.C. 811(a)(1) have been initiated and are pending, the temporary scheduling of a substance may be extended for up to six months. Under this provision, the temporary scheduling of AET which would have expired on March 12, 1994, was extended to September 12, 1994 by the Acting DEA Administrator (59 FR 10720). On March 7, 1994 in a notice of proposed rulemaking published in the Federal Register (59 FR 10718) and after a review of relevant data, the Acting DEA Administrator proposed to place AET into Schedule I of the CSA pursuant to 21 U.S.C. 811(a). Prior to that time the Acting DEA Administrator submitted data which DEA gathered regarding AET to the Assistant Secretary for Health, delegate of the Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services. In accordance with 21 U.S.C. 811(b), the Acting DEA Administrator also requested a scientific and medical evaluation and a scheduling recommendation for AET from the Assistant Secretary for Health. By letter dated August 30, 1994, the Deputy Administrator for the DEA received the scientific and medical evaluation and scheduling recommendation from the Assistant Secretary for Health. The Assistant Secretary recommended that AET be placed into Schedule I of the CSA based on a scientific and medical evaluation of the available data. The notice of proposed rulemaking for AET provided the opportunity for interested parties to submit comments, objections or requests for a hearing regarding the scheduling of AET. No comments, objections or requests for hearings were received regarding the scheduling of AET. Alpha-ethyltryptamine has been classified as a tryptamine hallucinogen. Chemically it is a -ethyl-1H-indole-3-ethanamine or 3-(2-aminobutyl)indole. It is structurally similar to N,N-dimethyltryptamine (DMT) and N,N-diethyltryptamine (DET) both of which are controlled in Schedule I of the CSA. Available data indicate that AET produces some pharmacological effects qualitatively similar to those of other Schedule I hallucinogens. Recent data suggests that AET may produce neurotoxicity similar to the neurotoxic effects produced by MDMA (3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine) and PCA (para-chloroamphetamine). Alpha-ethyltryptamine acetate was marketed by the Upjohn Company in 1961 as an antidepressant under the trade name of Monase. After less than one year of marketing, Upjohn withdrew its New Drug Application when it became apparent that Monase administration was associated with the development of agranulocytosis. The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has notified the DEA that there are no exemptions or approvals in effect under section 505 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act for AET. A search of the scientific and medical literature revealed no indications of current medical use of AET in the United States. The DEA first encountered AET in 1986 at a clandestine laboratory in Nevada. Several exhibits of AET have been analyzed by the DEA and state forensic laboratories since 1989. Individuals in Colorado and Arizona have purchased several kilograms of this substance as the acetate salt from chemical supply companies and have distributed and sold quantities to individuals for the purpose of human consumption. Touted as a MDMA-like substance, it has been trafficked as ``TRIP'' or ``ET''. Distribution has been primarily among high school and college-aged individuals. In Arizona, the death of a nineteen year old female was attributed to acute AET toxicity. Illicit use of AET has been documented in both Germany and Spain where at least two deaths have resulted from AET overdose. Based upon the investigation and review conducted by DEA and upon the scientific and medical evaluation and recommendation of the Assistant Secretary for Health received in accordance with 21 U.S.C. 811(b), the Deputy Administrator for the DEA, pursuant to the provisions of 21 U.S.C. 811 (a) and (b), finds that:
