FR941013-2-00042 FR941013-2-00038 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY [FRL&hyph;5090&hyph;47] Agency Information Collection Activities Under OMB Review AGENCY: Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: In compliance with the Paperwork Reduction Act (44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq. ), this notice announces that the Information Collection Request (ICR) abstracted below has been forwarded to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) for review and comment. The ICR describes the nature of the information collection and its expected cost and burden; where appropriate, it includes the actual data collection instrument. DATES: Comments must be submitted on or before November 14, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: For further information, or to obtain a copy of this ICR, contact Sandy Farmer at EPA, (202) 260&hyph;2740. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Office of Solid Waste and Emergency Response Title: Applications for ``Preauthorization of a CERCLA Response Action'' and ``Claim for CERCLA Response Action'' (EPA ICR # 1304.04; OMB # 2050&hyph;0106). This ICR requests renewal of the existing clearance. Abstract: The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (CERCLA), and as amended in 1986, establishes broad Federal authority to undertake removal and remedial actions in response to releases or threats of releases of hazardous substances and certain pollutants and contaminants into the environment. One of the uses of the Hazardous Substance Superfund (the Fund), which is authorized under CERCLA, is the payment of claims for necessary response costs. Under section 111(a)(2) of CERCLA, claimants are authorized to be reimbursed from the Fund for necessary response costs incurred as a result of carrying out the National Oil and Hazardous Substances Pollution Contingency Plan. In addition, section 122(b)(1) of CERCLA delegates to EPA the authority to enter into agreements with potentially responsible parties (PRPs) to allow the PRPs to perform a preauthorized phase of a response action in return for reimbursement of an agreed-on portion of response costs from the Fund. Section 112(b)(1) of CERCLA authorizes EPA to prescribe the appropriate forms and procedures for the filing of response claims against the Fund. All proposed response actions must be approved in advance by EPA through the preauthorization process in order for a subsequent claim to be awarded. The information required by the application and claim forms is essential for EPA to adequately review and evaluate the merits and validity of a response claim, and to make a decision on whether to award that claim from the Fund. The information and data submitted by applicants under the nine sections of the application for preauthorization will be used by the Agency to make a determination on whether to approve in advance a proposed response action under the preauthorization process. The subsequent information submitted to EPA on the claim form will be used to determine whether or not to award the claim. In its role as manager of the Fund, this information allows EPA to ensure appropriate uses of Fund resources, meet cost control and budget requirements, protect against potential waste and fraud, and ensure that the proposed response actions themselves do not create environmental hazards. Burden Statement: The estimated annual public reporting burden for the ``Application for Preauthorization of a CERCLA Response Action'' is estimated to average 258 hours per response. These burden estimates include time for reviewing instructions, searching existing data sources, gathering and maintaining needed data, and completing and reviewing the collection of information. Public reporting burden for the ``Claim for CERCLA Response Action'' is estimated to average 44 hours per response, including the time for reviewing instructions, searching existing data sources, gathering and maintaining needed data, and completing and reviewing the collection of information. In addition, claimants awarded money from the Fund will be required to maintain their records for a 10 year period. It is estimated that it will require those claimants an average of 15 workhours per year to maintain their records. Respondents: Preauthorization requests and response claims may be submitted by individuals, private entities, foreign entities, or PRPs (including States or local governments). Estimated Number of Respondents: 34 (10 preauthorization requests, and 24 claim submitters). Estimated Number of Responses per Respondent: 1. Frequency of Collection: On occasion_only when an applicant/claimant seeks reimbursement for response costs from the fund. Estimated Total Annual Burden on Respondents: 4,000 hours. Send comments regarding the burden estimate, or any other aspect of this information collection, including suggestions for reducing the burden, to: Sandy Farmer, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Information Policy Branch (2136), 401 M Street, S.W., Washington, D.C. 20460; ␣␣and Jonathan Gledhill, Office of Management and Budget, Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, 725 17th Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20530. Dated: October 6, 1994. Paul Lapsley, Director, Regulatory Management Division. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;25384 Filed 10&hyph;12&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;M
