FR940405-1-00050 FR940405-1-00013 Concern over the carcinogenic effects of ETS was expressed in many comments submitted to the docket, such as Exs. 3&hyph;32, 3&hyph;35, 3&hyph;38, 3&hyph;207, 3&hyph;438, 3&hyph;440A, and 3&hyph;449. The results of epidemiological and experimental studies indicate that exposure to ETS is causally associated with cancer of the lung in chronically-exposed nonsmokers. A discussion of this evidence follows. (a) Evidence of Association._ The results of epidemiological studies taken in the aggregate suggest that nonsmoker exposure to ETS is causally-related to the development of lung cancer. Evidence of specificity of effect is provided by active smoking studies that report a causal association with lung cancer [Ex. 4&hyph;311]. It was therefore logical to examine nonsmokers with passive exposure to tobacco smoke, since the chemicals found in passive smoke are qualitatively similar to those in mainstream smoke. Active smoking induces all four major histological types of human lung cancer_squamous-cell carcinomas, small-cell carcinomas, large-cell carcinomas, and adenocarcinomas [Ex. 4&hyph;311]. The results of lung cancer studies that examined the variation in tumor cell type induced by ETS exposure indicate that mostly adenocarcinomas and squamous cell carcinomas are produced by ETS exposure. Some studies have reported an excess of adenocarcinomas, while others have reported excesses in squamous cell and small-cell carcinomas. From this information, it is apparent that similar tumor cell types are induced by ETS exposure as are induced by active smoking. The unequivocal causal association between active tobacco smoking and lung cancer in humans, as well as the corroborative evidence of the carcinogenicity of tobacco smoke provided by animal bioassays and in vitro studies and the chemical similarity between mainstream smoke and ETS, clearly establish the plausibility that ETS is also a human lung carcinogen (Table II&hyph;2). In addition, biomarker studies verify that ETS exposure results in detectable uptake of tobacco constituents by nonsmokers [Exs. 4&hyph;50, 4&hyph;311]. Table II&hyph;2._ 43 Chemical Compounds Identified in Tobacco Smoke for Which There is ``Sufficient Evidence'' of Carcinogenicity in Humans or Animals [Ex. 4&hyph;160] Acetaldehyde Acylonitrile Arsenic Benz (a)anthracene Benzene Benzo (a)pyrene Benzo(b)fluoranthene Benzo (k)fluoranthene Cadmium Chromium VI DDT Dibenz(a,h)acridine Dibenz(a,j)acridine Dibenz(a,h)anthracene Dibenzo (a,i)pyrene Dibenzo (a,e)pyrene Dibenzo (a,l)pyrene Dibenzo (a,h)pyrene Formaldehyde Hydrazine Lead Nickel N-nitrosodiethanolamine N-nitrosodiethylamine N ’-nitrosodimethylamine N ’-nitrosonornicotine N-nitrosopiperidine N-nitrosodi-n-propylamine N-nitrosopyrrolidine N-nitrosodi-n-butylamine ortho- toluidine Styrene Urethane Vinyl chloride 1,1-dimethylhydrazine 2-nitropropane 2-napthylamine 4-(methylnitrosamino)-1-(3-pyridyl)-1-butanone 4-aminobiphenyl 5-methylchrysene 7H-dibenzo(c,g)carbazole Indeno (1,2,3,-cd)pryene
