FR940127-1-00082 FR940127-1-00019 Forestry-related field or forestry-related curriculum means a renewable natural resource management field necessary to manage Indian forest land and other professionally recognized fields as approved by the education committee established pursuant to ยง163.40(a)(1). Indian means a member of an Indian tribe. Indian enterprise means an enterprise which is designated as such by the Secretary or tribe. Indian forest land means Indian land, including commercial, non-commercial, productive and non-productive timberland and woodland, that are considered chiefly valuable for the production of forest products or to maintain watershed or other land values enhanced by a forest cover, regardless of whether a formal inspection and land classification action has been taken. Indian land means land title to which is held by: The United States in trust for an Indian, an individual of Indian or Alaska Native ancestry who is not a member of a federally-recognized Indian tribe, or an Indian tribe; or by an Indian, an individual of Indian or Alaska Native ancestry who is not a member of a federally recognized tribe, or an Indian tribe subject to a restriction by the United States against alienation. Indian tribe or tribe means any Indian tribe, band, nation, rancheria, Pueblo or other organized group or community which is recognized as eligible for the special programs and services provided by the United States to Indians because of their status as Indians and shall mean, where appropriate, the recognized tribal government of such tribe's reservation. Installment payments means, in Timber Contract for the Sale of Predetermined Volumes, scheduled partial payments of the total contract value based on purchaser bid. Payments made are normally not refundable. Integrated resource management plan means a document, approved by an Indian tribe and the Secretary, which provides coordination for the comprehensive management of the natural resources of such tribe's reservation. Noncommercial forest land means forest land that is available for extensive management, but is incapable of producing marketable forest products. Such land may be economically harvested, but the site quality does not warrant significant investment in future crops. Productive forest land means forest land producing or capable of producing marketable forest products that is unavailable for harvest because of administrative restrictions or because access is not practical. Reservation means an Indian reservation established pursuant to treaties, Acts of Congress or Executive Orders and public domain Indian allotments, rancherias, and former Indian reservations in Oklahoma. Secretary means the Secretary of the Interior or his or her authorized representative. Stumpage rate means the stumpage value per unit of measure for a forest product. Stumpage value means the value of a forest product prior to extraction from Indian forest land. Sustained yield means the yield of forest products that a forest can produce continuously at a given intensity of management. Timberland means forest land stocked, or capable of being stocked, with tree species that are regionally utilized for lumber, pulpwood, poles or veneer products. Trespass means the removal of forest products from Indian forest land or the severance or injury of forest products on Indian forest land except when authorized by law and applicable Federal or tribal regulations. Trespass includes any damage to forest resources on Indian forest lands resulting from activities under contracts or permits obtained through fraud or material misrepresentation of fact. Tribal forest enterprise means an Indian enterprise that is initiated and organized by a reservation's recognized tribal government. Unproductive forest land means forest land that is not producing or capable of producing marketable forest products and is also unavailable for harvest because of administrative restrictions or because access is not practical. Woodland means forest land not included within the timberland classification, stocked or capable of being stocked, with tree species of such form and size that the wood content is generally marketable within the region for products other than lumber, pulpwood or veneer. ยง163.2 Information collection. The information collection requirements contained in 25 CFR part 163 do not require the approval of the Office of Management and Budget under 44 U.S.C. 3504(h) et seq. ยง163.3 Scope and objectives. (a) The regulations in this part are applicable to all Indian forest land except as this part may be superseded by legislation. (b) Indian forest land management activities undertaken by the Secretary shall be designed to achieve the following objectives: (1) The development, maintenance and enhancement of Indian forest land in a perpetually productive state in accordance with the principles of sustained yield and with the standards and objectives set forth in forest management plans by providing effective management and protection through the application of sound silvicultural and economic principles to the harvesting of forest products, forestation, timber stand improvement and other forestry practices; (2) The regulation of Indian forest land through the development and implementation, with the full and active consultation and participation of the appropriate Indian tribe, of forest management plans which are supported by written tribal objectives; (3) The regulation of Indian forest land in a manner that will ensure the use of good method and order in harvesting so as to make possible, on a sustained yield basis, continuous productivity and a perpetual forest business; (4) The development of Indian forest land and associated value-added industries by Indians and Indian tribes to promote self-sustaining communities, so that Indians may receive from their Indian forest land not only stumpage value, but also the benefit of all the labor and profit that such Indian forest land is capable of yielding; (5) The retention of Indian forest land in its natural state when an Indian tribe determines that the recreational, cultural, aesthetic, or traditional values of the Indian forest land represents the highest and best use of the land;
