FR940713-2-00003 FR940713-2-00002 Soil Conservation Service Changes in Hydric Soils of the United States AGENCY: Soil Conservation Service, USDA. ACTION: Notice of change. SUMMARY: Pursuant to 7 CFR 12.31(a)(3)(i), the Soil Conservation Service, United States Department of Agriculture gives notice of a change in the Hydric Soils of the United States as listed in the third edition of the Hydric Soils of the United States, Miscellaneous Publication 1491, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Soil Conservation Service, June 1991. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Craig A. Ditzler, Chair, National Technical Committee for Hydric Soils, National Soil Survey Center, Soil Conservation Service, room 152, Federal Building, 100 Centennial Mall N., Lincoln, NE 68508&hyph;3866, Telephone (402) 437&hyph;5353. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The third edition of the Hydric Soils of the United States was published June 1991, and a notice of change published in the Federal Register , October 11, 1991, Vol. 56, No. 198, page 51371. Changes to this document were made in 1993 and published in the Federal Register , October 6, 1993, Vol. 58, No. 192, page 52078. The changes published herein reflect soils added and deleted since the 1991 publication. The national list of hydric soils changes as additional soil series are recognized and defined and/or properties of existing soil series are updated based on additional data. These changes reflect refinements in knowledge of the soils of the United States. New soil series are recognized as soils are mapped in previously unmapped areas. These new series have always met hydric soil criteria, whether recognized as series or not, and thus represent an insignificant change in acreage of hydric soils. Soils that are removed from the list are mostly dry phases of existing hydric soils. These dry phases would not have met wetland hydrology criteria, thus represent an insignificant change in acreage of wetlands. The list of hydric soils is computer generated using the hydric soil criteria and a database of properties of each soil series in the United States. The database is also used to generate interpretations of how soils perform for many land uses. Therefore, some changes in the list of hydric soils result from adding phases for a hydric soil to refine another interpretation. This split or addition of a hydric phase causes an increase in the number of hydric soils, but does not affect the acres of the hydric soil. Data for all soil series are in the Soil Interpretations Record and may be reviewed by contacting a local office of the Soil Conservation Service in the appropriate State. The National Technical Committee also modified the definition of hydric soils as given in Miscellaneous Publication 1491 to ``A hydric soil is a soil that formed under conditions of saturation, flooding, or ponding long enough during the growing season to develop anaerobic conditions in the upper part.'' The change in the definition does not affect the National List of Hydric Soils. The change aligns the definition more closely with Soil Taxonomy and clarifies that artificially drained phases are hydric soils if the soil in its undisturbed state meets the criteria. Dated: June 29, 1994. Richard W. Arnold, Director, Soil Survey Division. Briefing Paper National List of Hydric Soils Prepared by: Maurice J. Mausbach, May 1993 Background _The National List of Hydric Soils is: *published by the Soil Conservation Service. *revised annually and notice is filed in Federal Register . *generated from Soil Interpretations Records in the National Soil Database. _The National Technical Committee for Hydric Soils reviews and concurs with changes to the National List of Hydric Soils. _The Soil Interpretations Records for soil series are: *continuously updated as data is collected on soil properties. *reviewed by the soil survey quality assurance staff at the National Soil Survey Center. *used in all aspects of the Soil Survey Program of which hydric soils are a small part. Reasons for Changes in the Hydric Soil List _Addition of new soil series due to: *newly mapped areas (soils have always been hydric but have not previously been recognized as soil series). *narrowing of an existing series into two soils. An example being a series that is both hydric and nonhydric being split into their respective parts. _Result from new phases being added to an existing soil series. Phases are added for many reasons and include: *flooding and ponding phases of which some may be hydric and others nonhydric. Many of these changes are made to accommodate nonhydric interpretations of soil use. *surface texture or depth phases both of which are not related to change in hydric soil status but are needed for other interpretations. *wetness or water table phases of which some may be hydric and others nonhydric. Some of these changes are made to accommodate other interpretations of soil use. _Result from change in flooding, ponding, water table, or drainage class as a result of new information. Soils are added and deleted from the list due to these changes. Summary of Changes to 1991 National List _116 entries (soils) added of which *36 are phases of existing hydric soils. These are new phase names for existing hydric soils. *61 are new soil series established from new soil mapping. These areas of hydric soils which are given new names are previously unmapped and thus have no affect on acres of hydric soils or acres of wetlands. *8 series that was split_one part being hydric and the other part nonhydric. The whole series has been considered hydric, but the nonhydric portion would not have met hydrology criteria. Because only part of the original series met wetland hydrology criteria, this change has little affect on acres of wetlands. *1 soil series was changed from nonhydric to hydric because of new information on water table. _14 entries (soils) were deleted of which *4 result from new technical data. These have been borderline hydric soils and would not have met wetland hydrology criteria. The change slightly reduces the acres of hydric soils. *5 records were dropped because of non use. *5 series was split and made nonhydric. Other phases were added for the hydric part of the soil.
