FR940620-0-00086 FR940620-0-00029 The Board held five public hearings in various locations between February 22, 1993 and March 15, 1993. A total of 148 people presented testimony on the proposed guidelines at the hearings. In addition, 447 written comments were submitted to the Board by the end of the comment period on March 22, 1993. Another 127 comments were received after March 22, 1993. Although those comments were not timely, the Board considered them to the extent practicable. In all, the Board received nearly 7000 pages of comments and testimony on the proposed guidelines. The Board received comments and testimony from a broad range of interested individuals and groups, including individuals who identified themselves as having a disability; organizations representing persons with disabilities; State or local code administrators; State, local and Federal government agencies; manufacturers; design professionals; and national professional and trade associations. The comments and testimony were sorted by section and analyzed. A large number of commenters expressed support for the guidelines as proposed. Some comments requested changes and others requested clarifications. As a result of the comments, a number of provisions were revised. In particular, ADAAG 14 (Public Rights-of-Way) was extensively reorganized. With respect to those commenters who recommended changes, a few submitted data or studies in support of their recommendations. Some commenters asked questions regarding the application of the guidelines to specific situations. The application of those provisions is discussed in the section-by-section analysis which follows. Due to the large number of comments received, it is not possible for the Board to respond to each comment in this preamble. The Board has made every effort to respond to significant comments in the general issues and section-by-section analysis. As discussed under general issues and in ADAAG 14 (Public Rights of Way), the Board has reserved action in some areas pending further study or research. The Board has an on-going research and technical assistance program and plans to periodically review and up-date the guidelines to ensure that they remain consistent with technological developments and changes in model codes and national standards, and meet the needs of individuals with disabilities. Interim Final Rule As discussed above, the Board's guidelines provide guidance to the Department of Justice and the Department of Transportation in establishing accessibility standards for new construction and alterations of State and local government facilities covered by title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) of 1990. The standards established by the Department of Justice and the Department of Transportation must be consistent with and may incorporate the guidelines. The Department of Justice and the Department of Transportation are each publishing notices of proposed rulemaking to incorporate the Board's guidelines as the standards for State and local government facilities in this issue of the Federal Register . The notices published by the Department of Justice and the Department of Transportation seek comment from the public on its proposal to incorporate the Board's guidelines. Consistent with the requests by the Department of Justice and the Department of Transportation for comment on its proposed actions, the Board has chosen to issue these guidelines as an interim final rule and is also soliciting comment. All three agencies have requested in their notices that comments on the amendments to ADAAG be forwarded to the Board for consideration. The simultaneous publication of rules and the coordination of the review process between the three agencies is expected to both facilitate and expedite the review process. In finalizing the guidelines, the Board, the Department of Justice and the Department of Transportation will consider all comments previously received in response to the Board's Notice of Proposed Rulemaking for State and local government facilities published on December 21, 1992, as well as comments received on this interim final rule. Accordingly, those commenters who have previously responded to the Board's Notice of Proposed Rulemaking need only submit new comments on the interim final rule. Editorial Amendments In order to further clarify the guidelines, the Board has made a number of editorial revisions to ADAAG. The editorial changes are not substantive and therefore do not require the issuance of an additional proposed rule. General Issues Chemical and Environmental Sensitivities The Board received a number of comments relating to chemical and environmental sensitivities. The Board is studying this issue and will be issuing a report before undertaking the next major rulemaking on ADAAG Buildings and Facilities. Unisex Toilet and Bathing Facilities The Board received several comments regarding the need to include requirements for unisex toilet and bathing facilities to accommodate people using personal assistants of the opposite sex. The Board and the Department of Justice will be examining the issue of unisex facilities in the near future. Automatic Door Openers The NPRM asked whether automatic or power assisted doors should be required at entrances to State and local government facilities and if so, whether this provision should be limited to specific types of State or local government facilities. The NPRM also asked for information regarding alternative methods of providing accessibility at exterior doors; power assisted door activating mechanisms; automatic doors and maneuvering clearances during power failures; and maximum opening forces. Comment. The majority of commenters supported a requirement for automatic or power assisted doors at entrances. Several commenters including the National Park Service, the National Conference of State Historic Preservation Officers, and the New York State Office of Parks, Recreation, and Historic Preservation supported a requirement for automatic or power assisted doors as a means for making historic buildings with heavy doors more accessible. Responses varied on whether the requirement should apply to one primary entrance, or to all doors in State or local government buildings and facilities.
