FR941110-0-00171 FR941110-0-00016 Comment: Some commenters said that the denial of payment for certain diagnostic categories set forth at §488.217(b) of the proposed rule would be ineffective, and lead to discrimination against individuals whose care may be more costly. This, they said, would be in violation of the Rehabilitation Act of 1974 and of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1991. Response: We believe that these arguments are convincing, and to prevent facilities from using the provision as a means to discriminate, we have deleted it in this final rule. Comment: Many commenters said that this remedy as written is too broad and subject to too much interpretation, particularly with respect to the meaning of the terms ``adequate care,'' ``diagnostic categories,'' ``certain specified diagnoses,'' ``substandard quality of care,'' and ``new admission.'' Some said that residents who go to the hospital, then directly back to the facility, should not be considered to be ``new admissions.'' Response: ``Substandard quality of care'' has been defined in §488.301. ``New admission'' has been defined at §488.401 and the definition already contained the statement that residents admitted before the effective date of the denial of payment and taking temporary leave are not considered new admissions, nor subject to the denial of payment. Since we have deleted the proposed §488.417(b), no definitions for those terms need be provided. Finally, the term ``adequate care'' does not appear in the regulations text at §488.417. When it appears elsewhere in this regulation, it has the ordinary dictionary meaning. Comment: One facility offered criteria for imposing denial of payment for all new admissions based on a scope and severity scale of its own design, and suggested we say, at §488.417, that denial of payment for all new admissions will be in effect only until the date the facility is certified to be in substantial compliance. Response: We received several suggestions for revising our scope and severity scales, and the enforcement scheme that we have established at §488.408 (``Selection of remedies.'') reflects some of these suggestions. Neither a denial of payment nor any other remedy will be imposed at a facility in substantial compliance, as defined at §488.401. Once a denial of payment is imposed, it will be lifted when the facility achieves substantial compliance (and is capable of maintaining it, if necessary). This policy is set forth at paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section, as well as at §488.454 Duration of remedies. Comment: One commenter, in setting forth regulation text for proposed §488.217, said that_ •Denial of payment should be imposed, not only for any deficiency which remains uncorrected within 90 calendar days after the last day of survey identifying the deficiency, but for any deficiency which remains substantially uncorrected within that time period as well; •If the facility can supply documentation that substantial compliance was attained on a date preceding that of the revisit of the survey team, the denial of payment only remains in effect until the date that substantial compliance was actually reached; •Denial of payment for all new admissions should last only until the facility has ``substantially corrected'' the deficiencies; •Denial of payment should not take effect until either HCFA or the State has provided notice to the facility and the public of the impending action. Public notice shall be provided by publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the county where the facility is located; (Another commenter agreed that denial of payment should not take effect until notice has been provided, and also said that HCFA should set forth regulations requiring States to give notice to facilities before denying payment for all new admissions.); and •When payments resume, this too should be announced to the public in the same way as the denial notice. Response: We agree that denial of payment for all new admissions should last only until the facility is in substantial compliance. Because the final rule reflects the adoption of a substantial compliance standard, a denial of payment for new admissions, like other sanctions, will only be applied should a facility fail to meet that standard. Thus, under sections 1819(h)(2)(d) or 1919(h)(2)(C) of the Act, that facility must face a denial of payments for new admissions. Similarly, if, within 3 months of the survey that first identified deficiencies, the facility is successful in achieving substantial compliance, the denial of payments will be lifted as required by sections 1819(h)(3) and 1919(h)(4) of the Act. If the facility does not come into substantial compliance by 3 months after the last day of the survey, denial of payment will be imposed until substantial compliance is achieved or until the facility is terminated. We also agree that, except in the case of the mandatory denial of payment for substandard quality of care identified in three consecutive standard surveys, if the facility can supply documentation acceptable to HCFA or the State survey agency that it was in substantial compliance, and was capable of remaining in substantial compliance, if necessary, on a date preceding that of the revisit, the remedies terminate on the date that HCFA or the State can verify as the date that substantial compliance was achieved. (This is further discussed in connection with a comment on §488.454.) In the case of repeated substandard quality of care, the Act requires that the denial of payment (and State monitor) remain in place until the facility is in compliance and can demonstrate that it will remain in compliance. We agree that facilities should receive notice of remedies before they are imposed. Notification requirements are found at §488.402(f), and need not appear again at §488.417. The commenter cited section 1919(h)(2)(A)(i) of the Act as rationale for HCFA promulgating regulations setting forth procedures for States to use in informing the general public about remedies. We do not agree that the Act requires HCFA to promulgate regulations regarding how States must go about notifying the general public. Comment: Some commenters said that the remedy denial of payment for specific categories of residents to be used if the surveyor finds that the facility is not currently able to provide adequate care for these individuals, or determines that caring for such individuals would adversely affect care provided to other residents, was not one of the remedies provided in OBRA '87. Response: We are deleting the provisions for denial of payment for specific categories of residents from this final rule because, as we stated at the beginning of this section, we believe that this remedy could lead to inequities. Comment: A number of commenters expressed concern over whether survey agency revisits would be timely enough to ensure the prompt resumption of payments as soon as the facility corrects its deficiencies.
