FR941125-2-00006 FR941125-2-00002 1. Quality of the program idea: Proposals should exhibit originality, substance, precision, and relevance to the project and the Agency mission. Proposals should reflect an advanced, current understanding of relevant scholarly fields and disciplines. 2. Program planning: Detailed agenda and relevant work plan should demonstrate substantive undertakings and logistical capacity. Agenda and plan should adhere to the program overview and guidelines described above. 3. Ability to achieve program objectives: Objectives should be reasonable, feasible, and flexible. Proposals should clearly demonstrate how the institution will meet the program's objectives and plan. 4. Multiplier effect/impact: Proposed programs should strengthen long-term mutual understanding, including maximum sharing of information and establishment of long-term institutional and scholarly linkages, including professional associations. 5. Support of Diversity: Proposals should demonstrate the recipient's commitment to promoting the awareness and understanding of diversity throughout the program. This can be accomplished through documentation (such as a written statement or account) summarizing past and/or on-going activities and efforts that further the principle of diversity within both the organization and the program activities. 6. Institutional Capacity: Proposed personnel and institutional resources should be adequate and appropriate to achieve the project's goals. The applicant organization should demonstrate a capacity to work cooperatively with U.S. scholars and graduate departments of political science and public administration, with U.S. scholarly organizations, and with all three participating central European institutions as well as relevant foreign scholarly organizations. 7. Institution's Record/Ability: Proposals should demonstrate an institutional record of successful, high quality exchange programs, including responsible fiscal management and full compliance with all reporting requirements for past Agency grants as determined by USIA's Office of Contracts. The Agency will consider the past performance of prior recipients and the demonstrated potential of new applicants. 8. Follow-on Activities: Proposals should provide both a plan for continuing activity (with USIA support) based on project evaluation and a strategy for encouraging coordinated concurrent and subsequent supplementary activities (without USIA support) to ensure that the USIA-supported project will not be an isolated event. 9. Project Evaluation: Proposals should include a comprehensive plan to evaluate the project's success both as the activities unfold and at the end of the project. USIA recommends that the proposal include a draft survey questionnaire and/or outline of other techniques including a methodology for completing baseline assessments and defining program needs for later years of the project through the evaluation of program outcomes with relation to project objectives. Demonstration of a carefully considered and feasible plan for evaluating the project will be critical to the proposal review process. Award-receiving organizations/institutions will be expected to submit quarterly reports. 10. Cost-effectiveness: The overhead and administrative components of the proposal, including salaries and honoraria, should be kept as low as possible. All other items should be necessary and appropriate. 11. Cost-sharing: Proposals should maximize cost-sharing through other private sector support as well as institutional direct funding contributions. 12. Value to U.S.-Partner Country Relations: Proposed projects will be assessed by USIA's geographic area desk and overseas officers with regard to program need, potential impact, and significance in the partner countries. Notice The terms and conditions published in this RFP are binding and may not be modified by any USIA representative. Explanatory information provided by the Agency that contradicts published language will not be binding. Issuance of the RFP does not constitute an award commitment on the part of the Government. The needs of the program may require the award to be reduced, revised, or increased. Final awards cannot be made until funds have been appropriated by Congress, allocated and committed through internal USIA procedures. Notification All applicants will be notified of the results of the review process on or about March 6, 1995. Awards made will be subject to periodic reporting and evaluation requirements. Dated: November 15, 1994. Dell Pendergrast, Deputy Associate Director, Educational and Cultural Affairs. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;28724 Filed 11&hyph;23&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8230&hyph;01&hyph;M
