FR941230-0-00135 FR941230-0-00021 Subpart E_Proposal Review and Evaluation §3402.18 Proposal review. The proposal evaluation process includes both USDA internal staff review and merit evaluation by panels of scientists, educators, industrialists, and Government officials who are highly qualified to render expert advice in the targeted areas. The goal of the process of selection and structuring of evaluation panels is to provide optimum expertise and objective judgment in the evaluation of proposals specific to a particular area of national need. §3402.19 Evaluation criteria. Proposals addressing a particular national need area at a particular degree level will be evaluated in competition with other proposals addressing the same national need area at the same degree level. Both USDA internal staff and the panelists will evaluate proposals primarily on the basis of the following criteria: ␣ 1Evaluation criterion 1Weight a. The degree to which the proposal establishes clearly that the proposed program of graduate study will result in the development of outstanding scientific/professional expertise related to the national need area and will do so in a reasonable period of time 30 points. b. The degree to which the proposal highlights thoroughly any special features such as an inter-disciplinary, multi-disciplinary, or cross-disciplinary approach, an unusual collateral specialization in a related discipline, experiential learning opportunities, unique mentoring programs, seminars, or a multi-university collaborative approach 10 points. c. The degree to which the proposal substantiates clearly that the institution's faculty, facilities and equipment, instructional support resources, and other academic attributes are excellent for providing outstanding graduate study and research at the forefront of science and technology related to the chosen area of national need 20 points. d. The degree to which the institution's plans and procedures for recruiting and selecting academically outstanding Fellows and for advising and guiding Fellows through a program of study reflect excellence as documented in the proposal 20 points. e. The degree to which supplementary summary data substantiate program quality in the targeted national need area 10 points. f. The quality of the proposal as reflected by its substantive content, organization, clarity, and accuracy 10 points. Additional or amended evaluation criteria and new point weightings may be cited in the program announcement published in the Federal Register . Subpart F_Supplementary Information §3402.20 Terms and conditions of grant awards. Within the limit of funds available for such purpose, the awarding official shall make project grants to those responsible, eligible applicants whose proposals are judged most meritorious in the announced program areas under the evaluation criteria and procedures set forth in this part. The beginning of the project period shall be no later than September 30 of the Federal fiscal year in which the project is approved for support. All funds granted under this part shall be expended solely for the purpose for which the funds are granted in accordance with the approved application and budget, the regulations of this part, the terms and conditions of the award, the applicable Federal cost principles, and the Department's Uniform Federal Assistance Regulations (7 CFR Part 3015). §3402.21 Grant awards. (a) The grant award document shall include, at a minimum, the following: (1) Legal name and address of performing organization. (2) Title of project. (3) Name(s) and address(es) of Project Director(s). (4) Identifying grant number assigned by the Department. (5) Project period, which specifies how long the Department intends to support the effort without requiring reapplication for funds.
