FR940616-0-00112 FR940616-0-00012 Work-or-Repay Records (§386.34(h)) Comments: Two commenters expressed concern that the proposed regulations inappropriately obligate grantee institutions to perform time-consuming and expensive database creation, maintenance, updating, and reporting functions for as many as six years for which the grantee receives no compensation from the Federal Government. Discussion: The Secretary believes that the work-or-repay provision is a partnership between grantees and the Federal Government. Grantees are closest to the individuals and are in the best position to advise, assist, and admonish scholars on matters related to their work-or-repay requirements. The Secretary believes that administrative costs for these activities are minimal and are not feasible for line itemization. Instead, the Secretary sees these costs as subsumed under grantee indirect costs. The regulations have been written to state clearly that the responsibility for recordkeeping extends until the repayment period has ended for all students provided scholarships. Changes: None. June 1, 1992, Effective Date for New Work-or-Repay Provisions (§386.34) Comment: A commenter expressed concern that this requirement is being imposed a full five months before the 1992 Amendments to the Rehabilitation Act were even approved. The commenter asked how, if these proposed regulations are in response to the 1992 Amendments, can this date be required since it predates the amendments? Discussion: The June 1992 effective date was set retroactively in the Rehabilitation Act Amendments of 1992. Changes: None. Payback Requirements for Scholars Who Become University Educators (§386.34) Comments: Two commenters observed that the proposed regulations do not permit graduate and doctoral level scholarship recipients to meet the work-or-repay provision by teaching at a university unless the university has a formal agreement with the State agency identifying the university as a ``related agency.'' Discussion: The identification of a ``related agency'' derives from the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended. Educators whose college or university employer meets the definition of a related agency (§386.4) by providing services to individuals with disabilities under an agreement with a designated State agency and who are employed in the area of specialty for which Federal support for their training was provided will have no problem meeting the requirement. Examples of acceptable arrangements include educators who have agreements to supervise field placements of students in training at State agencies and related agencies, who serve as advisors or consultants to State agencies and related agencies, and who provide direct services through their universities, including the instruction of individuals with disabilities. The key to meeting the work-or-repay requirement through employment in an educational institution is that the institution have an appropriate agreement with the designated State agency and that the scholar work in his or her specialty area. Changes: None. Proposed Six-Year Repayment Period (§386.34) Comment: One commenter expressed concern that, after completing a two-year graduate program, a scholar will have only six years for repayment instead of the current ten-year repayment period. Discussion: The time limits are set in the Rehabilitation Act Amendments of 1992. Changes: None. Work-or-Repay Provisions for Scholars Receiving Federal Benefits (§386.43) Comment: One commenter suggested that the deferral of repayment due to disability be modified to exclude circumstances under which the individual achieves Social Security Disability Insurance (SSDI) earned income status. Discussion: The Secretary does not believe that there is a need to distinguish the repayment status of scholars by the type of disability benefits a scholar may be receiving. Changes: None. Waiver of Notice of Proposed Rulemaking In accordance with section 431(b)(2)(A) of the General Education Provisions Act (20 U.S.C. 1232(b)(2)(A)) and the Administrative Procedure Act (5 U.S.C. 553), it is the practice of the Secretary to offer interested parties the opportunity to comment on proposed regulations. However, the language added in §386.1(b)(30) merely incorporates into the regulations a statutory change made by the Technology-Related Assistance for Individuals With Disabilities Act Amendments of 1994 to the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended, and does not implement substantive policy. Therefore, the Secretary has determined, pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 553(b)(B), that public comment on the change in the regulations is unnecessary and contrary to the public interest. Intergovernmental Review This program is subject to the requirements of Executive Order 12372 and the regulations in 34 CFR Part 79. The objective of the Executive order is to foster an intergovernmental partnership and strengthened federalism by relying on processes developed by State and local governments for coordination and review of proposed Federal financial assistance. In accordance with the order, this document is intended to provide early notification of the Department's specific plans and actions for this program. Assessment of Educational Impact In the notice of proposed rulemaking, the Secretary requested comments on whether the proposed regulations would require transmission of information that is being gathered by or is available from any other agency or authority of the United States. Based on the response to the proposed regulations and on its own review, the Department has determined that the regulations in this document do not require transmission of information that is being gathered by or is available from any other agency or authority of the United States. List of Subjects in 34 CFR Part 386 Grant programs, Rehabilitation training. Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. Dated: June 9, 1994. (Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance Number 84.129, Rehabilitation Training: Rehabilitation Long-Term Training) Judith E. Heumann, Assistant Secretary for Special Education and Rehabilitative Services.
