FR940505-1-00376 FR940505-1-00012 (ii) Aerosol spray products . A person shall not use any adhesive aerosol spray unless the VOC content, including the propellant, does not exceed 25 percent by weight. (iii) Cleanup solvents . Solvents used for surface preparation, equipment cleanup, and thinning operations, including storage and disposal of VOC-containing materials, shall be subject to the provisions and requirements of ยง52.2961(a). (iv) Emission control system . A person may comply with the provisions of paragraph (d)(3)(i) of this section by using an emission control system, provided that this system maintains a control efficiency (capture efficiency times destruction or removal efficiency) of the VOC emissions of at least 85 (eighty- five) percent by weight. (v) Prohibition of sales . (A) Except as provided in paragraphs (d)(3)(v)(C) through (E) is this section, no person shall supply, sell, or offer for sale any non-complying adhesive, sealant, or adhesive primer which, at the time of sale, is defined under a product category in the table of VOC limits of this section after the specified effective dates. This provision only applies to products that are supplied to or sold within the affected area. (B) Except as provided in paragraphs (d)(3)(v)(C) or (E) of this section, no person shall supply, sell, or offer for sale, any adhesive aerosol which, at the time of sale, exceed the VOC limits listed in paragraph (d)(3)(ii) of this section after the specified effective dates. (C) The sales prohibition in paragraphs (d)(3)(v) (A) and (B) of this section shall not apply to any supplier or seller of any adhesive, sealant, or adhesive primer as follows: ( 1 ) Any adhesive shipped outside of the affected area for use outside of the affected area. ( 2 ) The sale of adhesives to a person controlling the emissions from use of those adhesives by using an emission control system pursuant to paragraph (d)(3)(iv) of this section. (D) The sales prohibition in paragraphs (d)(3)(v) (A) and (B) of this section shall not apply to the sale of any adhesive, sealant, or adhesive primer, except plastic cement welding adhesives or primers, if the product is sold in any container(s) having a capacity of 16 ounces or less (net volume) or 1 pound or less (net weight). The total weight or volume of two or more containers packaged together must be less than 1 pound (16 ounces) to qualify for this exemption. (E) The sales prohibitions in paragraphs (d)(3)(v) (A) and (B) of this section shall not apply to any manufacture of any adhesive, sealant, or primer if the manufacturer has provided an accurate compliance statement and if: ( 1 ) The product was not sold directly to a user or a sales outlet located in the affected area, or ( 2 ) The product was sold to an independent distributor that is not a subsidiary, or under the direct control of, the manufacturer. (vi) Compliance statement requirement . The manufacturer of any adhesive, sealant, or adhesive primer subject to this determination shall include a designation of maximum VOC content as supplied, including adhesive components, expressed in grams per liter of adhesive (or pounds per gallon) excluding water and exempt compounds (percent by weight for adhesive aerosols) from the appropriate test method, on labels or data sheets. This designation shall include recommendations regarding thinning, reducing, or mixing with any other VOC-containing material. This statement shall include the maximum VOC on an as-applied basis when used in accordance with the manufacturer's recommendations. (vii) Prohibition of specification . No person shall solicit, require for use, or specify the application of any adhesive, primer, or sealant if such use or application results in a violation of the provisions of this section. This prohibition shall apply to all written or oral contracts. (4) Exemptions . (i) The provisions of paragraphs (d)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section shall not apply to the following: (A) Adhesives used in tire repair, provided the label on the adhesive used states: For Tire Repair Only (B) Assembly and manufacturing of undersea-based weapon systems. (C) Testing and evaluation of adhesive or sealant products in any research and development, quality assurance, or analytical laboratories, provided that: ( 1 ) A record is kept of: ( i ) The date when the adhesives, sealants, or adhesive primers are used, and the type of applications(s); and
