FR941205-1-00055 FR941205-1-00014 Time Period 1Carrier 1Total TEUs 1Total revenues 1Avg. revenue per TEU A $ $ B $ $ C $ $ Etc. $ $ Part VI Leading Commodities For each sub-trade within the scope of the agreement, list the top 10 commodities by cumulative TEUs carried by all the parties during the same time period used in responding to Part V, or list the commodities accounting for 50 percent of the cumulative TEUs carried by all the parties during the same 12-month period, whichever list is longer. The same 12-month period must be used in reporting for each sub-trade. The information should be provided in the format below: Time Period (Same as That Used in Responding to Part V) I. Sub-trade A. First leading commodity B. Second leading commodity C. Third leading commodity etc. II. Sub-trade A. First leading commodity etc. Part VII Cargo and Revenue Results by Sub-Trade For the same time period used in responding to Parts V and VI, and for each sub-trade within the scope of the agreement, and for each of the leading commodities listed for each sub-trade in the response to Part VI, and for each party, provide the following information: (1) Total TEUs carried port-to-port under tariff rates, and average gross revenue per TEU. (2) Total TEUs carried port-to-port under service contracts, and average gross revenue per TEU. (3) Total TEUs carried by intermodal service under tariff rates, and average gross revenue per TEU. (4) Total TEUs carried by intermodal service under service contracts, and average gross revenue per TEU. The information should be provided in the format below: Time Period (Same as That Used in Responding to Part V) I. Sub-trade A A. First leading commodity 1.Carrier A (a) Port-to-port service under tariff rates (1) Total TEUs of first leading commodity carried (2)Average gross revenue per TEU (b) Port-to-port service under service contracts (1) Total TEUs of first leading commodity carried (2) Average gross revenue per TEU (c) Intermodal service under tariff rates (1) Total TEUs of first leading commodity carried (2) Average gross revenue per TEU (d) Intermodal service under service contracts (1) Total TEUs of first leading commodity carried (2) Average gross revenue per TEU
