FR940613-2-00014 FR940613-2-00006 NERRS Research Priorities for FY 1993&hyph;1998 FY 1993, 1994: Non-point Source Pollution. FY 1995, 1996: Habitat Restoration. FY 1997, 1998: Effects of Habitat Alteration on Coastal Biota. Research proposals for FY95 should be designed to answer some aspect(s) of the following broad management-oriented question: What are the most appropriate methods, experimental designs, models and/or evaluative criteria for restoring estuarine and estuarine-like ecosystems? While this theme is the primary funding priority for SRD in FY95/96, consideration may also be given to other projects of special merit that address other significant coastal management issues (e.g., non-point source pollution) on a regional or national scale. The availability of funding for such projects of special merit will, however, be extremely limited, and will be determined after the primary research priority has been addressed. Research proposals submitted in response to this announcement must: address coastal management issues identified as having regional or national significance; relate them to the National Research Priority described in this announcement; and be conducted (at least partially) within one or more designated NERRS sites. Research projects are funded for a duration of either one or two years. Multiple year projects will always be initiated in the first year of a two-year priority. One-year projects may be submitted in either year of a two-year priority. Therefore, proposals submitted under this announcement for FY95 funding may be of one- or two-year duration. The research topic and the Reserve must be carefully chosen to ensure that the resource management issues of primary concern to the Reserve and the NERRS are addressed. Thus, it is critical that all prospective researchers contact the appropriate Reserve manager or research coordinator before submitting a proposal responding to this announcement. V. Guidelines for Proposal Preparation, Proposal Review and Evaluation, and Reporting Requirements Applicants for SRD research funds must follow the guidelines presented herein when preparing pre-proposals and proposals for research in Reserves. Pre-proposals and proposals not following these guidelines will be returned to the applicant without further review. Proposals for research in the NERRS are solicited annually for award the following fiscal year. Proposal due dates and other pertinent information are contained in this announcement of research opportunities. All proposals sent to SRD must cite and reference this Federal Register notice. Proposers must submit an original and two (2) copies of each proposal and all supporting documents (curricula vitae, literature referenced, etc.). Each proposal will be reviewed only as a one- or two-year project, as specified by the applicant. Applicants whose pre-proposals are approved for further review must submit an original and two (2) copies of their full proposals as well. A. Pre-proposals Pre-proposals will be used by SRD to evaluate the applicability of the research plan with regard to the goals of this announcement. Pre-proposals may not exceed six (6) double-spaced pages including the abstract, introduction, objectives, statement of hypothesis, brief methods description, and discussion of anticipated results and benefits. A discussion of coordination with other research in progress or proposed is encouraged. Each pre-proposal must include a cover page which lists principal investigator(s) name(s), address(es) and telephone number(s), proposal title, name of institution providing matching funds, amount of Federal funds requested and amount of match, requested start date (month), and site(s) where research is to be conducted. Curricula vitae (not to exceed 3 pages each) for each researcher and a detailed budget showing matching funds must be included. The 6 double-spaced page limit does not include budget and budget description, cover page, curriculum vitae, literature cited section, and any tables or figures. No Federal forms need be submitted with a pre-proposal. The pre-proposal and additional sections should be submitted to CAPT Francesca M. Cava at the address provided in the Addresses section. Receipt of all pre-proposals will be acknowledged and a copy sent to the appropriate Reserve Manager. All pre-proposals will be reviewed by SRD research staff, the SRD Headquarters Regional Managers and their staff, an outside technical review panel, and the relevant Reserve Manager, Research Coordinator, and their research advisory committees, where applicable. Pre-proposals will be rated using the criteria listed in section C below, ``Proposal Review and Evaluation.'' Applicants whose research projects are selected for further consideration will be requested to submit full proposal. Applicants whose projects are eliminated at this point will be notified. Incomplete pre-proposals will be returned to the Principal Investigator without further review. B. Full Proposals Full proposals may be submitted only by those individuals requested to do so following review of pre-proposals. Unsolicited full proposals will be returned without review. One (1) original and two (2) copies of the proposal (including all forms, curricula vitae, etc.) must be submitted to the same address as the pre-proposals. The proposal may not exceed 20 double-spaced pages, excluding Federal forms, table of contents, title page, literature cited, curricula vitae, budget, and figures and table. Incomplete proposals will be returned without further review. An Application Kit will be sent to those individuals who are requested to submit full proposals. This kit will include all required Federal forms, with instructions, as well as SRD guidelines for content and format of the full proposal.
