FR940805-1-00147 FR940805-1-00014 (1) Consultation by States. A certification that it has consulted with affected units of local government about the method of distribution of funding. (2) Community development plan. A certification that this consolidated plan identifies community development and housing needs and specifies both short-term and long-term community development objectives that have been developed in accordance with the primary objective of the statute authorizing the CDBG program, as described in ยง570.2 of this title, and requirements of this part and part 570 of this title. (3) Use of funds. A certification that the State has complied with the following criteria: (i) With respect to activities expected to be assisted with CDBG funds, the Action plan has been developed so as to give the maximum feasible priority to activities that will benefit very low- and low-income families or aid in the prevention or elimination of slums or blight. The plan may also include CDBG-assisted activities that are certified to be designed to meet other community development needs having particular urgency because existing conditions pose a serious and immediate threat to the health or welfare of the community where other financial resources are not available to meet such needs; (ii) The aggregate use of CDBG funds, including section 108 guaranteed loans, during a period specified by the State, consisting of one, two, or three specific consecutive program years, shall principally benefit very low- and low-income families in a manner that ensures that at least 70 percent of the amount is expended for activities that benefit such persons during the designated period (see 24 CFR 570.200 for definition of ``CDBG funds''); and (iii) The State will not attempt to recover any capital costs of public improvements assisted with CDBG funds, including Section 108 loan guarantees, by assessing any amount against properties owned and occupied by persons of very low- and low-income, including any fee charged or assessment made as a condition of obtaining access to such public improvements. However, if CDBG funds are used to pay the proportion of a fee or assessment attributable to the capital costs of public improvements (assisted in part with CDBG funds) financed from other revenue sources, an assessment or charge may be made against the property with respect to the public improvements financed by a source other than with CDBG funds. In addition, with respect to properties owned and occupied by low-income (but not very low-income) families, an assessment or charge may be made against the property with respect to the public improvements financed by a source other than CDBG funds if the jurisdiction certifies that it lacks CDBG funds to cover the assessment; (4) Compliance with laws. The State will comply with applicable laws. (5) Excessive force. A certification that the State has adopted and is enforcing: (i) A policy prohibiting the use of excessive force by law enforcement agencies within its jurisdiction against any individuals engaged in non-violent civil rights demonstrations; and (ii) A policy of enforcing applicable State and local laws against physically barring entrance to or exit from, a facility or location that is the subject of such non-violent civil rights demonstrations within its jurisdiction. (6) Compliance with anti-discrimination laws. The State must submit a certification that the grant will be conducted and administered in compliance with title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (42 U.S.C. 2000d), the Fair Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 3601&hyph;3619), the Age Discrimination Act of 1975 (42 U.S.C. 6101&hyph;6107), Executive Orders 11063, 11625, 12138, 12432, and 12892, Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 794), and implementing regulations. (7) Certifications . The State must meet the certification requirements contained in sections 106(d)(2)(C) and (D).
