FR940112-0-00123 FR940112-0-00024 Cramer Products stated a concern not with the intent or scope of the regulations, but with the proposed timetable for compliance. Cramer contends that there would be an average cost of $200 to change the labels for each of the 500 products it sells for a total of $100,000. 49 To alleviate these costs, Cramer proposes changing the effective date from February 14, 1994 to February 14, 1996. This extension of time would ``allow companies like Cramer to more gradually phase-in the changes, spreading the cost and personnel requirements over the next 2 years.'' 50 49 Cramer does not explain the basis for its cost estimates. 50 Cram, 18, 1. Congresswoman Meyers, while not supplying any compliance cost data, also stated a concern that small businesses be given adequate time within which to come into compliance. While acknowledging that the amendments to the FPLA allow any supply of labels printed before February 14, 1994 to be used until exhausted, she states ``the fact remains that most small businesses don't have the resources to stockpile labels like big enterprises do.'' 51 51 Cong. Meyers, 17, 2. A decision by the Commission to adopt a later effective date for its rules would not grant significant relief to small businesses. By terms of the FPLA statute, all businesses must conform to the new dual disclosure requirements therein by February 14, 1994, whatever the effective date of the Commission's implementing rules. Thus, businesses would have to incur the cost of label changes in any event once their existing supply runs out. The Commission shares the commenters' concern that there be no undue hardship on businesses that are required to make the transition to the dual disclosures specified in these rules. However, the comments do not provide factual data quantifying such costs sufficient for the Commission to conclude that there is a significant economic impact on small businesses as a class. 52 52 However, in an effort ``to allow ample time for industry to become aware of the metric labeling requirements, and to reduce the burden on industry and thus the cost of updating package labels,'' the Commission has determined not to take law enforcement actions against non-complying companies until November 8, 1994. See Part V., Enforcement Policy. Furthermore, while section 5(b) of the FPLA permits the Commission to grant exemptions from statutory requirements where it is demonstrated that compliance with the new requirements of section 4 is impracticable or not necessary for adequate protection of consumers, such exemptions are intended to be granted only in exceptional circumstances. (138 Congressional Record H5345 (daily ed. June 29, 1992).) The rulemaking record in this matter does not allow the Commission to conclude that exceptional circumstances exist for small firms that would make compliance with the requirements of the amendments adopted today impracticable or unnecessary adequately to protect consumers. As discussed in Part II above, the amended regulations issued today as well as the unamended regulations which continue in effect are mandated by the FPLA. While there are costs associated with compliance, the Commission has designed the regulations to minimize the economic burden on businesses, both large and small. 53 53 For instance, the regulations contain numerous examples of disclosures intended to assist manufacturers and distributors in designing labels. (See Part III.D., above.) Further, the regulations set out the measurement terms which should be used in making the quantity disclosures and contain a table which demonstrates how to convert from customary inch/pound units to SI metric units and vice versa. (See, Part III.M. and N.) Additionally, to reduce compliance costs, to reduce label clutter and to assist consumer understanding, the Commission in the amendments adopted today has reduced the degree of precision needed in making the SI metric content disclosure to three significant digits in most cases and two digits in others. (See Part III.N.) E. Regulatory Flexibility Act This Statement of Basis and Purpose contains a final regulatory flexibility analysis under the Regulatory Flexibility Act, 5 U.S.C. 603&hyph;604. A final regulatory flexibility analysis must be conducted unless the head of the agency ``certifies that the rule will not, if promulgated, have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities.'' (5 U.S.C. 605(b).) Based upon information in the public record, the Commission believes that it is unlikely that the amendments being adopted today will have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small firms. However, given the existing uncertainty on this question, the Commission has decided to publish this final regulatory analysis. The Commission complied with the requirements of section 603 of the Regulatory Flexibility Act by including in the Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (58 FR 43726, August 17, 1993) certain information for the initial regulatory flexibility analysis. Specifically, the Commission explained that the reasons for the amendments and their objective are to implement the explicit directives of Congress in the FPLA. Similarly, the Commission stated that the legal basis is provided by the FPLA. (5 U.S.C. 603(b)(1)-(2).) Further, the Commission explained that there are no recordkeeping or reporting requirements in the amendments, and that the compliance requirements are essentially measurement and labeling tasks described. (5 U.S.C. 603(b)(4).) The Commission stated that there also are no relevant Federal rules which may duplicate, overlap, or conflict with the proposed rules, inasmuch as the Commission, the FDA, and other agencies with authority to implement the FPLA are given exclusive jurisdiction over various classes of consumer commodities. (5 U.S.C. 603(b)(5).) The Commission specifically requested comments on whether the amendments may have a significant impact on small business.
