FR941205-2-00142 FR941205-2-00073 Moderate (200 Points) 1. The proposed project has potential to meet homeownership needs in the community, and there are minor feasibility questions regarding implementation. 2. Homeownership needs in the community are documented, but not as well as in other applications. 3. The proposed project would include efforts to affirmatively further fair housing through homeownership. 4. The proposed project would educate and inform citizens of homeownership assistance available through the project. 5. The proposed project would not include private sector involvement. 6. Moderately supports the strategic plan of a designated Empowerment Zone or Enterprise Community. Minimal (100 Points) 1. There are serious feasibility questions regarding the implementation and execution of the proposed project. 2. The proposed project would have little impact upon homeownership needs in the community. 3. The proposed project would contribute minimally to fair housing in the community. 4. The proposed project would marginally aid first-time homebuyers versus all homebuyers. 5. Minimally supports the strategic plan of a designated Empowerment Zone or Enterprise Community. Insignificant (0 Points) 1. The proposed project has major feasibility questions which would inhibit its implementation and execution. 2. The proposed project does not address identified homeownership needs in the community. 3. The proposed project would not actively affirmatively further fair housing. 4. The proposed project would be of little benefit to first time homebuyers. 5. Does not support the strategic plan of a designated Empowerment Zone or Enterprise Community. (b) Program Impact_Single Purpose_Public Facilities Affecting Public Health and Safety. In the case of public facility projects, documentation of the problem by outside, third-party sources is of primary importance. In the case of water and sewer projects, documentation from public agencies is particularly helpful, especially where such agencies have pinpointed the exact cause of the problem and have recommended courses of action which would eliminate the problem. Such supporting documentation should be as up-to-date as possible: the older the supporting material, the more doubt arises that the need is current and immediate. Applicants also should be sure to indicate how the project would address public health and safety needs and conditions. Quantification also is essential in describing needs. Documentation from those affected should be included. In order to show that the project is likely to impact upon the problem, the following items should be covered: (1) Total project costs. Total project costs should be documented by qualified third party estimates, and be as recent as possible. (2) Source of other funds. To the extent that CDBG funds will not cover all costs, the source of other funds should be identified and committed. If local funds are to be used, the applicant should show both the willingness and the ability to provide the funds. (3) How the project will solve the problem. The applicant should demonstrate that the project will completely solve the problem and, if applicable, the applicant should address whether the proposal would be satisfactory to other State/local agencies which have jurisdiction over the problem. (4) Cost effectiveness of the proposal. The applicant should address whether the proposal is the most cost effective and efficient among the possible alternatives considered. (5) Reasonableness of service area. The applicant should address whether the service area claimed for the project is reasonable, in view of the nature of the proposed project, and if not, the applicant should address what effect a more realistic appraisal would have on overall benefit to low- and moderate-income persons. (6) Project impact on public health and safety; and (7) Other applicable feasibility issues have been addressed. Individual projects often vary in the extent to which they meet the criteria outlined above. Therefore, it is difficult to define precisely those combinations of characteristics which constitute, for example, ``maximum'' versus ``substantial'' impact. Not all applications receiving a particular rating will match point-for-point all the criteria in the same way. The following standards will be applied: Maximum (400 Points) 1. Need is serious, current and requires prompt attention. 2. Program would resolve the problem completely, either through funds requested or with the support of other resources already committed. 3. No other obstacles to timely and effective implementation of the program exist. 4. Benefits a large number of persons when compared to other public facility projects.
