FR940810-1-00023 FR940810-1-00006 The Secretary has also determined that this regulatory action does not unduly interfere with State, local, and tribal governments in the exercise of their governmental functions. To assist the Department in complying with the specific requirements of Executive Order 12866, the Secretary invites comments on whether there may be further opportunities to reduce any potential costs or increase potential benefits resulting from these proposed regulations without impeding the effective and efficient administration of the program. 2. Clarity of the regulations Executive Order 12866 requires each agency to write regulations that are easy to understand. The Secretary invites comments on how to make these proposed regulations easier to understand, including answers to questions such as the following: (1) Are the requirements in the proposed regulations clearly stated? (2) Do the regulations contain technical terms or other wording that interferes with their clarity? (3) Does the format of the regulations (grouping and order of sections, use of headings, paragraphing, etc.) aid or reduce their clarity? Would the regulations be easier to understand if they were divided into more (but shorter) sections? (A ``section'' is preceded by the symbol ``ยง'' and a numbered heading; for example, ยง350.3 What regulations apply to these programs?) (4) Is the description of the regulations in the ``Supplementary Information'' section of this preamble helpful in understanding the regulations? How could this description be more helpful in making regulations easier to understand? (5) What else could the Department do to make the regulations easier to understand? A copy of any comments that concern how the Department could make these proposed regulations easier to understand should be sent to Stanley M. Cohen, Regulations Quality Officer, U.S. Department of Education, 400 Maryland Avenue SW., (Room 5125, FOB&hyph;6), Washington, D.C. 20202&hyph;2241. Regulatory Flexibility Act Certification The Secretary certifies that these proposed regulations will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. The small entities that would be affected by applying for Federal funds under these programs. However, the regulations will not have a significant economic impact on the entities affected because the regulations will not impose excessive regulatory burdens or require unnecessary Federal supervision. Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980 Sections 350.20, 350.21, 350.34, 352.31, and 353.31 contain information collection requirements. As required by the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980, the Department of Education will submit a copy of these sections to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) for its review. Public and private entities, including institutions of higher education and Indian tribes and tribal organizations, are eligible to apply for awards under these programs. The Department uses this information to assist in making awards. The annual public reporting burden for these programs is estimated to be 30 hours. Organizations and individuals desiring to submit comments on the information collection requirements should direct them to the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, Room 3002, New Executive Office Building, Washington, D.C.; Attention: Daniel J. Chenok. Invitation to Comment Interested persons are invited to submit comments and recommendations regarding these proposed regulations. All comments submitted in response to these proposed regulations will be available for public inspection, during and after the comment period, in Room 3431, Mary E. Switzer Building, 330 C Street, S.W., Washington, D.C., between the hours of 8:30 a.m. and 4:30 p.m., Monday through Friday of each week except Federal holidays. Assessment of Educational Impact The Secretary particularly requests comments on whether the proposed regulations in this document would require transmission of information that is being gathered by or is available from any other agency or authority of the United States. List of Subjects 34 CFR Part 350 Administrative practice and procedure, Education, Educational research, Grant program_education, individuals with disabilities. 34 CFR Part 351 Education, Educational research, Grant program_education, Individuals with disabilities, Intergovernmental relations, Vocational rehabilitation. 34 CFR Part 352 Education, Educational research, Grant program_education, Individuals with disabilities, Manpower training programs, Vocational rehabilitation. 34 CFR Part 353 Education, Educational research, Grant program_education, Individuals with disabilities, Intergovernmental relations, Rehabilitation engineering research, Technical assistance, Vocational rehabilitation. (Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance Number 84.133, National Institute on Disability and Rehabilitation Research) Dated: May 20, 1994. Richard W. Riley, Secretary of Education.
