FR940505-1-00500 FR940505-1-00012 ␣ 1District 1Rule/Regulation Feather River Sutter County Rule 2.0. Yuba County Rule 2.0. Yolo/Solano Rule 2.8. El Dorado Regulation 3. Placer Regulation 3. Sacramento Regulation 5. Exemptions allowed in this section shall not be used to exempt from permit requirements any stationary source or modification which would be subject to review under U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) regulations or review pursuant to the operating permit requirements of Title V of the Clean Air Act as amended in 1990 (42 U.S.C. 7401 et seq. ) The regulations in effect at the time any application for an Authority to Construct is deemed complete shall apply. (1) Exemptions for emergency electrical generating equipment. Except as otherwise required for sources subject to the requirements of Title V of the Clean Air Act as amended in 1990 (42 U.S.C. 7401 et seq. ) the EPA shall exempt an application from the requirements of paragraphs (c)(2) and (3) of this section if the emissions unit would provide emergency electrical power or emergency water pumping for flood control or emergency fire fighting and is not a major source or major modification, provided the requirements of paragraphs (b)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section are met. This exemption shall not apply to emissions units supplying power to a serving utility for distribution on the electric transmission grid nor the operation of standby power sources due to a voluntary reduction in power by the serving utility. (i) Operation for maintenance purposes of internal combustion engines used solely as a source of emergency electrical power, not otherwise exempt, shall be limited to 100 hours per year, and such maintenance shall be scheduled in cooperation with the district so as to have no adverse air quality impact or shall be mitigated by emission offsets or on-site reductions so that there is no net increase in emissions; and (ii) Operation for other than maintenance purposes shall be limited to actual interruptions of electrical power by the serving utility. Operation shall not exceed 24 hours without prior authorization by the EPA. (2) Exemptions to notification requirements. Except as otherwise required for sources subject to the requirements of Title V of the Clean Air Act as amended in 1990 (42 U.S.C. 7401 et seq. ) the requirements of paragraphs (d)(3) through (6) of this section relating to notification, publication, and public inspection of preliminary decisions; and notification, publication, and public inspection of final action shall not apply if the application is for a new or modified stationary source whose emissions, calculated pursuant to paragraph (d)(12) or (13) of this section, are less than 2500 pounds per quarter of nitrogen oxides or reactive organic compounds. (3) Exemptions for relocated equipment. The requirements of paragraphs (c)(2) and (3) of this section shall only apply once to relocation of emission units solely within the district and within the air basin of which the district is part, and the relocation does not result in an increase in emissions. This exemption requires the performance of an air quality analysis pursuant to paragraph (c)(5) of this section.
