FR940825-1-00099 FR940825-1-00008 (3) Step 3. Dividing the family maximum subsidy by the number of persons in the family (all persons) to determine the maximum subsidy per each family member who has citizenship or eligible immigration status (``eligible family member''). The subsidy per eligible family member is the ``member maximum subsidy.'' (4) Step 4. Multiplying the member maximum subsidy by the number of ``eligible'' family members. (5) Step 5. The product of steps 1&hyph;4, as set forth in paragraph (b)(2) of this section is the amount of subsidy for which the family is eligible (``eligible subsidy''). The family's rent is the ``public housing maximum rent'' minus the amount of the eligible subsidy. §912.12 Prohibition of assistance to noncitizen students. (a) General. The provisions of §§912.10 and 912.11, permitting continued assistance, prorated assistance or temporary deferral of termination of assistance for certain families, do not apply to any person who is determined to be a noncitizen student, as defined in paragraph (b) of this section, or the family of the noncitizen student, as described in paragraph (c) of this section. (b) Noncitizen student. For purposes of this part, a noncitizen student is defined as a noncitizen who: (1) Has a residence in a foreign country that the person has no intention of abandoning; (2) Is a bona fide student qualified to pursue a full course of study; and (3) Is admitted to the United States temporarily and solely for purposes of pursuing such a course of study at an established institution of learning or other recognized place of study in the United States, particularly designated by such person and approved by the Attorney General after consultation with the Department of Education of the United States, which institution or place of study shall have agreed to report to the Attorney General the termination of attendance of each nonimmigrant student (and if any such institution of learning or place of study fails to make such reports promptly the approval shall be withdrawn). (c) Family of noncitizen student. The prohibition on providing assistance to a noncitizen student as described in paragraph (a) of this section also extends to the noncitizen spouse of the noncitizen student and minor children of any noncitizen student if the spouse or children are accompanying the student or following to join such student. The prohibition on providing assistance to a noncitizen student does not extend to the citizen spouse of the noncitizen student and the children of the citizen spouse and noncitizen student. §912.13 Compliance with nondiscrimination requirements. The PHA shall administer the restrictions on use of assisted housing by noncitizens with ineligible immigration status imposed by this part in conformity with the nondiscrimination requirements of, including, but not limited to, title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (42 U.S.C. 2000d-2000d-5), section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 794), the Fair Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 3601&hyph;3619), and the regulations implementing these statutes, and other civil rights statutes cited in the applicable program regulations. These statutes prohibit, among other things, discriminatory practices on the basis of race, color, national origin, sex, religion, age, disability and familial status in the provision of housing. §912.14 Protection from liability for PHAs, State, local, and tribal government agencies and officials. (a) Protection from liability for PHAs. HUD will not take any compliance, disallowance, penalty, or other regulatory action against a PHA with respect to any error in its determination of eligibility for financial assistance based on citizenship or immigration status: (1) If the PHA established eligibility based upon verification of eligible immigration status through the verification system described in §912.8; (2) Because the PHA was required to provide an opportunity for the applicant or family to submit evidence in accordance with §912.6; (3) Because the PHA was required to wait for completion of INS verification of immigration status in accordance with §912.8; (4) Because the PHA was required to wait for completion of the INS appeal process provided in accordance with §912.9(e); or (5) Because the PHA was required to provide an informal hearing in accordance with §912.9(f) or 24 CFR part 966. (b) Protection from liability for State, local and tribal government agencies and officials. State, local and tribal government agencies and officials shall not be liable for the design or implementation of the verification system described in §912.8, and the informal hearings provided under §912.9(f) and 24 CFR part 966, as long as the implementation by the State, local or tribal government agency or official is in accordance with prescribed HUD rules and requirements. PART 960_ADMISSION TO, AND OCCUPANCY OF, PUBLIC HOUSING 93. The authority citation for part 960 would be revised to read as follows: Authority: 42 U.S.C. 1437a, 1437c, 1437d, 1437n, and 3535(d).
