FR941017-0-00036 FR941017-0-00011 Paragraph (c) establishes that OSM is also authorized to conduct fire control projects on lands owned or controlled by the United States, with the cooperation of the agency having jurisdiction thereof. However, upon application by another Federal agency having jurisdiction for lands owned or controlled by the United States, OSM may enter into an agreement with the other Federal agency to control or extinguish such fires in coal formations. The same commenter did not think that OSM (or the Federal agency having jurisdiction for Federal lands) should be the only one conducting coal formation fire control projects on Federal lands. The commenter suggested that States or Indian tribes having responsibility for conducting AML projects on Federal lands within their boundaries should also have responsibility for conducting coal formation fire control projects on Federal lands within their boundaries. OSM accepts this comment in part. OSM wants the coal outcrop fire program to be run as efficiently and cost effectively as possible. OSM would encourage a State or Indian tribe to be responsible for a coal outcrop fire project on Federal lands if it appears to be more cost effective and if the entity's agreements to conduct AML projects on Federal lands within its boundaries also apply to non-AML funded projects. OSM, not the State or Indian tribe, will decide which projects will be funded under the authorities listed in section 880.1, Scope, within a State's or Indian tribe's border, including projects on Federal lands. OSM removed paragraph (d) of section 880.4 (redesignated 880.12), which stated that none of the funds contributed by the Government or the State or Indian tribe or the local authorities shall be used for the purchase of sand, clay, stone, or other noncombustible materials used to control or extinguish the fire. A review of the pertinent legislation found no such restriction. In many cases, it might be impossible to extinguish or control a coal fire if Federal or State or Indian tribe funds could not be used to purchase sand, clay, stone, chemical foams, or other noncombustible materials used to control or extinguish the fire. Section 880.5␣(Redesignated 880.13) Project Implementation The title of section 880.5 (redesignated 880.13) was changed from ``Project contract'' to ``Project implementation.'' Most of this section contained guidance relative to the contracting procedures to be followed for the extinguishment or control of coal formation fires. Paragraphs (a) and (b) establish responsibilities for implementing projects to extinguish or control coal formation fires in States or Indian tribes having an approved abandoned mine land program and in other States, Indian lands, or on Federal lands. A commenter suggested deletion of paragraphs (a) (1) and (2) as States or Indian tribes with approved AML programs routinely perform the described tasks for all AML projects. The commenter questioned why the States or Indian tribes need a new cooperative agreement that tells them to do things they do already. OSM does not accept this comment, as discussed above in relation to paragraph 880.4(a) (redesignated 880.12(a)). Paragraph (a)(2)'s requirement that if OSM assistance is required, OSM will be reimbursed by the State or Indian tribe for all costs incurred including employee's time, must remain in the rule. OSM anticipates that in most instances, aid will be provided by employees whose salaries are paid out of the AML fund. Because AML funds cannot be used to address projects not eligible for AML funding, and because OSM anticipates that most coal formation fire projects will address fires not eligible for AML funding, it will often be necessary for States or Indian tribes to reimburse OSM for any services provided. OSM removed paragraphs (c) and (d) pertaining to contracts as none of the legislation authorizing this program set out any special contracting requirements. Normal contracting procedures for Federally funded contracts as set out in OSM Directive GMT 10, ``Federal Assistance Manual,'' and other relevant documents are to be followed. In many instances, fire control projects must be initiated quickly to prevent the fire from becoming much larger or to control quickly a threat to public health and safety. States or Indian tribes entering into cooperative agreements with OSM to extinguish or control coal formation fires may need to use more expedited contracting procedures than those used for regular AML projects. States managing their emergency AML programs have often had to develop more expedited contracting procedures. Sometimes new legislation has been required to do so. Section 880.6␣(Redesignated 880.14) Administration of Contributions OSM modified this section to recognize that, while some projects to extinguish or control coal formation fires may be implemented by OSM, others may be implemented by States or Indian tribes or another Federal agency. A commenter noted that if outcrop fires were funded as a regular AML grant item, there would be no need to implement any of the changes proposed in this section. OSM does not accept this comment for the reasons previously discussed under section 880.4 (redesignated 880.12). Section 880.7␣(Redesignated 880.15) Assistance by States, Local Authorities, and Private Parties This section was amended to acknowledge that private parties may, when appropriate, provide assistance. A commenter suggested that this section be deleted because the language in this section clearly states that all the support for the project work must be provided (upon request) by States, Indian tribes, local, or private parties. OSM does not accept this comment. This section does not require that States, Indian tribes, local authorities, or private parties support for a coal formation fire project. It says that as appropriate, they may provide assistance.
