FR940621-0-00005 FR940621-0-00002 The general consensus of the Washington cherry industry is that the shipment of poor quality Rainier cherries is disrupting the marketplace and that some minimum quality standards are needed to maintain the Rainier cherry market. However, some disagreement was expressed at the committee meeting as to precisely what those minimum standards should be. Some questioned, for example, the 101/2 row size requirement initially recommended by the committee, saying that this requirement would result in too many cherries being diverted to processors (an outlet exempt from regulation). Others stated that the smaller 11 row cherries have adequate sugar content. Still others opposed any size requirement, believing that other criteria (e.g., maturity levels) are more important than size and that size bears no relationship to those criteria. Additionally, concern was expressed that producers at higher elevations would be more adversely impacted than other producers by a minimum size requirement. In regards to this last concern, the committee concluded that producers at higher elevations should not be adversely impacted by the 11 row minimum size regulation, since these producers have demonstrated the ability to produce other varieties at acceptable sizes (e.g., Bing cherries). Further, a number of producers who farm at higher elevations attended the meeting, and stated that they would not have a problem meeting the proposed minimum size requirement, and that proper cultural practices (including pruning) would ensure that other producers achieve appropriate sizing. In an attempt to reach an industry compromise, the committee rescinded its December recommendation to establish a minimum size requirement for Rainier cherries at 101/2 row size. It recommended instead a lower minimum size requirement of 11 row, coupled with a maturity requirement of at least 17 percent soluble solids. This recommendation is considered to be conservative, in that most handlers in the Washington cherry industry pack to higher standards. The committee intends to conduct research during the 1994 and subsequent seasons to determine whether further refinements in Rainier variety cherry standards are needed. This final rule adds a new provision to ยง923.322, Washington Cherry Regulation 22, to establish a minimum size requirement of 61/64 inch in diameter for Rainier variety cherries, which corresponds to the 11 row size. To provide for variances in packing, a tolerance of 10 percent will be provided for undersized Rainier cherries. Further, the regulation will provide that not more than 5 percent of the Rainier cherries in any lot could be less than 57/64 inch in diameter, which is 111/2 row size, one size lower than the 11 row size. These tolerances are comparable to those in effect for other Washington cherry varieties.
