FR940429-0-00160 FR940429-0-00014 (iii) For a membership corporation, a person who is or becomes a member acquires or loses control of 25 percent of the voting interests of the corporation and control of the corporation. (4) Partnership or sole proprietorship. A change of ownership and control occurs when a person who has or acquires an ownership interest acquires or loses control of the institution. (5) Parent corporation. An institution that is a wholly-owned subsidiary changes ownership and control when the parent corporation changes ownership and control as described in this section. (6) Nonprofit corporation or association. An institution that is owned by a nonprofit corporation or association changes ownership and control when a change specifically described in this paragraph (c) takes place. (7) Public institution. Notwithstanding paragraph (d) of this section, an institution owned and operated by a governmental entity changes ownership and control only when the ownership of the institution is transferred to a different governmental entity or to another person. (d) Covered transactions. For the purposes of this section, a change in ownership of an institution that results in a change of control may include, but is not limited to_ (1) The sale of the institution; (2) The transfer of the controlling interest of stock of the institution or its parent corporation; (3) The merger of two or more eligible institutions; (4) The division of one institution into two or more institutions; (5) The transfer of the liabilities of an institution to its parent corporation; (6) A transfer of assets that comprise a substantial portion of the educational business of the institution, except where the transfer consists exclusively in the granting of a security interest in those assets; or (7) A conversion of the institution from a for-profit to a nonprofit institution. (e) Excluded transactions . A change of ownership and control otherwise subject to this section does not include a transfer of ownership and control upon the retirement or death of the owner, to_ (1) A member of the owner's family, as described in §600.30(f); (2) A person with an ownership interest in the institution who has been involved in management of the institution for at least two years preceding the transfer. (f) Transfers subject to contingency. An institution may submit and have considered an application for a designation of eligibility and for certification under 34 CFR part 668, subpart B, only when the transfer has been completed. A transfer is complete for purposes of this section when the transfer is otherwise final but is subject to the condition subsequent that the institution obtain approval from the Secretary, the accrediting agency, or State licensing authority after the transfer. A transfer otherwise complete is not considered incomplete or contingent where the transferor retains a interest in the stock or assets of the institution or its owner solely for purposes of security. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1099c) §600.32 Eligibility of additional locations. (a) Except as provided in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, to qualify as an eligible location, an additional location of an eligible institution must satisfy the applicable requirements of this section and §§600.4, 600.5, 600.6, 600.8, and 600.10. (b) To qualify as an eligible location, an additional location is not required to satisfy the two-year requirement of §§600.5(a)(7) or 600.6(a)(6), unless_ (1) The location was a facility of another institution that has closed or ceased to provide educational programs for a reason other than a normal vacation period or a natural disaster that directly affects the institution or the institution's students; (2) The applicant institution acquired, either directly from the institution that closed or ceased to provide educational programs, or through an intermediary, the assets at the location; and (3) The institution from which the applicant institution acquired the assets of the location_ (i) Owes a liability for a violation of an HEA program requirement; and (ii) Is not making payments in accordance with an agreement to repay that liability. (c) Notwithstanding paragraph (b) of this section, an additional location is not required to satisfy the two-year requirement of §600.5(a)(7) or §600.6(a)(6) if the applicant institution agrees_ (1) To be liable for all improperly expended or unspent title IV, HEA program funds received by the institution that has closed or ceased to provide educational programs; (2) To be liable for all unpaid refunds owed to students who received title IV, HEA program funds; and (3) To abide by the policy of the institution that has closed or ceased to provide educational programs regarding refunds of institutional charges to students in effect before the date of the acquisition of the assets of the additional location for the students who were enrolled before that date. (d) For purposes of this section, an ``additional location'' is a location of an institution that was not designated as an eligible location in the eligibility notification provided to an institution under §600.21. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1088 and 1141) Subpart D_Loss of Eligibility §600.40 Loss of eligibility.
