FR940920-1-00029 FR940920-1-00007 The February 11, 1991 NSPS establishes control requirements for SO 2 and HCl (MWC acid gases) by specifying both numerical emission limits and alternative percentage reduction requirements for both SO 2 and HCl. The concentration emission limits for HCl and SO 2 are calculated as parts per million by volume (ppmv) corrected to 7 percent O 2 , dry basis. Today's proposed standards for SO 2 and HCl would also be based on the same format. The February 11, 1991 NSPS addresses a numerical emission limit for NO X emissions. The concentration emission limit for NO X is calculated as ppmv. Today's proposed standard for NO X is based on the same format as the February 11, 1991 NSPS. The February 11, 1991 NSPS establishes MWC organics control by specifying an emission limit for dioxins/furans. The format of the dioxin/furan emission limit would be revised by today's proposal. In the February 11, 1991 NSPS, emissions of dioxins/furans are calculated as a concentration (nanograms per dry standard cubic meter (ng/dscm)) corrected to 7 percent O 2 , dry basis, on a total mass basis (i.e., the mass of all tetra- through octa- congeners were added together). In today's proposal, dioxin/furan emissions could be reported either in units of ng/dscm toxic equivalency (TEQ) or in units of ng/dscm total mass dioxins/furans. Reporting in TEQ units is done by first measuring the total mass of dioxin/furan congeners and then adjusting the results for the toxicity of each dioxin/furan congener. The same test method (Method 23) is used in either case. See section II.F of this preamble for further discussion of the proposed method of reporting dioxin/furan emissions in terms of TEQ. In addition to controlling stack emissions, the February 11, 1991 NSPS also establishes good combustion operating standards for MWC's. These operating standards are part of good combustion practices (GCP) and ensure that emissions of MWC organics (dioxins/furans) are minimized on a continuous basis. The GCP requirements are included in today's proposal, but they are being extended to apply to MWC's at plants of 35 Mg/day aggregate capacity or larger. Additionally, some minor revisions are being proposed. The proposed revisions would include: (1) A requirement that all shift operators and chief facility operators obtain full operator certification, (2) ``stand in'' authority for MWC control room operators, and (3) required training of MWC shift supervisors. These items are discussed below. The February 11, 1991 NSPS requires provisional certification of the chief facility operator and shift supervisors by the American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME) or a State certification program. Development of a site-specific training manual to be used for training other MWC personnel is also required. Today's proposal would require that the chief facility operator and shift supervisor obtain both provisional and then full operator certification. Today's proposal would also allow for the optional certification of one or more control room operators. Under the February 11, 1991 NSPS, all chief facility operators and shift supervisors shall be certified, and one of these individuals must be onsite during all periods of MWC operation. Under today's proposal, a provisionally certified control room operator may ``stand in'' for the chief facility operator or shift supervisor during periods in which the certified chief facility operator or certified shift supervisor is offsite, in order to fulfill the requirement that a certified individual be onsite during all periods of MWC operation. This would provide additional operating flexibility. Today's proposal would also require that all chief facility operators, shift supervisors, and control room operators complete the EPA or a State MWC operator training course. The EPA has developed a model training program that has been distributed to State air pollution control agencies, the EPA Regional Offices, and MWC industry groups. The EPA believes that operator training is an integral part of the implementation of GCP.
