FR940602-2-00060 FR940602-2-00038 Maintenance Information You may have seen our recent ad about maintenance success. Here's some additional information about our maintenance record. [Disclosure of maintenance statistics goes here] For many dieters, weight loss is temporary. I have read this notice. (Client Signature) ␣␣␣ (Date) (b) Require each potential client to sign such document; and (c) Give each client a copy of such document; and (3) Retain in each client file a copy of the signed maintenance notice required by this paragraph; provided, further, that: (i) Compliance with the obligations of this paragraph I.D. in no way relieves respondents of the requirement under paragraph I.A. of this Order to substantiate any representation about the success of participants on any weight loss program in maintaining weight loss; (ii) Respondents must comply with both paragraph I.D. and paragraph I.C. of this Order if respondents include in any such short broadcast advertisement a representation about maintenance success that states a number or percentage, or uses descriptive terms that convey a quantitative measure such as ``most of our customers maintain their weight loss long-term''; provided, however, that the provisions of paragraph I.D. shall not apply to endorsements or testimonials referred to in paragraph I.E. herein. E. Using any advertisement containing an endorsement or testimonial about weight loss success or weight loss maintenance success by a participant or participants of respondents' weight loss programs if the weight loss success or weight loss maintenance success depicted in the advertisement is not representative of what participants of respondents' weight loss programs generally achieve, unless respondents disclose, clearly and prominently, and in close proximity to the endorser's statement of his or her weight loss success or weight loss maintenance success: (1) What the generally expected success would be for DMWLC/DWLC customers in losing weight or maintaining achieved weight loss; provided, however, that the generally expected success for DMWLC/DWLC customers may exclude those customers who dropped out of the program within two weeks of their entrance, or who were unable to complete the program due to illness, pregnancy, or change of residence; or (2) One of the following statements: (a) ``You should not expect to experience these results.''
