FR940919-2-00111 FR940919-2-00046 SSA uses special, multi-disciplinary teams of individuals to conduct reengineering analyses and identify the best ways to redesign and significantly improve processes. Teams are comprised of outstanding employees, all of whom are subject matter experts in operational, programmatic, policy, systems, administrative, and other areas relevant to the business process. Reengineering teams focus on identifying those procedural and policy changes to the process that will: make it more claimant and service oriented; greatly increase productivity and process speed; take advantage of opportunities offered by new technology; and improve the empowerment and professional enrichment of the employees who are part of the process. Although teams follow the same basic reengineering protocol, continual customization is both expected and encouraged. Disability Process Reengineering Project An Executive Steering Committee was formed to meet on a regular basis to provide advice to the Commissioner on development of the disability reengineering process change proposal, and to ensure that support occurred at the highest levels of the Agency. The Executive Steering Committee established the following parameters and expectations for the project which are driven by targets set forth in the Agency Strategic Plan and based on percentages of service and/or productivity: Parameters and Expectations for Reengineering the Disability Determination Process (9/15/93) Definition of Process The ``process'' to be reengineered is the initial and administrative appeals system for determining an individual's entitlement to Social Security and Supplemental Security Income disability payments. It includes all actions from an individual's initial contact with SSA through payment effectuation or final administrative denial. The system for determining whether an individual continues to be entitled to receive disability payments is not part of this ``process.'' Rationale: The process to be reengineered must be defined broadly to increase the opportunity for improvement. The continuing disability review system is not included because it is conceptually and practically distinct from the initial disability determination process. Parameters Every aspect of the process except the statutory definition of disability, individual benefit amounts, the use of an administrative law judge as the presiding officer for administrative hearings, and vocational rehabilitation for beneficiaries, is within the scope of this reengineering effort. However, analysis and ideas for change should proceed and be presented on two tracks: improvements achievable without changes in statute or regulations and innovations that may require such change. Rationale: The timing of legislative or regulatory change is beyond SSA's control. Such change could not reasonably be expected to be implemented in less than 2 years. However, limiting the reengineering effort to aspects of the process not requiring change in statute or regulations was rejected as limiting too greatly the possibility of major improvement/innovation in the process. The two-track approach provides for both shorter term incremental improvements and longer term, more radical change. Expectations 1. Unless otherwise specified here, the recommendations for change should be consistent with the goals and objectives set forth in the Agency Strategic Plan. 2. Recommendations for change, taken as a whole, should not cause changes in benefit outlays unless as a necessary result of improvements in service, such as more timely processing and payment of claims. 3. Process changes should improve service and/or productivity, on a combined basis, by at least 25 percent by the end of FY 1997 over levels projected in the FY 1994 budget (it would require about an additional $500 million currently to realize such improvement) and decisional accuracy should not decrease. By FY 2000 additional actions, including any necessary statutory and regulatory changes, should provide a further 25 percent improvement. The Executive Steering Committee facilitated ongoing communications between components and the Team, and communicated the need and reason for reengineering the disability process. They were familiar with the current process problems and were kept apprised of research completed by the Team. In February, the Executive Steering Committee was expanded to include the Presidents of the American Federation of Government Employees, the National Federation of Federal Employees, and the National Treasury Employees Union locals, councils and chapters representing SSA employees; and the Presidents of the SSA and State Disability Determination Services (DDS) professional and management associations recognized by SSA as having an interest in disability issues. A list of Executive Steering Committee members appears at the end of this appendix. The 18 members of the Disability Reengineering Team, all of whom are SSA or State DDS employees, have varied and extensive backgrounds in all aspects of the disability program. A list of Team members appears at the end of this chapter. Team members attended a high quality, intensive 3-day SSA reengineering methodology training session, and completed extensive reading assignments on reengineering. Some Team members visited organizations who had reengineered their business processes to learn about successes as well as opportunities for improvement. The Team used the following methods to obtain the information necessary to develop a redesigned disability process. Briefings Members of the Team received extensive briefings from staff in all SSA components that work with any aspect of the disability process including experts in SSA policy, quality assurance, management information, operational, and appellate processes. Dr. Frank S. Bloch, Professor of Law and Director of the Clinical Education Center at Vanderbilt, briefed the Team on the results of his study comparing disability programs and processes of the United States, Canada, and Western Europe. His work encompasses eligibility requirements and program goals, benefit award structure and short-term benefits, administrative organization, and procedures for claim processing and appeals. Scan Visits
