FR940406-2-00187 FR940406-2-00097 6. Socioeconomic impacts to affected communities from construction and operational labor forces and expenditures. 7. Environmental Justice: Disproportionately high or adverse human health and environmental effects on minority and low-income populations. 8. Impacts to cultural resources such as historic, archaeological, scientific, or culturally important sites. 9. Accuracy of projected waste volumes. 10. Status of compliance with applicable Federal, state, and local statutes and regulations. 11. Cumulative impacts from the proposed action and other past, present, and reasonably foreseeable future actions at Savannah River Site. 12. Potential irreversible and irretrievable commitments of resources. 13. Pollution prevention, waste minimization, and potential mitigative measures. Related Documentation Completed and ongoing environmental reviews may affect the scope of the Defense Waste Processing Facility Supplemental EIS. DOE has published or is preparing several NEPA documents on waste management activities at Savannah River Site, including the following: Waste Management Operations, ERDA&hyph;1537, 1977. Long-Term Management of Defense High-Level Radioactive Wastes (Research and Development Program for Immobilization) , DOE/EIS&hyph;0023, 1979. Defense Waste Processing Facility, DOE/EIS&hyph;0082, 1982. Waste Form Selection for Savannah River Plant High-Level Waste, DOE/EA&hyph;0179, 1982. Waste Management Activities for Groundwater Protection, DOE/EIS&hyph;0120, 1987. Consolidated Incineration Facility, DOE/EA&hyph;0400, 1992. Interim Management of Nuclear Materials at the Savannah River Site, EIS being developed. Waste Management at the Savannah River Site, EIS being developed. Public Meetings DOE will host a series of informal information sessions to provide the public with additional information on the Defense Waste Processing Facility and the proposed actions and alternatives discussed in this Notice of Intent. These sessions are intended to promote conversation with DOE representatives available to answer questions. Oral and written comments will be received at public scoping meetings to be held at the locations and times indicated above. The meetings will be chaired by a presiding officer and attended by DOE officials. The public scoping meetings will not be conducted as evidentiary hearings; speakers will not be cross-examined, although the presiding officer and DOE representatives present may ask clarifying questions. The DOE panel members will respond to comments and questions from the public. In addition, DOE representatives will be available to discuss the Defense Waste Processing Facility in informal conversations. To facilitate scheduling of speakers, requests to speak at these meetings may be made in advance by calling (800) 242&hyph;8269 between 8:30 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. Eastern Time, Monday through Friday, or by calling Mr. Stephen R. Wright at (803) 725&hyph;3957 at least two days before the designated meeting. To ensure that everyone has an adequate opportunity to speak, five minutes will be allotted each speaker. Depending on the number of persons who request an opportunity to speak, the presiding officer may allow more time for speakers representing multiple parties or organizations. Persons wishing to speak on behalf of organizations should identify the organization in their request. Persons who have not submitted an advance request to speak may register at the meetings and will be called on to speak in the order of registration as time permits. Written comments also will be accepted at the meetings, and speakers are encouraged to provide written versions of their oral comments for the record. DOE will prepare transcripts of the scoping meetings. Individuals may review the transcripts, other NEPA documents, and background information on Defense Waste Processing Facility at the following DOE public reading rooms during normal business hours. U.S. Department of Energy Reading Room, University of South Carolina, Aiken Campus, University Library_2nd Floor, University Parkway, Aiken, SC 29801; (803) 648&hyph;6851. U.S. Department of Energy, Freedom of Information Reading Room, Room 1E&hyph;190, Forrestal Building, 1000 Independence Avenue, SW, Washington, DC 20585; (202) 586&hyph;6020. Development of the Defense Waste Processing Facility Supplemental EIS DOE will consider comments and suggestions received during the scoping period in its preparation of the draft Supplemental EIS. Results of the scoping process (including a summary of comments received, DOE's response to public comments, and an outline of the intended scope and environmental issues to be discussed in the Supplemental EIS) will be presented in a publicly available Implementation Plan. Upon completing the draft Supplemental EIS, DOE will announce its availability in the Federal Register and local media, and will again solicit public comments. DOE will consider comments on the draft Supplemental EIS in its preparation of the final Supplemental EIS. Schedule. The preliminary schedule for preparation of this Supplemental EIS is as follows: Availability of Implementation Plan: June 1994. Availability of draft Defense Waste Processing Facility Supplemental EIS: July 1994. Draft Supplemental EIS Public Comment Period: August&hyph;September 1994. Availability of final Defense Waste Processing Facility Supplemental EIS: October 1994. Record of Decision: November 1994. Issued in Washington, DC, on April 1, 1994. Tara O'Toole, Assistant Secretary, Environment, Safety and Health. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;8313 Filed 4&hyph;5&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6450&hyph;01&hyph;P
