FR940830-1-00034 FR940830-1-00004 14 CFR Part 39 [Docket No. 94&hyph;NM&hyph;94&hyph;AD] Airworthiness Directives; Airbus Model A320 Series Airplanes AGENCY: Federal Aviation Administration, DOT. ACTION: Notice of proposed rulemaking (NPRM). SUMMARY: This document proposes the adoption of a new airworthiness directive (AD) that is applicable to certain Airbus Model A320 series airplanes. This proposal would require repetitive inspections to verify proper installation of the plain bushings of the upper and lower connection links on the forward and aft passenger/crew doors, and correction of discrepancies, if necessary. This proposal would also require replacement of the shouldered bushing on the locking mechanism with a new oversized bushing, which would terminate the repetitive inspection requirements. This proposal is prompted by a report that, during an emergency evacuation of in-service airplanes, the left aft passenger/crew door jammed against the fuselage structure in a nearly closed position due to bushing migration. The actions specified by the proposed AD are intended to prevent jamming of the passenger/crew door, which could delay or impede the evacuation of passengers during an emergency. DATES: Comments must be received by October 25, 1994. ADDRESSES: Submit comments in triplicate to the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), Transport Airplane Directorate, ANM&hyph;103, Attention: Rules Docket No. 94&hyph;NM&hyph;94&hyph;AD, 1601 Lind Avenue, SW., Renton, Washington 98055&hyph;4056. Comments may be inspected at this location between 9:00 a.m. and 3:00 p.m., Monday through Friday, except Federal holidays. The service information referenced in the proposed rule may be obtained from Airbus Industrie, 1 Rond Point Maurice Bellonte, 31707 Blagnac Cedex, France. This information may be examined at the FAA, Transport Airplane Directorate, 1601 Lind Avenue, SW., Renton, Washington. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Stephen Slotte, Aerospace Engineer, Standardization Branch, ANM&hyph;113, FAA, Transport Airplane Directorate, 1601 Lind Avenue, SW., Renton, Washington 98055&hyph;4056; telephone (206) 227&hyph;2797; fax (206) 227&hyph;1320. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Comments Invited Interested persons are invited to participate in the making of the proposed rule by submitting such written data, views, or arguments as they may desire. Communications shall identify the Rules Docket number and be submitted in triplicate to the address specified above. All communications received on or before the closing date for comments, specified above, will be considered before taking action on the proposed rule. The proposals contained in this notice may be changed in light of the comments received. Comments are specifically invited on the overall regulatory, economic, environmental, and energy aspects of the proposed rule. All comments submitted will be available, both before and after the closing date for comments, in the Rules Docket for examination by interested persons. A report summarizing each FAA-public contact concerned with the substance of this proposal will be filed in the Rules Docket. Commenters wishing the FAA to acknowledge receipt of their comments submitted in response to this notice must submit a self-addressed, stamped postcard on which the following statement is made: ``Comments to Docket Number 94&hyph;NM&hyph;94&hyph;AD.'' The postcard will be date stamped and returned to the commenter. Availability of NPRMs Any person may obtain a copy of this NPRM by submitting a request to the FAA, Transport Airplane Directorate, ANM&hyph;103, Attention: Rules Docket No. 94&hyph;NM&hyph;94&hyph;AD, 1601 Lind Avenue, SW., Renton, Washington 98055&hyph;4056. Discussion The Direction Générale de l'Aviation Civile (DGAC), which is the airworthiness authority for France, recently notified the FAA that an unsafe condition may exist on certain Airbus Model A320 series airplanes. The DGAC advises that, during an emergency evacuation of an in-service airplane, the left aft passenger/crew door jammed against the fuselage structure in a nearly closed position. Investigation revealed the bushing of the lower connection link had migrated. The cause of this migration has been attributed to the seizing of the upper locking hook into its bronze bushing from the frame segment at the level of the door lifting bellcranks. This condition, if not corrected, could result in jamming of the passenger/crew door, which could delay or impede the evacuation of passengers during an emergency. Airbus has issued Service Bulletin A320&hyph;52&hyph;1047, dated April 25, 1994, which describes procedures for: 1. Performing repetitive detailed visual inspections to verify proper installation of the plain bushings of the upper and lower connection links on the forward and aft passenger/crew doors; 2. Removing the passenger/crew door and inspecting the bushings to detect damage, if any bushing has migrated; 3. Reinstalling the bushing, if the bushing housings are not damaged; and 4. Reaming the door structure and installing an oversize shouldered bushing, if any bushing housing is damaged; and repairing the bushing housing, if damage is not completely removed.
