FR941213-1-00007 FR941213-1-00002 In that same notice, OSHA reopened the written comment period for the shipyard employment PPE rulemaking to provide the public with an opportunity to comment on the newly incorporated general industry materials and on five specific issues (certification of hazard assessment; certification of training; training elements; body belts and body harnesses; and locking and non-locking snaphooks). The comment period, which ended August 22, 1994, elicited 13 comments, including one hearing request. These comments generally opposed any revision to proposed 1915 subpart I based on the 1910 subpart I records. Based on these submissions, OSHA is convening a public meeting to seek additional input regarding all issues raised therein with emphasis on the issues set out below. OSHA solicits further input regarding how the incorporation of the provisions discussed in the July 6, 1994 notice of reopening would impact the shipyard industry. The Agency also requests that interested parties provide input regarding any experience they have had with the implementation of such provisions. Issues Issue 1_Certification of Hazard Assessment Proposed part 1915 subpart I would require that employers select PPE for their employees based on an assessment of the pertinent workplace hazards (proposed ยง1915.152(b)). For example, shipyard maintenance workers, in general, are required to wear hard hats, safety glasses and safety shoes. Maintenance workers who are exposed to airborne concentrations of asbestos that exceed the PELs, are also required to wear full-body clothing, gloves and foot coverings. The proposed provision did not specifically address documentation of the hazard assessment. The revised PPE standard for general industry requires that affected employers verify that they have assessed workplace hazards through a written certification. As discussed in the July 6, 1994 notice, the Agency has been considering whether it would be appropriate to require written certification of hazard assessments in shipyards, as well. One commentor (Ex. 9&hyph;2) said that such a certification provision required the approval of the Office of Management and Budget (OMB), pursuant to the Paperwork Reduction Act and the implementing regulations. Other comments (Exs. 9&hyph;3, 9&hyph;7, 9&hyph;8 and 9&hyph;10) stated that OSHA should take a performance-oriented approach to documentation of hazard assessments, instead of adopting the general industry written certification requirement. In particular, a commentor (Ex. 9&hyph;7) stated ``certification of hazard assessment requirements should be based on employees' duties that tend to be constant rather than on the shipyard work place that is neither fixed, nor constant, nor readily quantifiable like work places in all other industries.''
