FR940922-1-00051 FR940922-1-00008 Table 5._Growth Rates and Projected Changes in Mobile Source Emissions for OTR States, 1990&hyph;2005 1OTR State 11990&hyph;2005 VMT growth rate, %/year ME 2.2 NH 2.6 VT 2.1 MA 2.2 RI 2.2 CT 2.2 NY 1.9 NJ 2.3 PA 2.0 DE 2.7 MD 2.4 Wash., DC 1.8 VA 2.6 4. Relevance of EPA Transport Policy. As EPA discussed in its April 26 proposal, EPA is developing a policy to address the particular problem where overwhelming transport from upwind areas with later attainment dates is such a dominant factor accounting for nonattainment in a downwind area with an earlier attainment date that the downwind areas will not be able to attain by the deadline. See 59 FR at 21728&hyph;29. This problem was specifically raised in the OTR for areas in Massachusetts in letters from the Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection and the Conservation Law Foundation. 67 Of course, one solution is for the responsible upwind areas to relieve their overwhelming contribution so that the downwind areas may attain by the specified year. But, as EPA described in its April 26 proposal, in certain cases this could be at odds with the overall title I scheme that establishes later deadlines for attainment in more polluted areas and also establishes a graduated program of additional and more stringent requirements to be accomplished over the longer time-frame. It might be appropriate for EPA to interpret the Act so that, if it is impracticable to accelerate controls in the upwind areas and other facts are shown, then the downwind areas might have additional time to reach attainment beyond the section 181(a)(1) dates. 67 See letters from Renee Robins, Conservation Law Foundation to John Seitz, Director, EPA Office of Air Quality Planning and Standards (Jan. 25, 1994); from Barbara Kwetz, Director, Massachusetts Division of Air Quality Control to John Seitz, Director, EPA Office of Air Quality Planning and Standards (Jan. 14, 1994); from John Seitz, Director, EPA Office of Air Quality Planning and Standards to Barbara Kwetz, Director, Massachusetts Division of Air Quality Control (March 21, 1994); from John Seitz, Director, EPA Office of Air Quality Planning and Standards to Renee Robbins, Conservation Law Foundation (March 21, 1994). Since EPA's April 26 proposal, EPA staff has continued to work with a group of officials from states across the country that are likely to be affected, including officials from Massachusetts, Maine, and other states to develop a policy to address this problem. This policy, described in a September 1, 1994 memorandum from Mary D. Nichols, Assistant Administrator, to EPA regional offices, provides that states seeking to have the Clean Air Act interpreted so as to allow them a later attainment deadline would have to make certain showings including a showing of overwhelming transport. 68 68 See Memorandum form Mary D. Nichols, Assistant Administrator for Air and Radiation, to Air Directors of EPA Regional Offices, entitled, ``Ozone Attainment Dates for Areas Affected by overwhelming Transport'' (Sept. 1, 1994). EPA does not expect that the states will be able to complete such analyses and have EPA make a determination by the time EPA takes final action on the OTC recommendation. Nevertheless, EPA recognizes that pervasive transport in the OTR underlies the creation of the OTC and the basis for EPA's proposed approval of the OTC LEV recommendation. EPA expects that, on this basis, a few areas in the OTR are likely candidates to make valid demonstrations that the Act should be interpreted to allow them more time to attain because overwhelming transport from upwind areas with later attainment deadlines will unavoidably prevent earlier attainment. While this has not yet occurred, EPA can anticipate the implications here if it does. If downwind areas ultimately are subject to later attainment deadlines than are currently believed to pertain, then emissions reductions during the ``extension period'' would apply to reaching attainment rather than to maintenance of the NAAQS after attainment. To the extent EPA currently believes that the OTC LEV (or LEV-equivalent) program is necessary for maintenance in such areas after the section 181(a)(1) attainment year (and through any ``extension period''), then such reductions likewise would be necessary for attainment if EPA grants that such areas have the ``extension period'' to attain. EPA does now believe that areas in the OTR will need the OTC LEV (or LEV-equivalent) program to maintain the NAAQS in the years after the section 181(a)(1) deadlines. EPA therefore expects that the OTC LEV (or LEV-equivalent) program will ultimately be necessary in those years for such areas that may have longer under the forthcoming transport policy to actually attain the NAAQS. In addition, even if attainment dates are not extended pursuant to a transport policy, EPA believes that it may conclude that certain serious areas in the OTR will not be able to reach attainment by 1999, nor to qualify for the one-year extensions described earlier. Such areas would then be subject to ``bump up'' under section 181(b)(2) of the Act and would have until 2005 (or, if sooner, as expeditiously as practicable) to attain. EPA believes that the OTC LEV (or LEV-equivalent) program will ultimately be necessary to achieve reductions in the period after 1999 for any such areas to attain. B. Consistency With Section 177 of the Clean Air Act
