FR941028-1-00011 FR941028-1-00004 On October 28, 1992, the Futures Trading Practices Act of 1992 (``1992 Act'') was signed into law. P.L. No. 102&hyph;546. This legislation added new subsections (c) and (d) to Section 4 of the Act. New Section 4(c)(1) authorizes the Commission, by rule, regulation, or order, to exempt any agreement, contract or transaction, or class thereof, from the exchange-trading requirements of Section 4(a) or any other requirement of the Act other than Section 2(a)(1)(B), 7 U.S.C. 2. 2 New Section 4(c)(2) provides that the Commission may not grant an exemption from the exchange-trading requirement of the Act unless, inter alia, the agreement, contract or transaction being exempted will be entered into solely between ``appropriate persons'' as defined in new Section 4(c)(3) 3 subject to such limitations as may be deemed appropriate by the Commission, in the public interest. 4 In granting such an exemption, the Commission must also determine that the agreement, contract or transaction in question will not have a material adverse effect on the ability of the Commission or any contract market to discharge its regulatory or self-regulatory duties under the Act and that the exemption would be consistent with the public interest and the purposes of the Act. 5 In vesting the Commission with this new exemptive authority, Congress recognized the need to create legal certainty for instruments that may contain some features similar to those of regulated exchange-traded products but that are sufficiently different in their purpose, function or design, or other characteristics such that traditional futures regulation may be unnecessary. 6 2 Specifically, Section 4(c)(1), 7 U.S.C. 6(c)(1), provides: In order to promote responsible economic or financial innovation and fair competition, the Commission by rule, regulation, or order, after notice and opportunity for hearing, may (on its own initiative or on application of any person, including any board of trade designated as a contract market for transactions for future delivery in any commodity under section 5 of this Act) exempt any agreement, contract, or transaction (or class thereof) that is otherwise subject to subsection (a) (including any person or class of persons offering, entering into, rendering advice or rendering other services with respect to, the agreement, contract, or transaction), either unconditionally or on stated terms or conditions or for stated periods and either retroactively or prospectively, or both, from any of the requirements of subsection (a), or from any other provision of this Act (except section 2(a)(1)(B)), if the Commission determines that the exemption would be consistent with the public interest. 3 Section 4(c)(3), 7 U.S.C. 6(c)(3), provides that the term ``appropriate person'' shall be limited to the following persons or classes thereof: (A) A bank or trust company (acting in an individual or fiduciary capacity). (B) A savings association. (C) An insurance company. (D) An investment company subject to regulation under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a&hyph;1 et seq. ). (E) A commodity pool formed or operated by a person subject to regulation under this Act. (F) A corporation, partnership, proprietorship, organization, trust, or other business entity with a net worth exceeding $1,000,000 or total assets exceeding $5,000,000, or the obligations of which under the agreement, contract or transaction are guaranteed or otherwise supported by a letter of credit or keepwell, support, or other agreement by any such entity or by an entity referred to in subparagraph (A), (B), (C), (H), (I), or (K) of this paragraph. (G) An employee benefit plan with assets exceeding $1,000,000, or whose investment decisions are made by a bank, trust company, insurance company, investment adviser registered under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a&hyph;1 et seq. ), or a commodity trading advisor subject to regulation under this Act. (H) Any governmental entity (including the United States, any state, or any foreign government) or political subdivision thereof, or any multinational or supranational entity or any instrumentality, agency, or department of any of the foregoing. (I) A broker-dealer subject to regulation under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78a et seq. ) acting on its own behalf or on behalf of another appropriate person. (J) A futures commission merchant, floor broker, or floor trader subject to regulation under this Act acting on its own behalf or on behalf of another appropriate person. (K) Such other persons that the Commission determines to be appropriate in light of their financial or other qualifications, or the applicability of appropriate regulatory protections. 4 See H.R. Rep. No. 978, 102d Cong., 2d Sess. 79 (1992). 5 Specifically, Section 4(c)(2), 7 U.S.C. 6(c)(2), states: The Commission shall not grant any exemption under paragraph (1) from any of the requirements of subsection (a) unless the Commission determines that_ (A) The requirement should not be applied to the agreement, contract, or transaction for which the exemption is sought and that the exemption would be consistent with the public interest and the purposes of this Act; and (B) the agreement, contract, or transaction_ (i) will be entered into solely between appropriate persons; and (ii) will not have a material adverse effect on the ability of the Commission or any contract market to discharge its regulatory or self-regulatory duties under this Act. 6 See H.R. Rep. No. 978, 102d Cong., 2d Sess. 80 (1992). II. The Petitions for Exemptive Relief On August 16, 1993, the Commission published in the Federal Register a notice of petitions for exemption submitted by the CME and CBOT pursuant to Section 4(c) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. 6(c), and a request for comment. 7 In its petition, submitted on April 8, 1993 (and supplemented June 18, 1993), the CME sought an exemption from most of the provisions of the Act and Commission regulations with regard to the purchase and sale of certain contracts denominated by the CME as Rolling Spot TM futures and options contracts (``Rolling Spot Contracts''). The CBOT's petition, submitted on June 30, 1993, requested that the Commission establish a ``professional trading market exemption'' from most of the provisions of the Act and regulations for trading in any instrument of the CBOT and other boards of trade, including those designated previously as contract markets by the Commission. Under both petitions, trading in exempted instruments would have been limited to certain participants, and trades would have been cleared through an exchange clearing system approved by the Commission. 7 58 FR 43414 (Aug. 16, 1993); 58 FR 44402 (Aug. 20, 1993) (correction); 58 FR 52948 (Oct. 13, 1993) (extension of comment period to Dec. 15, 1993). In the Federal Register notice, the Commission requested comment concerning the appropriate disposition, pursuant to Section 4(c) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. 6(c), of the applications submitted by the CME and the CBOT. Specifically, the Commission requested comment on approximately 100 issues under the following general headings, corresponding to the determinations that the Commission must make in order to grant an exemption under Section 4(c), 7 U.S.C. 6(c): (1) Whether the exemption is consistent with the public interest and purposes of the Act; (2) whether the contracts to be exempted will be entered into solely between ``appropriate persons'' as defined in Section 4(c)(3) of the Act, 7 U.S.C. 6(c)(3); and (3) whether the exemption will have a material adverse effect on the ability of the Commission or any contract market to discharge its regulatory or self-regulatory duties under the Act.
