FR940617-0-00033 FR940617-0-00005 ␣ 1Timetables 1Goals for minority participation for each trade 1Goals for female participation in trade ␣ (Insert goals for each year) (Insert goals for each year) These goals are applicable to all the Contractor's construction work (whether or not it is federal or federally assisted) performed in the covered area. If the Contractor performs construction work in a geographical area located outside of the covered area, it shall apply the goals established for such geographical area where work is actually performed. With regard to this second area, the Contractor also is subject to the goals for both its federally involved and nonfederally involved construction. The Contractor's compliance with Executive Order 11246 (3 CFR, 1963&hyph;1965 Comp., p. 340) and the regulations in 41 CFR part 60&hyph;4 shall be based on its implementation of the Equal Opportunity Clause, specific affirmative action obligations required by the specifications set forth in 41 CFR 60&hyph;4.3(a), and its efforts to meet the goals. The hours of minority and female employment and training must be substantially uniform throughout the length of the contract, and in each trade, and the Contractor shall make a good faith effort to employ minorities and women evenly on each of its projects. Transfer of minority or female employees or trainees from Contractor to Contractor or from project to project for the sole purpose of meeting the Contractor's goals shall be a violation of the contract, Executive Order 11246 and the regulations in 41 CFR part 60&hyph;4. Compliance with the goals will be measured against the total work hours performed. (c) The Contractor shall provide written notification to the Director of the Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs within 10 working days of award of any construction subcontract in excess of $10,000 at any tier for construction work under the contract resulting from this solicitation. The notification shall list the name, address and telephone number of the subcontractor; employer identification number of the subcontractor; estimated dollar amount of the subcontract; estimated starting and completion dates of the subcontract; and the geographical area in which the subcontract is to be performed. (d) As used in this Notice, and in the contract resulting from this solicitation, the ``covered area'' is (insert description of the geographical areas where the contract is to be performed giving the state, county and city, if any). Note: Paragraph 14 is applicable to the extent required by law. If applicable, certain information needs to be inserted at subparagraphs (b) and (d). In determining whether and how this paragraph is applicable, reference should be made to Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs regulations (41 CFR Chapter 60). Date Owner By Title
