FR940525-1-00035 FR940525-1-00007 (5) Participations. The on-balance sheet credit equivalent amount for a participation interest in a standby letter of credit, guarantee, or other guarantee-type arrangement is calculated as follows: (i) Determine the on-balance sheet credit equivalent amount as if the bank held all of the interests in the participation. (ii) Multiply the on-balance sheet credit equivalent amount determined under section 3(c)(5)(i) of this appendix A by the percentage of the bank's participation interest. (iii) If the bank is exposed to more than its pro rata share of the risk of loss on the direct credit substitute ( e.g. , the bank remains secondarily liable on participations held by others), add to the amount computed under section 3(c)(5)(ii) of this appendix A an amount computed as follows: multiply the amount computed under 3(c)(5)(i) by the percentage of the direct credit substitute held by others and then multiply the result by the risk-weight appropriate for the holders of those interests. (Note that this risk-weighting is in addition to the risk-weighting done to convert the on-balance sheet credit equivalent amount to the risk-weighted asset amount under section 3(c)(2) of this appendix A.) (6) Limitations on risk-based capital requirements _(i) Low-level exposure. If the maximum contractual liability or exposure to loss retained or assumed by a bank in connection with a recourse arrangement or a direct credit substitute is less than the risk-based capital required to support the recourse obligation or direct credit substitute, the risk-based capital requirement is limited to the maximum contractual liability or exposure to loss. (ii) Mortgage-related securities or participation certificates retained in a mortgage loan swap. If a bank holds a mortgage-related security or a participation certificate as a result of a mortgage loan swap with recourse, capital is required to support the recourse obligation and that percentage of the mortgage-related security or participation certificate that is not covered by the recourse obligation. The total amount of capital required for the on-balance sheet asset and the recourse obligation, however, is limited to the capital requirement for the underlying loans, calculated as if the bank continued to hold these loans as an on-balance sheet asset. * * * * * Appendix A [Amended] 4. In appendix A, Table 2, paragraph 1 under ``100 Percent Conversion Factor'' is revised to read as follows: Table 2_Credit Conversion Factors for Off-Balance Sheet Items 100 Percent Conversion Factor 1. Direct credit substitutes (arrangements to assume risk of loss from assets other than through providing recourse, including purchased subordinated interests and general guarantees of indebtedness and guarantee-type instruments, such as standby letters of credit serving as financial guarantees for, or supporting, loans and securities). * * * * * FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 12 CFR Chapter II Authority and Issuance For the reasons set out in the preamble, parts 208 and 225 of chapter II of title 12 of the Code of Federal Regulations are proposed to be amended as follows: PART 208_MEMBERSHIP OF STATE BANKING INSTITUTIONS IN THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (REGULATION H) 1. The authority citation for part 208 is revised to read as follows: Authority: 12 U.S.C. 248(a) and 248(c), 321&hyph;328, 461, 481&hyph;486, 601, 611, 1814, 1818, 1823(j), and 1831o. 2. Section III of appendix A to part 208 is amended by adding a new paragraph B.5, and by revising the introductory text to paragraph D and paragraph D.1 to read as follows: Appendix A to Part 208_Capital Adequacy Guidelines For State Member Banks: Risk-Based Measure * * * * * III. Procedures for Computing Weighted Risk Assets and Off-Balance Sheet Items * * * * * B. *␣*␣* 5. Recourse arrangements and direct credit substitutes. Banks may engage in activities_such as securitizing pools of assets, selling single assets, and entering into certain off-balance sheet transactions_that result in the provision of a credit enhancement in the form of a recourse arrangement or a direct credit substitute. The risk-based capital treatment of recourse arrangements and direct credit substitutes is discussed in section III.D of this appendix A. The following definitions of the terms ``recourse'' and ``direct credit substitute'' apply for risk-based capital purposes. Recourse is the retention, in form or in substance, of any risk of loss directly or indirectly associated with an asset a bank has transferred that is in excess of the bank's pro rata share of the asset. A recourse arrangement typically arises when an institution transfers an asset and retains an obligation to repurchase the asset or to absorb losses on the asset arising from a default of principal or interest or any other deficiencies in the performance of the underlying obligor or some other party. A direct credit substitute is the assumption, in form or substance through a nonrecourse arrangement, of any risk of loss directly or indirectly associated with an asset or other claim in excess of the bank's pro rata share of the asset or other claim. A direct credit substitute arrangement typically arises when an institution issues a standby letter of credit, purchases a subordinated security that provides loss protection to more senior securities, or purchases servicing rights, such as mortgage servicing rights, that obligate the servicer to provide credit protection to the third-party owners of the assets being serviced. For most direct credit substitutes, the amount of the bank's exposure to be converted to an on-balance sheet credit equivalent typically is the full face value of the item. However, for direct credit substitutes, such as purchased subordinated securities that are carried on the balance sheet and directly or indirectly absorb the first losses from a third-party asset, pool of assets, or other claim, the full amount of the bank's off-balance sheet exposure that is to be converted is the entire outstanding principal amount of the asset, pool of assets, or other claim, less the amount of the on-balance sheet direct credit substitute against which capital is already held. This treatment applies regardless of whether the direct credit substitute fully or partially supports the asset, pool of assets, or other claim. The full amount of the bank's off-balance sheet exposure to be converted may be the same or greater than the face value of the direct credit substitute. For instance, in the case of purchased subordinated securities that absorb first losses, the entire outstanding principal amount of all more senior securities that are supported by that subordinated interest (to the extent they are not already reported on the bank's balance sheet) are converted to an on-balance sheet credit-equivalent amount.
