FR941005-1-00015 FR941005-1-00004 Also in recent years, there have been significant changes in the activities of insured depository institutions, in terms of reported assets and liabilities as well as off-balance-sheet operations (including derivative products such as options, swaps, interest-rate and foreign- exchange-rate contracts). Such changes, which to some extent have eroded the historical connection between deposits and lending, give rise to the question of whether total domestic deposits continues to be a meaningful definition for the assessment base. Other relevant developments include adjustments in federal failure- resolution policies and the adoption of ``depositor preference'' requirements. This section discusses the applicability of these developments to the question of whether the assessment base should be redefined. The areas addressed in this regard are the role of the assessment base in the risk-related deposit insurance system, the assessment-avoidance problem, failure- resolution policies, and depositor preference. The following discussions on these topics identify what the FDIC believes to be important issues that merit careful consideration in deciding on an assessment-base definition. Comment is requested with regard to how the assessment base should be defined in order to address these and other issues in an appropriate manner. Before turning to these topics, however, the FDIC wishes to stress that, in reviewing the definition of the assessment base, it is not the FDIC's intent to change the total dollar amount of assessments collected. Instead, the goal is to select an assessment base that best suits the purposes of federal deposit insurance. To the extent any decrease or increase in assessment income is warranted, the FDIC anticipates that it would achieve that decrease or increase by changing the assessment rates, and not by redefining the assessment base. In short, the amount of total assessment collections a particular assessment base definition would yield (assuming no change in the assessment rates) is not a criterion the FDIC intends to apply in deciding on an assessment-base definition, since assessment collections can be fairly readily adjusted by changing assessment rates. While the FDIC does not intend any redefinition of the assessment base to have a significant impact on the total amount of assessments industry-wide, there is a potential for significant change in the assessments paid on an institution-by-institution basis. Depending on the type of activities in which a particular institution is engaged, and the type of products and services it offers, a change in the assessment base could have a significant effect on the amount of the assessments it pays. A. Risk-Based Assessment System Section 302 of FDICIA amended section 7 of the FDI Act to require that the FDIC establish a risk-based assessment system. Under the system mandated by FDICIA, the amount of an institution's assessment is to be based on the likelihood that its deposit insurance fund will incur a loss with respect to the institution, the likely amount of any such loss, and the revenue needs of the insurance funds. Under the risk-based system adopted by the FDIC pursuant to section 302, the rate component of the insurance system was changed from a single, flat rate applicable to all banks and a single, flat rate applicable to all thrift institutions to a risk-based rate structure. Having already addressed the rate component of the new risk-based assessment system in previous rulemaking proceedings, the FDIC is now turning its attention to the assessment-base component. This Notice does not revisit the matter of the rate structure. At present, the assessment-base component of the risk- based system remains unchanged from the form required by statute for the former flat-rate insurance system. One issue to be considered in connection with whether the assessment base should now be changed is how and to what extent the assessment base should reflect the risk factors identified in section 7(b) of the FDI Act, as amended by section 302 of FDICIA.
