FR941031-1-00010 FR941031-1-00002 Financial liability includes any liability that could arise as a result of offering the service. For example, such liability could arise if institution personnel make management decisions on a customer's behalf. The primary concern is whether such liability has the potential to materially impact an institution's financial condition. Operational risk is the risk involved in implementing a service. This risk could occur if an institution fails to properly prepare for or administer a service. Examples of how this could arise are: (1) If significant staff training is required in order to competently offer the service, but is not contemplated or planned; or (2) if there are substantial up-front costs in setting up a new service that may not be recouped. Finally, conflict of interest would include any conflict that might arise between the interests of the institution and those of the recipient as a result of offering the service. An example would be the conflict that could arise when, as part of the farm business consulting service, an institution employee suggests a management strategy that requires the recipient to borrow more money. If risks were identified in any of these areas but some modification could eliminate, minimize, or control them, the service could be added to the list with special conditions or institutional restrictions. In addition, in order to better evaluate risk areas, a service could be placed on the list subject to the condition that it only be offered on a pilot basis by one or more institutions. If such risks could not be minimized to a degree that would make the service appropriate for System institutions to provide, approval to provide the service would be denied. In considering the risks associated with a proposed new service, the FCA would evaluate the risks as they pertain to any System institution or the System as a whole. Program weaknesses would be addressed through the examination or enforcement functions of the FCA. In considering the agency's role in reviewing proposed related services, the FCA considered a range of options, including the current prior approval approach and the proposal by the PPC work group. Under the PPC's proposal, institutions would notify the FCA of their intent to offer an existing or new related service program. If the FCA did not object within specified time periods, the institution could offer the service. Although this suggestion would reduce the current regulatory burden, the FCA believes that because it would require every institution to submit a program proposal to the FCA, it would still be more burdensome than necessary. The FCA proposes instead to evaluate each new service only once. If an institution concludes that the service meets the criteria for authorization, it could then offer such service once a feasibility analysis was prepared in accordance with the regulatory requirements. The FCA believes this proposed process will reduce time needed for staff review and the regulatory burden placed on System institutions, while appropriately minimizing the risks of offering unauthorized or unsafe and unsound services. 4. Section 618.8015_Policy Guidelines Existing §618.8000(b) authorizes district and bank boards to establish policies pertaining to related service programs. This section also includes general policy guidelines and requires that the FCA approve the policies. The FCA proposes to amend existing §618.8000(b) primarily by eliminating the requirements that a district bank establish a single related services policy for the district and that the FCA approve these policies. Section 618.8015 of the proposed regulation would require that each System institution offering related services formulate policies pertaining to the development, implementation, marketing, and offering of related services. This change would reduce the supervisory burden of the funding bank and appropriately place the responsibility on the offering institutions. This change would not, however, absolve the funding bank from providing the necessary guidance on districtwide issues, such as its approach for verifying the feasibility analyses of associations' related service programs. Proposed §618.8015 would also eliminate the requirement that the FCA approve district and bank policies. This proposed change is consistent with the FCA's intent to remove unnecessary prior approval functions and rely instead on the examination function to evaluate compliance, performance, and safety and soundness. The FCA proposes to modify the existing guidance for the content of the related services policy. The proposed regulation would require the policy to include clearly stated purposes, objectives, and operating parameters. In addition, the proposed regulation would require institutions to link each related service program it offers to its business plan and long-term strategic goals. Proposed §618.8015(b) and (c) retain the requirements in existing §618.8000(b)(1) and (2) that all related services be offered on an optional basis and that all fees associated with a service be identified and disclosed to the recipient. The FCA proposes to eliminate as unnecessary the specific requirements in existing §618.8000(b)(4) that banks and associations maintain detailed records because other regulatory provisions exist that require maintaining such records in order to comply with the institutions' internal control policies.
