FR940930-0-00214 FR940930-0-00029 Railroad cooperation is important to sort out valid reports from those that derive from misunderstanding of how devices function (as where a switching movement is occupying the fouling circuit on an industrial siding) and to ensure prompt response to valid reports. Clear identification of responsibility for posting and maintaining signage is also essential. Although this rulemaking is not the appropriate vehicle for resolving this issue, FRA will continue its examination of this issue through the safety inquiry noted above, with the objective of promoting the earliest feasible notification of warning device malfunctions. Final Rule The definition of ``credible report of system malfunction'' is adopted as proposed. ``Warning system malfunction'' As proposed ``warning system malfunction'' means an activation failure or a false activation of a highway-rail grade crossing warning system. No opposition was expressed to this definition. Final Rule The definition of ``warning system malfunction'' is adopted as proposed. Section 234.6(a)␣Civil Penalties As proposed, this section amends the present ``civil penalty'' provision in effect for Part 234. The amendment brings this section into conformity with 49 U.S.C. 21301 (formerly §209(a) of the Safety Act as amended by section 9 of the Rail Safety Enforcement and Review Act). That section amended the definition of ``person.'' The clarified definition of ``person'' includes, but is not limited to, such entities as manufacturers and lessors of railroad equipment and independent contractors. Congress' purpose in amending the definition of ``person'' was to clarify the Secretary's existing power over entities whose activities related to rail safety by explicitly defining that authority. See 1992 U.S. Code Cong. and Adm. News, p. 879. Congress made it clear that the included list of ``persons'' subject to the Secretary's authority was intended to be illustrative and not exhaustive. There were no comments pertaining to this proposed section. Final Rule This section is adopted as proposed. Section 234.101␣Employee Notification Rules As proposed, this section requires that each railroad issue rules requiring employees to report to a designated railroad official, by the quickest means available, any warning system malfunction. This provision is intended to ensure that all employees report instances of false activations and activation failures (see definition of warning system malfunctions) and that such reports are made to the appropriate person. This section does not require that a railroad issue rules to require notification of maintenance or operational problems which are not false activations or activation failures. Examples of such situations not covered by this section would be dirty roundels, one bulb burnt out, a broken reflector, or a gate arm tip broken. While employees should report such situations to the railroad, those situations do not require a railroad response under Subpart C of this part. The labor/management group recommended that this provision be modified in recognition that railroad employees frequently report signal malfunctions to dispatchers, operators, and other railroad personnel who would not be categorized as ``railroad officials.'' The labor/management group thus recommended that the provision be revised to include other persons designated by the railroad. We agree. Broadening those persons to whom notification of malfunctions can be made will eliminate potential confusion in implementing the regulations. This section is being revised accordingly. Final Rule This section requires that each railroad issue rules requiring its employees to report to persons designated by that railroad, by the quickest means available, any warning system malfunction.
