FR940413-2-00156 FR940413-2-00070 The Commission believes that the MSRB's proposed rule change is not deficient merely because it does not include affiliated banks and bank holding companies. Because of the sensitivity to constitutional and other concerns, the Commission believes that the coverage of the proposal is no broader than is necessary to effectuate its purpose and that extending the scope to cover affiliated banks and bank holding companies is not necessary. 82 82 The Commission will monitor closely the implementation of the proposal and its effects on the market, and if it determines that abusive practices continue to exist, will encourage the MSRB to expand the scope of the rule. In response to the suggestion that financial advisers be required to register as municipal securities broker-dealers and be subject to the proposal, the Commission notes that such a recommendation is beyond the scope of this proposal. See e.g. , letter from Vivian Altman, Altman & Co., to Jonathan Katz, Secretary, Commission (January 31, 1994). G. De Minimis Exemption Several commentators recommend that the proposal increase the de minimis amount that municipal finance professionals may contribute. 83 Several commentators recommend that the rule should provide a ``good faith'' exemption for inadvertent violations. 84 One commentator recommends that the rule provide a ``safe harbor'' provision for certain contributions. 85 Another commentator believes that the proposal should exempt contributions made for legitimate purposes. 86 83 These commentators express concern that inadvertent violations by municipal securities dealers or associated persons covered by the rule may prevent dealers from participating in an underwriting, and, thus, raise the cost of a municipal securities issuance. For example, one commentator states that ``we are concerned that your rule could deprive a state or local government of the opportunity to work with a company which may be offering the most desirable rates simply due to a technical infraction.'' Letter from Jerry Abramson, President, The United States Conference of Mayors, Sharpe James, President, The National League of Cities, Barbara Sheen Todd, President, The National Association of Counties, and Bonnie R. Kraft, President-Elect, the Government Finance Officers Association, to Arthur Levitt, Chairman, Commission (February 18, 1994). 84 For example, one commentator states that ``[c]learly, the tradition of broker-dealer regulation in the U.S. is based upon the requirement that securities firms have adequate policies and procedures in place to assure compliance with laws and regulations not that each broker-dealer be guarantor of perfect compliance.'' Letter from William H. Ellis, President and Chief Operating Officer, Piper Jaffray Inc., to Jonathan Katz, Secretary, Commission (March 10, 1994). Another commentator believes that the proposal, ``consistent with many other rules and regulations applicable to the securities industry, may achieve its purposes but temper its remedy for firms with adequate compliance procedures and supervision.'' Letter from D. Kelly, A.G. Edwards & Sons, Inc., to Jonathan Katz, Secretary, Commission (March 10, 1994). See also letter from Raymond J. McClendon, Vice-Chairman and Chief Operating Officer, Pryor, McClendon, Counts & Co., Inc., to Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary, Commission (March 9, 1994); letter from George B. Pugh, Jr., Chairman, Municipal Securities Division, Public Securities Association to Jonathan Katz, Secretary, Commission (March 11, 1994). Several commentators raise concerns that aggrieved employees may make contributions to deliberately prevent a firm from obtaining municipal securities business. E.g., letter from William H. Ellis, President and Chief Operating Officer, Piper Jaffray Inc., to Jonathan Katz, Secretary, Commission (March 10, 1994); letter from D. Kelly, A.G. Edwards & Sons, Inc., to Jonathan Katz, Secretary, Commission (March 10, 1994). 85 For example charitable contributions, contributions to non-partisan associations in which elected officials may be members or participants, support of ballot propositions, certain services in the normal course of business, contributions by spouses or household members, contributions to national political parties, contributions to state and local political parties and certain contributions to political action committees. Letter from D. Kelly, A.G. Edwards & Sons, Inc., to Jonathan Katz, Secretary Commission (March 10, 1994). 86 Letter from Raymond J. McClendon, Vice-Chairman and Chief Operating Officer, Pryor, McClendon, Counts and Co., Inc., to Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary, Commission (March 9, 1994). Several commentators believe that the de minimis exemption should be expanded to include contributions to officials for whom the municipal finance professionals are not entitled to vote. 87 These commentators believe that the proposal prevents municipal securities dealers from establishing business relationships with issuers, 88 and from supporting candidates with similar views important to the municipal finance professional or to the municipal securities broker-dealer firm. 89 One commentator recommends that the proposal allow contributions to candidates that represent the area in which the professionals' principal office is located. 90 87 For example, one commentator believes that ``[d]ealers should not be prohibited from making contributions to persons for whom they are unable to vote. They should have a right to support the candidates of their choice.'' Letter from Jeffrey L. Esser, Executive Director, Government Finance Officers Association, to Jonathan Katz, Secretary Commission (March 10, 1994). 88 Letter from Carolie R. Smith, President, Smith Mitchell Investment Group, Inc., to Jonathan Katz, Secretary Commission (March 9, 1994). 89 For example, one commentator believes that ``[t]he provision limiting contributions to one's voting jurisdiction denies municipal securities professionals access to politicians who influence their corporate and individual political interests. Specifically, municipal securities professionals will be denied the ability to support politicians who champion their personal beliefs or corporate concerns. For example, a firm headquartered in New York City whose president and employees live on Long Island would be unable to send a representative to a dinner for the mayor of New York City or for the mayor's political opponent. Yet the mayor's decisions on issues such as zoning, corporate taxes, and transportation policy significantly impact the company's viability.'' Letter from Carolie R. Smith, President, Smith Mitchell Investment Group, Inc., to Jonathan Katz, Secretary, Commission (March 9, 1994) 90 Letter from Gerald E. Pelzer, President, Clayton Brown & Associates, Inc., to Jonathan Katz, Secretary, Commission (March 10, 1994).
