FR940816-0-00003 FR940816-0-00002 DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES Social Security Administration 20 CFR Part 404 [Regulation No. 4] RIN 0960&hyph;AD94 Federal Old-Age, Survivors and Disability Insurance; Determining Disability and Blindness; Extension of Expiration Date for Adult Mental Disorders Listings AGENCY: Social Security Administration, HHS. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: The Social Security Administration issues listings of impairments to evaluate disability and blindness under the Social Security and supplemental-security income (SSI) programs. This rule extends the expiration date for the adult mental disorders listings. We have made no revisions to the medical criteria in the listings; they remain the same as they now appear in the Code of Federal Regulations. This extension will ensure that we continue to have medical evaluation criteria in the listings to adjudicate claims for disability based on mental impairments at step three of our sequential evaluation process. EFFECTIVE DATE: This regulation is effective August 16, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Regarding this Federal Register document_Richard M. Bresnick, Legal Assistant, Office of Regulations, Social Security Administration, 6401 Security Boulevard, Baltimore, MD 21235, (410) 965&hyph;1758; regarding eligibility or filing for benefits_our national toll-free number, 1&hyph;800&hyph;772&hyph;1213. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: On August 28, 1985, we published revised adult mental disorders listings (50 FR 35038) in part A of appendix 1 (Listing of Impairments) to subpart P of part 404. We use the listings to evaluate disability and blindness at the third step of the sequential evaluation process for adults and children under the Social Security and SSI programs. The listings describe impairments considered severe enough to prevent a person from doing any gainful activity, or, for a child under age 18 applying for SSI benefits based on disability, from functioning independently, appropriately, and effectively in an age-appropriate manner. We use the criteria in part A mainly to evaluate impairments of adults. We use the criteria in part B first to evaluate impairments of children under age 18. If those criteria do not apply, we may use the criteria in part A. When we published the revised adult mental disorders listings in August 1985, we indicated that medical advances in disability evaluation and treatment and program experience would require that the listings be periodically reviewed and updated. Accordingly, we established a date of August 28, 1988, on which the listings would no longer be effective unless extended by the Secretary or revised and promulgated again. Subsequently, we issued a number of final rules extending the expiration date of the adult mental disorders listings. The last was published on August 23, 1993 (58 FR 44444) and provided that the listings for adult mental disorders would no longer be effective on August 28, 1994. Also, on July 18, 1991, we published a notice of proposed rulemaking (NPRM) (56 FR 33130) that included proposed revisions to those listings. We will publish any changes to the listings based on that NPRM in a subsequent final rule. In this final regulation, we are extending for one year, to August 28, 1995, the date on which the adult mental disorders listings will no longer be effective. We believe that the requirements in these listings are still valid for our program purposes. As noted above, we use the listings at the third step of the sequential evaluation process. Specifically, if we find that an individual has an impairment that meets the statutory duration requirement and also meets or is equivalent in severity to an impairment in the listings, we will find that the individual is disabled without completing the remaining steps of the sequential evaluation process. We do not use the listings to find that an individual is not disabled. Individuals whose impairments do not meet or equal the criteria of the listings receive individualized assessments at the subsequent steps of the sequential evaluation process. Regulatory Procedures The Department, even when not required by statute, as a matter of policy generally follows the Administrative Procedure Act (APA) NPRM and public comment procedures specified in 5 U.S.C. 553 in the development of its regulations. The APA provides exceptions to its notice and public comment procedures when an agency finds there is good cause for dispensing with such procedures on the basis that they are impracticable, unnecessary, or contrary to the public interest. We have determined that, under 5 U.S.C. 553(b)(B), good cause exists for dispensing with the NPRM and public comment procedures in this case. Good cause exists because this regulation only extends the date on which the adult mental disorders listings will no longer be effective and makes no substantive changes to those listings. The current regulations expressly provide that the listings may be extended by the Secretary, as well as revised and promulgated again. Therefore, opportunity for prior comment is unnecessary, and we are issuing these changes to our regulations as a final rule.
