FR941026-2-00062 FR941026-2-00036 •Supporting documentation, if available, should be included to provide the reviewers and decision-maker with other relevant data to better understand the scope and magnitude of the project. •The applicant should provide documentation showing support for the proposed project from authorized officials, board of directors and/or officers through a letter of support or resolution. It would be helpful, particularly for organizations, to delineate the membership, make-up of the board of directors, and its elective procedures to assist reviewers in determining authorized support. (2) Technical Guidance. •Applicants are strongly encouraged to have someone other than the author apply the evaluation criteria in the program announcement and to score the application prior to its submission, in order to gain a better sense of its quality and potential competitiveness in the review process. •ANA will accept only one application under this program announcement from any one applicant. If an eligible applicant sends two applications, the one with the earlier postmark will be accepted for review unless the applicant withdraws the earlier application. •An application from an Indian tribe, Alaska Native Village or other eligible organization must be submitted by the governing body of the applicant. •The application's Form 424 must be signed by the applicant's representative (tribal official or designate) who can act with full authority on behalf of the applicant. •The Administration for Native Americans suggests that the pages of the application be numbered sequentially from the first page and that a table of contents be provided. The page numbering, along with simple tabbing of the sections, would be helpful and allows easy reference during the review process. •Two (2) copies of the application plus the original are required. •The Cover Page should be the first page of an application, followed by the one-page abstract. •Section B of the Program Narrative should be of sufficient detail as to become a guide in determining and tracking project goals and objectives. •The applicant should specify the entire length of the project period on the first page of the Form 424, Block 13, not the length of the first budget period. ANA will consider the project period specified on the Form 424 as governing. •Line 15a of the Form 424 should specify the Federal funds requested for the first Budget period, not the entire project period. •Applicants proposing multi-year projects need to describe and submit project objective workplans and activities for each budget period. (Separate itemized budgets for the Federal and non-Federal costs should be included) •Applicants for multi-year projects must justify the entire time-frame of the project and also project the expected results to be achieved in each budget period and for the total project period. (3) Projects or activities that generally will not meet the purposes of this announcement. •Proposals from consortia of tribes or villages that are not specific with regard to support from, and roles of member tribes. •The purchase of real estate or construction. K. Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980 Under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980, Pub. L. 96&hyph;511, the Department is required to submit to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) for review and approval any reporting and record keeping requirements in regulations including program announcements. This program announcement does not contain information collection requirements beyond those approved for ANA grant applications under the Program Narrative Statement by OMB. L. Due Date for Receipt of Applications The closing date for applications submitted in response to this program announcement is August 18, 1995. M. Receipt of Applications Applications must either be hand delivered or mailed to the address in Section H, Application Process: Application Submission. The Administration for Native Americans will not accept applications submitted via facsimile (FAX) equipment.
