FR940428-2-00150 FR940428-2-00072 Thursday April 28, 1994 Part II Environmental Protection Agency Final NPDES General Permits for Non-Contact Cooling Water Discharges; ME, MA, NH; Notice Federal Register ␣/␣Vol. 59, No. 81␣/␣Thursday, April 28, 1994␣/␣Notices ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY [FR L&hyph;4877&hyph;9] Final NPDES General Permits for Non-Contact Cooling Water Discharges in the States of Maine, Massachusetts, and New Hampshire AGENCY: Environmental Protection Agency. ACTION: Notices of final NPDES general permits_MAG250000, MEG250000, and NHG250000. SUMMARY: The Regional Administrator of Region I is issuing final National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) general permits for non-contact cooling water discharges to certain waters of the States of Maine, Massachusetts, and New Hampshire. These general NPDES permits establish notice of intent (NOI) requirements, effluent limitations, standards, prohibitions and management practices for facilities with discharges authorized by the permit. Owners and/or operators of facilities discharging non-contact cooling water will be required to submit to EPA, Region I, a notice of intent to be covered by the appropriate general permit within 180 days of the effective date of this permit and will receive a written notification from EPA of permit coverage and authorization to discharge under one of the general permits. DATES: This general permit shall be effective on May 31, 1994 and will expire five years from the effective date. The authorization to discharge shall become effective upon notification by EPA that the operator is covered by this permit. ADDRESSES: Notices of intent to be authorized to discharge under these permits should be sent to: U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, NPDES Program Operations Section, P.O. Box 8127, Boston, Massachusetts 02114. The submittal of other information required under these permits or individual permit applications should be sent to the above address. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Sharon Leitch, U.S. EPA Region I, Wastewater Management Branch, Water Management Division-WMN, John F. Kennedy Federal Building, Boston, MA 02203, telephone: 617&hyph;565&hyph;3566. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: I. Introduction The Regional Administrator of Region I is issuing final general permits for non-contact cooling water discharges to certain waters of the States of Maine, Massachusetts, and New Hampshire. This notice contains two sets of appendices. Appendix A summarizes EPA's response to major comments received on the draft general permits published on September 15, 1992 (57 FR 42572). Appendix B contains the final general NPDES permits including Part II, Standard Conditions. II. Coverage of General Permits Section 301(a) of the Clean Water Act (the Act) provides that the discharge of pollutants is unlawful except in accordance with a National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit unless such a discharge is otherwise authorized by the Act. Although such permits to date have generally been issued to individual discharges in Region I, EPA's regulations authorize the issuance of ``general permits'' to categories of discharges (See 40 CFR 122.28 (48 FR 14146, April 1, 1983)). EPA may issue a single, general permit to a category of point sources located within the same geographic area whose permits warrant similar pollution control measures. The Director of an NPDES permit program is authorized to issue a general permit if there are a number of point sources operating in a geographic area that: 1. Involve the same or substantially similar types of operations; 2. Discharge the same types of wastes; 3. Require the same effluent limitations or operating conditions; 4. Require the same or similar monitoring requirements; and 5. In the opinion of the Regional Administrator, are more appropriately controlled under a general permit than under individual permits. Violations of a condition of a general permit constitutes a violation of the Clean Water Act and subjects the discharger to the penalties in Section 309 of the Act. Any owner or operator authorized by a general permit may be excluded from coverage of a general permit by applying for an individual permit. This request may be made by submitting a NPDES permit application together with reasons supporting the request no later than 90 days after publication by EPA of the final general permit in the Federal Register. The Director may require any person authorized by a general permit to apply for and obtain an individual permit. Any interested person may petition the Director to take this action. However, individual permits will not be issued for sources discharging non-contact cooling water covered by these general permits unless it can be clearly demonstrated that inclusion under the general permit is inappropriate.
