FR940927-0-00010 FR940927-0-00001 (B) Put to another use without our consent; (C) Damaged solely by uninsured causes; (D) For which you fail to provide records of production that are acceptable to us; or (E) On which the cotton stalks are destroyed, in violation of section 10; (ii) Production lost due to uninsured causes; (iii) Unharvested production (mature unharvested production of white cotton may be adjusted for quality deficiencies in accordance with subsection 11.(d)); and (iv) Potential production on insured acreage you want to put to another use or you wish to abandon or no longer care for, if you and we agree on the appraised amount of production. Upon such agreement, the insurance period for that acreage will end if you put the acreage to another use or abandon the crop. If agreement on the appraised amount of production is not reached: (A) If you do not elect to continue to care for the crop we may give you consent to put the acreage to another use if you agree to leave intact, and provide sufficient care for, representative samples of the crop in locations acceptable to us (The amount of production to count for such acreage will be based on the harvested production of appraisals from the samples at the time harvest should have occurred. If you do not leave the required samples intact, or you fail to provide sufficient care for the samples, our appraisal made prior to giving you consent to put the acreage to another use will be used to determine the amount of production to count); or (B) If you elect to continue to care for the crop, the amount of production to count for the acreage will be the harvested production, or our reappraisal if additional damage occurs and the crop is not harvested; and (2) All harvested production from the insurable acreage, including any mature cotton retrieved from the ground. (d) Mature white cotton may be adjusted for quality when production has been damaged by insured causes. Such production to count will be reduced if the price quotation for cotton of like quality (price quotation ``A'') for the applicable growth area is less than seventy-five percent (75%) of price quotation ``B.'' Price quotation ``B'' is defined as the price quotation for the applicable growth area for cotton of the color and leaf grade, staple length, and micronaire reading designated in the Special Provisions for this purpose. Price quotations ``A'' and ``B'' will be the price quotations contained in the Daily Spot Cotton Quotations published by the USDA Agricultural Marketing Service on the date the last bale from the unit is classed. If the date the last bale classed is not available, the price quotations will be determined on the date the last bale from the unit is delivered to the warehouse, as shown on the producer's account summary obtained from the gin. If eligible for adjustment, the amount of production to be counted will be determined by multiplying the number of pounds of such production by the factor derived from dividing price quotation ``A'' by seventy-five percent (75%) of price quotation ``B.'' (e) Colored cotton lint will not be eligible for quality adjustment. 12. Late Planting and Prevented Planting (a) In lieu of paragraph 8.(b)(2) and subsection 1.(aa) of the Common Crop Insurance Policy (ยง457.8), insurance will be provided for acreage planted to the insured crop during the late planting period (see subsection (c)), and acreage you were prevented from planting (see subsection (d)). These coverages provide reduced production guarantees. The reduced guarantees will be combined with the production guarantee for timely planted acreage for each unit. The premium amount for late planted acreage and eligible prevented planting acreage will be the same as that for timely planted acreage. If the amount of premium you are required to pay (gross premium less our subsidy) for late planted acreage or prevented planting acreage exceeds the liability on such acreage, coverage for those acres will not be provided (no premium will be due and no indemnity will be paid for such acreage). (For example, assume you insure one unit in which you have a 100 percent (100%) share. The unit consists of 150 acres, of which 50 acres were planted timely, 50 acres were planted 7 days after the final planting date (late planted), and 50 acres are unplanted and eligible for prevented planting coverage. To calculate the amount of any indemnity which may be due to you, the production guarantee for the unit will be computed as follows: (1) For timely planted acreage, multiply the per acre production guarantee for timely planted acreage by the 50 acres planted timely; (2) For late planted acreage, multiply the per acre production guarantee for timely planted acreage by ninety-three percent (0.93) and multiply the result by the 50 acres planted late; and (3) For prevented planting acreage, multiply the per acre production guarantee for timely planted acreage by thirty-five percent (0.35) and multiply the result by the 50 acres eligible for prevented planting coverage. The total of the three calculations will be the production guarantee for the unit. Your premium will be based on the result of multiplying the per acre production guarantee per acre for timely planted acreage by the 150 acres in the unit.) (b) You must provide written notice to us if you were prevented from planting (see subsection 1.(n)). This notice must be given not later than three days after: (1) The final planting date for acreage you were prevented from planting by the final planting date if you have unplanted acreage that may be eligible for prevented planting coverage; and (2) The date you discover that planting will not be possible within the late planting period for acreage that may be eligible for prevented planting coverage if you were not prevented from planting such acreage by the final planting date, but were prevented from planting such acreage during the late planting period.
