FR941110-0-00200 FR941110-0-00016 •How the disposition of civil money penalties will be implemented to assure that money collected by the State is used appropriately; •What State costs are included at proposed §488.230(j)(6)(ii); •Whether a priority would be assigned to the items included in the State's use of civil money penalties (such as, relocation of residents and resident reimbursement); and •How resident reimbursement would be accomplished. Response: These questions raised by the commenters are issues that need not be addressed through the Federal regulatory process. The Act permits each State to implement its own procedures. Comment: A commenter supported the application of civil money penalties as specified in the regulation; however, the commenter was concerned that this provision conflicts with this party's State constitution which requires all civil forfeitures to be placed in the State's school fund. The commenter asked which provision takes precedence. Response: Medicare and Medicaid are Federal programs, so when a civil money penalty is collected as an enforcement action because a participating SNF or NF is out of compliance with the Medicare or Medicaid requirements, the Federal regulation takes precedence. Comment: A few commenters recommended amending proposed §488.230(j)(6)(iii) to include the reimbursement of lost resident property. A few commenters suggested replacing ``including'' at §488.230(j)(6) with the words ``such as.'' Response: Section 1919(h)(2)(A) of the Act specifies that civil money penalties collected by the State be applied to the protection of the health or property of residents of nursing facilities that the State or Secretary finds deficient. We believe the Congress intended that this include the State reimbursement of a resident for personal property and funds lost at the facility as a result of actions by the facility or by individuals used by the facility to provide services to residents. We are revising the rule accordingly. We accept the suggestion to replace the word ``including'' with the word ``such as'' in the paragraph that discusses the use of civil money penalties collected by the State. This revision does not alter the meaning of the provision, but does provide needed clarity. The Act, as referenced above, enumerates certain specified activities for which a collected civil money penalty may be used; however, it is not an exhaustive list. As long as the intended use of the funds may be said to relate to protecting resident health or property, it is not necessary that each use of the civil money penalty be expressly stated in the regulation. Using the words ``such as'' more precisely conveys the intent of this provision and allows the State to have flexibility in determining what activities relate to protecting residents' health or property. Section 488.444␣Settlement of Penalties Comment: A few commenters said that the regulatory provision at proposed §488.230(k) does not offer guidelines on how civil money penalties may be settled and that there is no control over the States' or Secretary's discretion. A consumer organization commented that granting States complete discretion to settle cases whenever and however they choose undermines the effectiveness of civil money penalties. They added that this regulatory provision opens the door too wide for parties interested in not paying fines to make inappropriate deals with decision-makers and avoid responsibility for their noncompliance. Several commenters suggested deleting this regulatory provision, and a few commenters specifically suggested that this section be deleted in accordance with their changes proposed at §488.230(e) which provide for settlement in which a facility pays the civil money penalty that was imposed (less the 35 percent), and corrects the deficiencies which led to the penalty, within 10 days of receipt of the notice. Response: We cannot accept these comments. The authority provided HCFA or the State to settle any case at any time prior to a final administrative decision, as specified at redesignated §488.444, is consistent with other regulatory provisions pertaining to civil money penalties. Regarding the comment that this provision opens the door for decision makers to make deals with providers, we contend that the survey, certification and enforcement process is built on a system of integrity and implements the necessary controls to assure that this integrity is maintained. To remove this provision, as suggested by a few commenters, would deny providers the opportunity to promptly settle their cases. We believe that the suggestion to settle by deducting 35 percent from the civil money penalty if the deficiencies which led to the penalty are corrected within 10 days does not allow a facility enough time to make a decision regarding whether to waive or request a hearing. Moreover, the provision in redesignated §488.436 deals specifically with a provider waiving its right to a hearing. Redesignated §488.444 provides the opportunity to settle a case, even if the hearing right was not previously waived. This provision was incorporated into the regulation in the interest of resolving disagreements at the stage in the process before sizeable expenditures of time and money are devoted to hearing procedures. Even if a hearing had been requested, if, before the proceeding, all parties can reach agreement over the deficiencies to be corrected and the penalty to be paid until corrections are made, costly hearings procedures can be avoided. Comment: A commenter requested that press releases and a notice to the long term care ombudsman accompany settlement, and if the civil money penalty was imposed as a result of a complaint investigation, notice should be given to the complainant. Response: We do not accept this comment. Sections 1819(g)(5) and 1919(g)(5) of the Act provide for the disclosure of information regarding inspections and other activities of skilled nursing facilities and nursing facilities. Survey and certification information, which includes but is not limited to statements of deficiencies, plans of correction and appeal results, is available to the public. The regulation at §488.325 expands disclosure to include among other things, notice of SNF or NF noncompliance and adverse action(s) imposed to the long term care ombudsman. Existing State survey agency procedures require that a notice be sent to the complainant informing him or her of the disposition of the allegation. We maintain that the present methods of disclosure used for all noncompliance situations provide ample opportunity for public awareness, and we do not believe that any additional benefit is derived by having separate disclosure procedures for those cases in which civil money penalties are used as a remedy (see discussion for §488.325 Disclosure of results of surveys and activities).
