FR940324-2-00048 FR940324-2-00033 Office of the Assistant Secretary for the Administration for Children and Families Statement of Organization, Functions, and Delegations of Authority SUMMARY: Part K, Chapter K (Administration for Children and Families) of the Statement of Organization, Functions and Delegations of Authority of the Department of Health and Human Services (56 FR 42332) is amended to reflect the changes in Chapter KB, the Executive Secretariat Office 56 FR 42335 as last amended, August 20, 1993 and Chapter KK, the Office of Financial Management. Specifically, to transfer the functional responsibility of the audit liaison function from Chapter KB, the Executive Secretariat Office to KK, the Office of Financial Management. The changes are as follows: 1. Amend KB.20 Functions. Delete paragraph B in its entirety and replace it with the following: B. The Executive Secretariat Office ensures that issues requiring the attention of the Assistant Secretary, Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary, Deputy Assistant Secretaries and/or executive staff are addressed on a timely and coordinated basis; facilitates decisions on matters requiring immediate action including White House, congressional and secretarial assignments. The Office comprises two staffs: Correspondence and Office Liaison; and the Equal Employment Opportunity and Civil Rights staff. It serves as ACF liaison with the HHS Executive Secretariat. It receives, assesses and controls incoming correspondence and assignments to the appropriate ACF component(s) for response and action; provides assistance and advice to ACF staff on the development of responses to correspondence and on the controlled correspondence system; coordinates and/or prepares congressional correspondence; and tracks development of periodic reports and facilitates departmental clearance. The Director of the Executive Secretariat Office serves as the Freedom of Information Act Officer for ACF and handles hot line calls received by the Office of Inspector General and the General Accounting Office on ACF operations and personnel. The Office directs and manages the ACF Equal Employment Opportunity and Civil Rights program and provides direction and leadership on equal employment opportunity and civil rights policies and programs for ACF. Immediate oversight is provided by a staff under the direction of an EEO Manager. It plans, develops and evaluates programs and procedures designed to eliminate discrimination in employment, training, incentive awards, promotion and career opportunities. The Equal Employment Manager reports to the Executive Secretariat, is located within the Immediate Office of the Assistant Secretary, and has responsibility for coordinating and implementing the Equal Employment Opportunity and Affirmative Action program for ACF in accordance with departmental policies and procedures. 2. Amend Chapter KK.00 Mission to delete it in its entirety and replace it with the following: KK.00␣Mission. The Office of Financial Management advises the Assistant Secretary for Children and Families on financial management matters. It provides leadership and direction on budget development and budget execution. It develops, administers and coordinates financial and budgetary policies, processes and controls necessary to administer ACF programs and financial resources. It directs formula, entitlement, block and discretionary grant business activity, including grant awards, financial monitoring, resolution of audit findings, disallowances and appeals. It serves as audit liaison with the General Accounting Office and the Department's Office of Inspector General. 3. Amend Chapter KK.20␣Functions. Paragraph F to delete it in its entirety and replace it with the following: F. Division of Audit Resolution and Grant Oversight oversees the implementation of established ACF, departmental and federal financial and grants management policies and guidelines. The Division oversees, monitors, and coordinates the resolution of audit findings and processes audit findings for certain ACF programs. It serves as audit liaison with the General Accounting Office and the Department's Office of Inspector General. The Division reviews, analyzes, and responds to program, regional offices and grantee requests for interpretation of financial and grants management policies and guidelines. The Division reviews, analyzes and prepares a recommended response for the Director or Assistant Secretary for Children and Families regarding regional or program office consultations regarding disallowances, suspensions or terminations. It provides analysis, supportive material, and recommends action on grantee requests for reconsideration of disallowances or other grant actions; analyzes audit findings and assigns action to the appropriate ACF official; monitors audit resolution activity to ensure compliance with OMB and Department resolution time frames; and reviews resolution actions to ensure compliance with ACF, departmental and other federal regulations, policies and guidelines. The Division is responsible for monitoring debt collection activities and disposition of assets, and provides all claims (debts) collection activities of former Community Services Administration (CSA) grantees. It serves as the ACF liaison with GAO, HHS Audit Agency, and ASMB on grant matters; assists in grant hearings held by the Department Appeals Board or ACF components; and manages the departmental disallowance alerting system for ACF components. Effective Date: March 17, 1994. Mary Jo Bane, Assistant Secretary for Children and Families. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;6959 Filed 3&hyph;23&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4184&hyph;01&hyph;P
