FR940922-1-00038 FR940922-1-00008 (a) NO X . Table 2._ OTR-Wide Inventory Anthropogenic Estimates for 2005 1 1Source category 1Tons per day 1Percent of total inventory Light-Duty Mobile 2034 28 Heavy-Duty Mobile (gas + diesel) 727 10 Offroad Emissions 1430 19 Stationary Point Sources 2567 35 Stationary Area Sources 555 8 Total Emissions 7314 100 (b) VOC. ␣ 1Source category 1Tons per day 1Percent of total inventory Light-Duty Mobile 1481 19 Heavy-Duty Mobile (gas + diesel) 210 3 Offroad Emissions 1266 16 Point Sources 1103 14 Area Sources 3767 48 Total Emissions 7827 100 1 EPA recognizes that the precision implied by these numbers is greater than justified, given the uncertainty associated with projected emission estimates. However, the figures are provided in this and subsequent tables displaying emissions data in order for the reader to understand the full derivation of percentages reflecting the relative importance of various components of the inventory. EPA believes it is instructive to highlight the significance of emissions from highway vehicles in the inventory. As shown in Table 2, above, EPA expects that highway vehicles will account for approximately 38% of the total NO X inventory and 22% of the total VOC inventory in 2005. Highway mobile source NO X and VOC emissions, therefore, constitute a major portion of the emissions in the OTR, and it is reasonable to conclude that a workable compliance plan for the OTR must include substantial controls on motor vehicles. Further, because the LEV program would achieve emissions reductions primarily from gasoline-powered vehicles, it may be useful to separate the projected mobile source emissions into gasoline and diesel components. EPA estimates that gasoline-powered light-duty vehicles constitutes 28% of the total NO X emissions and 19% of the total VOC emissions in the 2005 projected inventory. ii. Analysis of Options for Control Measures Without More Stringent New Motor Vehicle Standards This section reviews options for control measures that could potentially render the OTC LEV (or LEV-equivalent) unnecessary in the OTR. As will be discussed, EPA has determined that such measures do not provide sufficient emissions reductions without LEV and that therefore LEV is necessary. In evaluating control options, EPA considered measures that it believes are not clearly unreasonable or impracticable (and are thus potentially reasonable and practicable). This does not mean that EPA believes that such measures are in fact reasonable and practicable. Rather, EPA believes that for purposes of assessing whether states might adopt other reasonable and practicable measures to achieve the needed reductions without OTC LEV, it should consider all measures that are not clearly unreasonable or impracticable. 34&hyph;35 EPA did not consider measures such as mandatory plant shutdowns, gas rationing, and bans on ownership of high-emitting vehicles because the Agency believes these are clearly unreasonable or impracticable to impose in comparison to the OTC LEV program. 34&hyph;35 EPA does not intend its consideration of particular measures here to suggest that the Agency believes such measures constitute reasonably available control technology (RACT) or reasonably available control measures (RACM) as those terms of art are used in the Clean Air Act. As EPA explained in its April 26 notice and in section III.A.1. above, the Agency believes that cost-effectiveness of control options is one criterion in evaluating whether they are clearly unreasonable and impracticable. EPA believes that it should consider additional factors, such as extreme economic and societal costs, disruptions, distributional impacts, and public acceptance, that would warrant the conclusion that Congress would not have had the Agency consider particular measures to be viable options for finding other measures unnecessary. See 59 FR at 21726. In assessing options for control measures, EPA relied, in part, on the same ROM modeling studies EPA used to assess the overall magnitude of reductions needed in the OTR. These studies are useful to check whether the impact of specific control strategies corresponds with predictions about the overall magnitude of reductions. See sections IV.A.2.(a) and (b), above. The first ROM study analyzed the impact of the control measures explicitly mandated in the Act for OTR areas. The second study is the 1991 ROMNET ``matrix'' study of the impact of a series of uniform reductions in emissions of NO X , VOC or both. As discussed above, EPA reached conclusions about necessary emissions reduction targets from these studies. In the analysis, EPA first quantified the impact of the measures required by the Act. Next, EPA evaluated an array of additional control options that are not clearly unreasonable or impracticable that could be implemented in addition to the mandatory measures. EPA then surveyed other potentially reasonable and practicable control measures to determine whether those options are sufficient to make up the shortfall which exists after application of the mandatory measures without the OTC LEV program. These other control options include the maximum region-wide limit on NO X emissions that is not clearly unreasonable or impracticable, measures EPA included in proposed Federal Implementation Plans for three areas in California, and measures listed in compilations of NO X and VOC controls prepared by EPA and the State and Territorial Air Pollution Program Administrators/Association of Local Air Pollution Control Officials (STAPPA/ALAPCO). The EPA considered both NO X and VOC control measures, but focused primarily on NO X controls. As discussed previously, EPA believes that very large reductions in NO X emissions on the order of 50%&hyph;75% are needed region-wide, while a similar magnitude of VOC reductions are necessary primarily in or near the East Coast urban corridor. EPA believes that there are insufficient potentially reasonable and practicable measures to achieve the necessary NO X reductions region-wide without the LEV program. This is a sufficient basis for approval of the OTC's recommendation and for issuing a finding that the SIPs are substantially inadequate to meet section 110(a)(2)(A) without the LEV program for the entire region. EPA also believes that there are insufficient potentially reasonable and practicable measures to achieve the necessary VOC reductions in and near the urban areas, which constitutes an additional basis for approving the OTC's recommendation and for making a finding of substantial inadequacy with regard to interstate transport for those areas.
