FR940126-2-00016 FR940126-2-00010 Potential accident-initiating events considered in the Safety Analysis Report of the Zone 4 magazines were reviewed for potential impact. Included were earthquakes, external explosions, forklift accidents, missiles, tornados, and aircraft crashes. The potential for consequences for an abnormal event/accident range from negligible to marginal. No consequences to the public or the environment would be anticipated. The workers in the immediate vicinity of the accident site could receive a marginal radiation dose. An analysis performed of the likelihood of an aircraft crash into a Modified-Richmond or Steel Arch Construction magazine in Zone 4 indicated an annual probability of less than 1 x 10 -6 per year. Because the Ogallala Aquifer is the primary water source for most of the Texas Panhandle, and in response to the expressed interest of State and local officials and the public regarding possible contamination of the aquifer, the Department of Energy performed additional analyses on potential impacts to the aquifer. The analyses describe the potential for aquifer contamination should plutonium be released to the environment within an 80-km radius of the Pantex Plant. No accident or routine operating condition with a probability greater than 1 x 10 -6 was identified that could result in a plutonium release having an impact on the Ogallala Aquifer. In the unlikely event of an accident that resulted in a release of plutonium, it is expected that the majority of the radioactivity (90 percent) deposited on the soil surface would remain in that top layer of soil. Because plutonium is relatively immobile in soils similar to those found at and near the Pantex site, no effects to the Ogallala Aquifer would be expected. Determination: Based upon the analyses in the Environmental Assessment, and after careful consideration of comments received, the Department of Energy has determined that the storage of no more than 12,000 pits at Pantex does not constitute a major Federal action significantly affecting the quality of the human environment. Therefore, an Environmental Impact Statement is not required and the Department issues this Finding of No Significant Impact. Any new Finding of No Significant Impact, if that should prove necessary, that relies on the Environmental Assessment for Interim Storage of Plutonium Components at the Pantex Plant will be issued only after consultation with State and affected stakeholders regarding DOE's views of the need for a revised Finding of No Significant Impact and after a public meeting in Amarillo to consider the proposed Finding of No Significant Impact. If a new Finding of No Significant Impact is issued, it will respond to comments received during the consultation and public meeting process. Issued at Washington, DC, this January 19, 1994. Tara O'Toole, Assistant Secretary, Environment, Safety and Health. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;1610 Filed 1&hyph;25&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6450&hyph;01&hyph;P
