FR941003-1-00057 FR941003-1-00003 69. Section 1.684 is proposed to be deleted and redesignated as ``Reserved,'' as follows: §1.684 > Reserved. < Testimony in a foreign country (a) An examiner-in-chief may authorize testimony of a witness to be taken in a foreign country. A party seeking to take testimony in a foreign country shall, promptly after the testimony period is set, file a motion (§1.635): (1) Naming the witness. (2) Describing the particular facts to which it is expected that the witness will testify. (3) Stating the grounds on which the moving party believes that the witness will testify. (4) Demonstrating that the expected testimony is relevant. (5) Demonstrating that the testimony cannot be taken in this country at all or cannot be taken in this country without hardship to the moving party greatly exceeding the hardship to which all opposing parties will be exposed by the taking of the testimony in a foreign country. (6) Accompanied by an affidavit stating that the motion is made in good faith and not for the purpose of delay or harassing any party. (7) Accompanied by written interrogatories to be asked of the witness. (b) Any opposition under §1.638(a) shall state any objection to the written interrogatories and shall include any cross-interrogatories to be asked of the witness. A reply under §1.638(b) may be filed and shall be limited to stating any objection to any cross-interrogatories proposed in the opposition. (c) If the motion is granted, taking of the testimony abroad must be completed within the testimony period set under §1.651 or within such time as may be set by the Examiner-in-Chief. The moving party shall be responsible for obtaining answers to the interrogatories and cross-interrogatories before an officer qualified to administer oaths in the foreign country under the laws of the United States or the foreign country. The officer shall prepare a transcript of the interrogatories, cross-interrogatories, and recorded answers to the interrogatories and cross-interrogatories and shall transmit the transcript to Box Interference, Commissioner of Patents and Trademarks, Washington, D.C. 20231, with a certificate signed and sealed by the officer and showing: (1) The witness was duly sworn by the officer before answering the interrogatories and cross-interrogatories. (2) The recorded answers are a true record of the answers given by the witness to the interrogatories and cross-interrogatories. (3) The name of the person by whom the answers were recorded and, if not recorded by the officer, whether the answers were recorded in the presence of the officer. (4) The presence or absence of any party. (5) The place, day, and hour that the answers were recorded. (6) A copy of the recorded answers was read by or to the witness before the witness signed the recorded answers and that the witness signed the recorded answers in the presence of the officer. The officer shall state the circumstances under which a witness refuses to read or sign recorded answers. (7) The officer is not disqualified under §1.674. (d) If the parties agree in writing, the testimony may be taken before the officer on oral deposition. (e) A party taking testimony in a foreign country shall have the burden of proving that false swearing in the giving of testimony is punishable as perjury under the laws of the foreign country. Unless false swearing in the giving of testimony before the officer shall be punishable as perjury under the laws of the foreign country where testimony is taken, the testimony shall not be entitled to the same weight as testimony taken in the United States. The weight of the testimony shall be determined in each case. 70. Section 1.685 is proposed to be amended by revising paragraphs (d) and (e) to read as follows: §1.685 Errors and irregularities in depositions. * * * * * (d) An objection to the > deposition on any grounds, such as the < competency of a witness, admissibility of evidence, manner of taking the deposition, the form of questions and answers, any oath or affirmation, or conduct of any party at the deposition > , < is waived unless an objection is made on the record at the deposition stating the specific ground of objection. Any objection which a party wishes considered by the Board at final hearing shall be included in a motion to suppress under §1.656(h).
