FR940525-2-00109 FR940525-2-00064 Basis for proposed no significant hazards consideration determination: As required by 10 CFR 50.91(a), the licensee has provided its analysis of the issue of no significant hazards consideration, which is presented below: 1. The proposed change does not involve a significant increase in the probability or consequences of an accident previously evaluated. The door pneumatic seal system pressure drop test is not altered except for providing an option to utilize a reduced test duration. A conservative acceptance criteria of 0.50 psi will be assigned to the optional short duration test thus maintaining the operability of the pneumatic seal system. The proposed change does not alter equipment or assumptions made in previously evaluated accidents, therefore the consequences of previously evaluated accidents are not increased. The probability of an accident is also unaffected because the seals are not a potential accident initiator. 2. The proposed change does not create the possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any accident previously evaluated. With a conservative acceptance criteria of 0.50 psi assigned to the optional 8 hour door pneumatic seal system pressure drop test the capability of the door pneumatic seal system to maintain 65 psig to the airlock seals, for a minimum of 15 days upon a loss of instrument air, is assured. Loss of plant supply air is the accident evaluated in the UFSAR [Updated Final Safety Analysis Report] section 3.8.2.1.2 and plant specification 2C269SS0006. The proposed change does not create the possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any previously evaluated. 3. The proposed change does not involve a significant reduction in a margin of safety. To ensure the pneumatic seal system pressure drop test is not compromised, a conservative acceptance criteria of 0.50 psi will be assigned to the 8 hour test. With the conservative acceptance criteria, the proposed change does not involve a significant reduction in the margin of safety previously evaluated. The NRC staff has reviewed the licensee's analysis and, based on this review, it appears that the standards of 10 CFR 50.92(c) are satisfied. Therefore, the NRC staff proposes to determine that the request for amendments involves no significant hazards consideration. Local Public Document Room location: Wharton County Junior College, J. M. Hodges Learning Center, 911 Boling Highway, Wharton, Texas 77488. Attorney for licensee: Jack R. Newman, Esq., Newman & Holtzinger, P.C., 1615 L Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20036. NRC Project Director: Suzanne C. Black. North Atlantic Energy Service Corporation, Docket No. 50&hyph;443, Seabrook Station, Unit No. 1 Rockingham, New Hampshire Date of amendment request: January 14, 1994. Description of amendment request: The proposed amendment would change the Technical Specifications (TS) to specify the composition of the Station Operation Review Committee (SORC) based on experience and expertise vice organizational position, to implement a Station Qualified Reviewer Program (SQRP), to delete the requirement for periodic procedure reviews, to revise the time within which the Nuclear Safety Audit Review Committee (NSARC) must issue reports and minutes, and to incorporate a number of editorial changes. The editorial changes would delete certain items that are no longer applicable, would remove inconsistencies involving the names of systems and equipment and NSARC function, composition, and use of alternates, and would correct the value for the reactor coolant system volume. Other editorial changes would be made for document format consistency. The proposed amendment would affect the following TS Sections and tables: 1.31, 3.3.3.6, 3.4.1.2, 4.6.3.2, 3.7.1.2, 3/4 10.6, 5.4.2, 6.3, and 6.4, and Table 4.3&hyph;1. Basis for proposed no significant hazards consideration determination: As required by 10 CFR 50.91(a), the licensee has provided its analysis of the issue of no significant hazards consideration. The NRC staff has reviewed the licensee's analysis against the standards of 10 CFR 50.92(c). The NRC staff's review is presented below. A. The changes do not involve a significant increase in the probability or consequences of an accident previously evaluated (10 CFR 50.92(c)(1)). The proposed redefinition of the composition of the SORC would not diminish the effectiveness of the SORC and would continue to ensure that the SORC has the desired experience and expertise to advise the Station Manager on all matters related to nuclear safety. The proposed change would permit operational flexibility and eliminate the need for an amendment whenever organizational changes occur. The proposed SQRP would not reduce the level of procedure review, since the SORC continues to retain responsibility to review any document requiring an evaluation pursuant to 10 CFR 50.59. The SQRP would be limited to reviewing procedures that do not affect nuclear safety. Deleting the requirement to periodically review procedures would not diminish the review process for procedures since other programmatic requirements would continue to assure procedures are reviewed and revised when necessary.
