FR940204-1-00003 FR940204-1-00001 I. Background In an effort to conserve energy through improvements in the energy efficiency of motor vehicles, Congress in 1975 passed the Energy Policy and Conservation Act (Pub. L. 94&hyph;163). Title III of the Energy Policy and Conservation Act amended the Motor Vehicle Information and Cost Savings Act (15 U.S.C. 1901, et seq. ) by mandating fuel economy standards for automobiles produced in, or imported into, the United States. This legislation, as amended, requires that every manufacturer or importer meet a specified corporate average fuel economy standard for the fleet of vehicles which the manufacturer produces or imports in any model year. Although electric vehicles are included under the definition of the term ``automobile'' in the Motor Vehicle Information and Cost Savings Act, they do not consume ``fuel'' as defined in the Motor Vehicle Information and Cost Savings Act. Therefore, calculation of an electric vehicle manufacturer's corporate average fuel economy is impossible without a petroleum equivalency factor term. On January 7, 1980, the President signed the Chrysler Corporation Loan Guarantee Act of 1979 (Pub. L. 96&hyph;185). Section 18 of the Chrysler Corporation Loan Guarantee Act of 1979 added a new paragraph (2) to section 13(c) of the Electric and Hybrid Vehicle Research, Development, and Demonstration Act of 1976 (Pub. L. 94&hyph;413). Part of the new section 13(c) added subsection (a)(3) to section 503 of the Motor Vehicle Information and Cost Savings Act. That subsection directs the Secretary of Energy to determine equivalent petroleum-based fuel economy values for various classes of electric vehicles. The intent of the legislation is to provide an incentive for vehicle manufacturers to produce electric vehicles by including the expected high equivalent fuel economy of these vehicles in the corporate average fuel economy calculation and thereby to accelerate the early commercialization of electric vehicles. Section 18 of the Chrysler Corporation Loan Guarantee Act of 1979 further amended the Electric and Hybrid Vehicle Research, Development and Demonstration Act of 1976 by adding a new paragraph (3) to section 13(c) which directed the Secretary of Energy, in consultation with the Secretary of Transportation and the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, to conduct a seven-year evaluation program of the inclusion of electric vehicles in the calculation of average fuel economy. In May 1980, pursuant to the requirements of section 503(a)(3) of the Motor Vehicle Information and Cost Savings Act, DOE proposed a method of calculating the equivalent petroleum-based fuel economy of electric vehicles. The rule was finalized in April 1981. The seven-year evaluation program was completed and the calculation of the annual petroleum equivalency factors was not extended past 1987. The equivalent petroleum-based fuel economy equation terms in this rulemaking change the way the electricity generation output, input and relative value factor terms are calculated. The updated equation incorporates off-peak electric vehicle charging and the relative scarcity of electricity generation fuel sources. Administrative responsibilities for the corporate average fuel economy program are assigned to the Department of Transportation and the Environmental Protection Agency under the Motor Vehicle Information and Cost Savings Act. The Secretary of Transportation is responsible for prescribing the corporate average fuel economy standard and enforcing the penalties for failure to meet these standards. The Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency is responsible for calculating a manufacturer's corporate average fuel economy value. The Department of Energy is responsible for developing and promulgating the petroleum equivalency factor, the key component in the calculation of equivalent petroleum-based fuel economy for electric vehicles. II. Discussion A. Requirements of the Motor Vehicle Information and Cost Savings Act Section 503(a)(3) of the Motor Vehicle Information and Cost Savings Act (15 U.S.C. 2003(a)(3)) requires DOE to determine the equivalent petroleum-based fuel economy values for various classes of electric vehicles, taking into account the following parameters: (i) The approximate electric energy efficiency of the vehicles considering the vehicle type, mission, and weight; (ii) The national average electricity generation and transmission efficiencies;
