FR940617-0-00201 FR940617-0-00026 (i) All the parameters related to the pump are simultaneously measured with the parameters related to a flowmeter which is connected in series with the pump. (ii) The calculated flow rate, in (cm3/s), (at pump inlet absolute pressure and temperature) can then be plotted versus a correlation function which is the value of a specific combination of pump parameters. (iii) The linear equation which relates the pump flow and the correlation function is then determined. (iv) In the event that a CVS has a multiple speed drive, a calibration for each range used must be performed. (2) This calibration procedure is based on the measurement of the absolute values of the pump and flowmeter parameters that relate the flow rate at each point. Two conditions must be maintained to assure the accuracy and integrity of the calibration curve: (i) The temperature stability must be maintained during calibration. (Flowmeters are sensitive to inlet temperature oscillations; this can cause the data points to be scattered. Gradual changes in temperature are acceptable as long as they occur over a period of several minutes.) (ii) All connections and ducting between the flowmeter and the CVS pump must be absolutely void of leakage. (3) During an exhaust emission test the measurement of these same pump parameters enables the user to calculate the flow rate from the calibration equation. (4) Connect a system as shown in Figure 5 in appendix A to this subpart. Although particular types of equipment are shown, other configurations that yield equivalent results may be used if approved in advance by the Administrator. For the system indicated, the following measurements and accuracies are required: Calibration Data Measurements 1Parameter 1Symbol 1Units 1Sensor-readout tolerances Barometric pressure (corrected) P B kPa # .34 kPa Ambient temperature T A ○C # .3 ○C Air temperature into metering venturi ETI ○C # 1.1 ○C Pressure drop between the inlet and throat of metering venturi EDP kPa # .01 kPa Air flow Q S m 3 /min # .5% of NIST value. Air temperature at CVS pump inlet PTI ○C # 1.1 ○C Pressure depression at CVS pump inlet PPI kPa # .055 kPa Pressure head at CVS pump outlet PPO kPa # .055 kPa Air temperature at CVS pump outlet (optional) PTO ○C # 1.1 ○C Pump revolutions during test period N Revs # 1 Rev. Elapsed time for test period t s # .5 s.
