FR940617-2-00235 FR940617-2-00118 (c) Subtract (b*) from (a*). The remainder is what the applicant can claim as part of its matching cost contribution. Justification: Enclose a copy of the indirect cost rate agreement. Applicants subject to the limitation on the Federal reimbursement of indirect costs for training grants should specify this. Total_Line 6k. Enter the total amounts of lines 6i and 6j. Program Income_Line 7. Enter the estimated amount of income, if any, expected to be generated from this project. Do not add or subtract this amount from the total project amount. Justification: Describe the nature, source, and anticipated use of program income in the Program Narrative Statement. Section C_Non-Federal Resources. This section summarizes the amounts of non-Federal resources that will be applied to the grant. Enter this information on line 12 entitled ``Totals.'' In-kind contributions are defined in title 45 of the Code of Federal Regulations, Part 74.51, as ``property or services which benefit a grant-supported project or program and which are contributed by non-Federal third parties without charge to the grantee, the subgrantee, or a cost-type contractor under the grant or subgrant.'' Justification: Describe third party in-kind contributions, if included. Section D_Forecasted Cash Needs. Not applicable. Section E_Budget Estimate of Federal Funds Needed For Balance of the Project. Not applicable. Totals_Line 20. Not applicable. Section F_Other Budget Information . Direct Charges_Line 21. Not applicable. Indirect Charges_Line 22. Enter the type of indirect rate (provisional, predetermined, final or fixed) that will be in effect during the funding period, the estimated amount of the base to which the rate is applied, and the total indirect expense. Remarks_Line 23. If the total project period exceeds 17 months, you must enter your proposed non-Federal share of the project budget for each of the remaining years of the project. 3. Project Summary Description Clearly mark this separate page with the applicant name as shown in item 5 of the SF 424, and the title of the project as shown in item 11 of the SF 424. The summary description should not exceed 300 words. These 300 words become part of the computer database on each project. Care should be taken to produce a summary description which accurately and concisely reflects the proposal. It should describe the objectives of the project, the approaches to be used and the outcomes expected. The description should also include a list of major products that will result from the proposed project, such as software packages, materials, management procedures, data collection instruments, training packages, or videos (please note that audiovisuals should be closed captioned). The project summary description, together with the information on the SF 424, will constitute the project ``abstract.'' It is the major source of information about the proposed project and is usually the first part of the application that the reviewers read in evaluating the application. 4. Program Narrative Statement The Program Narrative Statement is a very important part of an application. It should be clear, concise, and address the specific requirements mentioned under the priority area description in Part II. The narrative should also provide information concerning how the application meets the evaluation criteria using the following headings: (a) Objectives and Need for the Project; (b) Results and Benefits Expected; (c) Approach; and (d) Level of Effort. The specific information to be included under each of these headings is described in Section C of Part III, Evaluation Criteria. The narrative should be typed double-spaced on a single-side of an 81/2 ’ ’ × 11 ’ ’ plain white paper, with 1 ’ ’ margins on all sides. All pages of the narrative (including charts, references/footnotes, tables, maps, exhibits, etc.) must be sequentially numbered, beginning with ``Objectives and Need for the Project'' as page number one. Applicants should not submit reproductions of larger size paper, reduced to meet the size requirement.
