FR940317-1-00202 FR940317-1-00017 In recognition of this effect, the Commission excluded from the actual yield disclosure requirements securities that represent an interest in notes secured by liens upon real estate continuously subject to prepayment. 41 The Commission noted that fluctuations in interest rates may cause mortgage notes underlying participation certificates to prepay at rates faster or slower than anticipated. At the time the Commission adopted the yield amendments, the primary application of the exception was to transactions in securities issued or guaranteed by the Government National Mortgage Association, Federal National Mortgage Association, and the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation. 41 For purposes of paragraphs (a)(3) and (a)(4), the term ``debt security'' is defined in Rule 10b&hyph;10(e)(4), 17 CFR 240.10b&hyph;10(e)(4), to include a fractional or participation interest in notes. The Commission also excepted securities with a maturity date that may be extended by the issuer. Since 1983, when the yield disclosure provisions were added to the rule, the ``structured financing'' 42 market has been dramatically increased to include securities backed by mortgage notes, automobile loans, computer leases, consumer debt, and other receivables. Also, broker-dealers now offer a variety of derivative mortgage instruments and structured financing vehicles in which payment to investors is related directly to payments of principal and interest on underlying debt instruments. In many cases, these various asset-based securities subject the investor to the same prepayment risks that are present in mortgage participation certificates. To reduce prepayment exposure from asset backed securities for some investors, collateralized mortgage obligations (``CMOs'') have been developed. 42 ``Structured financing'' is a financing technique whereby a sponsor, which has originated or has purchased certain financial collateral, such as accounts receivable or mortgage loans, transfers such assets to a trust, a limited purpose entity organized solely for purposes of the offering. That entity then issues debt obligations or equity securities with debt-like characteristics. The process also has been termed ``securitization.''
