FR940912-0-00021 FR940912-0-00005 (d) Fee appraisers. Fee appraisers shall be engaged directly by the Farm Credit System institution or its agent, and shall have no direct or indirect interest, financial or otherwise, in the property or transaction. A Farm Credit System institution may accept a real estate appraisal that was prepared by an appraiser engaged directly by another Farm Credit System institution, by a United States Government agency, a Government-Sponsored Enterprise or by a financial institution subject to title XI of FIRREA. (e) Loan purchases. No employee who, acting as a State licensed or State certified appraiser, performed a real estate appraisal on any collateral supporting a loan shall subsequently participate in any decision related to the loan purchase. ยง614.4260 Evaluation requirements. (a) Valuation. Valuations of personal and intangible property, as well as real property exempted under paragraph (c) of this section, shall be performed by qualified individuals who meet the established standards of this subpart and the Farm Credit System institution obtaining the collateral valuation. (b) Appraisal. (1) Appraisals for real estate-related financial transactions with transaction values of more than $250,000 shall be performed by a qualified appraiser who is a State licensed or a State certified real estate appraiser. (2) Appraisals for real estate-related financial transactions with transaction values of more than $1,000,000 shall be performed by a qualified appraiser who is a State certified real estate appraiser. (c) Appraisals not required. An appraisal performed by a State certified or State licensed appraiser is not required for any real estate-related financial transaction in which any of the following conditions are met: (1) The transaction value is $250,000 or less; (2) The transaction is a ``business loan'' as defined in ยง614.4240(e) that: (i) Has a transaction value of $1,000,000 or less; and (ii) Is not dependent on income derived from the sale or cash rental of real estate as the primary source of repayment; (3) A lien on real property has been taken as collateral in an abundance of caution, and the application, when evaluated on the five basic credit factors, without considering the subject real estate, would support the credit decision that was based on other sources of repayment or collateral; (4) A lien on real estate is not statutorily required and has been taken for purposes other than the real estate's value; (5) Subsequent loan transactions involving an existing extension of credit, provided that either:
