FR941004-1-00004 FR941004-1-00001 3. Thermal annealing would be introduced as a method for mitigating the effects of neutron irradiation, thereby reducing RT PTS . Additionally, it should be noted that evaluations of current surveillance data have indicated that the standard deviation of the differences between predicted and measured shifts in RT NDT , termed the residual, are higher than the margin values used in the PTS rule and in Regulatory Guide 1.99, Revision 2, particularly for plate materials. However, the mean embrittlement estimation equations in the rule and in Regulatory Guide 1.99, Revision 2, overestimate the actual surveillance data by less than 10 ○F on average. The NRC staff considered amending the PTS rule to incorporate the revised margin terms and the overestimation bias, but decided against such an amendment due to the small number of plants that would be affected by such a change, and a related NRC research program that addresses the overall issue of irradiation embrittlement correlations. The number of plants which would have their RT PTS values change ``significantly'' by such a change to the margin terms is not large; the impact of the revised margin terms on those plants is being addressed through other regulatory mechanisms. The effect of the revised margin on pressure-temperature limits is being handled in a similar manner. As noted, this proposed amendment to 10 CFR 50.61 introduces thermal annealing of the reactor pressure vessel beltline as a method for mitigating the effects of neutron irradiation and reducing RT PTS to levels below the screening criteria. As specified in §50.61(b)(7) of this proposed rule, the use of thermal annealing would be subject to the requirements of the proposed new section on thermal annealing (10 CFR 50.66). Thermal Annealing Rule (10 CFR 50.66) The proposed thermal annealing rule, 10 CFR 50.66, would provide a consistent set of requirements for the use of thermal annealing to mitigate the effects of neutron irradiation. The proposed rule would replace the requirements for annealing in the current Appendix G of 10 CFR Part 50 with the proposed consistent set of requirements in this proposed rule. Also, the PTS rule would be amended to add a new paragraph (b)(7) which would reference the proposed thermal annealing rule as a method for mitigating the effects of neutron irradiation, thereby reducing RT PTS . Therefore, the intent of the thermal annealing rule, and related changes in 10 CFR 50.61 and Appendix G of 10 CFR Part 50, is to provide requirements for use of thermal annealing to mitigate the deleterious effects of neutron irradiation on reactor vessel material properties. Consistent with guidance in Section V.D of the current Appendix G, the proposed thermal annealing rule would specify that thermal annealing would be subject to the approval of the Director, Office of Nuclear Reactor Regulation (NRR). Section 50.66(a) of the proposed thermal annealing rule would require submittal of an application containing three sections: a thermal annealing operating plan, a requalification inspection and test program, and a fracture toughness recovery and reembrittlement rate assurance program. This application would be required to be submitted at least three years before the proposed date of the annealing operation. This three-year period is specified only to provide NRC staff with sufficient time to review the thermal annealing application. The licensee may initiate the thermal annealing program as soon as NRC approval is given, even if this approval is given before three years from the date of the application. The thermal annealing operating plan also must include an evaluation of the effects of temperature, and of mechanical and thermal stresses on the reactor and associated equipment to demonstrate that the operability of the reactor will not be detrimentally affected. The temperatures and times used in this analysis define the proposed annealing conditions. If these conditions are exceeded during the vessel annealing, then the evaluation would no longer be valid, and the acceptability of the actual vessel annealing would have to be demonstrated. Upon completion of the thermal annealing and before subsequent operation of the plant, the licensee would be required to certify that the thermal annealing was performed in accordance with the approved application, that the approved criteria were satisfied, and that the proposed annealing conditions were not exceeded. However, in the event that the licensee cannot make this certification, a justification for subsequent operation would have to be submitted for approval by the Director, NRR. However, this provision does not relieve the licensee from obtaining 10 CFR 50.12 exemptions from any other requirements of this part that cannot be satisfied. Two items of particular importance to the overall annealing are the recovery of fracture toughness and the rate of reembrittlement of the RPV beltline materials. This proposed rule provides three alternative methods for determining these values, ranging from assessments using plant-specific materials to an assessment using a generic computation. Two methods for evaluating annealing recovery are experimental methods to determine plant-specific annealing recovery, and the third method is a generic computational method. The first method would be required for those plants with ``credible'' surveillance programs and where surveillance specimens are available. The second method would be an optional method, in which the licensee may remove material from the beltline of the RPV to evaluate annealing recovery. This method should provide the most accurate evaluation of annealing recovery. Presumably, it would be selected for those plants without credible surveillance programs or when surveillance specimens are not available. However, for this method to be acceptable, the vessel must be sufficiently thick so that the stress limits in Section III of the ASME Code can be satisfied, considering the effects of fatigue and corrosion. The third method would use generic computational methods, for which appropriate justification would be required. Paragraph (d) of §50.66 describes the experimental methods and the computational method for estimating recovery of RT NDT and Charpy upper-shelf energy of the beltline materials. The experimental methods for estimating recovery of RT NDT and the Charpy upper-shelf energy utilize either surveillance program specimens or material removed from the vessel beltline. The experimental methods provide a plant-specific estimate of recovery, rather than the generic value evaluated from the computational method. It is the intent of this proposed rule to require that surveillance specimens from ``credible'' surveillance programs must be used to develop plant-specific recovery data, if such specimens are available. It is not the intent of this rule to require the removal of material from the RPV beltline to permit plant-specific evaluation of recovery.
