FR940214-1-00027 FR940214-1-00005 Food Safety and Inspection Service 9 CFR Parts 306, 318 and 381 [Docket No. 92&hyph;022P] RIN 0583&hyph;AB62 Procedures for Appealing Product Retentions AGENCY: Food Safety and Inspection Service, USDA. ACTION: Proposed rule. SUMMARY: The Food Safety and Inspection Service (FSIS) is proposing to amend the Federal meat and poultry products inspection regulations to require appeals above the circuit supervisor level that are related to disposition of retained meat and poultry product to be made in writing; provide that an establishment has 20 calendar days to appeal a retention, recondition or rework product, or properly dispose of the product; and establish procedures to ensure appropriate disposition of product immediately after a decision has been reached on an appeal. The proposal also would allow establishments to accumulate retained product for the purpose of re-examination with specialized detecting equipment provided written procedures for such activity are approved by the Regional Director. This proposal rule responds to recommendations from USDA's Office of Inspector General. DATES: Comments must be received on or before March 16, 1994. ADDRESSES: Written comments to Policy Office, Attn: Diane Moore, FSIS Hearing Clerk, room 3171, South Building, Food Safety and Inspection Service, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250. (See also COMMENTS under SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION .) FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Robert D. Murphy, Director, Processing Operations Staff, Inspection Management Program, Inspection Operations, Food Safety and Inspection Service, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250, (202) 720&hyph;3491. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Comments Interested persons are invited to submit comments concerning this action. Written comments should be sent to the Policy Office at the address shown above and should refer to Docket No. 92&hyph;022P. Any person desiring opportunity for oral presentation of views, as provided under the Poultry Products Inspection Act, must make such request to Mr. Murphy so that arrangements may be made for such views to be orally presented. A record will be made of all views orally presented. All comments submitted in response to this notice will be available for public inspection in the Policy Office from 9 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. and from 1:30 p.m. to 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. Executive Order 12866 This proposed rule is in conformance with Executive Order 12866. This proposed rule: (1) Would have an effect on the economy of less than $100 million; (2) would not adversely affect in a material way the economy, a sector of the economy, productivity, competition, jobs, the environment, public health or safety, or State, local, or tribal governments or communities; (3) would not create a serious inconsistency or otherwise interfere with an action taken or planned by another agency; (4) would not alter the budgetary impact of entitlements, grants, user fees, or loan programs or rights and obligations of recipients thereof; and (5) would not raise novel legal or policy issues arising out of legal mandates, the President's priorities, or principles set forth in Executive Order 12866. Executive Order 12778 This proposed rule has been reviewed under Executive Order 12778, Civil Justice Reform. States and local jurisdictions are preempted under the Federal Meat Inspection Act (FMIA) and the Poultry Products Inspection Act (PPIA) from imposing any marking or packaging requirements on federally inspected meat or poultry products that are in addition to, or different than, those imposed under the FMIA and PPIA. States and local jurisdictions may, however, exercise concurrent jurisdiction over meat and poultry products that are outside official establishments for the purpose of preventing the distribution of meat and poultry products that are misbranded or adulterated under the FMIA or PPIA, or, in the case of imported articles, which are not at such an establishment, after their entry into the United States. Under the FMIA and PPIA, States that maintain meat or poultry inspection programs must impose requirements on State inspected products and establishments that are at least equal to those required under the FMIA and PPIA. These States may, however, impose more stringent requirements on such State inspected products and establishments.
