FR941207-0-00142 FR941207-0-00022 (B) Such qualifying minority and/or women investors, must have both du jure and de facto control of the applicant; (C) The remaining 20.1 percent of the applicant's (or licensee's) total equity may be owned by any of the following: ( 1 ) Such qualifying minority and/or women investors, either unconditionally or in the form of stock options not subject to the restrictions of paragraph (b)(6)(i)(A) of this section; ( 2 ) Institutional investors, either unconditionally or in the form of stock options; ( 3 ) Noncontrolling existing investors in any preexisting entity that is a member of the control group , either unconditionally or in the form of stock options; or (4) Individuals that are members of the applicant's (or licensee's) management, either unconditionally or in the form of stock options. (D) Following termination of the three-year period specified in paragraph (b)(6)(i) of this section, qualifying minority and/or women investors must continue to own at least 20 percent of the applicant's (or licensee's) total equity, either unconditionally or in the form of stock options subject to the restrictions in paragraph (b)(6)(i)(A) of this section. The restrictions specified in paragraph (b)(6)(i)(C)( 1 ) through ( 4 ) of this section no longer apply to the remaining equity after termination of such three-year period. (ii) At the election of an applicant (or licensee) whose control group 's sole member is a preexisting entity , the 50.1 percent minimum equity requirements set forth in paragraph (b)(6)(i) of this section shall apply, except that only 20 percent of the applicant's (or licensee's) total equity must be held by qualifying minority and/or women investors, and that the remaining 30.1 percent of the applicant's (or licensee's) total equity may be held by qualifying minority and/or women investors, or noncontrolling existing investors in such control group member or individuals that are members of the applicant's (or licensee's) management. These restrictions on the identity of the holder(s) of the remaining 30.1 percent of the licensee's total equity no longer apply after termination of the three-year period specified in paragraph (b)(6)(i) of this section. (7) Calculation of Certain Interests. Except as provided in paragraphs (b)(5) and (b)(6) of this section, ownership interests shall be calculated on a fully diluted basis; all agreements such as warrants, stock options and convertible debentures will generally be treated as if the rights thereunder already have been fully exercised, except that such agreements may not be used to appear to terminate or divest ownership interests before they actually do so, in order to comply with the nonattributable equity requirements in paragraphs (b)(3)(i) and (b)(4)(i) of this section. (8) Aggregation of Affiliate Interests. Persons or entities that hold interest in an applicant (or licensee) that are affiliates of each other or have an identify of interests identified in §24.720(1)(3) will be treated as though they were one person or entity and their ownership interests aggregated for purposes of determining an applicant's (or licensee's) compliance with the nonattributable equity requirements in paragraphs (b)(3)(i) and (b)(4)(i) of this section. Example 1 for paragraph (b)(8). ABC Corp. is owned by individuals, A, B, and C, each having an equal one-third voting interest in ABC Corp. A and B together, with two-thirds of the stock have the power to control ABC Corp. and have an identity of interest. If A & B invest in DE Corp., a broadband PCS applicant for block C, A and B's separate interests in DE Corp. must be aggregated because A and B are to be treated as one person. Example 2 for paragraph (b)(8). ABC Corp. has subsidiary BC Corp., of which it holds a controlling 51 percent of the stock. If ABC Corp. and BC Corp., both invest in DE Corp., their separate interests in DE Corp. must be aggregated because ABC Corp. and BC Corp. are affiliates of each other. (c) Short-Form and Long-Form Applications: Certifications and Disclosure. (1) Short-form Application. In addition to certifications and disclosures required by Part 1, subpart Q of this Chapter and §24.813, each applicant for a license for frequency Block C or frequency Block F shall certify on its short-form application (Form 175) that it is eligible to bid on and obtain such license(s), and (if applicable) that it is eligible for designated entity status pursuant to this section and §24.720, and shall append the following information as an exhibit to its Form 175: (i) For an applicant that is a publicly traded corporation with widely disbursed voting power: (A) A certified statement that such applicant complies with the requirements of the definition of publicly traded corporation with widely disbursed voting power set forth in §24.720(m); (B) The identify of each affiliate of the applicant if not disclosed pursuant to §24.813; and (C) The applicant's gross revenues and total assets , computed in accordance with paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.
