FR941028-2-00200 FR941028-2-00109 4. Alternatives to TB Isolation Rooms Isolation can also be achieved by use of negative-pressure enclosures (e.g, tents or booths) (Suppl. 3, Section II.A.1). These can be used to provide patient isolation in areas such as emergency rooms and medical testing and treatment areas and to supplement isolation in designated isolation rooms. III. UVGI Purpose: To kill or inactivate airborne tubercle bacilli. Research has demonstrated that UVGI is effective in killing or inactivating tubercle bacilli under experimental conditions ( 66,107&hyph;110 ) and in reducing transmission of other infections in hospitals ( 111 ), military housing ( 112 ), and classrooms ( 113&hyph;115 ). Because of the results of numerous studies ( 116&hyph;120 ) and the experiences of TB clinicians and mycobacteriologists during the past several decades, the use of UVGI has been recommended as a supplement to other TB infection-control measures in settings where the need for killing or inactivating tubercle bacilli is important ( 2,4,121&hyph;125 ). UV radiation is defined as that portion of the electromagnetic spectrum described by wavelengths from 100 to 400 nm. For convenience of classification, the UV spectrum has been separated into three different wavelength bands: UV&hyph;A (long wavelengths, range: 320&hyph;400 nm), UV&hyph;B (midrange wavelengths, range: 290&hyph;320 nm), and UV&hyph;C (short wavelengths, range: 100&hyph;290 nm) ( 126 ). Commercially available UV lamps used for germicidal purposes are low-pressure mercury vapor lamps ( 127 ) that emit radiant energy in the UV&hyph;C range, predominantly at a wavelength of 253.7 nm ( 128 ). A. Applications UVGI can be used as a method of air disinfection to supplement other engineering controls. Two systems of UVGI can be used for this purpose: duct irradiation and upper-room air irradiation. 1. Duct Irradiation Purpose: To inactivate tubercle bacilli without exposing persons to UVGI. In duct irradiation systems, UV lamps are placed inside ducts that remove air from rooms to disinfect the air before it is recirculated. When UVGI duct systems are properly designed, installed, and maintained, high levels of UV radiation may be produced in the duct work. The only potential for human exposure to this radiation occurs during maintenance operations. Duct irradiation may be used: •In a TB isolation room or treatment room to recirculate air from the room, through a duct containing UV lamps, and back into the room. This recirculation method can increase the overall room airflow but does not increase the supply of fresh outside air to the room. •In other patients' rooms and in waiting rooms, emergency rooms, and other general-use areas of a facility where patients with undiagnosed TB could potentially contaminate the air, to recirculate air back into the general ventilation. Duct-irradiation systems are dependent on airflow patterns within a room that ensure that all or nearly all of the room air circulates through the duct. 2. Upper-Room Air Irradiation Purpose: To inactivate tubercle bacilli in the upper part of the room, while minimizing radiation exposure to persons in the lower part of the room. In upper-room air irradiation, UVGI lamps are suspended from the ceiling or mounted on the wall. The bottom of the lamp is shielded to direct the radiation upward but not downward. The system depends on air mixing to take irradiated air from the upper to the lower part of the room, and nonirradiated air from the lower to the upper part. The irradiated air space is much larger than that in a duct system. UVGI has been effective in killing bacteria under conditions where air mixing was accomplished mainly by convection. For example, BCG was atomized in a room that did not have supplemental ventilation ( 120 ), and in another study a surrogate bacteria, Serratia marcesens , was aerosolized in a room with a ventilation rate of 6 ACH ( 129 ). These reports estimated the effect of UVGI to be equivalent to 10 and 39 ACH, respectively, for the organisms tested, which are less resistant to UVGI than M. tuberculosis ( 120 ). The addition of fans or some heating/air conditioning arrangements may double the effectiveness of UVGI lamps ( 130&hyph;132 ). Greater rates of ventilation, however, may decrease the length of time the air is irradiated, thus decreasing the killing of bacteria ( 117,129 ). The optimal relationship between ventilation and UVGI is not known. Air irradiation lamps used in corridors have been effective in killing atomized S. marcesens ( 133 ). Use of UVGI lamps in an outpatient room has reduced culturable airborne bacteria by 14%&hyph;19%. However, the irradiation did not reduce the concentration of gram-positive, rod-shaped bacteria; although fast-growing mycobacteria were cultured, M. tuberculosis could not be recovered from the room's air samples because of fungal overgrowth of media plates ( 134 ). Upper-room air UVGI irradiation may be used: •In isolation or treatment rooms as a supplemental method of air cleaning. •In other patients' rooms and in waiting rooms, emergency rooms, corridors, and other central areas of a facility where patients with undiagnosed TB could potentially contaminate the air. Determinants of UVGI effectiveness include room configuration, UV lamp placement, and the adequacy of airflow patterns in bringing contaminated air into contact with the irradiated upper-room space. Air mixing may be facilitated by supplying cool air near the ceiling in rooms where warmer air (or a heating device) is present below. The ceiling should be high enough for a large volume of upper-room air to be irradiated without HCWs and patients being overexposed to UV radiation. B. Limitations Because the clinical effectiveness of UV systems varies, and because of the risk for transmission of M. tuberculosis if a system malfunctions or is maintained improperly, UVGI is not recommended for the following specific applications:
