FR941103-0-00039 FR941103-0-00007 This procedure will permit the Commission to determine the extent to which the proposal deviates from the traditional revenue requirement, which may be necessary in determining whether the other features of the proposal are sufficient to offset this. It will also permit an examination of how risk, and hence cost of capital, will vary under the conforming and non-conforming proposals. Another benefit of the alternative ``pro forma'' rate sheets procedure is that the utility would be able to implement the non-conforming pricing, assuming it was just and reasonable, immediately following the Commission's final order. (2) Declaratory Order Petition A utility that wishes to have the Commission consider a non-conforming pricing proposal separate from a rate proceeding may bring the matter to the Commission via a petition for declaratory order. Of course, if the Commission found that the utility's proposal met the statutory criteria, the utility would still need to file a rate reflecting the proposal pursuant to FPA section 205. Presumably the section 205 proceeding would be straightforward ( i.e. akin to a compliance filing), however, since the Commission would have already addressed the merits of the proposal in the declaratory order. B. Criteria for Evaluating Proposals That Do Not Conform to the Traditional Revenue Requirement Utilities proposing non-conforming transmission pricing must fully support such proposals. The utility must supply a complete discussion of how the proposal is intended to take account of the pricing principles. The Commission will consider the relative weight of each pricing principle as applied to the facts of each case. We will hold the comparability principle inviolate, however. Absent such support, the Commission will summarily reject the non-conforming proposal even if the utility has agreed to the procedural requirements set forth above. We will also summarily reject non-conforming proposals that do not submit information showing that the proposal can be expected to: (a) Produce greater overall consumer benefits than a conforming proposal; and (b) Promote competitive bulk power markets. 39 39 The reason we are providing flexibility to consider non-conforming transmission pricing proposals is because we do not want to reject out of hand innovative proposals that could benefit ratepayers. However, we do not intend to waste resources considering proposals whose sole purpose is to provide more revenue to the transmitting utilities. We will summarily reject such proposals. At a minimum, utilities proposing non-conforming transmission pricing must make a showing of benefits to a broad cross-section of consumers which achieve the following: (i) Greater access and customer choice; (ii) Projected price decreases to customers of delivered power; and (iii) Service flexibility and available products to meet customer needs. As noted, utilities should also explain how the non-conforming proposal promotes competitive bulk power markets.
