FR941103-2-00121 FR941103-2-00068 •Measurable effects of the services provided to project participants as indicated by gains in individuals' skills, competencies, or other outcomes; •Average wages of participants prior to and at completion of project; •Customer satisfaction with the project services, and of critical points in the service delivery process; and •Other additional measurable, performance-based outcomes that are relevant to the project and which may be readily assessed during the period of performance of the project, such as cost effectiveness of service and comparison with other available service strategies, and acceptance and agreements with Title III grantees. [Note: An explanation of how such additional measures are relevant to the purpose of the demonstration program shall be included in the application.] The proposal shall also describe how outcomes achieved by individuals in the retraining program will be compared to outcomes achieved by individuals not receiving such assistance at the same Title III grantee. H. Replicability Provide a description of the applicant's plans for continuing the project or how it might be replicated. I. Definitions Unless otherwise indicated in this announcement, definitions of terms used herein shall be those definitions found in the Job Training Partnership Act, as amended, particularly at Section 4 and Section 301. Part IV. Evaluation Criteria Prospective offerors are advised that the selection of grantee(s) for award is to be made after careful evaluation of proposals by a panel of specialists selected by DOL. Panelists will evaluate the proposals for acceptability with emphasis on the various factors enumerated below. The panel results are advisory in nature and not binding on the Grant Officer. Evaluations will be made on the basis of both what the proposed offeror intends to do during the grant period, and on the usefulness of the demonstration after the end of the grant period. A. Technical Evaluation (Possible Total: 75 Points) Services and Target Group. The demonstrated relationship between the services to be provided and the jobs into which participants are to be placed, and the degree to which the services appear to meet the needs of the target population. The scope of the project in terms of the number of jobs available, the number of participants to be enrolled, and the number and geographic dispersion of Title III grantees to be served. The geographical area served by the project (substate area, multiple substate areas, regionwide, industrywide, or national). The mechanism that will ensure appropriate training and support for each participant from enrollment to 90 days following placement. (20 points) Job Development Broker Project Design. The completeness of the description of the retraining, including the jobs for which the training is being provided, a demonstration of employer involvement in the design, and the commitment by employers to hire participants who successfully complete the program. The extent to which the project is cost competitive with other service strategies available to Title III grantees and their participants. The agreements with Title III grantees for referral of qualified participants, and the procedures to establish additional agreements with other Title III grantees. The program specifications and planned outcomes that will be used to monitor and measure performance. (30 points)
