FR941027-2-00015 FR941027-2-00010 Copies of these applications are available through the individual State Commissions and the Corporation for those who wish to review them and provide feedback to the Corporation. AmeriCorps State and National Direct Federal Grant Programs I. Policies and Guidelines for Renewals of Existing Grantees A. Renewals The Corporation in general anticipates renewing grants for existing programs that meet quality standards. However, renewals are not automatic, and will be evaluated on the following renewal criteria: 1. Year One Progress to Date (80%) The degree to which grantees have made reasonable progress towards objectives and can articulate problems or issues that occurred in the first year. These include objectives related to members, the community and the program itself, including: a. Development of well-organized service activities which have direct and demonstrable results. b. Degree of community support and involvement and evidence of impact on the community c. Quality of financial management and extent to which the match has been raised or exceeded. d. Quality of program management and the extent to which high-quality program staff have been selected, trained and placed. e. The degree to which recruitment goals have been met and the AmeriCorps members have been retained in the program. f. National Identity_The extent to which the program is recognizable as AmeriCorps in the community and by the members. g. State commissions, national non-profits and federal agencies serving as grantors will also be evaluated on: i. Their success in following the timeline and workplan for getting grant awards to programs, monitoring their progress and providing technical assistance. ii. The extent to which issues and problems have been promptly and effectively addressed. iii. The extent to which they have implemented plans to evaluate programs. 2. Year Two Plans (20%). a. Clear articulation of problems encountered in Year One and how they will be addressed in Year Two. b. A sound plan for sensible growth and improvement. c. If expansion is planned, clear and compelling programmatic reasons for doing so and the organization's capacity to expand. d. If expansion is planned, the extent to which the organization's Year One activities warrant expansion. e. Clear and well-thought-out program objectives for Year Two that are consistent with Year One. f. State commissions, national non-profits and federal agencies serving as grantors will also be evaluated on: i. the quality of their plans for expansion; ii. the quality of the plan for technical assistance and program monitoring; iii. the degree to which they understand problems they encountered in Year One and how they will address them in Year Two; 4. If, for State Commission grantors only, the state plan has been revised, the degree to which it reflects the state's experience with AmeriCorps and Learn and Serve programs; and 5. The quality of the state's framework, for State Commission grantors only, within which comprehensive program monitoring and evaluations can be made. B. Conversion of Planning Grants to Operating Grants for Formula-Funding The Corporation is recommending that State Commissions give priority to converting Formula-funded planning grants to operational programs over new applications, if the proposals meet quality standards. C. Members, Site, Program, Budget Expansion Criteria The Corporation will give priority to expanding the number of members in existing program sites, and to expanding the number of sites themselves, if the program has a solid track record and sound needs and plans for expansion and meets the other criteria for renewal. If the expansion request exceeds 25% of the Year One budget or the planned expansion is to base the program in two different cities, then the program expansion will be considered a new application and will not receive priority. D. Issue Area Priorities The Corporation has not changed the priority area emphases for renewals. This decision reflects the Corporation's belief that the extension of these priorities during the renewal process will contribute to building successful programs and stronger relationships with the field. The priority areas for renewals are: 1. Public Safety a. Crime Control and Response_Improving criminal justice services, law enforcement, and victim services. b. Crime Prevention_Reducing the incidence of violence. 2. Education a. School Readiness_Further early childhood development. b. School Success_Improve the educational achievement of school-age youth and adults who lack basic academic skills by utilizing comprehensive strategies with potential for long-term impact. 3. Human Needs a. Health_Provide comprehensive health prevention, wellness, and community-based health care. b. Home_Reduce the number of homeless Americans, open housing markets to minorities, empower and revitalize rural, suburban and urban communities. 4. Environment a. Neighborhood Environment_Promote sustainable communities by reducing environmental risks, especially in low income neighborhoods, and by incorporating environmental design and technologies to conserve natural and cultural resources. b. Natural Environment_Conserve, restore and sustain natural habitats. II. Policies and Preferences for New State Competitive and National Direct Applicants In addition to those preferences and objectives described by the Corporation's statute and regulations, the Corporation's recommendations reflect our objectives of encouraging new applicants to focus on our new priorities. The Corporation's recommendations reflect our objective to encourage the tailoring of our FY 1994 priorities for new applicants. The Corporation will solicit proposals for new programs which supplement the existing range of AmeriCorps programs, including new models in priority areas not covered by existing programs.
