FR941003-1-00053 FR941003-1-00003 > (i) < (h) Evidence which is not taken or sought and filed in accordance with this subpart shall not be admissible. > (j) The weight to be given testimony taken in a foreign country will be determined on a case-by-case basis. Little, if any, weight may be given to testimony taken in a foreign country unless the party taking the testimony proves by clear and convincing evidence (1) that giving false testimony in an interference proceeding is punishable as perjury under the laws of the foreign country where the testimony is taken and (2) that the punishment in a foreign country for giving such false testimony is similar to the punishment for perjury committed in the United States. < 59. Section 1.672 is proposed to be amended by revising paragraphs (a), (b), (c) and (d), redesignating paragraphs (c), (d), (e) and (f) as paragraphs (e), (f), (g) and (h), respectively, and by adding new paragraphs (c) and (d) to read as follows: §1.672 Manner of taking testimony. (a) > Unless testimony must be compelled under 35 U.S.C. 24 or compelled from a party or in a foreign country, testimony < Testimony of a witness > shall < may be taken by oral deposition or affidavit in accordance with this subpart. > Testimony which must be compelled under 35 U.S.C. 24 or compelled from a party or in a foreign country shall be taken by oral deposition. < (b) A party wishing to take the testimony of a witness whose testimony will not be compelled under 35 U.S.C. 24 may elect to present the testimony of the witness by affidavit or deposition. A party electing to present > presenting < testimony of a witness by affidavit shall, prior to the close of the party's relevant testimony period, file and serve > time set by the administrative patent judge for serving affidavits, file a copy of the < an affidavit of the witness or, where appropriate, a notice under §1.671(e). To facilitate preparation of the record (§1.653 (g) and (h)), a party should file an affidavit on paper which is 81/2 by 11 inches (21.8 by 27.9 cm) . > If the affidavit relates to a party's case-in-chief, it shall be filed no later than the date set by an administrative patent judge for the party to file affidavits for its case-in-chief. If the affidavit relates to a party's case-in-rebuttal, it shall be filed no later than the date set by an administrative patent judge for the party to file affidavits for its case-in-rebuttal. < A party shall not be entitled to rely on any document referred to in the affidavit unless a copy of the document is filed with the affidavit. A party shall not be entitled to rely on any thing mentioned in the affidavit unless the opponent is given reasonable access to the thing. A thing is something other than a document. > The pages of affidavits filed under this paragraph and of any other testimony filed therewith under §§1.683(a) and 1.688(a) shall be given sequential numbers which shall also serve as the record page numbers for the affidavits and other testimony in the party's record to be filed under §1.653. Exhibits identified in the affidavits or in any other testimony filed under §§1.683(a) and 1.688(a) and any official records and printed publications filed under §1.682(a) shall be given sequential exhibit numbers which shall also serve as the exhibit numbers when the exhibits are filed with the party's record. The affidavits, testimony filed under §§1.683(a) and 1.688(a) exhibits shall be accompanied by an index of the names of the witnesses, giving the number of the page where the testimony of each witness begins, and by an index of the exhibits briefly describing the nature of each exhibit and giving the number of the page where each exhibit is first identified and offered into evidence. (c) If an opponent objects to the admissibility of any evidence contained, in or submitted with an affidavit filed under paragraph (b) of this section, the opponent must, no later than the date set by the administrative patent judge for filing objections under this paragraph, file objections stating with particularity the nature of each objection. An opponent that fails to challenge the admissibility of the evidence contained in or submitted with an affidavit on a ground that could have been raised in a timely objection under this paragraph will not be entitled to move under §1.656(h) to suppress the evidence on that ground. If an opponent timely files objections, the party may, within 20 days of the due date for filing objections, file supplemental affidavits and supplemental official records and printed publications to overcome the objections. No objection to the admissibility of the supplemental evidence shall be made, except as provided by §1.656(h). The pages of supplemental affidavits filed under this paragraph shall be sequentially numbered beginning with the number following the last page number of the party's testimony submitted under paragraph (b) of this section. The page numbers assigned to the supplemental affidavits shall also serve as the record page numbers for the supplemental affidavits in the party's record filed under §1.653. Additional exhibits identified in supplemental affidavits and any supplemental official records and printed publications shall be given sequential numbers beginning with the number following the last number of the exhibits submitted under paragraph (b) of this section. The exhibit numbers shall also serve as the exhibit numbers when the exhibits are filed with the party's record. The supplemental affidavits shall be accompanied by an index of the names of the witnesses and an index of exhibits of the type specified in paragraph (b) of this section. (d) < After the > time expires for filing objections and supplemental affidavits, or earlier when appropriate, < affidavit is filed and within a time set by an examiner-in-chief, > the administrative patent judge shall set a time within which < any opponent may file a request to cross-examine the witness > an affiant < on oral deposition. If any opponent requests cross-examination of an affiant, the party shall notice a deposition > at a reasonable location within the United States < under §1.673(e) for the purpose of cross-examination by any opponent. Any redirect and recross shall take place at the deposition. At any deposition for the purpose of cross-examination of a witness whose testimony is presented by affidavit , the party shall not be entitled to rely on any document or thing not mentioned in one or more of the affidavits filed under this paragraph > paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section < , except to the extent necessary to conduct proper redirect. A party electing to present testimony of a witness by deposition shall notice a deposition of the witness under §1.673(a). The party who gives notice of a deposition shall be responsible > for providing a translator if the witness does not testify in English, < for obtaining a court reported and for filing a certified transcript of the deposition as required by §1.676. > Within 45 days of the close of the period for taking cross-examination, the party shall serve (but not file) a copy of each transcript on each opponent together with copies of any additional documentary exhibits identified by the witness during the deposition. The pages of the transcripts served under this paragraph shall be sequentially numbered beginning with the number following the last page number of the party's supplemental affidavits submitted under paragraph (c) of this section. The numbers assigned to the transcript pages shall also serve as the record page numbers for the transcripts in the party's record fled under §1.653. Additional exhibits identified in the transcripts shall be given sequential numbers beginning with the number following the last number of the exhibits submitted under paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section. The exhibit numbers assigned to the additional exhibits shall also serve as the exhibit numbers when those exhibits are filed with the party's record. The deposition transcripts shall be accompanied by an index of the names of the witnesses, giving the number of the page where cross-examination, redirect and recross of each witness begins, and an index of exhibits of the type specified in paragraph (b) of this section. (e) Reserved. < (c) A party wishing to take the testimony of a witness whose testimony will be compelled under 35 U.S.C. 24 must first obtain permission from an examiner-in-chief under §1.671(g). If permission is granted, the party shall notice a deposition of the witness under §1.673 and may proceed under 35 U.S.C. 24. The testimony of the witness shall be taken on oral deposition.
