FR941122-1-00009 FR941122-1-00001 A final rule will not be published prior to the April 1, 1994 effective date in the Leland Act. The Department has made decisions on requests for a delay of the effective date based on the policy set out in the previous notifications to the States and reflected in the following paragraphs of this section of the preamble. Comments on the proposed policy are welcomed. As stated in the previous paragraph, a State agency which believes it meets the above criteria for a delay of the effective date was instructed to submit its request to FNS by December 31, 1993 to allow for adequate time for FNS to review the request prior to the April 1, 1994 effective date. The Department required that the request contain the following: (1) Documentation showing that the State legislature meets only biennially; (2) Documentation showing that the State legislature does not meet in calendar year 1994; (3) Certification by the State's chief legal officer, along with any supporting documentation, that there is no mechanism under the State constitution and laws for appropriating funding prior to the next regular legislative session; (4) Information as to when the next regular legislative session is scheduled to start and, if available, is expected to end. The issue of whether a State's laws permit the appropriation of funds prior to the next regular legislative session is a legal question. State agencies must provide supporting documentation where appropriate such as specific provisions of law dealing with when the State legislature is scheduled to meet in a regular session, and with the appropriation process. The wording of the Leland Act essentially requires State agencies to provide proof that something does not exist_that no mechanism for appropriating funds prior to the next regular legislative session exists under the State's constitution and laws. However, it would be too burdensome for FNS to require that a State agency provide FNS a complete set of its laws as proof that no such mechanism exists. However, in all cases, FNS needs some assurance that a thorough and accurate review of State law has been made. Accordingly, the Department proposes that a signed statement from the State's chief legal officer_the Attorney General or equivalent official_certifying that no such mechanism exists with brief supporting documentation, if any, should suffice in most cases. The Department believes it is appropriate and necessary for State agencies to provide such a certification regarding the State's laws.
