FR941110-0-00205 FR941110-0-00016 We are also not accepting the suggestion to change HCFA or the State ``may'' to HCFA or the State ``must,'' since the text of the regulations mirrors the Act, which affords States and HCFA discretion in these matters. Comment: Many commenters suggested that we delete the requirement that States submit the plan of correction to HCFA for approval in every case for which alternative remedies are to be imposed. Some commenters assert that this provision, as written, provides strong incentives to using termination rather than alternative remedies. They point out that if a State survey agency wants to impose any remedy other than termination, it must submit a plan of correction to HCFA. The commenters believed that this will encourage States to terminate a provider agreement rather than to impose an alternative remedy because the requirement that HCFA approve plans of correction under the continuation of payment provision will be administratively burdensome. Response: The requirement that State survey agencies submit a plan of correction to HCFA as part of the continuation of payment provision is statutory. Sections 1819(h)(2)(C) and 1919(h)(3)(D) of the Act provide that, ``the State has submitted a plan and timetable for corrective action to the Secretary for approval and the Secretary approves the plan of corrective action.'' We do not have the authority to delegate this function to the State. However, we may, through manual instruction provide for a mechanism whereby, if the State survey agency has not received approval or disapproval from HCFA within a prescribed amount of time, we would deem the plan and timetable for corrective action approved. Comment: One commenter believed that the Secretary should require States to seek HCFA approval for all plans of correction involving use of alternative remedies only if the review will be done for the purpose of determining whether the State has chosen its remedy strategically to achieve the appropriate change in facility behavior toward residents. Response: Sections 1819(h)(2)(C)(ii) and 1919(h)(3)(D)(ii) of the Act require that the Secretary approve all plans of corrective action. Moreover, the Act does not delve into the purpose behind approving the plans of corrective action (that is only reviewing the plan of correction to determine whether the State imposed the best remedy for a given situation of noncompliance.) Adding such a requirement to the regulation would inappropriately limit the authority of the Secretary. For this reason, we are not accepting this suggestion. Comment: One commenter believed that alternatives to termination should be allowed to be imposed because, without a distinction between level and type of deficiency, even minor noncompliance becomes grounds for withholding of Medicaid funds. Response: We assume the commenter means that HCFA should not use the continuation of payment provision for minor noncompliance. As we have explained before, the Act makes no such distinction for minor deficiencies. Therefore, we have no basis to revise the rule. If the commenter is urging the use of remedies instead of termination, we believe that the enforcement scheme we have designed and in ยง488.408, which correlates specific enforcement responses to specific levels of noncompliance, provides for incrementally more severe remedies for more serious deficiencies. Also, as discussed elsewhere in this final rule, while all facility noncompliance will be identified, the enforcement response can range from a provider's commitment to correct with no remedies imposed, to termination of the provider agreement. Providers found to be in substantial compliance will not have remedies imposed.
