FR941107-2-00149 FR941107-2-00086 IV. Commission's Findings and Order Granting Temporary Accelerated Approval of Proposed Rule Change The Commission finds that the proposed rule change is consistent with the requirements of the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder applicable to a national securities exchange and, in particular, with the requirements of Section 6(b). In particular, the Commission believes the proposal is consistent with the Section 6(b)(5) requirements that the rules of an exchange be designed to promote just and equitable principles of trade, to prevent fraudulent and manipulative acts, and, in general, to protect investors and the public interest. In recent years, the self-regulatory organizations, with the support of the Commission, have instituted certain safeguards to minimize excess market volatility that may arise from the liquidation of stock positions related to trading strategies involving expiring index derivative products. For instance, on expiration days, the NYSE utilizes auxiliary closing procedures 8 designed to help the specialist attract any contraside interest necessary to alleviate MOC order imbalances and dampen their effect on the closing price. Based on the NYSE's experience, 9 the Commission believes that these procedures work relatively well and may result in more orderly markets at the close on expiration days. 8 See supra, note 5. 9 The NYSE has submitted to the Commission several monitoring reports describing its experience with the auxiliary closing procedures. For further discussion of the NYSE's results, see 1993 Auxiliary Closing Procedures Approval Order, supra, note 5. In today's highly competitive market environment, however, it is possible that a regional exchange, which trades NYSE-listed stocks but does not have comparable closing procedures, could be utilized by market participants to enter MOC orders prohibited on the NYSE. Although the Commission has no reason to believe that the BSE market has become a significant alternative market to enter otherwise prohibited MOC orders, the Commission agrees with the BSE that, if this possibility were realized, it could have a negative impact on the fairness and orderliness of the national market system. 10 Accordingly, in its order initially approving the Exchange's pilot program, 11 the Commission concluded that it is reasonable for the BSE to adopt procedures for the handling of MOC orders that mirror the NYSE's, thereby ensuring the equal treatment of orders in both markets and, in the event of unusual market conditions, offering the BSE the same benefits in terms of potentially reducing volatility. 10 For example, if MOC orders prohibited on the NYSE were entered instead on the BSE, unusually large MOC order imbalances on the regional exchange could contribute to overall market volatility. 11 See BSE Pilot Approval Order, supra, note 6.
