FR940214-0-00017 FR940214-0-00004 FmHA response: The ability of the borrower to furnish the contribution is a criterion of eligibility. The Agency feels that eligibility must be established at preapplication stage. If that requirement were to be delayed until the loan is ready to be obligated, the applicant and FmHA would have invested far too much time and money to have the applicant determined not eligible. The 3 percent contribution was increased to 5 percent by the Community Development Act of 1992 for all projects whose members will receive benefits from Low Income Housing Tax Credits. The regulation has already been changed to reflect the increase in the equity contribution requirement. 3. Section 1944.211 (a)(5) Comment: Two respondents expressed the opinion that applicants should be required to furnish the 3 percent borrower contribution from its own resources. FmHA response: Currently, borrowers have no personal financial obligation to serve as an impetus to seeing that the project operates successfully. We agree that such an obligation will encourage continued interest in overseeing the well-being of the project and it makes sense from a business standpoint. Therefore, FmHA agrees that applicants should furnish the 3 or 5 percent contribution from their own resources and have changed this section to reflect that requirement. 4. Section 1944.211(a)(7)(i) Comment: Several comments were received concerning the requirement that the applicant provide sufficient cash to cover start-up costs and that a list of such materials and equipment be provided. It was felt that this was an attempt to disallow the use of letters of credit to cover the O&M expenses. FmHA response: Currently, regulations allow borrowers to provide a letter of credit to cover the total amount needed for operating and maintenance expenses. FmHA has experienced a reluctance on the part of borrowers to draw on the letters of credit since doing so will incur interest expenses for which they are liable. Thus, there have been many instances where there were insufficient funds to cover needed start-up costs. Requiring the borrower to provide the requirement in cash will ensure the availability of adequate funds with which to cover these expenses. The Housing Act of 1949, as amended, states that ``The Secretary may require that the initial operating reserve under this section may be in the form of an irrevocable letter of credit *␣*␣*''. This language provides the Agency the option of whether to require letters of credit or to require the initial O&M in cash. FmHA has determined that more benefits will be derived by projects if cash is furnished for the operating reserves and, for this reason, has decided not to accept letters of credit.
