FR940804-0-00107 FR940804-0-00024 For much the same reasons, the Department believes that there is a basis for distinguishing for purposes of this regulation between Department attorneys engaged in law enforcement activities (who are covered by this regulation) and Department attorneys engaged in civil suits in which the United States is not acting under its police or regulatory powers (who are not covered). One commenter proposed extending these rules to cover also the latter activities of Department attorneys; however, because government attorneys engaged in other, ordinary civil litigation are not engaged in distinctly different functions from private attorneys involved in civil cases, they are not brought under this regulation. Two organizations further criticized the Department for holding government attorneys to ethical standards no higher than what the Constitution provides. The Department agrees that the constitutional baseline does not provide the proper measure of government attorneys' ethical obligations. But this regulation does not purport to equate the two standards. On the contrary, the Department's final rule imposes a range of restrictions that go beyond those that are constitutionally compelled. For example, the regulation prohibits government attorneys generally from engaging in negotiations of certain specified legal agreements with any represented individual without the consent of that individual's counsel, even if that individual is not in custody and not formally charged. Such communications are not constitutionally proscribed. See Brewer v. Williams, 430 U.S. 387, 398 (1979); Miranda v. Arizona, 384 U.S. 436 (1966). Additionally, the Department plans to issue United States Attorneys' Manual provisions that will place significant limits on the ability of government attorneys to engage in noncustodial communications with a represented ``target'' of a federal criminal or civil law enforcement investigation, even though narrowing an investigation to focus on a particular suspect does not trigger the suspect's right to counsel. See Hoffa v. United States, 385 U.S. 293 (1966). Therefore, in constructing these standards to guide the ethical conduct of its attorneys, the Department has imposed ethical restrictions on Department attorneys that extend significantly beyond what the Constitution requires. B. The Constitutional and Statutory Authority for the Rule. 1. The Department's Authority To Promulgate the Rule. A number of commenters argued that the Attorney General lacks delegated authority to promulgate this regulation. Comments stressed that ``[n]o act of Congress purports to authorize the Department to adopt regulations to override state ethics rules governing lawyers,'' and that the proposed regulation in fact is ``contrary to .␣.␣. the explicit mandate of Congress'' that every Department attorney must get a license from a State and maintain that license.
