FR940831-2-00149 FR940831-2-00106 3. Consumption Goods & Services 3.1␣Component Overview Based on the CES data, the Goods & Services component consists of ten categories of family expense: Food at Home Food Away from Home Tobacco Alcohol Furnishings & Household Operations Clothing Domestic Services Professional Services Personal Care Recreation To aid in quality control and analysis of future pricings, Runzheimer further subdivided four of the largest categories_food at home, furnishings and household operations, clothing, and recreation_into subcategories. Specific examples of products and services from these four subdivided categories can be found below. These examples only represent a minor portion of the total number of items (products and services) Runzheimer priced within each subdivided category. (See Appendix 2 for a complete description of all marketbasket items.) Examples of Subcategories and Items Surveyed In the Four Major Goods & Services Categories 1␣ 1␣ 1␣ 1␣ Goods & services category 3 Subcategories and Items Surveyed (Examples) 0 s Food at Home Meats Cereals & Breads Groceries. ␣ ␣Pork Chops ␣Cookies ␣Coffee. ␣ ␣Whole Chicken ␣Spaghetti ␣Ketchup. ␣ ␣Ground Beef ␣Cake ␣Margarine. ␣ Dairy Fruits & Vegetables ␣ ␣Milk ␣Apples ␣ ␣Cheddar Cheese ␣Frozen Peas ␣ ␣Fresh Oranges Furnishings and Household Operations Services Furniture Misc. Household Eqpt. ␣ ␣Appliance Repair ␣Living Room Chair ␣Hammer. ␣ Supplies Major Appliances ␣Electric Drill. ␣ ␣Toilet Tissue ␣Kitchen Range ␣Show Blower. ␣ ␣Laundry Soap ␣Refrigerator ␣ Household Textiles Housewares & Small Appliance ␣ ␣Bath Towel ␣Two-slice Toaster Clothing Men's and Boy's Infant's ␣ ␣Boy's Jeans ␣Disposable Diapers ␣ ␣Man's Jeans Footwear ␣ ␣Man's Parka ␣Man's Shoes ␣ Women's and Girl's Apparel Products and Services ␣ ␣Woman's Slacks ␣Coin Laundry ␣ ␣Girl's Blouse ␣ ␣Girl's Jeans Recreation Fees and Admissions TV, Radio and Eqpt. Entertainment. ␣ ␣Bowling ␣Video Rental ␣All Terrain Vehicle. ␣ ␣Downhill Skiing Pets ␣Board Game. ␣ ␣Pet Food Reading. ␣ ␣Magazine. From its ten categories of expense (which include the four subdivided categories above), Runzheimer selected a marketbasket of items on which to base its goods and services analysis. A ``marketbasket'' is a selected group of products and services that represent hundreds or even thousands of other items. Pricing every item available to consumers in a given locale would be unnecessary, inefficient, and probably impossible. Runzheimer selected typically purchased items and weighted these according to their relative importance in terms of consumer expenditure patterns. Each marketbasket item represented a specific group of related expense items. Using CES data, we determined the relative importance (weight) of each item. We compared the average price of each marketbasket item in each allowance area with the average price in the Washington, D.C., area. The price differences (expressed as indexes) were aggregated based on the item, subcategory and category weightings, resulting in a total Goods & Services component index at each income level.
