FR940630-2-00076 FR940630-2-00059 [CA&hyph;059&hyph;4210&hyph;03; CACA 31570] Realty Action; Recreation and Public Purposes (R&PP) Act Classification; California AGENCY: Bureau of Land Management, Interior. ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: The following public lands in Shasta County, California, have been examined and found suitable for classification for lease or conveyance to the Northern California Radio Control Unlimited Flyers (NCRCUF) under the provisions of the Recreation and Public Purposes Act, as amended (43 U.S.C. 869 et seq. ). NCRCUF proposes to use the lands for a radio controlled aircraft flying field. This notice amends the Notice of Realty Action published January 22, 1993, Vol. 58 No. 13_which segregated the subject public land from settlement, location and entry under the public land laws_to allow the proposed action. Mount Diablo Meridian T. 30 N., R. 3 W. Sec. 26: E1/2NW1/4SE1/4 Containing 20 acres, more or less The lands are not needed for Federal purposes. Lease or conveyance is consistent with current Bureau of Land Management (BLM) land-use planning and would be in the public interest. The lease/patent, when issues, will be subject to the following terms, conditions and reservations: 1. Provisions of the Recreation and Public Purposes Act and to all applicable regulations of the Secretary of the Interior. 2. A right-of-way for ditches and canals constructed by the authority of the United States. 3. All minerals shall be reserved to the United States, together with the right to prospect for, mine, and remove the minerals. Detailed information concerning this action is available for review at the office of the BLM, Redding Resource Area, 355 Hemsted Drive, Redding, California. Upon publication of this notice in the Federal Register , the lands will be segregated from all other forms of appropriation under the public land laws, including the general mining laws, except for lease or conveyance under the R&PP Act and leasing under the mineral leasing laws. For a period of 45 days from the date of publication of this notice in the Federal Register , interested persons may submit comments regarding the proposed lease/conveyance or classification of the lands to the Resource Area Manager, Redding Resource Area, 355 Hemsted Drive, Redding, CA 96002. CLASSIFICATION COMMENTS: Interested parties may submit comments involving the suitability of the land for a radio-controlled aircraft flying field. Comments on the classification are restricted to whether the land is physically suited for the proposal, whether the use will maximize the future use or uses of the land, whether the use is consistent with local planning and zoning, or if the use is consistent with State and Federal programs. APPLICATION COMMENTS: Interested parties may submit comments regarding the specific use proposed in the application and plan of development, whether the BLM followed proper administrative procedures in reaching the decision, or any other factor not directly related to the suitability of the land for a radio-controlled aircraft flying field. Any adverse comments will be reviewed by the State Director. In the absence of any adverse comments, the classification will become effective 60 days from the date of publication of this notice in the Federal Register . Mark T. Morse, Area Manager. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;15900 Filed 6&hyph;29&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4310&hyph;40&hyph;M
