FR940727-2-00051 FR940727-2-00027 G. ``HSI Pharmacy Assets'' means all assets constituting the HSI Pharmacy Business, excluding those assets pertaining to the Hook, SupeRx, and Brooks trade names, trade dress, trade marks and service marks, and to Revco's proprietary point of sale equipment or its PAL ® system, and including but not limited to: 1. Leases, at the Acquirer's option; 2. zoning approvals and registrations, at the Acquirer's option; 3. books, records, manuals, and operations reports relating to the HSI Pharmacy Business, but only if the divestiture is to an Acquirer that does not already operate a pharmacy in any location; 4. inventory instruction, or, at the Acquirer's option, lists of stock keeping units (``SKUs''), i.e., all forms, package sizes and other units in which prescription drugs are sold and which are used in records of sales and inventories; 5. lists of all prescription drug customers, including but not limited to third party insurers, including all files of names, addresses, and telephone numbers of the individual customer contacts, the unit and dollar amounts of sales, by product, to each customer, and store profit and loss statement(s); 6. all names and addresses of prescription drug manufacturers and distributors that supply or have supplied HSI within the six months preceding the date this Order becomes final; and 7. goodwill, tangible and intangible, utilized in the sale of prescription drugs. H. ``Revco Pharmacy Business'' means Revco's business of selling prescription drugs at any of the retail stores listed in Paragraph I.(J). of this Order, but does not include Revco's business of selling other products in those retail stores. I. ``Revco Pharmacy Assets'' means all assets constituting the Revco Pharmacy Business, excluding those assets pertaining to the Revco trade names, trade dress, trade marks and service marks, and to Revco's proprietary point of sale equipment or its PAL ® system, and including but not limited to: 1. Leases, at the Acquirer's option; 2. zoning approvals and registrations, at the Acquirer's option; 3. books, records, manuals, and operations reports, relating to the Revco Pharmacy Business, but only if the divestiture is to an Acquirer that does not already operate a pharmacy in any location; 4. inventory instruction, or, at the Acquirer's option, lists of SKUs, i.e., all forms, package sizes and other units in which prescription drugs are sold and which are used in records of sales and inventories; 5. lists of all prescription drug customers, including but not limited to third party insurers, including all files of names, addresses, and telephone numbers of the individual customer contacts, the unit and dollar amounts of sales, by product, to each customer, and store profit and loss statement(s); 6. all names and addresses of prescription drug manufacturers and distributors that supply or have supplied Revco within the six months preceding the date this Order becomes final; and 7. goodwill, tangible and intangible, utilized in the sale of prescription drugs. J. ``Assets To Be Divested'' means either the HSI Pharmacy Assets or the Revco Pharmacy Assets constituting the HSI Pharmacy Business or the Revco Pharmacy Business in the following cities or towns: 1. Covington, Virginia; 2. Marion, Virginia; and 3. Radford, Virginia. K. ``Competitiveness, viability and marketability'' of the Assets To Be Divested mean that Respondent shall continue the operation of the Assets To Be Divested in the ordinary course of business without material change or alteration that would adversely affect the value or goodwill of the Assets To Be Divested.
