FR940208-0-00105 FR940208-0-00031 The Service expects that proposed actions that are inconsistent with land management recommendations for DWMA's in the Draft Recovery Plan would likely be considered to adversely modify critical habitat. Proposed actions that are consistent with the recommendations within the Draft Recovery Plan would not be likely to result in destruction or adverse modification of critical habitat. Areas designated as critical habitat support a number of existing and proposed commercial and non-commercial activities. Commercial activities that may affect desert tortoise critical habitat include, but are not limited to, livestock grazing, sand and gravel extraction, mining, OHV activities, military operations, landfills, rights-of-way, and utility corridors. Commercial activities not likely to destroy or adversely modify critical habitat include various site-specific activities such as scenic tours. Conducting desert tortoise surveys would not likely destroy or adversely modify critical habitat. Non-commercial activities are largely associated with recreation and are not considered likely to adversely affect critical habitat, provided they do not involve use of vehicles off of designated roads. Such activities include hiking, camping, hunting, and various activities associated with nature appreciation. In certain CHUs where more intensive management is needed (e.g., the Upper Virgin River CHU), the effects of recreational activities will be evaluated on a case-by-case basis. Some activities could be considered to be of benefit to desert tortoise habitat and, therefore, would also not be expected to destroy or adversely modify critical habitat. Examples of activities that could be of benefit to critical habitat include protective measures such as some forms of fire suppression and restoration of disturbed areas. Further research may support or refute any potential benefits from such actions. At this time, they will be evaluated on a case-by-case basis. In general, activities that do not remove or degrade constituent elements of habitat for desert tortoises are not likely to destroy or adversely modify critical habitat. Each proposed action would be examined pursuant to section 7 of the Act in relation to its site-specific impacts. Thus, proposed actions may or may not destroy or adversely modify critical habitat, depending on the type and extent of the action and the pre-project condition of the area in relation to desert tortoise habitat needs. The involved Federal agencies can assist the Service in its evaluation of proposed actions by providing detailed information on the habitat configuration of a project area, habitat conditions of surrounding areas, and information on known locations of desert tortoises. The designation of critical habitat does not imply that lands outside of critical habitat do not play an important role in the conservation of the desert tortoise. Lands outside of critical habitat are important for providing nesting, sheltering, foraging, gene flow, and dispersal habitat for desert tortoises. Federal activities outside of critical habitat are still subject to review under section 7 if they may affect the desert tortoise. The Service expects that management activities outside of critical habitat on Federal lands would be managed as recommended by a final recovery plan, Federal land management plans, or other valid plans. Reasonable and Prudent Alternatives In cases where it is concluded that an action would likely result in the destruction or adverse modification of critical habitat, to the extent possible, the Service is required to provide reasonable and prudent alternatives to the proposed action in its biological opinion. By definition, reasonable and prudent alternatives allow the intended purpose of the proposed action to go forward and remove the conditions that would adversely modify critical habitat_alternatives may vary according to local conditions, project size, or other factors. The Service recommends that the agencies initiate discussions early enough in the planning process to preserve a greater number of options to reduce impacts. Under this scenario, if adverse modification was anticipated, examples of possible reasonable and prudent alternatives that may be provided in a biological opinion include: (1) Relocating the planned action to another location, (2) Modifying the action to minimize fragmentation, and/or (3) Modifying the action to implement land management practices that are known to be compatible with maintaining primary constituent elements for the desert tortoise. For some actions, the Service may propose minor modifications to the project design that may avoid adverse modification of critical habitat. In the case of a proposed upgrade of a powerline right-of-way corridor, for example, the Service may recommend that the corridor be expanded on one side of the existing corridor versus the other side to avoid impacts to habitat where the primary constituent elements are of higher quality. For projects that may result in more severe impacts, substantial project changes may be necessary. The Service would propose reasonable and prudent alternatives to the agency's proposed action. Reasonable and prudent alternatives, by definition, would allow the intended purpose of the project to go forward without adversely modifying critical habitat.
