FR940802-0-00036 FR940802-0-00008 Summary of Ethanol Supply/Demand (MM gal) and Need for Displacement 1␣ 11995 (15% Phase-in) 11995 (No Phase-in) 11996 New Renewable Oxygenate Ethanol Demand 335 670 670 Existing EtOH Demand in RFG Areas During Winter1 180 180 180 Net New Winter Capacity Required 155 490 490 Current Winter Excess Capacity 80 80 80 1995 New Winter Capacity23 93 93 164 1996 New Winter Capacity23 0 0 89 Shortfall (Displaced from Existing Markets) 317 1574 1Based on IRI estimates. 2If additional summer production can be stored until the winter, then this estimate could be increased slightly. 3Annual available new capacity is derived from expected capacities of ethanol plants under design/construction prorated by their projected start-up dates. 4Will be reduced to the extent ETBE capacity can come online. To the extent that existing ethanol storage capacity can be used to store ethanol produced during the summer for use in the winter, and to the extent that ETBE can be produced from ethanol produced during the summer and be blended into summer RFG, the amount of ethanol displaced from existing markets would be reduced. Based on comments received by EPA, the amount of ethanol storage capacity appears to be approximately 116 million gallons. If this storage capacity were devoted to storing summer ethanol for use in winter RFG, then ethanol displacements from existing markets would fall to 201 million gallons in 1995 (with no phase-in) and 41 million gallons in 1996. As discussed in the next section, EPA does not anticipate that significant amounts of ETBE can be available in 1995, though sufficient amounts to meet the needs of the program could potentially be available in 1996. ETBE blended into VOC-controlled RFG receives credit under today's rule, so its availability would allow the new summer ethanol production capacity to satisfy part of the renewable oxygenate requirement and would reduce the displacement of winter ethanol from existing, non-RFG markets. Based on this analysis, EPA believes that insufficient renewable oxygenate production capacity is likely to be available to supply the 30 percent renewables requirement by 1995 without a considerable shift of supply from existing markets, but that adequate capacity should exist by 1996. 6. ETBE Capacity ETBE, the simplest ether derived from ethanol, offers several advantages to refiners over ethanol or MTBE. Unlike ethanol blends, ETBE blends can be shipped through pipelines. ETBE has a higher octane value than MTBE or ethanol, which would be valuable to refiners struggling to satisfy octane demand while simultaneously reducing high-octane components such as aromatics and olefins in order to comply with the RFG toxics and NOx requirements. Like MTBE, ETBE does not produce commingling-related increases in RVP levels and hence is eligible for credit year-round under today's rule. ETBE also has a lower blending RVP than ethanol or MTBE, which in the near term would permit refiners who use ETBE to remove less butane to reach a desired RVP level. Beginning in the year 2000, ETBE's low blending RVP should be even more attractive when the more stringent Phase II performance requirements for RFG take effect. Finally, larger amounts of ETBE than MTBE or ethanol are needed to satisfy RFG's oxygen requirement, and these larger amounts of ETBE would dilute undesirable gasoline properties such as sulfur to a greater extent than would the other two oxygenates. However, ETBE typically costs more to produce than MTBE or ethanol per unit oxygen. Because of these cost disadvantages current ETBE production levels are very low. EPA expects ETBE production to grow even without today's rule in order to achieve the low RVP levels needed to meet RFG's Phase II VOC performance standards. Today's rule will make ETBE production even more attractive, since ETBE-blended RFG can receive renewables credit throughout the year. However, EPA has concluded that large amounts of additional ETBE capacity cannot be expected for 1995. At least one year and perhaps longer is expected to be required before significant volumes of ETBE become available. According to current ether producers, existing MTBE plants are likely to require one to three years to convert to ETBE production. Up to a full year is needed to acquire construction permits and complete the requisite engineering work. Conversion of the MTBE plant to produce ETBE is estimated to require from six months to two years, and several months of trial production may be needed before full production of ETBE can commence. Furthermore, ETBE production is also dependent on the development of adequate ethanol production, unless the ethanol is merely diverted from existing markets. Based on this information, EPA does not expect significant amounts of ETBE production to be possible until the summer of 1996. Furthermore, ether production process licensers also indicated that plant conversion to ETBE production could reduce throughput (relative to MTBE throughput), depending on the plant and the type of equipment installed. The reduction is caused by differing reaction conditions and the different nature of the reactants involved. Since considerable MTBE capacity would have to be converted to ETBE production to satisfy the full 30 percent renewables requirement, EPA is concerned that this loss of throughput might create shortages of oxygenates during the first year of the RFG program. EPA believes that phasing in the renewables requirement will reduce the risk of such shortages and allow a more orderly phase-in of ethanol and ETBE production capacity. 7. Transportation EPA has also analyzed whether the additional ethanol produced under today's rule can be transported from where it would be produced to where it would be consumed. According to the Army Corps of Engineers (Corps), water-based transportation is the most economical method of shipping ethanol both within the Midwest and from the Midwest to East Coast and West Coast markets. For plants and markets without access to water-based transportation, railway transportation is the most likely transportation mode. EPA has analyzed each piece of the transportation network, specifically: (1) The river barge capacity on the Mississippi River, (2) the ship or ocean barge capacity between the Gulf of Mexico and East and West Coast markets, and (3) the transportation capacity for ethanol movement from ports to retail markets. Based on a 1992 report by the Army Corps of Engineers regarding barge traffic on U.S rivers, it appears that transportation by barge of all of the new ethanol production resulting from today's renewable oxygenates program would represent less than 1 percent of U.S. river barge capacity. As a result, EPA has concluded that today's program is unlikely to cause noticeable changes in shipping patterns or shipping prices. Based on current barge shipping prices, the cost for shipping ethanol from the Midwest to the Gulf of Mexico is estimated to cost 4&hyph;5 cents per gallon.
