FR940921-0-00043 FR940921-0-00016 EPA response to comments: The Agency agrees that, while current gaseous-fueled vehicle technology is generally capable of meeting the emission standards contained in today's rule, work remains in some cases to meet the durability requirements. While the Agency believes that some current gaseous-fueled engine technologies are capable of demonstrating the required emissions durability, it does not believe this is the case with some of the newest technologies being developed. Given that each engine family must demonstrate durability during the new vehicle certification process, the Agency believes that not providing adequate leadtime may hinder the further development of new gaseous-fueled vehicle technology in the short term, which is contrary to the stated intent of this rule. Thus, today's requirements for new vehicles and engines will take effect with the 1997 model year as requested by some commenters. Manufacturers will have the option to comply with these provisions prior to the 1997 model year if they choose. The Agency does not believe that this amount of leadtime will be a problem from an environmental standpoint for two reasons. First, the volume of new gaseous-fueled vehicles produced prior to the 1997 model year is not expected to be that large, given the relatively young nature of the new gaseous-fueled vehicle market. Second, the Agency expects that any new vehicle or engine family which might be sold in any significant volume prior to the 1997 model year would have demonstrated adequate durability. Since there is much incentive for early compliance in the form of CAFE credits and the emissions banking and trading program, the Agency would expect the manufacturers of these vehicles to certify them in order to take advantage of these credits. Additionally, the Agency does not believe that it is required to provide four years leadtime for new gaseous-fueled heavy-duty engine standards because these standards are being promulgated under the general authority of section 202(a)(1). However, as will be discussed in the section on CO and crankcase emissions, the Agency has elected to provide four years of leadtime in the case of crankcase emission controls. For further discussion of the four year leadtime issue please consult the summary and analysis of comments document in the docket. Finally, manufacturers have the option of complying with these requirements prior to their effective date (including certification retroactive to the beginning of the 1994 model year) and can include such certified engines in the averaging, banking and trading program. B. Standards for HC 1. NMHC vs. THC Standards Summary of the proposal: Since natural gas is primarily methane, natural gas-fueled vehicles (NGV) tend to have fairly high levels of methane emissions in their exhaust HC. Due to the difficulty current catalyst formulations have in oxidizing methane, it is not currently feasible for NGVs to meet the same THC standards that other vehicles meet. Thus, only NMHC standards were proposed for NGVs, with the Agency deferring any action on THC standards for NGVs until such time as the necessary methane control technology can be developed. LPG fuel, however, contains no methane, and the exhaust methane levels associated with LPG vehicles tend to be much closer to those from petroleum-fueled vehicles. Thus, all applicable THC and NMHC standards were proposed for LPG vehicles. Summary of the comments: The Agency's decision to defer action on THC standards for NGVs received very broad support. Only the Manufacturers of Emission Controls Association (MECA) disagreed with this approach. MECA contended that without some form of technology-forcing THC standard for NGVs, most work on methane control technology would likely stop. MECA also pointed out that the Agency has, in the past, used technology-forcing standards as impetus for the development of new emission control technology. Several commenters suggested that the approach of exempting NGVs from THC standards should be applied to LPG vehicles as well, citing a potential unfair advantage for NGVs if LPG vehicles were required to meet THC standards. Additionally, the LP Gas Clean Fuels Coalition stated that LPG vehicles have substantially higher levels of methane emissions than their petroleum-fueled counterparts, and thus should also be exempt from meeting the THC standards. The Coalition, however, did not submit any data in support of this claim. EPA response to the comments: The Agency continues to believe that action on the THC standards for NGVs should be deferred. The Agency continues to be concerned that compliance with the THC standard currently in place for other fuels is infeasible for NGVs. While the Agency has received data suggesting that the THC standards are technically achievable for NGVs, no data has been submitted concerning the cost of refining and implementing the necessary technology on a commercial level. Cost is a component of feasibility, and without cost information the Agency cannot conclude that compliance with the THC standards is feasible. Moreover, technical issues remain to be resolved. The data suggesting that THC standards are technically achievable was limited to vehicles operating at a stoichiometric fuel/air ratio, and operation under other conditions ( i.e., lean burn) remains an issue. Additionally, the durability of methane-specific catalysts remains an unknown. Also, for the reasons explained in the proposal, EPA does not believe it can establish a technology-forcing standard. EPA continues to believe that the amount of lead-time required for adequate technology development still cannot be readily determined, because the durability of a methane catalyst formulation has not been established. EPA does not agree that the absence of a technology-forcing standard would bring work on methane control technology to a stop. The engine manufacturing industry has indicated that its research will continue based on the belief that THC standards will be imposed in the future. Also, as noted in the proposal, EPA believes that strong growth in the NGV market in the near-term is important to provide resources for technology development. Of course, EPA will continue to monitor work on methane catalyst development. If information becomes available establishing the technology's feasibility (including cost information), EPA will consider adopting THC standards for NGVs. Also, if future events further demonstrate the need for a technology-forcing standard, EPA will further consider this option as well. As was stated in the NPRM, the Agency believes it most appropriate to, wherever possible, apply the same standards to alternative-fueled vehicles that apply to their petroleum-fueled counterparts. In the case of NGVs there are circumstances, as discussed above, which justify deviating from this basic philosophy. However, the Agency has seen no emissions data which would suggest that a similar set of circumstances exists for LPG vehicles. Thus, LPG vehicles will be required to meet the same THC standards as currently apply to other vehicles.
