FR941025-2-00148 FR941025-2-00080 [Rel. No. IC&hyph;20640; 812&hyph;9218] Norwest Bank Minnesota, N.A., et al.; Notice of Application October 19, 1994. AGENCY: Securities and Exchange Commission (``SEC''). ACTION: Notice of Application for an Order under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the ``Act''). APPLICANTS: Norwest Bank Minnesota, N.A. (``Bank''); Norwest Funds; Forum Financial Services, Inc. (``Forum''); Core Trust (Delaware) (``Core Trust''); and Schroder Capital Management International, Inc. (``Schroder''). RELEVANT ACT SECTIONS: Order requested under sections 6(c) and 17(b) of the Act that would grant an exemption from sections 12(d)(1), 17(a)(1), and 17(a)(2) of the Act, and under section 17(d) of the Act and rule 17d&hyph;1 thereunder to permit certain transactions. SUMMARY OF APPLICATION: Applicants request an order to permit certain series of the Norwest Funds to invest portions of their assets in certain portfolios of Core Trust. FILING DATE: The application was filed on September 8, 1994. Applicants have agreed to file an amendment, the substance of which is incorporated herein, during the notice period. HEARING OR NOTIFICATION OF HEARING: An order granting the application will be issued unless the SEC orders a hearing. Interested persons may request a hearing by writing to the SEC's Secretary and serving applicants with a copy of the request, personally or by mail. Hearing requests should be received by the SEC by 5:30 p.m. on November 9, 1994, and should be accompanied by proof of service on applicants, in the form of an affidavit, or, for lawyers, a certificate of service. Hearing requests should state the nature of the writer's interest, the reason for the request, and the issues contested. Persons may request notification of a hearing by writing to the SEC's Secretary. ADDRESSES: Secretary, SEC, 450 5th Street NW., Washington, DC 20549. Applicants, c/o Forum Financial Group, Two Portland Square, Portland, Maine 04101, Attention: Max Berueffy. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: James M. Curtis, Senior Counsel, at (202) 942&hyph;0563 or Robert A. Robertson, Branch Chief, at (202) 942&hyph;0564 (Division of Investment Management, Office of Investment Company Regulation). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The following is a summary of the application. The complete application may be obtained for a fee at the SEC's Public Reference Branch. Applicants' Representations 1. The Bank is the sponsor of a number of collective investment funds (``CIFs'') that serve as investment vehicles for qualified and non-qualified employee benefit plans for which the Bank serves as trustee, investment manager, or custodian. The Bank intends to convert fourteen of the CIFs into corresponding new series of the Norwest Funds, an open-end series investment company. 1 The new series, together with the new Advantage Class of an existing money market fund, will be known as the Advantage Funds. The Bank will serve as investment adviser to the Advantage Funds, and Schroder will serve as subadviser to those portions of the Advantage Funds that invest in international securities. The Advantage Funds will be offered without a sales load or redemption fee and will not bear distribution expenses pursuant to a plan adopted under rule 12b&hyph;1 under the Act, although applicants may revise these arrangements in the future. 1 On June 8, 1994, the Division of Investment Management, pursuant to delegated authority, issued an order pursuant to section 17(b) of the Act and rule 17d&hyph;1 thereunder, permitting certain transactions necessary to complete the proposed conversion. See Norwest Corporation, Investment Company Act Release Nos. 20294 (May 13, 1994) (notice) and 20342 (June 8, 1994) (order). 2. Core Trust is an open-end series investment company. Although Core Trust will register under the Act, it does not intend to make a public offering of its securities and does not intend to register its shares under the Securities Act of 1933. Core Trust includes a portfolio that intends to invest in securities issued by small companies (``Small Company Portfolio''), a portfolio that intends to invest in securities of foreign issuers (``International Portfolio''), and a portfolio that will be designed to replicate the performance of the Standard & Poor's 500 Composite Index (``Index Portfolio'') (such three series are the ``Portfolios''). The Bank is the investment adviser to the Small Company and S&P 500 Index Portfolios of Core Trust, and Schroder is the investment adviser to the International Portfolio. The Portfolios will be offered only to certain Advantage Funds and eligible Future Funds (as hereinafter defined) relying on an order issued pursuant to the application. Shares of these Portfolios will be offered without a sales load or redemption fee, and Core Trust will not bear distribution expenses pursuant to a plan adopted under rule 12b&hyph;1 under the Act.
