FR940304-1-00148 FR940304-1-00014 The Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory-Manufacturer Impact Model results for all classes of mobile home furnaces show that revised standards would cause a prototypical manufacturer to have some fluctuations in short-run return on equity from the 7.3 percent return in the base case, especially at the two most stringent levels. Standard levels 1 through 6 are projected to produce short-run return on equity's of 7.2 percent, 7.3 percent, 6.8 percent, 7.3 percent, 3.3 percent and 1.9 percent respectively. However, revised standards have little or minimal effect on the prototypical manufacturer's long-run return on equity. Standard levels 1 through 6 are projected to produce long- run return on equity's of 7.3 percent, 7.2 percent, 7.2 percent, 7.2 percent, 6.1 percent and 6.8 percent, respectively. See Technical Support Document, Tables 5.1 and 5.2. Most financial data of the type needed to characterize the prototypical manufacturer are generally not available because most real firms are subsidiaries or divisions of larger parent companies. Hence, DOE assumes that the prototypical firm has largely the same financial characteristics (e.g. debt-equity ratio, interest rate on debt, etc.) as parent firms. Financial data for the parent firms are based on publicly available sources such as Securities and Exchange Commission 10K reports and company annual reports. B. Life-cycle cost and net present value. A life-cycle cost is calculated for a unit meeting each of the candidate standard levels. For the representative class, life-cycle costs at all standard levels other than level 6, the max tech level, are less than the baseline unit. Of the six candidate standard levels, a unit meeting level 5 has the lowest consumer life-cycle cost. See Technical Support Document, Figure 4.1. However, other than at the max tech level, consumers do not purchase units of the same efficiency. At each candidate standard level, the Department determines the average change in life-cycle costs by considering only those consumers who are being forced by the standard to move from a lower efficiency unit to one which just meets the standard level being considered. This is done by assuming in the base case a distribution of purchases of units meeting the efficiencies of the various standard levels. The base case distribution is based on the distribution of current sales as a function of efficiency. As each standard level is examined, the change in life-cycle cost reported is the average change only for affected consumers. Under this scenario, standard level 1 would cause reductions in life-cycle costs for the average affected consumer of $100.83 for the representative class of mobile home furnace; standard level 2 would reduce average life-cycle costs by $210.08; standard level 3, by $210.16; standard level 4, by $227.91; and standard level 5, by $358.96. These life-cycle cost reductions indicate that no standard level, other than max tech, would cause any economic burden on the average consumer. At standard level 6, the average life-cycle costs are projected to increase by $34.33, compared to the base case. See Technical Support Document, Table 4.3. The Department examined the effect of different discount rates (4, 6, and 10 percent) on the life-cycle cost curves and generally found little impact. The Department did not consider higher discount rates, since such rates would be beyond the range of real, after-tax rates that consumers would likely face in financing the purchase of mobile home furnaces. Similarly, DOE did not consider different energy prices, including regional prices, in the life-cycle cost analysis. Since any standard is to be a national standard, DOE believed that national average energy prices were appropriate. The net present value analysis, a measure of the net savings to society, indicates that for all classes of mobile home furnaces, standard level 1 would produce a net present value of $12 million to consumers. The corresponding 0net present values for standard levels 2&hyph;6 are all negative at $175 million, $839 million, $1.39 billion, $2.86 billion and $5.4 billion, respectively. See Technical Support Document, Table 3.6. C. Energy savings. As indicated above, standards will result in significant savings of energy consumption for mobile home furnaces. D. Lessening of utility or performance of products . As indicated above, DOE established classes of products in order to assure that the standards analyzed would not lessen the existing utility or performance of mobile home furnaces.
