FR940812-2-00026 FR940812-2-00024 [FRL&hyph;5050&hyph;1] Techlaw, Inc. and CDM Federal Programs Corporation; Transfer of Data to Contractor and Subcontractor AGENCY: U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: This is a notice to persons who have submitted information to the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) under section 104 of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980, as amended (CERCLA). EPA has contracted with TechLaw, Inc., to perform work for the EPA, New England Region, Waste Management Division. TechLaw, Inc., has subcontracted with Science Applications International Corporation (SAIC), CDM Federal Programs Corporation (CDM&hyph;FPC), and HydroGeologic, Inc. (HGL). TechLaw, Inc., and SAIC, CDM&hyph;FPC and HGL as subcontractors to TechLaw, Inc., will be provided access to certain information submitted to EPA under CERCLA section 104. Some of this information may have been claimed to be confidential business information (CBI) by submitters. This information will be transferred to TechLaw, Inc., consistent with the requirements of 40 CFR 2.310(h)(3). Access to this information is necessary for the performance of this contract. DATES: Comments should be submitted to EPA within five working days after publication of this notice in the Federal Register . ADDRESSES: Comments should be addressed to Joan Maddalozzo, Waste Management Division, Superfund Enforcement Support Section (HES&hyph;CAN6), Environmental Protection Agency, J.F.K. Federal Building, Boston MA 02203. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Joan Maddalozzo, Waste Management Division, Superfund Enforcement Support Section (HES&hyph;CAN6), Environmental Protection Agency, J.F.K. Federal Building, Boston MA 02203. Telephone number: (617) 573&hyph;9642. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: TechLaw, Inc. (68&hyph;W4&hyph;0019), and SAIC, CDM&hyph;FPC, and HGL, as subcontractors to TechLaw, Inc., will assist the EPA, New England Region, Waste Management Division in preparing cost documentation packages pursuant to the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended (CERCLA). The cost documentation packages will be used to support the recovery of past costs during the negotiation/litigation process under CERCLA and for responding to Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) requests. The information used to compile the cost documentation packages has been submitted to EPA under section 104 of CERCLA and consists of contractor invoices and contractor work performance documents. Some of this information may be entitled to confidential treatment. EPA, New England Region, Waste Management Division has determined that access by this contractor and subcontractors to this information is necessary for the performance of this contract. In accordance with the requirements of 40 CFR 2.310(h)(2), EPA's contract with TechLaw, Inc. and the subcontractors with SAIC, CDM&hyph;FPC, and HGL prohibits disclosure of the information in any form to a third party without prior written approval from EPA, and requires the return to EPA of all copies of the information upon request by EPA, whenever the information is no longer required by the contractor for the performance of the contract, or upon completion of the contract. Each employee of the contractor and subcontractors who will have access to the information has been or will be required to sign a written agreement honoring the terms specified in the contract before they have access to any confidential information. Any data submitted to EPA under section 104 of the Act and claimed to be confidential will be transferred no sooner than 10 working days after publication of this Notice in the Federal Register. Affected parties may submit comments to EPA within five working days of the publication of this Notice. Dated: July 13, 1994. Patricia L. Meaney, Acting Regional Administrator. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;19762 Filed 8&hyph;11&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;M
