FR940328-2-00061 FR940328-2-00039 SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background Under section 9 of the Act, ``taking'' of Stephens' kangaroo rats, an endangered species, is prohibited. However, the Service, under limited circumstances, may issue permits to take endangered wildlife species if such taking is incidental to, and not the purpose of, otherwise lawful activities. Regulations governing permits for endangered species are in 50 CFR 17.22. The Applicant proposes to implement a Habitat Conservation Plan (HCP) for the Stephens' kangaroo rat that will allow clearing, grading, and construction of a single-family home subdivision, Tentative Tract Map 27796, in the city of Corona, Riverside County, California. The permit would authorize the destruction of up to 26.6 acres of occupied Stephens' kangaroo rat habitat, which is estimated to included 60 to 220 Stephens' kangaroo rats. The permit would be in effect for 24 months. The application includes an HCP and Implementation Agreement. The Applicant proposes to mitigate for the incidental take prior to site disturbance by: (1) Acquiring 26.6 acres of occupied Stephens' kangaroo rat habitat within a Stephens' kangaroo rat Study Area administered by the Riverside County Habitat Conservation Agency (RCHCA) to be managed in perpetuity to benefit the Stephens' kangaroo rat; (2) implementing this requirement by payment of $232,750 to the RCHCA for the habitat acquisition; (3) paying $23,275 to the RCHCA for the long-term management of the acquired habitat; and (4) providing evidence conforming acquisition of the habitat within 180 days of payment of the mitigation fee. The EA considers the environmental consequences of six alternatives, including the proposed action and no-action alternatives. The proposed action is the issuance of a permit under section 10(a) of the Act that would authorize removal of 26.6 acres of Stephens' kangaroo rat habitat during development of the subdivision. The proposed action would result in minimizing incidental take by limitations on and monitoring of proposed construction activities. Mitigation under the proposed action would enhance Stephens' kangaroo rat conservation by the acquisition and management of 26.6 acres of habitat to be managed for the Stephens' kangaroo rat. Under the no-action alternative, the project would not occur and the permit would not be issued. The present habitat fragmentation and isolation due to off-road vehicle use, surrounding development, and other on-site disturbances would remain under the no-action alternative, and the Stephens' kangaroo rat population on the site likely would disappear in time. In addition, proposed funding for acquisition of habitat within the RCHCA reserve areas would not be available. The third alternative is to completely avoid occupied habitat on the project site. A fourth alternative is to redesign the project to reduce the amount of direct take on the site. A fifth alternative is to trap and relocate Stephens' kangaroo rats as a means of avoiding the killing or serious injury of the animals. The sixth alternative is to obtain a take allocation from the city of Corona as a co-permittee to the existing RCHCA 10(a) incidental take permit and HCP. Dated: March 22, 1994. Don Weathers, Acting Regional Director, Region 1, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;7194 Filed 3&hyph;25&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4310&hyph;55&hyph;M
