FR940428-1-00008 FR940428-1-00004 DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION Coast Guard 33 CFR Part 165 [CGDO1&hyph;94&hyph;021] RIN 2115&hyph;AA97 Safety Zone: Empire State Regatta Fireworks, Hudson River, New York AGENCY: Coast Guard, DOT. ACTION: Notice of proposed rulemaking. SUMMARY: The Coast Guard proposes to establish a temporary safety zone in the Hudson River at Albany, New York, for the Empire State Regatta Fireworks program. This event, sponsored by Empire State Regatta Inc., will take place on Saturday, June 11, 1994, from 9 p.m. until 10:15 p.m. This safety zone, located in the Hudson River at Albany, New York, is needed to protect the boating public from the hazards associated with fireworks exploding in the area. DATES: Comments must be received on or before May 31, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments should be mailed to Captain of the Port, New York, bldg. 108, Governors Island, New York 10004&hyph;5096, or may be delivered to the Waterways Management Branch, Bldg. 108, between 8 a.m. and 4:30 p.m., Monday through Friday, except Federal holidays. Any person wishing to visit the office must contact the Waterways Management Branch at (212) 668&hyph;7933 to obtain advance clearance due to the fact that Governors Island is a military installation with limited access. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: LT. R. Trabocchi, Project Manager, Captain of the Port, New York, (212) 668&hyph;7933. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Request for Comments The Coast Guard encourages interested persons to participate in this rulemaking by submitting written data, views, or arguments. Persons submitting comments should include their names and addresses, identify this notice (CGDO1&hyph;94&hyph;021) and the specific section of the proposal to which their comments apply, and give reasons for each comment. Persons wanting acknowledgment of receipt of comments should enclose a stamped, self-addressed postcard or envelope. The Coast Guard will consider all comments received during the comment period. It may change this proposal in view of the comments. The Coast Guard plans no public hearing, however, a public hearing may be requested by writing to the Project Manager at the address under ADDRESSES . If it is determined that the opportunity for oral presentations will aid this rulemaking, the Coast Guard will hold a public hearing at a time and place announced by a later notice in the Federal Register. Drafting Information The drafters of this notice are LT R. Trabocchi, Project Manager, Captain of the Port, New York, and CDR J. Astley, Project Attorney, First Coast Guard District, Legal Office. Background and Purpose On March 1, 1994, Empire State Regatta, Inc. submitted a request to hold a fireworks program in the Hudson River at Albany, New York, in conjunction with the annual Empire State Regatta. This proposed safety zone is being established to protect boaters from the hazards associated with fireworks exploding in the area. No vessel would be permitted to enter or move within this area unless authorized to do so by the Coast Guard Captain of the Port, New York. Discussion of Proposed Amendments The Coast Guard proposes to establish a temporary safety zone that will include all waters of the Hudson River within a 300 yard radius of a point located in land approximately 500 yards south of the New York Central Railroad Bridge on the eastern side of the Hudson River. This proposed safety zone will leave the western half of the Hudson River, including eighty percent of the federal channel open to vessel traffic for the duration of this event. If adopted this safety zone will be in effect from 9 p.m. until 10:15 p.m. on June 11, 1994. This proposed safety zone is needed to protect the boating public from the hazards associated with fireworks exploding in the area. No vessel would permitted to enter or move within this area unless authorized by the Coast Guard Captain of the Port, New York.
