FR940817-2-00089 FR940817-2-00043 Under section 211 of the Clean Air Act, certain fuels and additives must be registered with EPA as a precondition to introduction into commerce. Section 211(a) of the Act authorizes EPA to designate any fuel or fuel additive for registration. Upon designation, fuels or additives may not be introduced into commerce unless they have been registered by EPA in accordance with section 211(b). In 1975, EPA issued regulations (40 CFR Part 79) implementing basic registration requirements, as stipulated by section 211(b)(1), that required applicants to submit certain information, such as commercial identifying information, range of concentration, purpose-in-use, and chemical composition, in order to register a fuel or fuel additive. The 1970 Clean Air Act also gave EPA discretionary authority to establish additional registration requirements under section 211(b)(2). This section authorized EPA to require fuel and fuel additive manufacturers ``to conduct tests to determine potential public health effects of such fuel(s) or additive(s) (including but not limited to, carcinogenic, teratogenic, or mutagenic effects),'' and to further furnish other ``reasonable and necessary'' information to identify fuel and fuel additive emissions and determine their effects on vehicular emission control performance and on public health and welfare. EPA did not exercise its discretionary authority to require testing of fuels and fuel additives under section 211(b)(2) when general registration regulations were first adopted in 1975. However, in the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1977 (Public Law 95&hyph; 95, August 7, 1977), Congress added section 211(e), which required EPA to take certain actions to implement section 211(b)(2). A final rule was signed by the Administrator of EPA on May 27, 1994 and was published in the Federal Register on June 27, 1994 (59 FR 33042). The final rule, ``Fuels and Fuels Additives Registration Regulations'', implemented additional registration requirements under sections 211(b)(2) and 211(e) of the Clean Air Act. The rule requires manufacturers to provide EPA with information to assist EPA in identifying and evaluating potential adverse health effects of motor vehicle fuel and fuel additive emissions, and to support and guide related regulatory actions in the future. The recently promulgated health effects testing requirements incorporate a three-tiered health effects evaluation structure. Under Tier 1, fuel and fuel additive manufacturers are required to perform a literature search on the health and welfare effects of fuel and fuel additive emissions, characterize the emissions, and provide exposure information. Tier 2 includes short-term biological testing to screen for specific health effects endpoints, involving the exposure of laboratory animals to the whole emissions of fuels or fuel/additive mixtures. Where appropriate, EPA has retained authority to modify or augment the standard Tier 2 test requirements. Under ``alternative Tier 2'' procedures set forth in ยง79.58(c), EPA may substitute alternative tests for standard Tier 2 tests or impose additional testing requirements. Alternative Tier 2 procedures may be utilized to modify standard Tier 2 requirements, but may not be utilized to entirely delete testing for any of the standard endpoints. The alternative Tier 2 provision affords the Agency flexibility when available information indicates that another testing regimen is preferable to the standard set of Tier 2 tests. Instances where Alternative Tier 2 requirements may be appropriate include scenarios where previously available information may cause EPA to be concerned about potential health effects related to an endpoint not specifically addressed in Tier 2, or when otherwise available information identifies a potentially significant public health risk related to a Tier 2 endpoint such that more definitive testing will be required for this endpoint than is ordinarily required. In both of these scenarios, alternative Tier 2 testing can facilitate earlier and potentially more efficient acquisition of the required data. After receipt and review of a manufacturer's Tier 1 and Tier 2 submittals, EPA determines, on a case-by-case basis, if additional testing is needed under Tier 3 to evaluate the risk of a particular fuel or fuel additive (or group of fuels or fuel additives) on human health or welfare. Tier 3 testing could include any emission analysis, health effects, welfare effects, and/or exposure testing or analysis deemed necessary by EPA for this purpose. The Agency has considerable discretion to formulate and impose appropriate testing requirements under either alternative Tier 2 or Tier 3 procedures. In practice, EPA will be more likely to utilize alternative Tier 2 procedures in instances where additional data needs are apparent even prior to completion and submission of the standard Tier 2 tests, and prompt formulation of appropriate alternative testing requirements will result in a more efficient use of industry and governmental resources. Tier 3 procedures will be preferred in those instances where standard Tier 2 tests are necessary to assist EPA in identification of potential hazards and/or in design or selection of appropriate follow-up studies. For fuels and fuel additives registered as of the date of promulgation of the final rule, registrants must submit Tier 1 and Tier 2 test data within six years of that date. On the other hand, manufacturers seeking to register new fuel and fuel additive products after the date of promulgation must satisfy all testing requirements before registration will be granted. In this regard, the new rule clarifies what constitutes a ``new'' fuel or fuel additive, distinguishing between two types of unregistered products which a manufacturer might seek to register after the promulgation of the final rule: (1) fuel and fuel additive products similar in composition and usage to those already allowed wide commercial distribution (e.g., registered for general use by other manufacturers), and (2) fuel and fuel additive products which differ significantly in composition and/or usage from such current products. To effectuate this distinction, EPA's final rule, promulgated under sections 211(b) and (e), makes use of grouping system concepts and definitions. Specifically, a fuel additive product not registered by its manufacturer 73 for a specific type of fuel as of the date of promulgation of this rule is designated as ``registrable'' if the fuel/additive mixture resulting from use of the additive in the specific fuel is in the same fuel/additive group as one or more currently registered fuels or bulk additives. 74 The grouping system establishes various fuel/additive groups within each fuel family. 75 Conversely, a fuel additive product not registered by its manufacturer for a specific type of fuel as of the date of promulgation is designated as ``new'' if the fuel/additive mixture resulting from use of the additive in the specific fuel cannot be grouped with one or more currently registered fuels or bulk additives. In these definitions, the term ``currently registered'' refers to the date on which the prospective applicant seeks registration for the fuel or fuel additive in question. 73 For purposes of these definitions, registration is product-specific. Thus, if a particular fuel or fuel additive product has not been registered by its manufacturer, then that manufacturer does not have the right to introduce, market, and/or sell this product, even if a compositionally similar or identical product has been registered by another manufacturer. 74 A ``bulk additive,'' sometimes called a ``general use'' additive was defined as a product added to fuel at the refinery as part of the original blending stream or after the fuel is transported from the refinery, but before the fuel is purchased for introduction into the fuel tank of a motor vehicle. In contrast, an ``aftermarket additive,'' sometimes called a consumer additive, is an additive product marketed for introduction directly into the fuel system of a motor vehicle. 75 ``Fuel Family'' refers to the primary categorization of fuels and fuel additives within the proposed grouping system. A fuel family was defined as a set of F/FAs which share basic chemical and physical formulation characteristics and can be used in the same engine or vehicle. Six such fuel families were proposed (unleaded gasoline, leaded gasoline, diesel, methanol, ethanol, methane, and propane). EPA did not include a leaded gasoline family in the final rule because Clean Air Act section 211(n) prohibits on-road use of leaded fuel after December 31, 1995. In the definition of ``registrable,'' the restriction ``in the same fuel family'' means that the similarity of an applicant F/FA to a bulk additive currently registered for use in another fuel family would not suffice to make the applicant F/FA registrable. This restriction is consistent with the general principles of the grouping system, which permits grouping of F/FAs only within defined fuel families. According to these definitions, an unregistered fuel additive which meets the criteria for grouping only with a currently registered aftermarket additive (and not also with a currently registered fuel and/or bulk additive) is not registrable. This does not preclude an unregistered aftermarket additive from being registrable (since aftermarket additives can group with fuels and bulk additives), nor does it affect the registration status of currently registered aftermarket additives. For example, an unregistered detergent additive (either bulk or aftermarket) intended for use in unleaded gasoline and conforming to the ``substantially similar'' criteria for unleaded gasoline (56 FR 5352) would be registrable, since it would be able to group with currently registered baseline unleaded gasoline fuels and bulk additives. 76 On the other hand, MMT is considered ``new'' rather than ``registrable'' for unleaded gasoline, because there are no currently registered manganese-containing fuels or bulk additives in the unleaded gasoline family with which a mixture of MMT and unleaded gasoline could be grouped. This is true even though products containing MMT are currently registered for bulk use in leaded gasoline and as aftermarket additives grandfathered prior to the ban on such aftermarket additives. 77 76 The ability to join the unleaded gasoline baseline group assumes that the detergent additive does not exceed oxygen and sulfur limits applicable to the baseline unleaded gasoline category. 77 Until the 1990 CAA Amendments went into effect, the statutory language of section 211(f) was interpreted as applying only to unleaded gasoline fuels and related bulk additives. Thus, prior to November 15, 1990 (the effective date of the CAA Amendments), aftermarket additives intended for use in unleaded gasoline and containing elements other than carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, nitrogen, and sulfur were allowed to be registered. Under the 1990 CAA Amendments, all types of motor vehicle fuels and fuel additives were placed under 211(f) jurisdiction. All aftermarket additives that were not ``substantially similar'' and were introduced on or after November 15, 1990, were banned. However, this ban does not apply to products first introduced into commerce prior to November 15, 1990 (CAA section 211(f)(1)(B)). Thus, ``non-sub-sim'' gasoline aftermarket additives which had been registered prior to that date were allowed to retain their registrations. These are so-called ``grandfathered'' aftermarket additives.
