FR940617-1-00015 FR940617-1-00006 39 CFR Part 111 Revisions to Standards Concerning Physical Mailpiece Dimensions, Addressing, and Address Placement AGENCY: Postal Service. ACTION: Proposed rule. SUMMARY: The Postal Service proposes changes to several Domestic Mail Manual (DMM) standards defining a mailpiece's length, height, and thickness, and relating these dimensions to processing category and other criteria. The Postal Service also proposes changes to other DMM standards concerning the content and placement of delivery and return addresses, including placement standards for delivery addresses on flat-size mailpieces not prepared in a full enclosure, and letter- and flat-size pieces prepared in an unattached sleeve or partial wrapper; the location of, and the use of a ZIP Code or ZIP+4 code in, the return address on certain mail; terms related to post office boxes and standards for their use in addressing mail; and the prohibition of dual addresses on certain types of mail. DATES: Comments must be received on or before August 1, 1994. ADDRESSES: Written comments should be mailed or delivered to Manager, Mailing Standards, USPS Headquarters, 475 L'Enfant Plaza SW., Washington, DC 20260&hyph;2419. Copies of all written comments will be available for inspection and photocopying between 9 a.m. and 4 p.m., Monday through Friday, in room 5610 at the above address. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Leo F. Raymond, (202) 268&hyph;5199. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: These proposed changes to Domestic Mail Manual (DMM) standards arise from suggestions presented during the 1993 DMM redesign project. Revisions Concerning Physical Mailpiece Dimensions and Address Placement The proposed revisions to C010 and C050 (with lesser changes to A010, A200, and E312) concern how the physical characteristics of a mailpiece are used in determining which dimensions are its length, height, and thickness. This information is used to determine correct address placement and the mailpiece's mailability, susceptibility to a nonstandard surcharge, processing category, and rate eligibility. This proposal will apply a consistent definition of length, height, and thickness to all mail, except for pieces eligible for and claimed at a Barcoded rate for flats. Although this proposal affects all addressed mail, its impact will be on address placement on letter-size pieces (including, for purposes of these standards, cards), which are subject to standards for address placement and orientation and rate eligibility based on those characteristics. The Postal Service proposes to make the following specific changes to the DMM: 1. A010.1.0 is amended to standardize address placement on all letter-size mail claimed at other than a single-piece rate (or, for pieces within a small dimensional range, at the Barcoded rate for flats) to require that the address be oriented parallel to the length of the piece (as defined in revised C010.1.1). Letter-size mail, which represents the majority of postal volume, is processed in a mostly automated or mechanized mailstream. An increasing proportion of letter-size mail (already subject to strict physical standards) moves through automated equipment, and most of the remainder is handled by letter-sorting machines. Manual processing_the slowest and most costly handling_is used for mail having physical or address characteristics that are incompatible with automated or mechanized processing. Although the Postal Service recognizes that some mail may never be compatible with its equipment, it believes that such compatibility is a reasonable condition for mail being claimed at a discounted rate. Whether to render a mailpiece compatible with automation (as under existing standards), mechanization, or human handling, the benefit of the proposed rule is clear. Certain necessary, basic assumptions about how mail is oriented when its address is to be read underlie how equipment is designed to receive and move mail and how employees are trained to read, sort, and carry it. Most letter-size mail has address and dimensional characteristics that are compatible with these assumptions, but the absence of effective standards allows incompatible mail to enjoy discounts that are incongruous with how it must be processed. (Nonstandard surcharges do not apply to all such mail.) For the sake of creativity, some customers currently generate mail at bulk or presort rates that must be held vertically (``portrait'' style) rather than horizontally (``landscape'' style) to read the delivery address. Such mailpieces must be processed manually because they are incompatible with Postal Service automation and mechanized letter-sorting machines. These pieces cause problems even for the letter carrier, who must turn them to sort and again to deliver. The Postal Service acknowledges that this proposal will inhibit such mailpiece design practices. However, the benefit of facilitating efficient processing_for cost and for service_outweighs the minor loss of creative latitude that will result if the proposed rule is adopted. (Mailers to whom this creative latitude is truly significant will have the option of mailing pieces at single-piece rates.) However, given the relative proportion of the mailstream represented by incompatible bulk or presort rate letter-size mail, compared with the volume that is compatible, the Postal Service believes that few mailers will be impacted by the effects on mailpiece design of the proposed rule.
