FR940328-1-00051 FR940328-1-00023 Section 4(a)(1) of the Endangered Species Act (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq. ) and regulations (50 CFR part 424) promulgated to implement the listing provisions of the Act set forth the procedures for adding species to the Federal Lists. A species may be determined to be endangered or threatened due to one or more of the following five factors described in Section 4(a)(1): (A) the present or threatened destruction, modification, or curtailment of its habitat or range; (B) overutilization for commercial, recreational, scientific, or educational purposes; (C) disease or predation; (D) the inadequacy of existing regulatory mechanisms; and (E) other natural or manmade factors affecting its continued existence. The application of these factors to the 30 African species named below is shown by the appropriate letter in parentheses (information from Collar and Andrew 1988, Collar and Stuart 1985, and Grzimek 1975, unless otherwise noted). Also indicated is the date of the petition covering each species, the formal ICBP classification, and the proposed U.S. classification. Amsterdam albatross ( Diomedia amsterdamensis )._1991 petition, ICBP endangered, proposed U.S. endangered; a large sea bird of the family Diomedeidae; known to breed only on Amsterdam Island, a French possession in the southern Indian Ocean. Destruction of nesting habitat by fires and introduced cattle (A) and predation by introduced rats and cats (C) have reduced numbers drastically. On the average, only five pairs were known to breed each year during the early 1980s. Thyolo alethe ( Alethe choloensis )._1991 petition, ICBP endangered, proposed U.S. endangered; a small, ground-dwelling bird of the family Muscicapidae, related to the Old World robins and thrushes; known only from 13 small patches of submontane evergreen forest in southern Malawi and from 2 such areas in northern Mozambique. Suitable habitat already has been largely destroyed through human clearing and encroachment and remaining sites are at risk of destruction (A). About 1,500 pairs are estimated to survive. Uluguru bush-shrike ( Malaconotus alius )._1980 petition, ICBP rare, proposed U.S. threatened; a small predatory bird of the family Laniidae, resembling the true shrikes in structure but utilizing more densely vegetated habitat and dwelling in the forest canopy; known only from the Uluguru Mountains in central Tanzania. Because of its dense forest habitat and evident low numbers, this bird has been difficult to locate and little is known of its status. However, the lower slopes of the mountains on which it lives are being steadily cleared and such activity places the species at risk (A). The Service would be particularly interested in receiving new information on the severity of this problem. Madagascar sea eagle ( Haliaeetus vociferoides )._1980 petition, ICBP endangered, proposed U.S. endangered; a fish-hunting species of the family Accipitridae, related to and somewhat smaller than the American bald eagle; confined to the rivers, shorelines, and offshore islands of the west coast of central to northern Madagascar. Its numbers have dropped sharply since the last century, with only 96 individuals being counted during the mid-1980s. Although reasons for the decline are unclear, hunting and deliberate nest destruction by people (B) are thought to be partly responsible. Madagascar serpent eagle ( Eutriorchis astur )._1980 petition, ICBP endangered, proposed U.S. endangered; a raptor of the family Accipitridae, more closely related to the harrier hawks than to most other eagles; until recently, known only from 11 specimens collected over 50 years ago in the eastern forests of Madagascar. In 1988 an individual was observed and in 1990 a dead specimen was recovered, both in northeastern Madagascar (Raxworthy and Colston 1992). The species thus is known to survive, but it is apparently dependent on large tracts of undisturbed primary rainforest, and such habitat is rapidly being destroyed or adversely modified by human activity (A). Mauritius fody ( Foudia rubra )._1980 petition, ICBP endangered, proposed U.S. endangered; a small weaver of the family Ploceidae, feeding on insects, nectar and small fruits; formerly widespread in the upland forests of the island of Mauritius, a part of the nation of the same name in the Indian Ocean. It now is restricted to the southwestern part of Mauritius, where perhaps only 150 breeding pairs survive. More than half of the population had been wiped out in 1973&hyph;1974 during a large-scale forest clearing project (A). The remaining birds are subject to intensive nest predation from rats, macaques, and other introduced animals (C).
