FR940628-1-00037 FR940628-1-00007 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY 40 CFR Part 51 [FRL&hyph;5001&hyph;3] Inspection/Maintenance Program Requirements_Provisions for Redesignation AGENCY: Environmental Protection Agency. ACTION: Notice of proposed rulemaking. SUMMARY: The proposed revisions include additions and modifications to subpart S, part 51, title 40, Code of Federal Regulations, regarding State Implementation Plan submissions for purposes of redesignation. The proposed revisions specify SIP requirements only for areas that are subject to the basic Inspection/Maintenance program requirement and that otherwise qualify for redesignation from nonattainment to attainment for the carbon monoxide or ozone national ambient air quality standards. This rule proposes to allow such areas to defer adoption and implementation of some of the otherwise applicable requirements established in the original promulgation of the Inspection/Maintenance rule. This proposed rule applies only to areas that by virtue or their air quality classification are required to implement a basic I/M program and that submit, and otherwise qualify for, a redesignation request. DATES: Written comments on this proposal must be received no later than July 28, 1994. The Agency will hold a public hearing on this proposed amendment if one is requested on or before July 13, 1994. If a public hearing is held, comments must be received 30 days after the hearing. ADDRESSES: Interested parties may submit written comments (in duplicate if possible) to Public Docket No. A&hyph;93&hyph;21. It is requested that a duplicate copy be submitted to Eugene J. Tierney at the address in the FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT section below. The docket is located at the Air Docket, Room M&hyph;1500 (LE&hyph;131), Waterside Mall SW., Washington, DC 20460. The docket may be inspected between 8:30 a.m. and 12 noon and between 1:30 p.m. until 3:30 p.m. on weekdays. A reasonable fee may be charged for copying docket material. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Eugene J. Tierney, Office of Mobile Sources, National Vehicle and Fuel Emissions Laboratory, 2565 Plymouth Road, Ann Arbor, Michigan, 48105. (313) 668&hyph;4456. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Section 107(d)(3)(E) of the Clean Air Act, as amended in 1990 (the Act), states that an area can be redesignated to attainment if the following conditions are met: EPA has determined that the national ambient air quality standards have been attained; EPA has fully approved the applicable implementation plan under section 110(k); EPA has determined that the improvement in air quality is due to permanent and enforceable reductions in emissions due to the implementation plan and other permanent and enforceable reductions; the State has met all applicable requirements of section 110 and part D; and, EPA has fully approved a maintenance plan for the area under section 175A of the Act. Section 175A in turn requires states that submit a redesignation request to submit a plan, and any additional measures if necessary, for maintenance of the air quality standard, for a least a 10 year period following EPA's approval of the redesignation. It also requires the plan to include contingency provisions to ensure prompt correction of any violation of the standard which occurs after redesignation. The contingency measures must include a provision requiring the state to implement measures which were contained in the State Implementation Plan (SIP) prior to redesignation as an attainment area. The purpose of this document is to propose amendments to the rules in subpart S of part 51 of title 40 of the Code of Federal Regulations (subpart S) to address Inspection/Maintenance (I/M) program requirements for basic areas that qualify for and will ultimately obtain approval by EPA of redesignation requests to attainment. This notice proposes to add a new paragraph to the regulation pertaining to State Implementation Plan (SIP) submissions for areas required to implement a basic I/M program that are submitting and otherwise qualify for approval of a redesignation request. 1 There are basic areas that will be submitting redesignation requests that do not currently have I/M programs, or have either a basic program implemented pursuant to the 1977 amendments to the Act or a basic program upgraded to meet the requirements of EPA's I/M regulations. This rule applies only to areas that by virtue of their air quality classification are required to implement a basic I/M program and that submit, and otherwise qualify for a redesignation request. 1 For EPA policy and procedures on being redesignated from nonattainment to attainment for ozone and carbon monoxide see memoranda dated: June 1, 1992; September 4, 1992; October 28, 1992; July 9, 1992; July 22, 1992; and September 17, 1993, which are included in the docket. In a May 6, 1994 decision, the D.C. Court of Appeals held that EPA did not have authority to construe section 110(k)(4) to authorize conditional approval of an I/M committal SIP that contains no specific enforceable measures, but a promise to adopt specific enforceable measures within a year. Merely, section 110(k)(4) states that: The Administrator may approve a plan revision based on a commitment of the State to adopt specific enforceable measures by a date certain, but not later than one year after the date of approval of the plan revision. Any such conditional approval shall be treated as a disapproval if the State fails to comply with such commitment.
