FR941117-0-00099 FR941117-0-00011 §22.507 Number of transmitters per station. This section concerns the number of transmitters licensed under each station authorization in the Paging and Radiotelephone Service. Each station must have at least one transmitter. There is no limit to the number of transmitters that a station may comprise. However, transmitters within a station should be operationally related and/or should serve the same general geographical area. Operationally related transmitters are those that operate together as a system (e.g. trunked systems, simulcast systems), rather than independently. Furthermore, the FCC may split wide-area systems into two or more stations for administrative convenience. Except for nationwide paging and other operationally related transmitters, transmitters that are widely separated geographically are not licensed under a single authorization. The FCC may consolidate separately authorized stations upon request (FCC Form 401) of the licensee, if appropriate under this section. Note to §22.507: Notwithstanding the provisions of §22.507, until further notice there can be no more than 99 transmitters per station. §22.511 Construction period for the Paging and Radiotelephone Service. The construction period for stations in the Paging and Radiotelephone Service is one year. §22.515 Permissible communications paths. Mobile stations may communicate only with and through base stations. Base stations may communicate only with mobile stations and receivers on land or surface vessels. §22.529 Application requirements for the Paging and Radiotelephone Service. In addition to information required by subparts B and D of this part, applications for authorization to operate a transmitter in the Paging and Radiotelephone Service must contain the applicable supplementary information described in this section. (a) Administrative information. The following information is required by FCC Form 401, Schedule B. (1) The number of transmitter sites for which authorization is requested. (2) The call sign(s) of other facilities in the same area that are ultimately controlled by the real party in interest to the application. (b) Technical information. The following information required by FCC Form 401, Schedule B. (1) Location description, city, county, state, geographical coordinates correct to # 1 second, the datum used (NAD 27 or NAD 83), site elevation above mean sea level, proximity to adjacent market boundaries and international borders; (2) Antenna manufacturer, model number and type, antenna height to tip above ground level, the height of the center of radiation of the antenna above the average terrain, the height of the antenna center of radiation above the average elevation of the terrain along each of the 8 cardinal radials, antenna gain in the maximum lobe, the beamwidth of the maximum lobe of the antenna, a polar plot of the horizontal gain pattern of the antenna, the electric field polarization of the wave emitted by the antenna when installed as proposed; (3) The center frequency of each channel requested, the maximum effective radiated power, the effective radiated power in each of the cardinal radial directions, any non-standard emission types to be used, including bandwidth and modulation type, the transmitter classification (e.g. base, fixed, mobile), and the locations, if any, of any points of communication. One-Way Paging Operation §22.531 Channels for one-way paging operation. The following channels are allocated for assignment to base transmitters that provide one-way public paging service. Unless otherwise indicated, all channels have a bandwidth of 20 kHz and are designated by their center frequencies in MegaHertz.
