FR940825-1-00022 FR940825-1-00002 4. Automatic Sprinkler, Halon 1301, Other Extinguishing Systems, and Portable Fire Extinguishers. (a) Sprinkler Systems. (1) Where automatic sprinklers are installed in an ATCT, sprinklers shall be provided in all areas or rooms. (2) Sprinkler systems shall generally be of the wet type unless subject to freezing conditions. Waterflow and valve tamper supervision shall be annunciated with a listed alarm check valve or other listed waterflow detecting alarm device with the necessary attachments required to give an alarm. Installation shall comply with NFPA 13. (3) All automatic sprinkler systems shall be continuously maintained in reliable operating condition at all times, and such periodic inspections and tests shall be made as are necessary to assure proper maintenance. (b) Halon or Other Extinguishing Systems (see note in section k.3.(c)(4)). (1) Halon 1301 extinguishing systems or other alternative extinguishing systems may be used in lieu of automatic sprinklers for existing ATCT computer or electronic equipment areas. Such areas include but are not limited to ATCT cabs, TRACON rooms, communications equipment rooms, and radar equipment rooms. However, a Halon 1301 or other alternative extinguishing system shall not be considered to be equivalent to an automatic sprinkler system for purposes of omitting the requirement for fire resistive construction as required in this standard unless it has automatic standby capacity. (2) Halon 1301 or other alternative extinguishing systems shall be designed as an automatic sensing and actuating type with sufficient standby capacity. (3) Halon 1301 systems shall be installed and maintained in accordance with the manufacturer's recommendation and NFPA No. 12A, 1973, Halogenated Fire Extinguishing Agent Systems_Halon 1301, National Fire Protection Association, Quincy, Massachusetts. (4) Other alternative extinguishing systems shall be maintained in accordance with manufacturer's recommendations and the appropriate NFPA standard. (c) Portable Fire Extinguishers. (1) General. A. Portable extinguishers shall be maintained in a fully charged and operable condition, and kept in their designated places at all times when they are not being used. B. Extinguishers shall be conspicuously mounted where they will be readily accessible and immediately available in the event of fire. They shall be mounted along normal paths of travel. C. Extinguishers shall not be obstructed or obscured from view. In large rooms and in certain locations where visual obstruction cannot be completely avoided, signs shall be provided to conspicuously indicate the location and intended use of extinguishers. D. All extinguishers shall be marked conspicuously as to their intended use upon different classes of fire to ensure choice of the proper extinguisher. (2) Inspection and Maintenance. A. Extinguishers shall be inspected monthly, or at more frequent intervals when circumstances require, to ensure they are in their designated places, to ensure they have not been actuated or tampered with, and to detect any obvious physical damage, corrosion, or other impairments. Any extinguisher showing defects shall be given a complete maintenance check and repaired or replaced, as necessary. B. At regular intervals, not more than 1 years apart, or when specifically indicated by an inspection, extinguishers shall be thoroughly examined and/or recharged or repaired to ensure operability and safety; or replaced as needed. C. Extinguishers removed from the premises to be recharged or repaired shall be replaced by spare extinguishers during the period they are gone. D. Each extinguisher shall have a durable tag securely attached to show the maintenance or recharge date and the initials or signature of the person who performs this service. E. If, at any time, an extinguisher shows evidence of corrosion or damage, it shall be subjected to a hydrostatic pressure test, or replaced. (3) Selection and Location. A fire extinguisher of proper size and type shall be available within 75 feet from any point in a room. This requirement may increase the number of extinguishers over the quantity required in the table on Minimum Quantity and Type of Fire Extinguishers.
