FR940621-2-00088 FR940621-2-00053 (g) The Consulting Group will generally give investment advice in writing to an Independent Plan Fiduciary with respect to all available Portfolios. However, in the case of a Section 404(c) Plan, the Consulting Group will provide investment advice that is limited to the Portfolios made available under the Plan. (h) Any Sub-Adviser that acts for the Trust to exercise investment discretion over a Portfolio will be independent of SBI and its affiliates. (i) Immediately following the acquisition by a Portfolio of any securities that are issued by SBI and/or its affiliates, the percentage of that Portfolio's net assets invested in such securities will not exceed one percent. (j) The quarterly investment advisory fee that is paid by a Plan to the Consulting Group for investment advisory services rendered to such Plan will be offset by such amount as is necessary to assure that the Consulting Group retains no more than 20 basis points from any Portfolio (with the exception of the Government Money Investments Portfolio and the GIC Fund Portfolio for which the Consulting Group and SBI Trust will retain no investment management fee) which contains investments attributable to the Plan investor. (k) With respect to its participation in the TRAK Program prior to purchasing Trust shares, (1) Each Plan will receive the following written or oral disclosures from the Consulting Group: (A) A copy of the Prospectus for the Trust discussing the investment objectives of the Portfolios comprising the Trust, the policies employed to achieve these objectives, the corporate affiliation existing between the Consulting Group, SBI and its subsidiaries and the compensation paid to such entities. 3 3 The fact that certain transactions and fee arrangements are the subject of an administrative exemption does not relieve the Independent Plan Fiduciary from the general fiduciary responsibility provisions of section 404 of the Act. In this regard, the Department expects the Independent Plan Fiduciary to consider carefully the totality of fees and expenses to be paid by the Plan including the fees paid directly to SBI or to other third parties and/or indirectly through the Trust to SBI. (B) Upon written or oral request to SBI, a Statement of Additional Information supplementing the Prospectus which describes the types of securities and other instruments in which the Portfolios may invest, the investment policies and strategies that the Portfolios may utilize and certain risks attendant to those investments, policies and strategies. (C) A copy of the investment advisory agreement between the Consulting Group and such Plan relating to participation in the TRAK Program. (D) Upon written request of SBI, a copy of the respective investment advisory agreement between the Consulting Group and the Sub-Advisers. (E) In the case of a Section 404(c) Plan, if required by the arrangement negotiated between the Consulting Group and the Plan, an explanation by an SBI Financial Consultant (the Financial Consultant) to eligible participants in such Plan, of the services offered under the TRAK Program and the operation and objectives of the Portfolios. (F) Copies of PTE 92&hyph;77 and documents pertaining to the replacement exemption. (2) If accepted as an investor in the TRAK Program, an Independent Plan Fiduciary of an IRA or Keogh Plan, is required to acknowledge, in writing, prior to purchasing Trust shares that such fiduciary has received copies of the documents described above in subparagraph (k)(1) of this Section. (3) With respect to a Section 404(c) Plan, written acknowledgement of the receipt of such documents will be provided by the Independent Plan Fiduciary (i.e., the Plan administrator, trustee or named fiduciary, as the recordholder of Trust shares). Such Independent Plan Fiduciary will be required to represent in writing to SBI that such fiduciary is (a) independent of SBI and its affiliates and (b) knowledgeable with respect to the Plan in administrative matters and funding matters related thereto, and able to make an informed decision concerning participation in the TRAK Program. (4) With respect to a Plan that is covered under Title I of the Act, where investment decisions are made by a trustee, investment manager or a named fiduciary, such Independent Plan Fiduciary is required to acknowledge, in writing, receipt of such documents and represent to SBI that such fiduciary is (a) independent of SBI and its affiliates, (b) capable of making an independent decision regarding the investment of Plan assets and (c) knowledgeable with respect to the Plan in administrative matters and funding matters related thereto, and able to make an informed decision concerning participation in the TRAK Program.
