FR940617-1-00071 FR940617-1-00012 K. Comment on Sodium Oxychlorosene 22. One comment requested that sodium oxychlorosene be included in the monograph for use as a topical antiseptic for treating localized infections, to remove necrotic debris in massive infections, as a patient preoperative skin preparation and postoperative irrigant, and for the cleansing and disinfection of fistulae, sinus tracts, empyemas, and wounds. The comment included a number of references that recommended usage of sodium oxychlorosene (Ref. 1). The comment stated that ``*␣*␣* the 25 years of marketing experience, the almost total absence of complaints, the number of published articles, the unusual spectrum of organisms reported on, all attest to the safety and efficacy of this product.'' The agency has reviewed the data submitted and concludes that the available information does not contain any well-controlled clinical studies on the effectiveness of sodium oxychlorosene. In addition, no meaningful scientific information was presented in regard to safety. Clinical use for a period of years may provide corroborative evidence but is inadequate to support safe use. A good example is hexachlorophene; this drug had been used OTC for many years before more thorough safety studies in animals showed that the drug was not as safe as had been assumed. The agency concludes that the data are insufficient to demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of sodium oxychlorosene for OTC topical antiseptic use and therefore places this ingredient in Category III for both safety and effectiveness. The agency's detailed evaluation of the data and information is on file in the Dockets Management Branch (Ref. 2). References (1) Published in vivo and in vitro studies, submitted by Guardian Chemical Corporation, Comment No. C126, Docket No. 75N&hyph;0183, Dockets Management Branch. (2) Letter from W. E. Gilbertson, FDA, to R. Rubinger, Guardian Chemical Corporation, Comment No. ANS3, Docket No. 75N&hyph;0183, Dockets Management Branch. L. Comments on Triclosan 23. A number of comments submitted data and information from microbiological, mutagenicity, metabolism, cross-sensitization, photo-sensitization, and drug experience studies on triclosan (Ref. 1). The comments stated that the data and information show that triclosan (up to 1.0 percent) is safe and effective and that triclosan should be placed in Category I for use in the categories that were defined in the previous tentative final monograph, i.e., skin antiseptic, skin wound cleanser, skin wound protectant, antimicrobial soap, health-care personnel handwash, patient preoperative skin preparations, and surgical hand scrub. In addition, one comment submitted information on triclosan (0.1 percent) for the treatment of diaper rash and on triclosan (0.1 percent) combined with benzocaine for the treatment of sunburn (Ref. 2). One comment from the manufacturer of triclosan objected to the agency's expressed concern, as stated in the tentative final monograph (43 FR 1210 at 1231 and 1233), that there is a proliferation of products containing triclosan marketed to the American consumer (Ref. 3). The comment argued that the agency's concerns were without factual basis and submitted sales data, held confidential under 21 CFR 10.20(j)(2)(i)( d ), showing that overall sales of triclosan in the U.S. have in fact decreased from 1973 to 1977 and that sales for use in bar soaps and deodorants have also declined from 1973 to 1977. The comment pointed out that it has exclusive U.S. patent rights for triclosan and that no license has been, or will be, granted under these patents. The comment added that to the best of its knowledge triclosan is not used in infant clothing, a use mentioned in the tentative final monograph at 43 FR 1231. The comment stated that if triclosan is placed in Category I for use in antimicrobial soaps, it would limit sales of triclosan to OTC use in antimicrobial and deodorant soaps, underarm deodorants, and registered Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) pesticide products. In the future, sales might be extended to include approved new drug applications. The comment also pointed out that the statement at 43 FR 1233 about the EPA's Office of Special Pesticide Review preparing a report on the proliferation of triclosan-containing products is in error, and that the erroneous statement apparently resulted from a miscommunication between FDA and EPA staff. The comment concluded that the concerns about proliferation raised by the agency in the tentative final monograph should not prevent triclosan from being placed in Category I.
