FR941206-0-00198 FR941206-0-00019 (ii) The organic biodegradation efficiency shall be calculated by using the following equation: R bio = F bio × 100% where: R bio = Organic biodegradation efficiency, percent. F bio = Fraction of organic biodegraded as determined in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (b)(7)(i) of this section. (8) Procedure to determine the required organic mass removal rate (RMR) for a treated hazardous waste. (i) The point of waste origination for each hazardous waste treated by the process at the same time shall be identified. (ii) For each hazardous waste stream identified in paragraph (b)(8)(i) of this section, the VO concentration of the hazardous waste stream at the point of waste origination shall be determined in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section. (iii) For each individual hazardous waste stream that has a volatile organic concentration equal to or greater than 100 ppmw at the point of waste origination as determined in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (b)(8)(ii) of this section, the average volumetric flow rate of hazardous waste at the point of waste origination and the density of the hazardous waste stream shall be determined. (iv) The required organic mass removal rate for the hazardous waste shall be calculated by using the results determined for each individual hazardous waste stream in accordance with the requirements of paragraphs (b)(8)(ii) and (b)(8)(iii) of this section and the following equation: E:GRAPHICSER06DE94.010 where: RMR = Required organic mass removal rate, kg/hr. y = Individual hazardous waste stream ``y'' that has a volatile organic concentration equal to or greater than 100 ppmw at the point of waste origination as determined in accordance with the requirements of §265.1084(a). n = Total number of ``y'' hazardous waste streams treated by process. V y = Average volumetric flow rate of hazardous waste stream ``y'' at the point of waste origination, m 3 /hr. k y = Density of hazardous waste stream ``y'', kg/m 3 y = Average VO concentration of hazardous waste stream ``y'' at the point of waste origination as determined in accordance with the requirements of §265.1084(a), ppmw. (9) Procedure to determine the actual organic mass removal rate (MR) for a treated hazardous waste. (i) The actual organic mass removal rate shall be determined based on results for a minimum of three consecutive runs. The sampling time for each run shall be 1 hour. (ii) The waste volatile organic mass flow entering the process (E b ) and the waste volatile organic mass flow exiting the process (E a ) shall be determined in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (b)(6)(iv) of this section. (iii) The actual organic mass removal rate shall be calculated by using the results determined in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (b)(9)(ii) of this section and the following equation: MR = E b ^ E a where: MR = Actual organic mass removal rate, kg/hr. E b = Waste volatile organic mass flow entering process as determined in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (b)(6)(iv) of this section, kg/hr. E a = Waste volatile organic mass flow exiting process as determined in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (b)(6)(iv) of this section, kg/hr. (10) Procedure to determine the actual organic mass biodegradation rate (MR bio ) for a treated hazardous waste. (i) The actual organic mass biodegradation rate shall be determined based on results for a minimum of three consecutive runs. The sampling time for each run shall be 1 hour. (ii) The waste organic mass flow entering the process (E b ) shall be determined in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (b)(6)(iv) of this section. (iii) The fraction of organic biodegraded (F bio ) shall be determined using the procedure specified in 40 CFR part 63, appendix C. (iv) The actual organic mass biodegradation rate shall be calculated by using the mass flow rates and fraction of organic biodegraded determined in accordance with the requirements of paragraphs (b)(10)(ii) and (b)(10)(iii) of this section and the following equation: MR bio = E b × F bio where: MR bio = Actual organic mass biodegradation rate, kg/hr. E b = Waste organic mass flow entering process as determined in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (b)(6)(iv) of this section, kg/hr. F bio = Fraction of organic biodegraded as determined in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (b)(10)(iii) of this section. (c) Procedure to determine the maximum organic vapor pressure of a hazardous waste in a tank. (1) An owner or operator shall determine the maximum organic vapor pressure for each hazardous waste placed in a tank using air emission controls in accordance with standards specified in §265.1085(c) of this subpart. (2) An owner or operator shall use either direct measurement as specified in paragraph (c)(3) of this section or knowledge of the waste as specified by paragraph (c)(4) of this section to determine the maximum organic vapor pressure which is representative of the hazardous waste composition stored or treated in the tank. (3) To determine the maximum organic vapor pressure of the hazardous waste by direct measurement, the following procedure shall be used:
