FR940516-1-00042 FR940516-1-00003 The Public Inquiry into the Piper Alpha Disaster was published by Her Majesty's Stationery Office, London, in November 1990. The report confirmed the conclusions reached in the initial investigation report published in September 1988. The report concluded that in all likelihood the scenario of the leaking blind flange in the condensate injector pump was the initial cause of the incident. The report lists 106 recommendations for improving safety in the U.K. North Sea. The recommendations propose changes to the regulations, regulatory agency realignment, and a call for renewed commitment to safety by industry. Summary of South Pass 60 Platform ``B'' Fire On March 19, 1989, an offshore contracting crew was ``cold-cutting'' an 18-inch gas line riser at the platform's 10-foot level in preparation for the installation of a pig trap. ``Cold cutting'' is a method of cutting through a section of pipe with a mechanical cutting tool as opposed to using a blow torch. Upon penetration into the pipeline riser, pressurized condensate began to spray from the cut area. The condensate was ignited either by sparks generated on the compressor skid on an attendant workboat or by hot exhaust pipes on the above production deck. The fire raged upward from the riser, and the emergency shutdown (ESD) system shut down both Platform ``B'' and Platform ``E'' and all incoming and departing pipelines. Six of the 10 incoming and departing pipelines, including a high pressure gas line, ruptured from the heat of the fire. The resulting explosions killed seven people and destroyed the platform. Federal Register Notice on Subsea Pipeline Valves In support of the work of the task group, MMS published a Federal Register Notice dated July 23, 1990 (55 FR 29860), seeking information on subsea shutdown valve (SDV) technology and feasibility and offshore emergency pipeline pressure reduction techniques. Thirty companies and organizations representing oil- and gas-related industries responded to the questionnaire. Their responses are discussed later in the preamble. Task Group Findings The MMS task group identified the following areas in the regulations that should be revised: 1. Identification and notification procedures for out-of-service safety devices and systems. 2. Location and protection of pipeline risers. 3. Diesel and helicopter fuel storage areas and tanks. 4. Approval of pipeline repairs. 5. Location of ESD valves on pipelines. Identification and Notification Procedures for Out-of-Service Safety Devices A contributing factor to both accidents was the lack of communication and notification to personnel of the platform production systems status. In the Piper Alpha incident, the production crew attempted to start a condensate injection pump that was partially dismantled for repairs during the previous shift. Leaking condensate from the associated pipework of the pump caused the first of a series of explosions and fires. The location of the pump control panel did not allow the operator of the control panel to view the pump or detect the leak. In the South Pass 60 incident, the platform operator and the pipeline company did not provide for adequate planning and coordination of the riser cutting operation. Platform personnel were apparently unaware of the status of the riser cutting operation or the difficulty the contractor was experiencing with the unexpected flow.
