FR940223-2-00071 FR940223-2-00037 Part VI of the order requires Eggland's to maintain copies of all materials relied upon in making any representations covered by the order. Part VII or the order requires Eggland's to distribute copies of the order to its franchisees and to various officers, agents and representatives of Eggland's. Part VIII of the order requires Eggland's to notify the Commission of any changes in corporate structure that might affect compliance with the order. Part IX of the order requires Eggland's to file with the Commission one or more reports detailing compliance with the order. The purpose of this analysis is to facilitate public comment on the proposed order, and it is not intended to constitute an official interpretation of the agreement and proposed order, or to modify any of their terms. Donald S. Clark, Secretary. Separate Statement of Commissioner Mary L. Azcuenaga, Concurring in Part and Dissenting in Part, in Eggland's Best, Inc., File No. 932&hyph;3000 The Commission today accepts for public comment a consent agreement settling charges that Eggland's Best made deceptive advertising claims about its eggs. I agree that there is reason to believe that these claims were deceptive and join in approving the order except for ¶V.B. I do not agree that the corrective advertising provision contained in ¶V.B. is warranted, and I dissent from the order to that extent. In imposing a corrective advertising remedy, the Commission must consider whether an advertisement has played a substantial role in creating in the public's mind a false belief about a product that will linger on after the false advertisement ceases. Warner-Lambert Co. v. FTC, 562 F.2d 749, 762 (D.C. Cir. 1977), cert. denied, 435 U.S. 950 (1978). Corrective advertising is intended to dissipate the lingering effects of a deceptive advertisement so that future advertisements do not become part of a continuing deception of the public. Id. at 769. Here, there is no direct evidence, such as the consumer surveys and expert testimony in Warner Lambert Co., that Eggland's Best's advertisements created a lingering false impression about the effects on serum cholesterol of its eggs. Given the relatively short period of time during which Eggland's Best's advertisements were run, it seems unlikely that any such lingering false impression has been created. Without a stronger showing of the need for corrective advertising under the Warner-Lambert test, I cannot support including a corrective advertising provision in the proposed order.
