FR940920-1-00077 FR940920-1-00008 The MWC operating guidelines (GCP) included in today's proposal are the same as those in the February 11, 1991 guidelines. The training and certification requirements have changed somewhat. The February 11, 1991 guidelines required only provisional certification of MWC chief facility operators and shift supervisors, but today's proposed guidelines would require both provisional and then full certification. This change is being proposed because the full operator certification program is now widely available. In 1991, the program was not widely available. Today's proposal also adds a provision to allow provisionally certified MWC control room operators to stand in for the MWC chief facility operators or shift supervisors in their temporary absence from the MWC. Additionally, today's proposal would require all MWC chief facility operators, shift supervisors, and control room operators to complete the EPA or a State MWC training course. This training course requirement was not included in the February 11, 1991 guidelines. F. Performance Testing and Monitoring Requirements Information related to the performance testing and monitoring requirements for MWC acid gases (SO 2 and HCl), MWC organics (dioxins/furans), PM, and MWC operating practices was published in the February 11 and 13, 1991 Federal Register notices (56 FR 5514 and 56 FR 5758). These same requirements would be adopted by today's proposed guidelines and would be extended to apply to all MWC's at plants with aggregate capacities above 35 Mg/day. Because the proposed guidelines allow compliance with either a dioxin/furan limit in terms of TEQ or a dioxin/furan limit on a total mass basis, procedures are being proposed for determining dioxin/furan emissions on a TEQ basis. The mass of each tetra- through octa- chlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxin and dibenzofuran congener would be measured by EPA Reference Method 23. Each congener mass would then be adjusted by the corresponding toxic equivalency factor (TEF; the 1989 NATO international TEF's). Finally, the adjusted congener masses would be added together to determine dioxins/furans in ng/dscm TEQ. Furthermore, today's proposal would require both large and small MWC facilities to conduct annual opacity tests using EPA Reference Method 9. This testing would be in addition to the continuous monitoring of opacity levels. Also, today's proposal allows small MWC facilities to conduct less frequent testing for dioxin/furan, HCl, and PM emissions if the small facility consistently demonstrates compliance. More specifically, under today's proposed emission guidelines, if three consecutive annual compliance tests for an MWC at a small MWC plant indicate compliance with the emission guideline for a pollutant (i.e., PM, HCl, or dioxins/furans), the MWC would be allowed to wait 3 years before retesting for the pollutant. If the next test conducted in the third year shows compliance with the emission guideline for that pollutant, then the facility could again wait 3 years to test for the pollutant. If noncompliance with the emission guideline for the pollutant occurs, corrective actions would be required to be undertaken and annual testing would be required to be conducted until 3 consecutive years of compliance with the emission guideline is established. At a minimum, performance tests for dioxins/furans, HCl, and PM would be required to be performed for each MWC at a small MWC plant every 3 years. This provision is included to minimize costs for small MWC plants, while still retaining periodic testing to ensure compliance. All large MWC plants would continue to be required to conduct annual compliance tests. Annual performance tests to determine compliance with the Cd, Pb, and Hg emission guidelines would be based on EPA Reference Method 29. The average emission rates of three or more test runs using this methodology would be used to determine compliance. The EPA considered the use of EPA Reference Method 101A for Hg testing; however, based on available data, the EPA has concluded that Method 29 is a better measure of Cd, Pb, and Hg emissions than Method 101A and has therefore proposed Method 29 for testing MWC's. Also, as discussed above for dioxins/furans, PM, and HCl, if small plants demonstrate compliance with the Cd, Pb, and Hg emission guidelines for 3 consecutive years, they would be allowed to begin testing for these three pollutants every third year. The EPA Reference Method 29 is proposed in a separate part of today's Federal Register . Method 29 is very similar to the method that has been used by the EPA's Office of Solid Waste to measure metal emissions from boilers cofiring hazardous waste, commonly referred to as the EPA multimetals method. The proposed Method 29 is discussed in section IV.H of this preamble. The proposed emission guidelines for NO X would require continuous monitoring of NO X emissions for MWC's at large plants, except refractory units for which a ``no control'' emission guideline is proposed. Compliance with the NO X emission guideline level for nonrefractory MWC's at large plants would be determined by calculating the arithmetic average of the hourly emission rates, as measured by the continuous emission monitoring system (CEMS), for a 24-hour period that the MWC operates, using EPA Reference Method 19. Quality assurance would be maintained in accordance with appendix F of 40 CFR part 60. Annual performance tests to determine compliance with proposed fly ash/bottom ash visible emissions guidelines would be based on EPA Reference Method 22 (3-hour continuous visual observation). The limits would apply at all times, and tests would be conducted during periods of time when fly ash/bottom ash is transferred from the combustor or from the air pollution control device to the ash loading area, and when ash is loaded for transportation or is being transported onsite. The data availability requirement for CEMS (SO 2 , NO X , CO, and O 2 (or CO 2 )) has been changed from the 1991 NSPS.
