FR941103-0-00033 FR941103-0-00007 There are two reasons for requiring transmission pricing to meet the traditional revenue requirement. First, it appears that transmission will remain a natural monopoly for the foreseeable future. It is unlikely that market-based prices for monopoly services, especially for firm transmission service, could be justified under the FPA at the present time, under the current industry structure. However, it is clear that there is no single appropriate ratemaking method under the FPA. The end result is the appropriate yardstick against which to measure the legality of a rate order, not the ratemaking method. Thus, although no single ratemaking method is necessarily favored by the FPA, this pricing principle will ensure that transmission users pay a just and reasonable price for transmission services and that transmission owners, while being appropriately and adequately compensated, 19 will not be able to exercise their market power to collect exorbitant rates. 19 Duquesne, 488 U.S. at 316; Bluefield Water Works & Improvement Co. v. Public Service Commission of the State of West Virginia, 262 U.S. 679 (1923); Hope , 320 U.S. at 602. Second, we believe that pricing within an embedded cost revenue requirement provides adequate incentives for transmission owners to provide comparable transmission services, as long as the transmission owner has the opportunity for full cost recovery. When upgrades are required, the transmission owner may incur significant expenses related to planning and siting new facilities. For example, a utility may be required to pay for environmental mitigation associated with the construction of new transmission facilities. Such costs will be recoverable by the transmission owner if they are prudently incurred. In addition, under the traditional revenue requirement principle, transmission owners clearly may, with appropriate support, 20 recover the legitimate and verifiable costs of services they provide that are ancillary to transmission services, such as load following, reactive power compensation, and backup power services. However, transmission customers should also be permitted to provide these services themselves or to obtain them from someone else if this is feasible. 20 See Northern States Power Company (Minnesota and Wisconsin) Opinion No. 383, 64 FERC ¶61,324 (1993), reh'g pending (reactive power). Finally, as discussed in Section IV below, we intend to allow significant latitude and a wide variety of non-traditional rate design proposals, within a cost cap based on the total company revenue requirement. 2. Transmission Pricing Must Reflect Comparability Any new transmission pricing proposal, conforming or non- conforming, must meet the Commission's recently announced comparability standard. In American Electric Power Service Corporation (AEP), 67 FERC ¶61,168 (1994), the Commission articulated a new standard for judging whether access to transmission services is unduly discriminatory, or anticompetitive. The Commission noted that ``[a]n open access tariff that is not unduly discriminatory or anticompetitive should offer third parties access on the same or comparable basis, and under the same or comparable terms and conditions, as the transmission provider's uses of its system.'' 21 This principle has been applied to all open access tariffs filed since AEP, as well as to transmission services provided by RTGs. 22 21 67 FERC at 61,490. 22 See PacifiCorp, et al . (on behalf of Western Regional Transmission Association), 69 FERC XXX ; Southwest Regional Transmission Association, 69 FERC at XXX . There is a relationship between price and quality of service ( i.e ., in general, higher quality service costs more). In Florida Municipal Power Agency v. Florida Power & Light Co., 67 FERC ¶61,167 at 61,482 (1994) ( FMPA ), the Commission stated, ``[s]ince FMPA wants to be able to use the transmission system as freely as does Florida Power, it must pay a rate that reflects that equality.'' As a result of the relationship between quality of service and price discussed most recently in FMPA, and the growing importance of service comparability, we will require that pricing be comparable. Comparability of service applies to price as well as to terms and conditions. Comparability of transmission pricing involves a ``golden rule of pricing''_a transmission owner should charge itself on the same or comparable basis that it charges others for the same service. 23 23 There is a similar ``golden rule or access''_provide the same or comparable services to others as you provide yourself.
