FR940817-0-00064 FR940817-0-00017 (5) Immigration inspectors; (6) Immigration examiners when in the uniform of an immigration inspector and performing inspections or supervising other immigration inspectors performing inspections; (7) Supervisory and managerial personnel who are responsible for supervising the activities of those officers listed above; and (8) Immigration officers who need the authority to carry firearms under section 287(a) of the Act in order to effectively accomplish their individual missions and who are designated, individually or as a class, by the Commissioner with the approval of the Deputy Attorney General. 9. Section 287.7 is amended by revising paragraph (a)(1) to read as follows: §287.7 Detainer provisions under section 287(d)(3) of the Act. (a) Detainers in general. (1) A detainer may be issued only in the case of an alien who there is reason to believe is amenable to exclusion or deportation proceedings under any provision of law. The following immigration officers are hereby authorized to issue detainers under section 287(d)(3) of the Act: (i) Border patrol agents, including aircraft pilots; (ii) Special agents; (iii) Deportation officers; (iv) Immigration inspectors; (v) Immigration examiners; (vi) Supervisory and managerial personnel who are responsible for supervising the activities of those officers listed above; and (vii) Immigration officers who need the authority to issue detainers under section 287(d)(3) of the Act in order to effectively accomplish their individual missions and who are designated, individually or as a class, by the Commissioner. * * * * * 10. Part 287 is amended by adding §§287.8, 287.9, 287.10, and 287.11 to read as follows: §287.8 Standards for enforcement activities. The following standards for enforcement activities contained in this section must be adhered to by every immigration officer involved in enforcement activities. Any violation of this section shall be reported pursuant to §287.10. (a) Use of force. (1) Non-deadly force. (i) Non-deadly force is any use of force other than that which is considered deadly force as defined in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. (ii) Non-deadly force may be used only when a designated immigration officer, as listed in paragraph (a)(1)(iv) of this section, has reasonable grounds to believe that such force is necessary. (iii) A designated immigration officer shall always use the minimum non-deadly force necessary to accomplish the officer's mission and shall escalate to a higher level of non-deadly force only when such higher level of force is warranted by the actions, apparent intentions, and apparent capabilities of the suspect, prisoner, or assailant. (iv) The following immigration officers who have successfully completed basic immigration law enforcement training are hereby authorized and designated to exercise the power conferred by section 287(a) of the Act to use non-deadly force should circumstances warrant it: (A) Border patrol agents, including aircraft pilots; (B) Special agents; (C) Deportation officers; (D) Detention enforcement officers; (E) Immigration inspectors; (F) Immigration examiners when in the uniform of an immigration inspector and performing inspections or supervising other immigration inspectors performing inspections; (G) Supervisory and managerial personnel who are responsible for supervising the activities of those officers listed above; and (H) Immigration officers who need the authority to use non-deadly force under section 287(a) of the Act in order to effectively accomplish their individual missions and who are designated, individually or as a class, by the Commissioner.
