FR940622-0-00063 FR940622-0-00011 Comment: Several commenters believe that the definition of ``responsible physician'' should include any physician on the hospital medical staff, including on-call physicians. Response: We have amended the definition of ``responsible physician'' to comport with the OBRA 89 amendments to section 1867 of the Act. The definition encompasses any physician, including those physicians on-call, to whom the hospital has delegated responsibility to examine, treat, or transfer an individual that comes to the hospital emergency department seeking help. A hospital may use physicians on its medical staff to carry out its responsibilities under the statute. OBRA 89 amended section 1866(a)(1)(I) of the Act to require the hospital, as a condition of participation, to ``maintain a list of physicians who are on-call for duty after the initial examination to provide treatment necessary to stabilize an individual with an emergency medical condition.'' Comment: One commenter asked about the hospital's liability when the attending physician determines that the patient requires the skills of a specialist who has staff privileges, but the specialist has never agreed to provide emergency services. Response: As previously indicated, pursuant to OBRA 89, the hospital has a duty to ensure that, within the capabilities of the hospital's staff and facility, the medical needs of an individual who comes to an emergency room can be met. The hospital's capabilities include the skills of a specialist who has staff privileges to the extent that the hospital can require the specialist to furnish these services. However, it is up to the hospital to determine how it will comply with its statutory obligations. Comment: One commenter recommended that the regulations exempt from liability a physician who attempts to admit a patient if the hospital refuses admission. Response: To be a responsible physician under the terms of the statute and regulations, a physician must be responsible for examining, treating, or transferring an individual whom the statute protects. If an emergency room physician, for example, is under contract with the hospital to provide emergency care and treatment, but does not have admitting privileges, that physician is still under an obligation to provide an appropriate medical screening examination and either stabilizing treatment within the capabilities of the staff and facilities of the hospital or an appropriate transfer under the statute. Section 1867(d)(1)(C) of the Act specifically states that if a physician determines that an ``individual requires the services of a physician listed by the hospital on its list of on-call physicians .␣.␣. and notifies the on-call physician and the on-call physician fails or refuses to appear within a reasonable period of time, and the physician orders the transfer of the individual because,'' without the on-call physician's services, the benefits of transfer outweigh the risks of transfer, the transferring physician will not be subject to penalties under section 1867 of the Act. However, this does not absolve the hospital and the on-call physician from liability under the statute. Comment: One commenter believes that these regulations may cause emergency room physicians to hesitate to transfer patients when appropriate because their decisions might be reviewed through hindsight and without consideration of the pressure of the specific circumstances. Response: We do not agree with the commenter's contention. In reviewing allegations of patient dumping, we will look at all the information available to the treating or transferring physician at the time the decision is made. We believe that the physician's concern should be for the patient rather than for possible consequences of this requirement. To further strengthen the protection of emergency room physicians with regard to their transfer decisions, section 6211(f) of OBRA 89 added paragraph (i) to section 1867 of the Act to prevent hospitals from penalizing physicians who refuse to authorize the transfer of an individual with an unstabilized emergency medical condition. In addition, section 4027(k)(3) of OBRA 90 amended section 1867(i) of the Act to provide similar protection to qualified medical emergency room staff with regard to their transfer decisions when a physician is not available in the emergency room. We are amending §489.24(d)(3) to include these new provisions so that it conforms to the statute as amended. Miscellaneous Comment: One commenter suggested that the regulations include the requirement that the patient or a third party payer must pay for the patient's medical screening or examination. Response: A patient's obligations to pay for services provided by a hospital is beyond the scope of these regulations. However, if an individual is unable to pay for services, the hospital, nonetheless, remains subject to the requirements of the statute and regulations with respect to that individual. Section 1867(h) of the Act, as added by section 6211(f) of OBRA 89, states expressly that the ``hospital may not delay provision of an appropriate medical screening examination .␣.␣. or further medical examination and treatment .␣.␣. to inquire about the individual's method of payment or insurance status.'' Comment: One commenter stated that many managed health care plans require hospital emergency departments to call the plan for permission to examine and treat the plan's patients; the commenter believed that this violates the law. He also stated that a plan can retroactively determine that an emergency condition did not exist.
