FR940831-2-00189 FR940831-2-00107 Applicants must fully describe the capabilities and work experience of all key staff. Applicants must fully describe their knowledge of and experience with Youth Leadership activities, preferably in public housing. Applicants must include a staffing plan to fulfill the requirements of the statement of work, including staff titles and the staff's related educational background, experience, and skills; and the time each will be required to contribute to the project. (6) Tab 5_Program Implementation Plan: Applicants must submit a plan outlining the major activities of implementation and describe how available resources will be allocated. The plan must include an annotated organizational chart depicting the roles and responsibilities of key organizational and functional components and a list of key personnel responsible for managing and implementing the major elements of the program. There must be a time-task plan which clearly identifies the major milestones and products, organizational responsibility, and schedule for the completion of activities and products. (7) Tab 6_The following representations, certifications, and other statements: (i) SF&hyph;LLL Disclosure of Lobbying Activities. (ii) Certification Regarding Debarment, Suspension, Proposed Debarment, and other Responsibility Matters. (iii) Certification Regarding Drug-Free Workplace Requirements. (iv) Prior to award execution, a successful applicant must submit a certification that it will comply with: (A) Section 3 of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1968, Employment Opportunities for Lower Income Persons in Connection with Assisted Projects (12 U.S.C. 1701u), and with implementing regulations at 24 CFR part 135. Section 3 requires that, to the greatest extent feasible, opportunities for training and employment be given to lower income residents of the project area within the unit of local government or metropolitan area (or nonmetropolitan county) and work in connection with the project be awarded to eligible businesses located in or owned in substantial part by persons residing in the area; (B) Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (42 U.S.C. 2000d&hyph;2000d&hyph;4) (Nondiscrimination in Federally Assisted Programs) and implementing regulations issued at 24 CFR part 1; and (C) The prohibitions against discrimination on the basis of age under the Age Discrimination Act of 1975 (42 U.S.C. 6101&hyph;07) and implementing regulations at 24 CFR part 146, and the prohibitions against discrimination against persons with disabilities under section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 794) and implementing regulations at 24 CFR part 8. (h) Selection Criteria The Department will review and rate proposals, with the highest possible score being 100 points, according to the following criteria: (1) Corporate/Organizational Management Qualifications (i) Organizational Structure (10 points). Applicants must concisely describe how the organization has the structure, staff size, financial reporting capacity and internal controls that will maximize successful implementation of the tasks described in this notice. (ii) Administrative Experience (10 points). Applicants must demonstrate their experience in the successful administration of programs of a similar budget and staff size. Applicant should provide a short list of names and current phone numbers of individuals or firms for which previous work was accomplished. (2) Staff Qualifications (i) Project Director (10 points). Applicants should provide a project director with the experience and capacity to manage the budget and staff of the proposed grant; showing evidence of the ability to quickly and efficiently complete the proposed activities. Applicant should provide a short list of names and current phone numbers of individuals or firms for which the proposed project director has previously accomplished work. (ii) Project Staff (10 points). Applicants should provide staff with the experience and capacity to quickly and efficiently organize and implement the workshops. Staff should have sufficient experience working with public housing staff and residents to minimize any issues specific to implementing activities in public housing, and sufficient experience in the subject area to maximize success. Applicants must identify the specific personnel to be assigned to the project, their experience with successful planning and implementation of conferences, and development of youth leadership activities and programs, preferably in public housing. (3) Program Experience (i) Program Knowledge (15 points). Applicants should be able to demonstrate their knowledge and experience in the following program specifics: successful planning and implementation of multi-site conferences, youth development, peer support systems, peer leadership programs, and community organization. (ii) Knowledge of public housing (15 points). Applicants should be able to demonstrate experience with and understanding of the target population. (4) Quality of the Plan Applicants should demonstrate that the proposed plan will accomplish the goals outlined above with the following elements: (i) Detailed narrative of the proposed structure, strategy and activities that will allow staff to effectively reach the stated goals. (10 points). (ii) Tasks, timetable and staff assignments for the proposed activities. (10 points).
