FR940920-1-00030 FR940920-1-00007 Today's proposed standards would establish siting requirements for all new MWC's at plants with aggregate capacities above 35 Mg/day. These siting requirements would include three components. First, an analysis of the impact of the facility on ambient air quality, visibility, soils, and vegetation would be required. Second, the siting requirements would include submittal of a materials separation plan for the area served by the affected facility. Third, the MWC owner or operator would be required to make both the siting analysis and the materials separation plan available to the public, hold public meetings to receive comments on the siting analysis and materials separation plan, and respond in writing to the comments received. These siting requirements were not included in the February 11, 1991 NSPS. See section V.D of this preamble for a more detailed discussion of the proposed siting requirements. Today's proposed standards also establish standards for fugitive fly ash/bottom ash emissions from ash handling facilities. The proposed standards would establish visible emissions limits for emissions of ash from buildings where ash was transferred and from external ash transfer equipment and ash handling areas at the MWC facility. This requirement was not included in the February 11, 1991 NSPS. D. Proposed Standards Today's proposal would establish standards for MWC acid gases (SO 2 and HCl), MWC metals (PM, opacity, Cd, Pb, and Hg), MWC organics (dioxins/furans), and NO X . The proposed standards also include requirements for fly ash/bottom ash fugitive handling, MWC operating practices (CO, load, and flue gas temperature), operator training and certification, and siting for new MWC units. The proposed NSPS would divide the MWC population into two subcategories: The first would be for MWC units located at small MWC plants (i.e., those with aggregate capacities to combust greater than 35 Mg/day of MSW but equal to or less than 225 Mg/day), and the second would be for MWC units at large plants (i.e., those with aggregate capacities to combust more than 225 Mg/day of MSW). The aggregate capacity of all MWC units at one site constructed after September 20, 1994 would be added together to define aggregate MWC plant capacity for determining NSPS applicability. The proposed NSPS for each subcategory of MWC's are summarized in table 1. The proposed NSPS are also discussed briefly below.
