FR940202-2-00113 FR940202-2-00071 III. Modes of Transmission RSV is present in large numbers in the respiratory secretions of symptomatic persons infected with the virus and can be transmitted directly via large droplets during close contact with such persons, or indirectly via RSV-contaminated hands or fomites. 503,524,525 The portal of entry is usually the conjunctiva or the nasal mucosa. 526 Inoculation by RSV-contaminated hands is the usual way of depositing the virus onto the eyes or nose. 503,524&hyph;526 Hands can become contaminated through handling of infected persons' respiratory secretions or contaminated fomites. 524,525 In nosocomial RSV outbreaks in which the viral isolates were typed, more than one strain of RSV has often been identified, 504,513,539 suggesting multiple sources of the virus. Potential sources include patients, hospital staff, and visitors. Because infected infants shed large amounts of virus in their respiratory secretions and easily contaminate their immediate surroundings, they are a major reservoir for RSV. 540 Hospital staff may become infected after exposure in the community 541 or in the hospital, and in turn, infect patients, other health-care workers, or hospital visitors. 516,542 IV. Control Measures Various combinations of control measures ranging from the simple to the complex have been effective, to some degree or other, in preventing and controlling nosocomial RSV infection. 215,542&hyph;549 Successful programs have had two elements in common: implementation of contact-isolation precautions, and compliance with these precautions by healthcare personnel. In theory, strict handwashing should prevent most nosocomial RSV infections. However, health-care workers' handwashing practices have always been poor, even in institutions with good educational programs. 210,211 Thus, other preventive measures are usually relied upon to prevent RSV infection. The basic precautions that have been associated with decreased incidence of nosocomial RSV infections are gloving and gowning. 215 Gloving has helped decrease transmission probably because gloves remind patient-care personnel to comply with handwashing and other precautions, and deter persons from touching their eyes or noses. The benefits from gloving, however, are offset if gloves are not changed between patients or after contact with contaminated fomites, and if hands are not adequately washed after glove removal. 218 Gowning, in combination with gloving, during contact with RSV-infected infants or their immediate environment has been used successfully to prevent infection. 215 In addition, the use of eye-nose goggles rather than masks has protected healthcare workers from infection; however, eye-nose goggles are not widely available and are inconvenient to wear. 546,550 Additional measures may be indicated to control ongoing nosocomial transmission of RSV or to prevent transmission to patients at high risk for serious complications of infections, such as those with compromised cardiac, pulmonary, or immune systems. The following additional control measures have been used in various combinations: (1) Use of private rooms for infected patients OR cohorting of infected patients, with or without pre-admission screening by rapid laboratory diagnostic tests, (2) cohorting of personnel, (3) exclusion of healthcare workers who have symptoms of upper respiratory tract infection from the care of uninfected patients at high risk of severe or fatal RSV infection, e.g., infants, (4) limiting visitors, and (5) postponing admission of patients at high risk of complications from RSV infection. 213,543,545,547,549 Although the exact role of each of these measures has not been fully elucidated, their use for control of outbreaks seems prudent. INFLUENZA I. Epidemiology Pneumonia in patients with influenza may be due to the influenza virus itself, secondary bacterial infection, or a combination of both. 551&hyph;553 Influenza-associated pneumonia can occur in any person, but is more common in the very young or old and in persons in any age group with immunosuppression or certain chronic medical conditions such as severe underlying heart or lung disease. 531,554&hyph;556 Influenza typically occurs annually in the winter between December and April; peak activity in a community usually lasts from 6 to 8 weeks during this period. 557,558 During influenza epidemics in the community, nosocomial outbreaks may occur and are characterized by abrupt onset and rapid transmission. 559&hyph;561 Most reported institutional outbreaks of influenza have occurred in nursing homes; however, hospital outbreaks have been reported on pediatric and chronic-care wards, as well as on medical and neonatal intensive care units. 506,562&hyph;565 Influenza is believed to be spread from person to person by direct deposition of virus-laden large droplets onto the mucosal surfaces of the upper respiratory tract of an individual during close contact with an infected person, as well as by droplet nuclei or small-particle aerosols. 566&hyph;569 The extent to which transmission may occur by virus-contaminated hands or fomites is unknown; however, it is not the primary mode of spread. 570 The most important reservoirs of influenza virus are infected persons, and the period of greatest communicability is during the first 3 days of illness; however, the virus can be shed before onset of symptoms, and up to 7 or more days after illness onset. 506,557,571 II. Diagnosis Influenza is clinically indistinguishable from other febrile respiratory illnesses, but during outbreaks with laboratory-confirmed cases, a presumptive diagnosis of the infection can be made in cases with similar manifestations. 572 In the past, diagnosis of influenza was made by virus isolation from nasopharyngeal secretions or by serologic conversion, but recently developed rapid diagnostic tests that are similar to culture in sensitivity and specificity allow early diagnosis and treatment of cases and provide a basis for prompt initiation of antiviral prophylaxis as part of outbreak control. 573&hyph;578
