FR941213-0-00041 FR941213-0-00010 II. Legislation Section 9305 (c)(1) and (c)(2) of OBRA '86 amends section 1861(e) of the Act, which defines ``hospital'', by adding to paragraph (6) a requirement that a hospital have in place a discharge planning process that meets the requirements of a new section 1861(ee) of the Act. Under section 1861(ee), a discharge planning process of a hospital is sufficient if it applies to services furnished by the hospital to Medicare beneficiaries and meets the guidelines and standards established by the Secretary of HHS to ensure a timely and smooth transition to the most appropriate type of setting for post-hospital or rehabilitative care. Section 1861(ee) requires that the Secretary's standards and guidelines include the following: (1) The hospital must identify, at an early stage of hospitalization, those patients who are likely to suffer adverse health consequences if discharged without adequate discharge planning. (2) Hospitals must provide a discharge planning evaluation for the patients identified under (1) above and for other patients upon request of the patient or his or her representative or physician. (3) Any discharge planning evaluation must be made on a timely basis to ensure that appropriate arrangements for post-hospital care will be made before discharge and to avoid unnecessary delays in discharge. (4) A discharge planning evaluation must include an evaluation of a patient's likely need for appropriate post-hospital services and the availability of those services. (5) The discharge planning evaluation must be included in the patient's medical record for use in establishing an appropriate discharge plan, and the results of the evaluation must be discussed with the patient or his or her representative. (6) Upon the request of a patient's physician, the hospital must arrange for the development and initial implementation of a discharge plan for the patient. (7) Any discharge planning evaluation or discharge plan required under section 1861(ee) of the Act must be developed by, or under the supervision of, a registered professional nurse, social worker, or other appropriately qualified personnel. (Although the statute refers to a ``registered professional nurse,'' both in this provision and in section 1861(e)(5) of the Act, there is no distinction between this term and ``registered nurse,'' which is more commonly used. We will hereafter use the term ``registered nurse'', to be consistent with other references in our regulations.) Section 9305(c)(3) of OBRA '86 amends section 1865(a) of the Act so that, in effect, when the JCAHO or AOA requires hospitals to have a discharge planning process or imposes a requirement that serves substantially the same purpose as the condition of participation for discharge planning, the Secretary is authorized to find that those hospitals with JCAHO or AOA accreditation meet that condition of participation. The provisions of section 9305(c) of OBRA '86 were effective October 21, 1987. III. Provisions of the Proposed Regulations On June 16, 1988, we published a proposed rule to implement these legislative changes as well as the clinical laboratory director standards revisions mentioned earlier (53 FR 22506). We also proposed several minor revisions to the conditions for coverage of suppliers of ESRD services to accommodate a request from the Office of Management and Budget concerning paperwork burden and reporting requirements. A. Discharge Planning Process To implement section 9305(c) of OBRA '86, we proposed to incorporate the provisions of the statute and would add a new hospital condition of participation, ยง482.43, Discharge planning, which would have applied only to Medicare patients. We proposed to delete the current discharge planning requirement in ยง482.21, Quality assurance, as a medically-related patient care service standard applicable to all patients. Section 1861(ee) of the Act confers authority to include standards and guidelines beyond those explicitly enumerated in the statute. We proposed to specify that the discharge planning evaluation include an evaluation of the Medicare patient's capacity for self-care or the possibility of this patient being cared for in the environment from which he entered the hospital. Under the requirements for the discharge plan, we would require, on an as-needed basis, that the Medicare patient and family members or interested persons be counseled to prepare them for post-hospital care. For clarity, we wanted to include the concept in the current regulation explicitly requiring the actual transfer or referral of Medicare patients after discharge planning is complete. We also proposed to require periodic reassessment of the Medicare patient's discharge plan to determine whether it needs to be changed. We would also require the hospital to reassess its discharge planning process on an ongoing basis to ensure that it meets Medicare patients' discharge needs. We deferred proposing any requirements relating to the needs assessment instrument that is being developed by the Secretary as required by section 9305(h) of OBRA '86. On June 30, 1992, HHS submitted a report on the needs assessment instrument to Congress including recommendations for further testing and development of the instrument.
