FR940203-0-00027 FR940203-0-00009 (b) The notice will identify the petitioner or other requestor, the imported article that is the subject of the investigation and its tariff subheading, the nature and timing of the determination to be made, the time and place of any public hearing, dates of deadlines for filing briefs, statements, and other documents, the place at which the petition or request and any other documents filed in the course of the investigation may be inspected, and the name, address, and telephone number of the office that may be contacted for more information. (c) The Commission will promptly make such petition or request available for public inspection (with the exception of confidential business information). §206.4 Notification of other agencies. The Commission will promptly transmit copies of petitions or requests filed and notification of investigations instituted to the Office of the United States Trade Representative (hereinafter USTR), the Secretary of Commerce, the Secretary of Labor, and other Federal agencies directly concerned. §206.5 Public hearings. (a) Investigations under subpart B. A public hearing on the question of injury and a second public hearing on remedy (if necessary) will be held in connection with each investigation instituted under subpart B of this part after reasonable notice thereof has been caused to be published in the Federal Register . A hearing on remedy will not be held if the Commission has made a negative determination on the question of injury. (b) Investigations under subparts C, D, and E. A public hearing on the subject of injury and remedy will be held in connection with each investigation instituted under subparts C, D, and E of this part after reasonable notice thereof has been caused to be published in the Federal Register . (c) Opportunity to appear and to cross-question. All interested parties and consumers, including any association representing the interests of consumers, will be afforded an opportunity to be present, to present evidence, to comment on the adjustment plan, if any, submitted in the case of an investigation under section 202(b), and to be heard at such hearings. All interested parties and consumers, including any association representing the interests of consumers, will be afforded an opportunity to cross-question interested parties making presentations at the hearing. §206.6 Report to the President. The Commission will include in its report to the President the following: (a) The determination made and an explanation of the basis for the determination; (b) If the determination is affirmative, the recommendations for action and an explanation of the basis for each recommendation; (c) Any dissenting or separate views by members of the Commission regarding the determination and any recommendations; (d) In the case of a determination made under section 202(b) of the Trade Act: (1) The findings with respect to the results of an examination of the factors other than imports which may be a cause of serious injury or threat thereof to the domestic industry; (2) A copy of the adjustment plan, if any, submitted by the petitioner; (3) Commitments submitted and information obtained by the Commission regarding steps that firms and workers in the domestic industry are taking, or plan to take, to facilitate positive adjustment to import competition; (4) A description of the short- and long-term effects that implementation of the action recommended is likely to have on the petitioning domestic industry, other domestic industries, and consumers; and (5) A description of the short- and long-term effects of not taking the recommended action on the petitioning domestic industry, its workers and communities where production facilities of such industry are located, and other domestic industries. (e) In the case of a determination made under section 302(b) of the NAFTA Implementation Act, the findings with respect to the results of an examination of the factors other than imports which may be a cause of serious injury or threat thereof to the domestic industry. §206.7 Confidential business information. In the case of an investigation under subpart B, C, or D of this part, the Commission will not release information which the Commission considers to be confidential business information within the meaning of §201.6 of these rules of practice and procedure unless the party submitting the confidential business information had notice, at the time of submission, that such information would be released by the Commission, or such party subsequently consents to the release of the information.
