FR941003-2-00167 FR941003-2-00057 At the same time, the Commission does not believe that the proposal significantly increases concerns regarding intermarket manipulations or disruptions of the markets for FCOs or the underlying currencies. The Commission notes that the interbank foreign currency spot market is an extremely large, diverse market comprised of banks and other financial institutions worldwide. 18 That market is supplemented by equally deep and liquid markets for standardized options and futures on foreign currencies and options on those futures. An active OTC market also exists in FCOs. Given the probable expense of attempting to affect the cash market for the currencies underlying the FCOs, the Commission believes that it would be difficult for a market participant to manipulate the underlying cash market to benefit a previously established FCO position. 18 See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 31627 (December 21, 1992), 57 FR 62399 (December 30, 1992) (order approving File No. SR&hyph;Amex&hyph;92&hyph;36). In addition, the Commission believes the proposal's requirement that FCOs have annual trading volume of 3,500,000 contracts to be eligible for the 150,000 contract limit further minimizes the potential for manipulations and helps to ensure that only consistently active currencies will be eligible for the higher position limit. In this regard, the Commission notes that if the PHLX's annual review of FCO trading volume indicates that an FCO is no longer eligible for the higher position limit, then the lower limit will be effective in all series of the FCO effective the Monday following the mid-month June expiration. 19 19 See Amendment No. 3, supra note 4. The Commission believes that the proposal's two-tiered approach to FCO position limits is consistent with the three-tiered position limits for equity and narrow-based index options traded on the PHLX, and that tiering is consistent with the evolutionary approach that the Commission and the options exchanges have adopted in increasing position and exercise limits. 20 The Commission believes that the PHLX has had considerable experience monitoring the tiered framework in equity options and narrow-based index options, and that differing position limits in those options have not created programming or monitoring problems for securities firms, or led to significant customer confusion. 21 Based on the PHLX's experience with the three-tiered approach in equity and narrow-based index options, the Commission believes the two-tiered approach for FCOs is appropriate. 20 See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 33288 (December 3, 1994), 58 FR 65221 (December 13, 1993) (order partially approving File No. SR&hyph;PHLX&hyph;93&hyph;07). 21 Id. Moreover, the absence of discernible manipulative problems under the current FCO position limit leads the Commission to conclude that the proposed increase is warranted. The Commission recognizes, as it has stated in the past, that there are no ideal limits in the sense that options positions of any given size can be stated conclusively to be free of any manipulative concerns. 22 The PHLX and the Commission, however, have relied largely on the absence of discernible manipulation or disruption problems under the current limit as an indicator that additional increases can be safely considered. The Commission believes for these reasons that the liberalization of existing FCO position and exercise limits under the condition specified is appropriate. 23 22 See Securities and Exchange Act Release No. 33288, supra note 20. 23 The Commission continues to believe that proposals to increase position and exercise limits must be justified and evaluated separately. After reviewing the proposed exercise limits, along with the eligibility criteria for the higher tier, the Commission has concluded that the exercise limit increase does not raise manipulation problems or increase concerns over market disruption in the underlying currencies. In addition, the Commission believes that the PHLX's surveillance programs will be adequate to detect and deter the use of illegal position limits by market participants as well as detect and deter attempted manipulative activity and other trading abuses. The Commission believes that it is reasonable for the PHLX, on a timely basis, to review annual FCO volume during the year measured immediately prior to approval of the proposal in order to allow the Exchange to implement the higher position limit for eligible FCOs prior to the end of 1994. The Commission finds good cause for approving Amendment No. 3 to the proposed rule change prior to the thirtieth day after the date of publication of notice thereof in the Federal Register . The Commission believes that Amendment No. 3 strengthens the PHLX's proposal by requiring that lower position limits be implemented sooner than originally proposed, i.e. , six months rather than up to two years, if an FCO's trading volume for the previous year is less than 3,500,000 contracts, thereby helping to ensure that only actively traded currencies are eligible for the higher position limit. Accordingly, the Commission believes it is consistent with Sections 6(b)(5) and 19(b) of the Act to approve Amendment No. 3 to the proposed rule change on an accelerated basis. IV. Solicitation of Comments Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views and arguments concerning Amendment No. 3 to the proposed rule change. Persons making written submissions should file six copies thereof with the Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of the submission, all subsequent amendments, all written statements with respect to the proposed rule change that are filed with the Commission, and all written communications relating to the proposed rule change between the Commission and any person, other than those that may be withheld from the public in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552, will be available for inspection and copying at the Commission's Public Reference Section, 450 Fifth Street NW., Washington, DC. Copies of such filing will also be available for inspection and copying at the principal office of the above-mentioned self-regulatory organization. All submissions should refer to the file number in the caption above and should be submitted by October 24, 1994. It is therefore ordered, Pursuant to Section 19(b)(2) of the Act, 24 that the proposed rule change (SR&hyph;PHLX&hyph;93&hyph;13) is approved. 24 15 U.S.C. ยง78s(b)(2) (1982). For the Commission, by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. 25 25 17 CFR 200.30&hyph;3(a)(12) (1993). Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;24304 Filed 9&hyph;30&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
