FR940810-1-00026 FR940810-1-00006 Individual with a disability means any individual who: (1) Has a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one or more of such person's major life activities; (2) Has a record of such an impairment; or (3) Is regarded as having such an impairment. (Authority: Sec. 7(8)(B); 29 U.S.C. 706(8)(B)) * * * * * Individual with a severe disability means an individual with a disability_ (1)(i) Who has a severe physical or mental impairment that seriously limits one or more functional capacities (such as mobility, communication, self-care, self-direction, interpersonal skills, work tolerance, or work skills) in terms of an employment outcome; (ii) Whose vocational rehabilitation can be expected to require multiple vocational rehabilitation services over an extended period of time; and (iii) Who has one or more physical or mental disabilities resulting from amputation, arthritis, autism, blindness, burn injury, cancer, cerebral palsy, cystic fibrosis, deafness, head injury, heart disease, hemiplegia, hemophilia, respiratory or pulmonary dysfunction, mental retardation, mental illness, multiple sclerosis, muscular dystrophy, musculoskeletal disorders, neurological disorders (including stroke and epilepsy), paraplegia, quadriplegia, other spinal cord impairments, sickle cell anemia, specific learning disability, end-stage renal disease, or another disability or combination of disabilities determined on the basis of an assessment of rehabilitation needs to cause comparable substantial functional limitation; or (2) An individual with a severe mental or physical impairment whose ability to function independently in the family or community or whose ability to obtain, maintain, or advance in employment is substantially limited and for whom the delivery of independent living services will improve the ability to function, continue functioning, or move towards functioning independently in the family or community or to continue in employment, respectively. (Authority: Sec. 7(15)(C); 29 U.S.C. 706(15)(C)) * * * * * Personal assistance services means a range of services, provided by one or more persons, designed to assist an individual with a disability to perform daily living activities, on or off the job, that the individual would typically perform if the individual did not have a disability. These services must be designed to increase the individual's control in life and ability to perform everyday activities on or off the job. (Authority: Sec. 7(11); 29 U.S.C. 706(11)) * * * * * Rehabilitation engineering means the systematic application of engineering sciences to design, develop, adapt, test, evaluate, apply, and distribute technological solutions to problems confronted by individuals with disabilities in such functional areas as mobility, communications, hearing, vision, cognition and in activities associated with employment, independent living, education, and integration into the community. (Authority: Sec. 12(c); 29 U.S.C. 711(c)) Rehabilitation technology means the systematic application of technologies, engineering methodologies, or scientific principles to meet the needs of and address the barriers confronted by individuals with disabilities in such areas as education, rehabilitation, employment, transportation, independent living, and recreation, and includes rehabilitation engineering, assistive technology devices, and assistive technology services. (Authority: Sec. 7(13); 29 U.S.C. 706(13)) * * * * * Research utilization means activities seeking to link research findings to practical applications in planning, policymaking, program administration, and service practice in the delivery of services to individuals with disabilities. (Authority: Sec. 12(c); 29 U.S.C. 711(c)) * * * * * Supported employment means competitive work in integrated work settings for individuals with the most severe disabilities for whom competitive employment has not traditionally occurred or for whom competitive employment has been interrupted or intermittent as a result of a severe disability, and who, because of the nature and severity of their disability, need intensive supported employment services and extended services after transition in order to perform that work. The term includes transitional employment for persons who are individuals with the most severe disabilities due to mental illness. (Authority: Sec. 7(18); 29 U.S.C. 706(18)) * * * * * 6. Section 350.20 is revised to read as follows: ยง350.20 What are the application procedures under these programs? An applicant for assistance under 34 CFR Parts 351, 352, 353, 354, 355, 357, 358, 359, or 360 whose application is to conduct research, demonstrations, or related activities that will either involve clients of the State vocational rehabilitation agency as research subjects or study vocational rehabilitation services or techniques, shall_ (a) Submit a copy of its application for comment to the State rehabilitation agency or agencies in the primary State or States to be affected by the proposed activities; and (b) Include in its application copies of transmittal letters to the appropriate State agency or agencies indicating that the necessary copies were transmitted on or before the due date for transmittal of the application to the Department. ( Authority: Secs. 204(c) and 306(i); 29 U.S.C. 762(c) and 766(a))
