FR940506-1-00006 FR940506-1-00004 FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION 16 CFR Part 300 Rules and Regulations Under the Wool Products Labeling Act of 1939 AGENCY: Federal Trade Commission. ACTION: Request for public comments. SUMMARY: The Federal Trade Commission (the ``Commission'') is requesting public comments on its Rules and Regulations under the Wool Products Labeling Act of 1939 (the ``Wool Act''). The Commission is also requesting comments about the overall costs and benefits of the Rules and their overall regulatory and economic impact as a part of its systematic review of all current Commission regulations and guides. DATES: Written comments will be accepted until June 6, 1994. ADDRESSES: Send comments to Secretary, Federal Trade Commission, Room H&hyph;159, Sixth & Pennsylvania Ave. NW., Washington, DC 20580. Submissions should be marked ``Rules and Regulations under the Wool Act, 16 CFR part 300_Comment.'' FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: 0 Bret S. Smart, Program Advisor, Los Angeles Regional Office, Federal Trade Commission, 11000 Wilshire Blvd., suite 13209, Los Angeles, CA 90024, (310) 575&hyph;7890. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Commission has determined, as part of its oversight responsibilities, to review rules and guides periodically. These reviews will seek information about the costs and benefits of the Commission's rules and guides and their regulatory and economic impact. The information obtained will assist the Commission in identifying rules and guides that warrant modification or recision. At this time, the Commission solicits written public comments concerning the Commission's Rules and Regulations under the Wool Act. The Wool Act (15 U.S.C. 68) requires marketers of covered wool products to mark each product with (1) the generic names and percentages by weight of the constituent fibers present in the wool product; (2) the name under which the manufacturer or other responsible company does business, or in lieu thereof, the registered identification number (RN) of such company; and (3) the name of the country where the wool product was processed or manufactured. Furthermore, the Wool Act contains advertising and recordkeeping provisions. Pursuant to Section 6(a) of the Wool Act, ``[t]he Commission is authorized and directed to make rules and regulations for the manner and form of disclosing information required by this Act *␣*␣* and to make such further rules and regulations under and in pursuance of the terms of this Act as may be necessary and proper for administration and enforcement.'' (15 U.S.C. 68d(a).) These implementing rules and regulations are set forth at 16 CFR part 300. The Commission solicits public comments on the following questions: 1. Is there a continuing need for the Rules and Regulations issued under the Wool Act? a. What benefits have the Rules provided to purchasers of the products or services affected by the Rules? b. Have the Rules imposed costs on purchasers? 2. What changes, if any, should be made to the Rules to increase the benefits of the Rules to purchasers? a. How would these changes affect the costs the Rules impose on firms subject to their requirements? 3. What significant burdens or costs, including costs of compliance, have the Rules imposed on firms subject to their requirements? a. Have the Rules provided benefits to such firms? 4. What changes, if any, should be made to the Rules to reduce the burdens or costs imposed on firms subject to their requirements? a. How would these changes affect the benefits provided by the Rules? 5. Do the Rules overlap or conflict with other federal, state, or local laws or regulations? 6. Since the Rules were issued, what effects, if any, have changes in relevant technology or economic conditions had on the Rules? Authority: 15 U.S.C. 68 et seq. List of Subjects in 16 CFR Part 300 Advertising, Labeling, Recordkeeping, Wool products. By direction of the Commission. Donald S. Clark, Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;10940 Filed 5&hyph;5&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6750&hyph;01&hyph;M
