FR940126-2-00046 FR940126-2-00020 (3) The SSA Committee, when in operation, may utilize a maximum of one-half of one percent (0.5%) for its administrative costs in allocating the SSA grant. As with Local Board awards, this administrative allowance is part of the total award, not in addition to the award. (4) Any of the administrative allowance not used must be put back into program funds for additional services. Note: The administrative allowance may only be allocated in whole-dollar amounts. Section 3.0␣Independent Annual Audit Requirements To be eligible to receive or administer EFSP funds, every LRO must have an independent annual audit. Depending on several factors (the size of the agency's budget, the number of Federal grants the agency receives, the size of the agency's grant, the complexity of the agency's accounting system, etc.), the agency's audit may or may not require the expertise of a certified public accountant. In some instances, an agency's accounting system is so simple and the restricted funds are only from EFSP, that a knowledgeable bookkeeper could perform the audit. In other cases, the agency has many Federal grants and is required to have an A&hyph;133 audit which must be performed by a CPA. Agencies must carefully choose what type of audit is required and select an appropriate independent auditor. An independent audit is performed by someone unaffiliated with the organization. For instance, an agency's own accountant cannot audit his employer's books. The audit must include an examination of the agency's fiscal controls as well as an inspection of records (including journals, ledgers, checkbooks and bank statements, receipts, contracts, etc.). Finally, the auditor must render an opinion on the agency's financial records (do the records presented accurately reflect the agency's finances?). The independent annual audit must include the following: (1) A balance sheet as of the last day of the fiscal year; (2) A statement of revenue and expense for the fiscal year; (3) A statement of internal controls; (4) The auditor's opinion. The agency's entire program funds must be included in the audit. The audit must meet the generally accepted auditing standards as set by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants. For a copy of the generally accepted auditing standards, contact the National Board staff. Section 4.0␣Appeals Process for Participation/Funding (a) Fairness and openness. An appeals process is a statement to eligible agencies and to the community at large that the Local Board is interested in fairness and openness. A good appeals process begins with prevention. If the Local Board includes both representatives of affiliates of the National Board and representatives of other groups involved with assisting hungry and homeless people, it is less likely to experience an appeal. Similarly, if the Local Board's decision-making process is open, thorough, and even-handed, appeals are less likely. It is the responsibility of the Local Board to establish a written appeals process. That process may be simple or elaborate, depending on the needs of the community. (b) Appeals guidelines. The appeal process should meet the following guidelines: (1) It should be available to agencies and to the public upon request; (2) It should be timely, without undue delay; (3) It should include the basis for appeal (e.g., provision of information not previously available to the group making the appeal or to the Local Board; correction of erroneous information; violation of Federal or National Board guidelines; or allegation of bias, fraud, or misuse of Federal funds on the part of the Local Board may be cause for appeal); (4) The decision should be communicated to the organization making the appeal in a timely manner. In the case of an appeal on the basis of fraud or other abuse of Federal funds, the agency making the appeal must be informed of the right of referral to the National Board. (c) Primary decision maker. Except for cost and LRO eligibility, the Local Board is the primary decision maker. Only when there is a significant question of misapplication of guidelines, fraud, or other abuse on the part of the Local Board will the National Board consider action.
