FR940526-1-00008 FR940526-1-00005 II. Proposed Amendment By letter dated May 3, 1994, Louisiana submitted a proposed amendment to its program pursuant to SMCRA (administrative record No. LA&hyph;348). Louisiana submitted the proposed amendment at its own initiative. The provision of LSMR that Louisiana proposes to revise is ยง53123.B.4, standards for success of revegetation at final bond release on reclaimed lands developed for forestry. Specifically, Louisiana proposes to review ยง53123.B.4 to require that the success standards for (1) ``live stems per acre'' shall be 450 well-distributed free-to-grow live pine trees per acre of the same age or 250 well-distributed live hardwood trees per acre of the same age. Countable stems shall be a minimum of 3 years old. and (2) ``vegetative ground cover'' shall be not less than 70 percent. Louisiana also proposed to define at ยง53123.B.4, ``well-distributed'' to mean uniform stocking levels over an entire planting site, ``free-to-grow'' to mean pine seedlings or saplings without significant hardwood competition, and to require that Competing vegetation shade the pine's crown on less than 30% of the crown's circumference and the pines are judged to have better than a 90% chance of capturing a place in the crown canopy. III. Public Comment Procedures In accordance with the provisions of 30 CFR 732.17(h), OSM is seeking comments on whether the proposed amendment satisfies the applicable program approval criteria of 30 CFR 732.15. If the amendment is deemed adequate, it will become part of the Louisiana program. 1. Written Comments Written comments should be specific, pertain only to the issues proposed in this rulemaking, and include explanations in support of the commenter's recommendations. Comments received after the time indicated under DATES or at locations other than the Tulsa Field Office will not necessarily be considered in the final rulemaking or included in the administrative record. 2. Public Hearing Persons wishing to testify at the public hearing should contact the person listed under FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT by 4 p.m., c.d.t. on June 10, 1994. The location and time of the hearing will be arranged with those persons requesting the hearing. If no one requests an opportunity to testify at the public hearing, the hearing will not be held. Filing of a written statement at the time of the hearing is requested as it will greatly assist the transcriber. Submission of written statements in advance of the hearing will allow OSM officials to prepare adequate responses and appropriate questions. The public hearing will continue on the specified date until all persons scheduled to testify have been heard. Persons in the audience who have not been scheduled to testify, and who wish to do so, will be heard following those who have been scheduled. The hearing will end after all persons scheduled to testify and persons present in the audience who wish to testify have been heard. 3. Public Meeting If only one person requests an opportunity to testify at a hearing, a public meeting, rather than a public hearing, may be held. Persons wishing to meet with OSM representatives to discuss the proposed amendment may request a meeting by contacting the person listed under FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT . All such meetings will be open to the public and, if possible, notices of meetings will be posted at the locations listed under ADDRESSES . A written summary of each meeting will be made a part of the administrative record.
