FR940602-2-00069 FR940602-2-00038 5. This agreement shall not become part of the public record of the proceeding unless and until it is accepted by the Commission. If this agreement is accepted by the Commission, it, together with the attached draft complaint, will be placed on the public record for a period of sixty (60) days and information in respect thereto publicly released. The Commission thereafter may either withdraw its acceptance of this agreement and so notify the proposed respondents, in which event it will take such action as it may consider appropriate, or issue and serve its complaint (in such form as the circumstances may require) and decision, in disposition of the proceeding. 6. This agreement is for settlement purposes only and does not constitute an admission by proposed respondents of facts, other than jurisdictional facts, or of violations of law as alleged in the draft of complaint here attached. 7. This agreement contemplates that, if it is accepted by the Commission, and if such acceptance is not subsequently withdrawn by the Commission pursuant to the provisions of ยง2.34 of the Commission's Rules, the Commission may, without further notice to proposed respondents: (a) Issue its complaint corresponding in form and substance with the attached draft complaint and its decision containing the following Order to cease and desist in disposition of the proceeding; and (b) make information public in respect thereto. When so entered, the Order to cease and desist shall have the same force and effect and may be altered, modified or set aside in the same manner and within the same time provided by statute for other orders. The Order shall become final upon service. Delivery by the U.S. Postal Service of the complaint and decision containing the agreed-to Order to proposed respondents' addresses as stated in this agreement shall constitute service. Proposed respondents waive any right they may have to any other manner of service. The complaint may be used in construing the terms of the Order, and no agreement, understanding, representation, or interpretation not contained in the Order or the agreement may be used to vary or contradict the terms of the Order. 8. Proposed respondents have read the attached draft complaint and the following Order. Proposed respondents understand that once the Order has been issued, they will be required to file one or more compliance reports showing that they have fully complied with the Order. Proposed respondents further understand that they may be liable for civil penalties in the amount provided by law for each violation of the Order after it becomes final. Order Definitions For the purposes of this Order, the following definitions shall apply: A. Competent and reliable scientific evidence shall mean those tests, analysis, research, studies, or other evidence based on the expertise of professionals in the relevant area, that have been conducted and evaluated in an objective manner by persons qualified to do so, using procedures generally accepted in the profession to yield accurate and reliable results; b. Weight loss program shall mean any program designed to aid consumers in weight loss or weight maintenance; C. A broadcast medium shall mean any radio or television broadcast, cablecast, home video, or theatrical release; D. For any Order-required disclosure in print media to be made clearly and prominently, or in a clear and prominent manner, it must be given both in the same type style and in: (1) Twelve point type where the representation that triggers the disclosure is given in twelve point or larger type; or (2) the same type size as the representation that triggers the disclosure where that representation is given in a type size that is smaller than twelve point type. For any Order-required disclosure given orally in a broadcast medium to be made ``clearly and prominently,'' or in a ``clear and prominent manner,'' the disclosure must be given at the same volume and in the same cadence as the representation that triggers the disclosure;
