FR941128-2-00069 FR941128-2-00045 b. The requirement that the Commission's decision contain a statement of findings of fact and conclusions of law; c. All rights to seek judicial review or otherwise to challenge or contest the validity of the order entered pursuant to this agreement; and d. Any claim under the Equal Access to Justice Act. 4. This agreement shall not become part of the public record of the proceeding unless and until it is accepted by the Commission. If this agreement is accepted by the Commission it, together with the draft of complaint contemplated thereby, will be placed on the public record for a period of sixty (60) days and information in respect thereto publicly released. The Commission thereafter may either withdraw its acceptance of this agreement and so notify the proposed respondent, in which event it will take such action as it may consider appropriate, or issue and serve its complaint (in such form as the circumstances may require) and decision, in disposition of the proceeding. 5. This agreement is for settlement purposes only and does not constitute an admission by the proposed respondent that the law has been violated as alleged in the draft of complaint here attached, or that the facts as alleged in the draft of complaint, other than jurisdictional facts, are true. 6. This agreement contemplates that, if it is accepted by the Commission, and if such acceptance is not subsequently withdrawn by the Commission pursuant to the provisions of ยง2.34 of the Commission's rules, the Commission may, without further notice to the proposed respondent, (1) issue its complaint corresponding in form and substance with the draft of complaint here attached and its decision containing the following order to cease and desist, and other relief in disposition of the proceeding, and (2) make information public with respect thereto. When so entered, the order shall have the same force and effect and may be altered, modified, or set aside in the same manner and within the same time provided by statute for other orders. The order shall become final upon service. Delivery by the United States Postal Service of the complaint and decision containing the agreed-to order to proposed respondent's address as stated in this agreement shall constitute service. The proposed respondent waives any right it may have to any other manner of service. The complaint may be used in construing the terms of the order, and no agreement, understanding, representation, or interpretation not contained in the order or this agreement may be used to vary or contradict the terms of the order. 7. The proposed respondent has read the proposed complaint and order contemplated hereby. The proposed respondent understands that once the order has been issued, it will be required to file one or more compliance reports showing that it has fully complied with the order. The proposed respondent further understands that it may be liable for civil penalties in the amount provided by law for each violation of the order after it becomes final. Order I It is ordered that as used in this order, the following definitions shall apply: A. ``Respondent'' or ``Charter'' means Charter Medical Corporation, its partnerships, joint ventures, companies, subsidiaries, divisions, groups and affiliates controlled by respondent, and their respective directors, officers, employees, agents, and representatives, and their respective successors and assigns. B. ``NME'' means National Medical Enterprises, Inc., a corporation organized, existing and doing business under and by virtue of the laws of the State of Nevada with its office and principal place of business at 2700 Colorado Avenue, Santa Monica, California 90404. C. ``Commission'' means the Federal Trade Commission. D. ``Hospital'' means a health care facility, licensed as a hospital, other than a federally-owned facility (such as a military or Veterans Administration hospital), having a duly organized governing body with overall administrative and professional responsibility, and an organized professional staff that provides 24-hour inpatient care, and that may also provide outpatient services. E. ``General acute care hospital'' means a health care facility licensed as a hospital, having as a primary function the provision of inpatient services for medical diagnosis, treatment, and care of physically injured or sick persons with short-term or episodic health problems or infirmities. F. ``Psychiatric hospital'' means a hospital licensed or certified as a psychiatric hospital (except for a license or certificate that limits service to residential treatment facility services only), other than a federal, state or county psychiatric hospital that primarily provides long-term, i.e. , 30 days or more, treatment of chronic mental illness or short term court ordered detentions and involuntary treatment, that provides 24-hour inpatient services for psychiatric diagnosis, treatment, and care of persons suffering from acute mental illness or emotional disturbance, and may also provide treatment for alcohol or drug abuse. G. ``Psychiatric unit'' means a department, unit, or other organizational subdivision of a general acute care hospital licensed or certified as a provider of inpatient psychiatric care (except for a license or certificate that limits service to residential treatment facility services only), other than a federal, state or county psychiatric unit that primarily provides long-term, i.e. , 30 days or more, treatment of chronic mental illness or short term court ordered detentions and involuntary treatment, that provides 24-hour inpatient services for psychiatric diagnosis, treatment and care of persons suffering from acute mental illness or emotional disturbance, and may also provide treatment for alcohol or drug abuse.
