FR941116-0-00133 FR941116-0-00022 Other cotton means pure strain varieties of the barbadense species, any hybrid thereof, or any other variety of cotton in which one or more of these varieties predominate, if either of the following applies: (1) The cotton is grown in a county that has not been designated as an ELS cotton county; or (2) The cotton is ginned on other than roller-type gins. Permitted acres for wheat, feed grains, upland and ELS cotton, and rice means the CAB minus the required ACR. Person means an individual, joint stock company, corporation, estate or trust, association, or other legal entity, except that two or more entities shall be combined as one person in accordance with: (1) The regulations found at part 1497 of this chapter for the purpose of administering maximum payment limitation provisions of the Food Security Act of 1985; (2) The regulations found at part 796 of this title for the purpose of administering the provisions of the Food Security Act of 1985 with respect to the production of controlled substances; and (3) The regulations found at part 12 of this title pertaining to the highly erodible land and wetland provisions (commonly known as ``sodbuster and swampbuster'' provisions) of the Food Security Act of 1985. Producer means an individual, entity, or joint operation that shares in the risk of producing the crop, and is entitled to share in the crops available for marketing from the farm, or would have shared had the crops been produced. Program benefits means loans, purchases, and payments authorized for a program crop. Program crop means a crop of wheat, corn, grain sorghum, oats, barley, upland cotton, and rice. Repeat crop means the same crop planted, harvested, and planted again on the same acreage. A second crop must be planted to be a repeat crop. Volunteer crops are not repeat crops. Rice means rice excluding sweet, glutinous, or candy rice such as Mochi Gomi. Sharecropper means a producer who: (1) Performs work concerning the production of a crop under the supervision of the operator; and (2) Receives a share of the crop for labor. Small grains means barley, oats, wheat, and rye. Soybeans means any variety of soybeans, except laredo and edamame, which is planted regardless of the intended use. Tenant means an: (1) Individual, entity, or joint operation, usually called a cash tenant, fixed-rent tenant, or standing-rent tenant, who rents land from another for a fixed amount of cash or a fixed amount of a commodity to be paid as rent; (2) Individual, entity, or joint operation, usually called a share tenant, who rents land from another individual, entity, or joint operation and pays as rent a share of the crop or the proceeds thereof. Upland cotton means planted and stub cotton which is produced from other than pure strain varieties of the Barbadense species, any hybrid thereof, or any other variety of cotton in which one or more of these varieties predominate. For program purposes, brown lint cotton is considered upland cotton. Subpart C_Planted and Considered Planted Acreages §1413.10 Planted crop acreages. (a) The county committee shall apply the guidelines in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section in determining crop acreages planted for harvest. (b) The county committee shall include as crop acreage planted for harvest any of the following: (1) The acreage harvested; (2) The acreage of small grains which was not disposed of before the disposal deadline in accordance with 7 CFR part 718.22(c), unless an extension has been granted for the crop on the farm by the county committee; and (3) The acreage of small grains which was disposed of before the disposal deadline if such acreage qualified for a reduced yield payment in accordance with the provisions of §§1413.122 and 1413.123 or failed acreage credit in accordance with the provisions of §1413.121; (4) Volunteer acreage of a crop that is harvested; (5) Minor oilseed acreage that is planted for harvest as seed or a volunteer acreage of such oilseed crop from which the seed is harvested; and (6) An acreage planted to oilseeds which is not disposed of before the disposal date established for such a crop. (c) The county committee shall exclude as crop acreage planted for harvest any of the following: (1) The acreage which failed and could have been replanted by the final planting date established for the crop by Federal Crop Insurance Corporation (FCIC), according to part 400 of this title, but which was not replanted; (2) The acreage that is approved as ACR acreage in accordance with the provisions of §§1413.59 through 1413.75; (3) The acreage which was disposed of without feed or other benefit (including lint benefit for cotton) and excluded by the operator on the report of acreage as provided in part 718 of this title; (4) The acreage which was approved for wildlife food plots or planted for wildlife in accordance with §1413.70; (5) The acreage that was planted so late that it could not mature and produce grain or lint and, with respect to corn and grain sorghum, was not harvested for silage; (6)(i) Any acreage which is planted for experimental purposes under the direct supervision of a State experimental station or a commercial company and which meets the following requirements: (A) The production is: ( 1 ) Destroyed before harvest;
