FR940513-0-00141 FR940513-0-00034 i. How to measure lamp life . Laboratory lamp life is determined by measuring the length of time (in hours) the lamp will operate before burning out. The IES standard calls for the lamp to be operated according to an on/off cycling schedule. The life of a lamp is the number of burning hours to failure. Some industry members, however, to save time, will use one or two variations of this standard. In one case, they will use a ``steady burn,'' in which there is no on/off cycle. In the other case, they will burn the lamp at much higher voltages than normal and extrapolate the lamp's laboratory life from the test results. 91 91 See Supreme (Tr.), 89&hyph;90. In the discussion of lamp life determination during the Workshop, the participants agreed that consistency is of considerable significance for this disclosure. Specifically, it is most important that the estimated life of competing lamp products be measured in a manner that yields comparable results. Participants did not, however, agree that any particular test procedure should be required by the labeling rules. As discussed in Part IV.G, below, the Commission has determined at this time not to require for any of the basic disclosures that any specific test procedure be used. The Commission, however, is requiring that manufacturers have a reasonable basis, consisting of competent and reliable scientific tests, to substantiate these disclosures. To meet this reasonable basis standard for substantiating light output and laboratory life disclosures, manufacturers may rely on tests conducted pursuant to the specific IES test procedure referenced in the Rule. These test procedures, which comments recognized as appropriate test standards used by the industry, require on/off cycling. The Commission concludes that requiring manufacturers to have competent and reliable scientific tests to substantiate laboratory life claims is sufficient to ensure that manufacturers determine average laboratory life in a way that will produce consistent results. See the discussion of substantiation in Part IV.G, below. ii. Years vs. hours . The other issue concerning lamp life pertained to how the lifetime should be expressed. ACEEE originally recommended that life be expressed in years, but later suggested requiring disclosure of both years and hours. 92 NEMA recommended that the required disclosure of life be in hours, because a disclosure in years would involve fractions of less than one year for some lamp products and assumptions about average hours of use in a year. 93 No commentors were aware of any studies demonstrating average usage periods for either commercial or residential users for particular types of lamps or uses. The Light Bulb Rule currently requires that life of incandescent lamps be disclosed in hours, 16 CFR 409.1(a)(3), and many manufacturers express lamp life in hours for other lamps. Accordingly, the Commission has determined to require a simple disclosure of average laboratory life in hours, rather than years (or both hours and years). The labeling rules, therefore, require that the average laboratory life of lamp products be disclosed in hours. See ยง305.11(e)(1)(A)(v) in ``Text of Amendments,'' below. 92 ACEEE, GG&hyph;1, 2, (Supp.), GG&hyph;21, 1 (``For example, a label might read: Lamp Life: 1000 hours (0.9 years at 3 hours per day).''). 93 NEMA (Supp.), G&hyph;10, 21 note *.
