FR940413-2-00120 FR940413-2-00060 Part I shall contain the cost proposal, consisting of the following items: Standard Form (SF) 424, ``Application for Federal Assistance,'' and SF 424A, ``Budget'' (Appendix A). Also, the budget shall include on a separate page(s) a detailed cost analysis of each line item in the budget. Part II shall include a technical proposal that demonstrates the offeror's capabilities in accordance with its Statement of Work contained in this announcement. Applicants are strongly encouraged to submit a technical proposal of less than thirty (30) pages in length (exclusive of appendices) which sets forth the applicant's explanation of how it proposes to accomplish the elements described in the Statement of Work. No cost data or reference to price shall be included in the technical proposal. In order to assist applicants in the preparation of their proposals and to facilitate the expeditious evaluation by the review panel, proposals should be organized and presented in the same sequential order as the Evaluation Criteria in Part IV of this announcement. C. Hand-Delivered Proposals Proposals must be mailed at least five (5) days prior to the closing date. However, if proposals are hand-delivered, they shall be received at the designated place by 2 p.m., Eastern Time by May 16, 1994. All overnight mail will be considered to be hand-delivered and must be received at the designated place by the specified closing date. Telegraphed and/or faxed proposals will not be honored. Failure to adhere to the above instructions will be a basis for a determination of nonresponsiveness. D. Late Proposals Any proposal received at the office designated in the solicitation after the exact time specified for receipt will not be considered unless it is received before award is made and it_ (1) Was sent by U.S. Postal Service registered or certified mail not later than the fifth calendar day before the date specified for receipt of application (e.g., an offer submitted in response to a solicitation requiring receipt of applications by the 20th of the month must have been mailed by the 15th); or (2) Was sent by U.S. Postal Service Express Mail Next Day Service_Post Office to Addressee, not later than 5 p.m. at the place of mailing two working day prior to the date specified for receipt of proposals. The term ``working days'' excludes weekends and U.S. Federal holidays. The only acceptable evidence to establish the date of mailing of a late proposal sent either by U.S. Postal Service registered or certified mail is the U.S. postmark both on the envelope or wrapper and on the original receipt from the U.S. Postal Service. Both postmarks must show a legible date or the proposal shall be processed as if mailed late. ``Postmark'' means a printed, stamped, or otherwise placed impression (exclusive of a postage meter machine impression) that is readily identifiable without further action as having been supplied and affixed by employees of the U.S. Postal Service on the date of mailing. Therefore, applicants should request the postal clerk to place a legible hand cancellation ``bull's eye'' postmark on both the receipt and the envelope or wrapper. The only acceptable evidence to establish the date of mailing of a late proposal sent by ``Express Mail Next Day Service_Post Office to Addressee'' is the date entered by the post office receiving clerk on the ``Express Mail Next Day Service_Post Office to Addressee'' label and the postmark on both the envelope or wrapper and on the original receipt from the U.S. Postal Service. ``Postmark'' has the same meaning as defined above. Therefore, applicants should request the postal clerk to place a legible hand cancellation ``bull's eye'' on both the receipt and the envelope or wrapper. E. Withdrawal of Proposals Proposals may be withdrawn by written notice or telegram (including mailgram) received at any time before award. Proposals may be withdrawn in person by an applicant or an authorized representative thereof, if the representative's identity is made known and the representative signs a receipt for the proposal before award. F. Period of Performance The period of performance will be 15 months from the date of the grant award. G. Funding DOL has set aside up to $300,000 for this competitive procurement. H. Option To Extend Based on the availability of funds, effective program operation and the needs of DOL, the grant may be extended for up to two option years.
