FR940616-0-00121 FR940616-0-00013 EFFECTIVE DATE: Pursuant to section 482(c) of the Higher Education Act of 1965, as amended (20 U.S.C. 1089(c)), these regulations take effect July 1, 1995, with the exception of the information collection requirements in §682.215. The information collection requirements in §682.215 will become effective on July 1, 1995, or after these requirements have been submitted by the Department of Education and approved by the Office of Management and Budget under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980, whichever is later. A document announcing the effective date will be published later in the Federal Register. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Barbara Bauman, Program Specialist, Loans Branch, Division of Policy Development, Policy, Training, and Analysis Service, U. S. Department of Education, 400 Maryland Avenue SW. (room 4310, ROB&hyph;3), Washington, DC 20202&hyph;5449. Telephone: (202) 708&hyph;8242. Individuals who use a telecommunications device for the deaf (TDD) may call the Federal Information Relay Service (FIRS) at 1&hyph;800&hyph;877&hyph;8339 between 8 a.m. and 8 p.m., Eastern time, Monday through Friday. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: New section 428J of the HEA authorizes the Secretary to promulgate regulations to establish a loan forgiveness demonstration program in the Federal Stafford Loan Program. The purpose of the demonstration program is to encourage individuals to enter the teaching and nursing professions and to perform national and community service by offering partial Federal Stafford loan forgiveness. If funding is provided, the loan forgiveness program is available only to new borrowers who, as of October 1, 1989, had no outstanding debt on a FFEL Program loan. On February 25, 1994, the Secretary published a notice of proposed rulemaking (NPRM) for part 682 in the Federal Register (59 FR 9376). The NPRM included a discussion of the major issues surrounding the proposed changes which will not be repeated here. The following list summarizes those issues and identifies the pages of the preamble to the NPRM on which a discussion of those issues may be found: •Eligibility requirements for a borrower who wishes to qualify for loan forgiveness (page 9378); •Application procedures for loan forgiveness (page 9378); •Limitations of the loan forgiveness program (page 9378); •Requirements for borrowers desiring loan forgiveness under the teaching, volunteer service or nursing categories (pages 9378&hyph;9379); •Percentages of loan amounts eligible for forgiveness based on year of service completed (page 9379). Substantive Revisions to the Notice of Proposed Rulemaking Section 682.215(c)␣Application •The Secretary has defined September 1 as the earliest date in which a borrower can apply for loan forgiveness in addition to the October 1 deadline for submitting applications. •The Secretary has clarified that borrowers who submit incomplete and inaccurate loan forgiveness applications will not be considered for loan forgiveness unless and until a completed application is submitted. Section 682.215(i)␣Definitions •The Secretary has expanded the definition of both ``elementary school'' and ``secondary school'' to include nonprofit private day or residential schools to be consistent with the definition for these terms in the Perkins Loan Program definitions. Analysis of Comments and Changes In response to the Secretary's invitation in the NPRM, 14 parties submitted comments on the proposed regulations. An analysis of the comments and of the changes made to the regulations as a result of those comments follows. Major issues are grouped according to subject. Technical and other minor changes, and suggested changes the Secretary is not legally authorized to make under the applicable statutory authority, are not addressed. Section 682.215(a)␣General Comment: Some commenters noted that there is no formal method specified in the regulations to inform borrowers about the loan forgiveness program. The commenters recommended that details be provided to borrowers in the application/promissory note or the disclosure statement. The commenters did not believe that lenders should be required to do a special mailing. Discussion: The Secretary will ensure that guaranty agencies take steps to inform borrowers about the loan forgiveness program should the program be funded. These methods may include mention in the application/promissory note or disclosure statement or in public documents such as the Student Guide. Lenders will not be expected to publicize the program through a special mailing. Change: None. Comment: A commenter recommended that the definition of eligible borrower be clarified to convey that a borrower who had paid off an outstanding debt under the FFEL programs prior to October 1, 1989 would be eligible for the forgiveness program if the borrower became a ``new'' borrower with their first disbursement of a new FFEL program loan on or after October 1, 1989. Discussion: The Secretary believes that the regulations convey that a borrower who has no outstanding debt under the FFEL programs as of October 1, 1989 would qualify as an eligible borrower. Change: None. Comment: A commenter asked if lenders would be required to produce a new repayment schedule for a borrower each year loan forgiveness is granted. The commenter also suggested that the percentages of loan forgiveness should have no effect on the borrower's current payments. Discussion: The Secretary does not believe that it is necessary for a lender to provide new repayment schedules to borrowers who receive loan forgiveness. The Secretary expects that the reduction of the loan amount owed by a borrower as a result of the loan forgiveness will most likely result in a reduction of the number of payments to be made by the borrower. Change: None. Comment: A commenter asked if all Federal Stafford loans were eligible for forgiveness under this demonstration program. Discussion: The Secretary agrees that the regulations should be clarified to explain that subsidized, unsubsidized, and nonsubsidized Federal Stafford loans will be eligible for forgiveness under §682.215. Change: The final regulations have been revised to incorporate this clarification. Comment: One commenter urged the Secretary to include loans made under the Federal Direct Student Loan Program to be eligible for the forgiveness program. The commenter believed that since the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1993 stated that all terms and conditions under the Federal Stafford Loan Program, which include cancellation, deferment and other provisions, also apply to the Federal Direct Student Loan Program, Congress intended for the loan forgiveness program to be included as well. Discussion: The Secretary agrees with the commenter that loans made under the Federal Direct Student Loan Program are eligible for the forgiveness program. Direct Loan regulations will specify Direct Loan borrowers' eligibility for loan forgiveness under this program.
