FR940627-0-00154 FR940627-0-00019 In general, the Tier 2 testing program requires the exposure of live laboratory animals to whole F/FA emissions. Rodent species are required and rats are specifically recommended. Animal facilities must be operated in compliance with the ``Guide for the Care and Use of Laboratory Animals'' (U.S. DHHS Publication (NIH) 86&hyph;23, 1985). To ensure the quality and integrity of test results, the performance of all studies will be required to conform with good laboratory practice (GLP) standards. GLP standards specific to this rule are included in ยง79.60. As proposed in the NPRM, the GLP standards are based on those published in 40 CFR part 792 (revised as of July 1, 1992) for conducting tests under TSCA, with modifications to accommodate the specific goals of this rule. The GLP standards address facility, equipment, organization, quality assurance, and personnel requirements, as well as specifications for proper care of laboratory animals, handling of test substances, instrumentation issues, conduct of studies, record keeping, and reporting of results. 3. Exposure Route and Concentrations With the exception of the Salmonella assay, the Tier 2 testing program is based on the inhalation exposure of laboratory animals to diluted whole emissions. Such studies require an exposure system designed to ensure the controlled generation, dilution, and delivery of F/FA emissions to the laboratory animals for prolonged periods. Section VI describes the methodology for the generation of F/FA combustion and evaporative emissions and the procedures to deliver the emissions to the test animals. Requirements for hardware, maintenance, and the use of emission generation and inhalation systems are included in ยง79.57 and ยง79.61 of this rule. Before testing the emissions of a particular fuel or additive/base fuel mixture, a manufacturer must determine an appropriate range of exposure concentrations to be used in the characterization of potential health effects. The objective is to select exposure concentrations to determine a reasonable concentration-response curve that may predict the potential health risks associated with a particular exposure. Concentrations should be spaced to produce test groups with a range of toxic effects. In order to accomplish this, EPA requires that at least three concentration levels be used to construct the concentration-response curve. These levels should correspond to, at a minimum: (1) an overtly or highly toxic concentration, (2) a concentration having an intermediate level of toxicity, and (3) a minimally toxic or non-toxic level. The highest concentration should result in toxic effects but not produce a level of fatalities which would prevent a meaningful interpretation of the resulting data. The lowest concentration should produce minimal or no observable toxic effects. If more than one intermediate concentration level is used, the concentrations should be spaced to produce a gradation of toxic effects. Due to the inherent toxicity of most vehicle emissions, it might be impossible to precisely select an exposure level which results in no observable evidence of toxicity, or a no- observed-adverse-effect-level (NOAEL). Thus, EPA is not requiring manufacturers to specifically achieve a NOAEL. Instead, EPA recommends that manufacturers use available scientific approaches (e.g., range-finding test and extrapolation of data results) to design the study with reasonable concentration spacing so as to improve the probability of achieving a NOAEL. In recognition of the possibility that the highest achievable exposure concentration (considering the limiting CO concentration) may also be non-toxic, provisions are made for ``limit tests,'' where appropriate. If a test at the highest achievable concentration produces no observable toxic effect(s), then a full study using three concentration levels might not be necessary (see regulatory text for specific endpoint tests). B. Subchronic Inhalation Study and Endpoint Tests As described earlier, the Tier 2 health effects testing program includes a 90-day subchronic inhalation study and ancillary assays/tests for the examination of specific health effects endpoints. Specific assays or analyses for carcinogenicity, mutagenicity, teratogenicity, reproductive toxicity, and neurotoxicity may be conducted at the end of the 90-day study, coordinated with the 90-day exposure, or conducted separately. In the NPRM, EPA proposed a separate acute pulmonary test (i.e., lung lavage assay) for the evaluation of pulmonary toxicity. However, the Tier 2 testing framework of this final rule does not require a separate test for the assessment of pulmonary effects because the 90-day subchronic study includes gross pathology and histopathology of the lungs and respiratory tract. Pulmonary effects in this final rule will be examined as part of the standard 90-day inhalation study. Positive results at the end of the exposure period for pulmonary toxicity will be indicated by abnormal gross or histopathological findings relative to appropriate control animals. 1. Subchronic Inhalation Study The subchronic inhalation study is designed to determine a concentration-response relationship for potential toxic effects in rodents, resulting from exposure to vehicle/engine emissions over a period of 90 days. This test will provide valuable information on general systemic and target organ toxicity, including pulmonary effects. This information is considered an essential component for the assessment of potential health hazards resulting from the exposure to F/FA emissions. The exposure period of the subchronic study (i.e., 90 days) covers approximately one tenth of the life span for the recommended test animal species (i.e., rats). Although life-shortening or tumors are not likely to be observed within the 90 days of exposure, the subchronic study should be able to identify a wide variety of adverse effects. The specific guidelines for the subchronic inhalation study are included in ยง79.62 of this final rule. The subchronic study requires that animals be observed and weighed during the exposure period. Ophthalmological examination, blood chemistry analysis, organ examination, and histopathology are basic requirements of the 90-day protocol. Hematology and clinical biochemistry determinations are required to be carried out after 30 days of exposure and just prior to termination. Hematology analyses include: hematocrit, hemoglobin concentration, erythrocyte count, total and differential leukocyte count, and a measure of clotting potential (e.g., clotting time, prothrombin time, thromboplastin time, or platelet count). Clinical biochemical testing includes assessment of electrolyte balance, carbohydrate metabolism, and liver and kidney function. Other specific biochemical tests are described in the regulatory text of the final rule.
