FR941013-2-00022 FR941013-2-00019 Defense Logistics Agency Privacy Act of 1974; Notice to add a Record System AGENCY: Defense Logistics Agency, DoD. ACTION: Notice to add a record system. SUMMARY: The Defense Logistics Agency proposes to add a system of records notice subject to the Privacy Act of 1974 (5 U.S.C. 552a), as amended. DATES: The addition will be effective without further notice on November 14, 1994, unless comments are received that would result in a contrary determination. ADDRESSES: Send comments to Privacy Act Officer, Programs and Analysis Division, Office of Planning and Resource Management, Defense Logistics Agency Administrative Support Center, Room 5A120, Cameron Station, Alexandria, VA 22304&hyph;6100. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Ms. Susan Sales at (703) 617&hyph;7583. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The complete inventory of Defense Logistics Agency record system notices subject to the Privacy Act of 1974 (5 U.S.C. 552a), as amended, have been published in the Federal Register and may be obtained from the address above. A proposed system report, as required by 5 U.S.C. 552a(5) of the Privacy Act was submitted on September 30, 1994, to the Committee on Government Operations of the House of Representatives, the Committee on Governmental Affairs of the Senate, and the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) pursuant to paragraph 4c of Appendix I to OMB Circular No. A&hyph;130, `Federal Agency Responsibilities for Maintaining Records About Individuals,' dated July 15, 1994 (59 FR 37906, July 25, 1994). Dated: October 6, 1994. Patricia L. Toppings, Alternate OSD Federal Register Liaison Officer, Department of Defense. S300.10 CAH System name: Voluntary Leave Transfer Program Records. System location: Records are maintained by the personnel offices of the Defense Logistics Agency (DLA) Primary Level Field Activities (PLFAs). Official mailing addresses are published as an appendix to DLA's compilation of systems of records notices. Categories of individuals covered by the system: Individuals who have volunteered to participate in the leave transfer program as either a donor or a recipient. Categories of records in the system: Leave recipient records contain the individual's name, organization, office telephone number, Social Security Number, position title, grade, pay level, leave balances, number of hours requested, brief description of the medical or personal hardship which qualifies the individual for inclusion in the program, the status of that hardship, and a statement that selected data elements may be used in soliciting donations. The file may also contain medical or physician certifications and agency approvals or denials. Donor records include the individual's name, organization, office telephone number, Social Security Number, position title, grade, and pay level, leave balances, number of hours donated and the name of the designated recipient. Authority for maintenance of the system: 5 U.S.C. 6331 et seq. (Leave); 10 U.S.C. 136 (Assistant Secretaries of Defense); E.O. 9397 (SSN); and 5 CFR Part 630. Purpose(s): The file is used in managing the DLA Voluntary Leave Transfer program. The recipient's name, position data, organization, and a brief hardship description are published internally for passive solicitation purposes. The Social Security Number is sought to effectuate the transfer of leave from the donor's account to the recipient's account. Routine uses of records maintained in the system, including categories of users and the purposes of such uses: In addition to those disclosures generally permitted under 5 U.S.C. 552a(b) of the Privacy Act, these records or information contained therein may specifically be disclosed outside the DoD as a routine use pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(b)(3) as follows: To the Department of Labor in connection with a claim filed by an employee for compensation due to a job-connected injury or illness; where leave donor and leave recipient are employed by different Federal agencies, to the personnel and pay offices of the Federal agency involved to effectuate the leave transfer. The `Blanket Routine Uses' set forth at the beginning of DLA's compilation of systems of records notices apply to this record system. Policies and practices for storing, retrieving, accessing, retaining, and disposing of records in the system: Storage: Records are stored in paper and computerized form. Retrievability: Records are retrieved by name or Social Security Number. Safeguards: Records are accessed by custodian of the records or by persons responsible for servicing the record system in performance of their official duties. Records are stored in locked cabinets or rooms and are controlled by personnel screening and computer software. Retention and Disposal: Records are destroyed one year after the end of the year in which the file is closed. System manager(s) and address: Personnel offices of the DLA Primary Level Field Activities. Official mailing addresses are published as an appendix to DLA's compilation of systems of records notices. Notification procedures: Individuals seeking to determine whether this system of records contains information about themselves should address written inquiries to the Privacy Act Officer of the particular DLA activity involved. Official mailing addresses are published as an appendix to DLA's compilation of systems of records notices. Individual should provide full name and Social Security Number. Record access procedures: Individuals seeking access to records about themselves contained in this system of records should address written inquiries to the Privacy Act Officer of the particular DLA activity involved. Official mailing addresses are published as an appendix to DLA's compilation of systems of records notices. Individual should provide full name and Social Security Number. Contesting record procedures: The DLA rules for accessing records and for contesting contents and appealing initial agency determinations are published in DLA Regulation 5400.21; 32 CFR part 323; or may be obtained from the Privacy Act Officer. Record source categories: Information is provided primarily by the record subject; however, some data may be obtained from personnel and leave records. Exemptions claimed for the system: None. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;25348 Filed 10&hyph;12&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 5000&hyph;04&hyph;F
