FR940728-2-00063 FR940728-2-00047 [FRL&hyph;5016&hyph;6] National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES); Preparation of Draft General Permit for the States of Maine, Massachusetts, and New Hampshire AGENCY: Environmental Protection Agency. ACTION: Notice; Preparation of Draft General NPDES Permits_MAG640000, MEG640000, and NHG640000. SUMMARY: The Regional Administrator of Region I is today providing Notice of a Draft General NPDES Permit for water treatment facilities in certain waters of the States of Maine, Massachusetts, and New Hampshire. This draft general NPDES Permit proposes effluent limitations, standards, prohibitions and management practices for these types of discharges (Appendix A contains the Draft General NPDES Permits and Appendix B is the Draft General Conditions applicable to all three general permits). The permit will become effective 30 days after the date of publication of the final general permit in the Federal Register . The permit will expire 5 years from the effective date. Owners and/or operators of facilities discharging effluent from water treatment facilities will be required to submit to EPA, Region I, a notice of intent (NOI) to be covered by the appropriate general permit and will receive a written notification from EPA of permit coverage and authorization to discharge under the general permit. The draft permit is based on an administrative record available for public review at: Environmental Protection Agency, Region I, John F. Kennedy Federal Building, WMM, Boston, Massachusetts 02203. The following ``Fact Sheet and SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION '' section sets forth principal facts and the significant factual, legal, and policy questions considered in the development of the draft permits. DATES: For comment period: Interested persons may submit comments on the draft general permits as part of the administrative record to the Regional Administrator, Region I at the address given in the preceeding `` SUMMARY '' section no later than August 29, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION AND COPIES OF DRAFT GENERAL NPDES PERMITS: Additional information concerning the draft permits may be obtained between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m., Monday through Friday excluding holidays from: Suprokash Sarker, Wastewater Management Branch, Water Management Division, Environmental Protection Agency, J.F. Kennedy Federal Building, WMN, Boston, Massachusetts 02203, Telephone (617) 565&hyph;3573. FACT SHEET AND SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: I. Background Information A. General Permits Section 301(a) of the Clean Water Act (the Act) provides that the discharge of pollutants is unlawful except in accordance with a National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit. Although such permits to date have generally been issued to individual discharges, EPA's regulations authorize the issuance of ``general permits'' to categories of discharges. See 40 CFR 122.28 (48 FR 14146, April 1, l983). EPA may issue a single, general permit to a category of point sources located within the same geographic area whose permits warrant similar pollutant control measures. The Director of an NPDES permit program is authorized to issue a general permit if there are a number of point sources operating in a geographic area that: 1. Involve the same or substantially similar types of operations; 2. Discharge the same types of wastes; 3. Require the same effluent limitations or operating conditions; 4. Require the same or similar monitoring requirements; and 5. In the opinion of the Regional Administrator, are more appropriately controlled under a general permit than under individual permits. Violations of a condition of a general permit constitutes a violation of the Clean Water Act and subjects the discharger to the penalties in Section 309 of the Act. Any owner or operator authorized by a general permit may be excluded from coverage of a general permit by applying for an individual permit. This request may be made by submitting a NPDES permit application together with reasons supporting the request no later than 90 days after publication by EPA of the final general permit in the Federal Register . The Regional Administrator may require any person authorized by a general permit to apply for and obtain an individual permit. Any interested person may petition the Regional Administrator to take this action. However, individual permits will not be issued for sources discharging effluent from water treatment facility covered by this general permit unless it can be clearly demonstrated that inclusion under the general permit is inappropriate. The Regional Administrator may consider the issuance of individual permits when: 1. The discharge(s) is a significant contributor of pollution; 2. The discharge(s) is not in compliance with the terms and conditions of the general permit; 3. A change has occurred in the availability of demonstrated technology or practices for the control or abatement of pollutants applicable to the point source; 4. Effluent limitations guidelines are subsequently promulgated for the point sources covered by the general permit; 5. A Water Quality Management plan containing requirements applicable to such point sources is approved; or 6. The requirements listed in the previous paragraphs are not met. B. Coverage Under This General Permit Under this general permit, owners and operators of potable water treatment plants in Massachusetts, Maine and New Hampshire may be granted authorization to discharge process generated wastewaters into waters of the respective States as follows: a. Treated presedimentation underflow; b. Treated underflow from the coagulation/settling processes using aluminum compounds or polymers as coagulants; and c. Treated filter backwash water from filters. This permit shall apply specifically to operators that have a discharge from a point source such as a sludge settling lagoon or other device whereby comparable control of suspended solids is possible. Authorization under the permit shall require prior submittal of certain facility information. Upon receipt of all required information, the permit issuing authority may allow or disallow coverage under the general permit. The following list shows the criteria which will be used in evaluating whether or not an individual permit may be required instead of a general permit. 1. Evidence on non-compliance under previous permit for the operation; 2. Preservation of high quality waters and fisheries; 3. Facilities with an effluent discharge flow of over 1.00 MGD maximum daily for the states of Massachusetts and New Hampshire and 0.15 MGD maximum daily for the state of Maine. 4. Production of effluent at the facility other than using aluminum compound or polymer as coagulant, and 5. Use of land application as a means of discharge. 6. For the state of Maine, a minimum dilution of effluent of 100:1 in the receiving water at 7Q10 should be stipulated. The similarity of the discharges has prompted EPA to prepare this draft general permit for public review and comment. When issued, this permit will enable facilities to maintain compliance with the Act and will extend environmental and regulatory controls to a large number of discharges and reduce some permit backlog. The issuance of this general permit for the geographic areas described below is warranted by this similarity of (a) environmental conditions. (b) State regulatory requirements applicable to the discharges and receiving waters, and (c) technology employed.
