FR940104-2-00070 FR940104-2-00046 In addition, the Exchange proposes to place additional restrictions on when a specialist can break up a cross transaction. 11 Thus under the proposed commentary to Rule 5.14(b), the specialist will be prohibited from participating, for the benefit of his or her own account, on (1) either side of a customer-to-customer cross, 12 or (2) the customer side of a cross with the principal account of a member, where the cross is at a price inside the disseminated PSE market. The PSE, however, will interpret this provision to allow a specialist who is willing to better the price to participate in a cross transaction. 13 Finally, for purposes of Rule 5.14(b), the Exchange will define a ``customer order'' as an order that a broker represents in an agency capacity, including a professional order that is not for an account associated with the executing broker. 11 As discussed below, see infra, notes 16&hyph;17, the proposed restrictions are based on recent amendments to Philadelphia Stock Exchange (``Phlx'') Rule 126. 12 This restriction will apply whether the customer orders are represented by the same broker or ``by separate agents,'' as defined in Amendment No. 1, supra, note 3. 13 See Amendment No. 2, supra , note 4. The PSE believes that the proposed rule change maintains the auction at market principles of price improvement and priority to existing orders, while at the same facilitating the execution of crosses on the PSE. In addition, the PSE believes that the proposed rule change is consistent with policies recently adopted by other exchanges. 14 The PSE states that the proposed rule change is consistent with Section 6(b)(5) of the Act in that these changes will promote just and equitable principles of trade and will protect investors and the public interest by continuing the effort to remove impediments to a free and open market. 14 See infra , note 16. III. Discussion The Commission finds that the proposed rule change is consistent with the requirements of the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder applicable to a national securities exchange, and, in particular, with the requirements of sections 6(b) and 11(a). 15 In particular, the Commission believes that the proposed rule change is consistent with the Section 6(b)(5) requirement that the rules of an exchange be designed to promote just and equitable principles of trade, to prevent fraudulent and manipulative acts and, in general, to protect investors and the public interest; and with the section 6(b)(8) requirement that the rules of an exchange not impose any unnecessary burden on competition. The Commission also believes that the proposed rule change does not operate in a manner inconsistent with the traditional auction market principle of customer priority, as embodied in section 11(a) of the Act. 15 15 U.S.C. 78f(b) (1988). After careful review, the Commission has concluded that the proposed rule change should further competition among the exchanges, as well as between exchanges and other markets, and should increase the opportunities for the efficient execution of cross transactions. In the past, the Commission has recognized the competition that exists between various markets for order flow, and especially for block business. Several exchanges recently have sought Commission approval to amend their rules, on the grounds that exchange rules may hinder members' ability to execute a cross transaction without interference and thus may place an exchange at a competitive disadvantage. Despite serious reservations, the Commission has approved those proposals which are consistent with traditional auction market principles. 16 16 See, e.g., Securities Exchange Act Release Nos. 27205 (August 31, 1989), 54 FR 37180 (September 7, 1989) (File No. SR&hyph;Phlx&hyph;89&hyph;17) (approving Phlx proposal to prohibit members from interfering, with either side of an agency cross or the customer side of a facilitation cross, by buying or selling for their own account at the cross price; except that a specialist can participate to the extent of a publicly disseminated bid or offer at that price); and 31343 (October 21, 1992), 57 FR 48645 (October 27, 1992) (File No. SR&hyph;NYSE&hyph;90&hyph;39) (approving New York Stock Exchange (``NYSE'') ``clean cross'' proposal to allow members to execute agency crosses of 25,000 shares or more, at a price at or within the prevailing quotation, without interference, irrespective of any pre-existing bids or offers at the cross price; however, the cross could be broken up at a better price). Several other proposals to facilitate the execution of crosses on a given exchange are pending with the Commission, including File Nos. SR&hyph;Amex&hyph;92&hyph;41 (American Stock Exchange ``clean cross'' proposal) and SR&hyph;MSE&hyph;93&hyph;05 (Chicago Stock Exchange proposal to encourage specialists to refrain from interfering in cross transactions).
