FR940928-1-00034 FR940928-1-00011 The Councils prepared an IRFA as part of the RIR which describes the impact this proposed rule would have on small entities, if adopted. The IRFA concludes that this proposed rule, if adopted, may have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. Specifically, the required change from harvest of wild live rock to aquaculture may result in significant increases in the operating and capital costs to fishermen. An unknown number of current participants may be forced to cease business as live rock harvesters. All current participants are small entities. A copy of this analysis is available (see ADDRESSES ). This rule contains five new collection-of-information requirements subject to the Paperwork Reduction Act_namely, applications for permits to take wild live rock, applications for permits to take aquacultured live rock, site evaluation reports for aquacultured live rock, reports of live rock harvests, and notification of intent to harvest aquacultured live rock. These requirements have been submitted to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) for approval. The public reporting burdens for these collections of information are estimated to average 15, 15, 45, 15, and 2 minutes per response, respectively, including the time for reviewing instructions, searching existing data sources, gathering and maintaining the data needed, and completing and reviewing the collection of information. This rule also revises a collection-of-information requirement subject to the Paperwork Reduction Act_namely, applications for prohibited coral, allowable chemical, and allowable octocoral permits. This collection of information is estimated to average 15 minutes per response and was previously approved by OMB under OMB control number 0648&hyph;0205. Send comments regarding these reporting burden estimates or any other aspect of the collections of information, including suggestions for reducing the burdens, to NMFS and OMB (see ADDRESSES ). List of Subjects in 50 CFR Part 638 Fisheries, Fishing, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. Dated: September 22, 1994. Samuel W. McKeen, Acting Assistant Administrator for Fisheries, National Marine Fisheries Service. For the reasons set out in the preamble, 50 CFR part 638 is proposed to be amended as follows: PART 638_CORAL AND CORAL REEFS OF THE GULF OF MEXICO AND THE SOUTH ATLANTIC 1. The authority citation for part 638 continues to read as follows: Authority: 16 U.S.C. 1801 et seq. 2. Section 638.1 is revised to read as follows:
