FR941012-1-00028 FR941012-1-00004 (ii) An owner or operator must place the items specified in paragraph (e)(2) of this section in the operating record and notify the State Director that these items have been placed in the operating record before the initial receipt of waste or before the effective date of this section, whichever is later, in the case of closure, post-closure care, or no later than 120 days after the corrective action remedy has been selected in accordance with the requirements of ยง258.58. (iii) After the initial placement of items specified in paragraph (e)(2) of this section in the operating record, the owner or operator must update the information and place updated information in the operating record within 90 days following the close of the owner or operator's fiscal year. This information must consist of all three items specified in paragraph (e)(2) of this section. (iv) The owner or operator is no longer required to submit the items specified in paragraph (e)(2) of this section when: (A) He substitutes alternate financial assurance as specified in this section; or (B) He is released from the requirements of this section in accordance with ยง258.71(b), ยง258.72(b), or ยง258.73(b). (v) If the owner or operator no longer meets the requirements of paragraph (e)(1) of this section, the owner or operator must, within 120 days following the close of the owner or operator's fiscal year, obtain alternative financial assurance that meets the requirements of this section, place the required submissions for that assurance in the operating record, and notify the State Director that the owner or operator no longer meets the criteria of the financial test and that alternate assurance has been obtained. (vi) The Director of an approved State may, based on a reasonable belief that the owner or operator may no longer meet the requirements of paragraph (e)(1) of this section, require at any time the owner or operator to provide current financial test documentation as specified in paragraph (e)(2) of this section. If the Director of an approved State finds that the owner or operator no longer meets the requirements of paragraph (e)(1) of this section, the owner or operator must provide alternate financial assurance as specified in this section. (3) Calculation of costs to be assured. When calculating the ``current cost estimates for closure, post-closure care, corrective action, or the sum of the combination of such costs to be covered, and any other environmental obligations assured by a financial test'' referred to in paragraph (e)(1) of this section, the owner or operator must include cost estimates required for municipal solid waste management facilities under this part, as well as cost estimates required for the following environmental obligations, if it assures them through a financial test: obligations associated with UIC facilities under 40 CFR 144.62, petroleum underground storage tank facilities under 40 CFR part 280, PCB storage facilities under 40 CFR part 761, and hazardous waste treatment, storage, and disposal facilities under 40 CFR parts 264 and 265. * * * * * (g) Corporate Guarantee. (1) An owner or operator may meet the requirements of this section by obtaining a written guarantee. The guarantor must be the direct or higher-tier parent corporation of the owner or operator, a firm whose parent corporation is also the parent corporation of the owner or operator, or a firm with a ``substantial business relationship'' with the owner or operator. The guarantor must meet the requirements for owners or operators in paragraph (e) of this section and must comply with the terms of the guarantee. A certified copy of the guarantee must be placed in the facility's operating record along with copies of the letter from the guarantor's chief financial officer and accountants' opinions as specified in paragraph (e)(2) of this section. If the guarantor's parent corporation is also the parent corporation of the owner or operator, the letter from the guarantor's chief financial officer must describe the value received in consideration of the guarantee. If the guarantor is a firm with a ``substantial business relationship'' with the owner or operator, this letter must describe this ``substantial business relationship'' and the value received in consideration of the guarantee.
