FR940429-0-00242 FR940429-0-00015 (i) Publishing ability-to-benefit tests; (ii) Performing functions as a Multiple Data Entry Processor (MDE); (iii) Financial and compliance auditing; (iv) Mailing of documents prepared by the institution; and (v) Warehousing of records; and (3) Notwithstanding the exclusions referred to in paragraph (2) of this definition, include any activity comprised of any function described in paragraph (1) of this definition. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1088) Two-thirds of an academic year: A period that is at least two-thirds of an academic year as determined by an institution. At a minimum, two-thirds of an academic year must be a period that begins on the first day of classes and ends on the last day of classes or examinations and is a minimum of 20 weeks of instructional time during which, for an undergraduate educational program, a full-time student is expected to complete at least 16 semester or trimester hours or 24 quarter hours in an educational program whose length is measured in credit hours or 600 clock hours in an educational program whose length is measured in clock hours. For an institution whose academic year has been reduced under ยง668.3, two-thirds of an academic year is the pro-rated equivalent, as measured in weeks and credit or clock hours, of at least two-thirds of the institution's academic year. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1088) U.S. citizen or national: (1) A citizen of the United States; or (2) A person defined in the Immigration and Nationality Act, 8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(22), who, though not a citizen of the United States, owes permanent allegiance to the United States. (Authority: 8 U.S.C. 1101) Valid institutional student information report (valid ISIR): A valid institutional student information report as defined in 34 CFR 690.2 for purposes of the Federal Pell Grant Program and in 34 CFR 691.2 for purposes of the PAS Program. Valid student aid report (valid SAR): A valid student aid report (valid SAR) as defined in 34 CFR 690.2 for purposes of the Federal Pell Grant Program and in 34 CFR 691.2 for purposes of the PAS Program. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1070 et seq., unless otherwise noted) 4. A new ยง668.3 is added to part 668 to read as follows: ยง668.3 Reductions in the length of an academic year. (a) General. (1) An institution that provides at least a 2-year or 4-year educational program for which the institution awards an associate or baccalaureate degree, respectively, may request the Secretary to reduce the minimum period of instructional time of the academic year for any of the institution's educational programs to not less than 26 weeks. (2) The institution must submit its request to the Secretary in writing and must include in the request_ (i) Identification of each educational program for which the institution requests a reduction and the requested length of its academic year, in weeks of instructional time, for that educational program. The requested length for its academic year may not be less than 26 weeks of instructional time; (ii) Information demonstrating that the institution satisfies the requirements of this section; and (iii) Any other information that the Secretary may require to determine whether to grant the request. (b) Transition period for institutions participating in at least one Title IV, HEA program on the effective date of this section. The Secretary grants, for a period not to exceed 2 years from the effective date of this section, the request of an institution participating in at least one Title IV, HEA program on the effective date of this section for a reduction in the minimum period of instructional time of the academic year if the institution_ (1) Satisfies the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section; (2) Has an academic year of less than 30 weeks of instructional time on the effective date of these regulations; (3) Demonstrates that the institution awards, disburses, and delivers, and has since July 23, 1992, awarded, disbursed, and delivered, Title IV, HEA program funds in accordance with the definition of academic year in section 481(d) of the HEA; and (4) Demonstrates that the institution is in the process of changing to a minimum of a 30-week academic year. (c) Institutions in general. (1) The Secretary may grant the request of any institution that satisfies the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section. In making this determination, the Secretary considers circumstances including, but not limited to: (i) A demonstration to the satisfaction of the Secretary by the institution of unique circumstances that justify granting the request; (ii) In the case of a participating institution, demonstration that the institution awards, disburses, and delivers, and has since July 23, 1992, awarded, disbursed, and delivered, Title IV, HEA program funds in accordance with the definition of academic year in section 481(d) of the HEA; (iii) Approval of the institution's nationally recognized accrediting agency or State body that legally authorizes the institution to provide postsecondary education, including specific review and approval of the length of the academic year for each educational program offered at the institution; and (iv) The number of hours of attendance and other coursework that a full-time student is required to complete in the academic year for each of the institution's educational programs. (2) An institution that is granted a reduction in the minimum of 30 weeks of instructional time for an academic year in accordance with paragraph (c)(1) of this section and that wishes to continue to use a reduced number of weeks of instructional time must reapply to the Secretary for a reduction whenever the institution is required to apply to continue to participate in a Title IV, HEA program. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1088) 5. Section 668.8 is revised to read as follows: ยง668.8 Eligible program. (a) General. An eligible program is an educational program that_ (1) Is provided by a participating institution; and (2) Satisfies the other relevant requirements contained in this section. (b) Definitions. For purposes of this section_ (1) The Secretary considers the ``equivalent of an associate degree'' to be_ (i) An associate degree; or (ii) The successful completion of at least a two-year program that is acceptable for full credit toward a bachelor's degree and qualifies a student for admission into the third year of a bachelor's degree program; (2) A week is a consecutive seven-day period; and (3)(i) For an educational program using a semester, trimester, or quarter system or an educational program using clock hours, the Secretary considers a week of instruction to be any week in which at least one day of regularly scheduled instruction, examinations, or preparation for examinations occurs; or
