FR940720-0-00104 FR940720-0-00007 EPA believes that the further a state requirement is removed in time from the manufacture and distribution of new engines, the less interstate commerce is likely to be burdened. Furthermore, the legality of particular regulatory controls that a state may impose on nonroad vehicles or engines that are no longer new will depend upon the burden that such controls place on interstate commerce. In fact, the court in Allway Taxi stated that a state or locality is not free to impose its own emission control measures the moment after a new car is bought and registered. ``That would be an obvious circumvention of the Clean Air Act and would defeat the congressional purpose of preventing obstruction to interstate commerce.'' 12 The court further stated that federal preemption does not, however, preclude a state from imposing its own exhaust emission control standards upon the resale or reregistration of the automobile. Furthermore, states are not precluded from setting standards for licensing of vehicles for commercial use. These types of regulations, which are more removed, ``would cause only minimal interference with interstate commerce, since they would be directed primarily to intrastate activities and the burden of compliance would be on individual owners and in-state users and not on manufacturers and distributors.'' 13 12 Id . 13 Id . EPA expects that the principles articulated in Allway Taxi will be applied by the courts to any State adoption of in-use controls. For example, manufacturers have voiced a concern that California would attempt to impose in-use emission control measures that would apply immediately after a new vehicle or engine were purchased. As the Allway Taxi court said, such standards applied to almost-new vehicles would be an attempt to circumvent section 209 preemption and would obstruct interstate commerce. 14 14 Id . EPA expects the reasoning and policy outlined above in the Allway Taxi discussion to apply to locomotives although its implementation is dependent upon the ultimate definition of new locomotive. It should be noted that section 209(e)(2) of the Act does not prevent California or other states from regulating nonroad engines and vehicles in use. 15 EPA believes that the requirements of section 209(e)(2) apply only to new nonroad engines and vehicles. The requirements of section 209(e)(2) are only required for nonroad engines and vehicles the regulation of which has been preempted. The language of section 209(e)(2) does not state any clear preemption, either for new or in use vehicles. The only clear preemption of state regulation of nonroad engines occurs in section 209(e)(1) and section 209(a). 16 Both of these subsections are limited to new engines and vehicles. Given the general legal presumption against reading a preemption more broadly than explicitly required, as discussed in Allway Taxi, a preemption of state regulation of nonroad engines and vehicles in use should not be readily implied. 15 In-use testing and recall programs of the type set forth in section 207 ensure compliance with standards required to be met by manufacturers at the time of certification of the engine. Because these in-use standards relate to the original manufacture of the engine and place the burden of compliance upon the manufacturer, they are deemed to be standards affecting a new motor vehicle or a new nonroad engine and thus require a waiver under the criteria of section 209(b) or 209(e)(2) respectively. 16 Section 209(a) applies to nonroad vehicles because of the language of section 213(d) of the Act, which specifically requires that EPA's standards regulating nonroad engines and vehicles be subject to sections 206, 207, 208 and 209 of the Act, with such modifications of the applicable regulations as the Administrator deems appropriate. Thus, Congress clearly anticipated that all of section 209 would be applicable to nonroad engines. Subsections (a) through (d) of section 209 do not specifically reference nonroad engines, nor do sections 206, 207 or 208. However, the language of section 213(d) clearly is intended to apply such provisions to nonroad engines. Further indication of Congress' intent is the language of the last sentence of section 209(e)(1) , which states that subsection 209(b) does not apply for purposes of subsection (e)(1). (Section 209(b) provides the procedure under which California can receive a waiver of section 209(a) preemption for motor vehicles.) This sentence would not have been necessary unless subsection 209(a) through (d) otherwise applied. Another indication that section 209(e)(2) was not intended to apply to most in-use regulations of nonroad engines is the fact that neither the Senate nor the House version of the 1990 Act amendments would have preempted state regulation of anything but new nonroad engines. Neither version would have expressly preempted regulation in use. It would be unusual for a bill to come out of conference with a broader preemption than existed in either house and without any mention in the legislative history that such broader preemption had been mandated. In fact, both Senators Chafee and Baucus believed that the scope of the preemption had been narrowed from the House bill, not widened. 17 17 Both Senators declare that state preemption is limited to new locomotives and new small farm and construction equipment. Both mention that states may still regulate other new nonroad equipment, presumedly after receiving EPA approval. Finally, each declare that states also fully retain existing authority to regulate emissions from all types of existing or in-use nonroad engines by specifying fuel quality specifications, operational modes or characteristics or measures that limit the use of nonroad engines or equipment.
