FR940412-2-00156 FR940412-2-00112 SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION [Release No. 34&hyph;33864; International Series Release No. 646; File No. SR&hyph;Amex&hyph;94&hyph;04] Self-Regulatory Organizations; Notice of Filing of Proposed Rule Change by the American Stock Exchange, Inc. Relating to Foreign Listing Standards April 5, 1994. Pursuant to Section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act''), 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1), notice is hereby given that on February 23, 1994, the American Stock Exchange, Inc. (``Amex'' or ``Exchange'') filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``Commission'') the proposed rule change as described in Items I, II and III below, which Items have been prepared by the self-regulatory organization. The Commission is publishing this notice to solicit comments on the proposed rule change from interested persons. I. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Terms of Substance of the Proposed Rule Change The Exchange is proposing to amend Section 110 of the Company Guide to allow non-U.S. issuers to provide their U.S. shareholders with summary annual reports under certain circumstances. The following is the text of the proposed rule change, with italics representing the language to be added: Section 110. Securities of Foreign Companies *␣*␣* (d) Disclosure_The Exchange will require the company to: (i) furnish to American shareholders an English language version of its annual financial statements and all other materials regularly provided to other shareholders, and (ii) publish, at least semi-annually, an English language version of its interim financial statements. In addition, the Exchange will permit non-U.S. issuers to follow home country practices regarding the distribution of annual reports to shareholders, if, at a minimum, shareholders (i) are provided at least summary annual reports and (ii) have the ability, upon request, to receive a complete annual report, and the financial information contained in the summary annual report is reconciled to U.S. generally accepted accounting principles to the extent that such reconciliation would be required in the full annual report. II. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change In its filing with the Commission, the self-regulatory organization included statements concerning the propose of and basis for the proposed rule change and discussed any comments it received on the proposed rule change. The text of these statements may be examined at the places specified in Item IV below. The self-regulatory organization has prepared summaries, set forth in Sections A, B, and C below, of the most significant aspects of such statements.
