FR940826-0-00072 FR940826-0-00016 47. Qualified ``Small Businesses''. As a general rule, the gross revenues of all investors in, and affiliates of, an applicant are counted on a cumulative, fully-diluted basis for purposes of determining whether the $40 million gross revenue threshold has been exceeded, and on an individual basis regarding the $40 million personal net worth standard. 87 There are two exceptions to this rule, however. First, applicants that meet the definition of a small business may, as discussed below, form consortia of small businesses that, on a aggregate basis, exceed the gross revenue cap. Second, the gross revenues, personal net worth, and affiliations of any investor in the applicant are not considered so long as the investor holds 25 percent or less of the applicant's passive equity. For corporations, we shall use the term passive equity investors to mean investors who hold only non-voting stock or voting stock that includes no more than 15 percent of the voting interests. Where different classes of stock are held, however, the total amount of equity must still be no more than 25 percent to meet this requirement. For partnerships, the term means limited partnership interests that do not have the power to exercise control of the entity. 88 The passive investor exception will be available, however, only so long as the applicant remains under the control of one or more entities or individuals (defined as the ``control group'') and the control group holds at least 25 percent of the applicant's equity and, in the case of corporate applicants, at least 50.1 percent of the voting stock. 89 In the case of partnership applicants, the control group must hold all the general partnership interests. Winning bidders are required to identify on their long-form applications the identity of the members of this control group and the means of ensuring control (such as a voting trust agreement). The gross revenues of each member of the control group and each member's affiliates will be counted toward the $40 million gross revenues threshold and applicants shall certify that each control group member meets the individual $40 million personal net worth standard, regardless of the size of the member's total interest in the applicant. 87 By ``fully-diluted,'' we mean that agreements such as stock options, warrants and convertible debentures will generally be considered to have a present effect and will be treated as if the rights thereunder already have been fully exercised. 88 Applicants must be prepared to demonstrate that the limited partners do not have influence over the affairs of the applicant that is inconsistent with their roles as passive investors. For purposes of our rules, we presume that any general partner has the power to control a partnership. Therefore, each general partner in a partnership will be considered part of the partnership's control group. 89 So long as the applicant remains under de jure and de facto control of the control group, we shall not bar passive investors from entering into management agreements with applicants. 48. The attribution levels we have selected here are intended to balance the competing considerations that apply in this particular context and may differ from those we have used in other circumstances. As a general matter, the 25 percent limitation on equity investment interests will serve as a safeguard that the very large entities who are excluded from bidding in these blocks do not, through their investments in qualified firms, circumvent the gross revenue cap. At the same time, it will afford qualified bidders a reasonable measure of flexibility in obtaining needed financing from other entities, while ensuring that such entities do not acquire controlling interests in the eligible bidders. Similarly, the 15 percent threshold for attributing revenues of investors with voting stock in corporate applicants is designed to keep ineligible parties from exerting undue influence over eligible firms. For all of these reasons, we also will attribute the gross revenues of entities, or the personal net worth of individuals, that otherwise constitute ``affiliates'' of the applicant. 90 90 The definition of an ``affiliate'' is described in the Further Notice ¶␣55. 49. Qualified Woman and Minority-Owned Small Businesses. The record demonstrates that women and minorities have especially acute problems in obtaining financing, due in part to discriminatory lending practices by private financial institutions. To address these special problems and to afford women and minority-owned small businesses more flexibility in attracting financing, it is necessary to provide these entities with an alternative, somewhat more relaxed option regarding the attribution of revenues of passive investors. Under the alternative standard, we will not attribute to the applicant the gross revenues or net worth of any single investor in a minority or woman-owned small business applicant unless it holds more than 49.9 percent of the passive equity (which is defined to include as much as 15 percent of a corporation's voting stock). To guard against abuses, however, the control group of applicants choosing this option would have to own at least 50.1 percent of the applicant's equity, as well as retain control and hold at least 50.1 percent of the voting stock. 91 Winning bidders must identify on their long-form applications a control group (this time consisting entirely of minorities and/or women or entities 100 percent owned and controlled by minorities and/or women) and the gross revenues and net worth of each member of the control group and each member's affiliates will be counted toward the $40 million gross revenue threshold or the individual $40 million personal net worth limitation, regardless of the size of the member's total interest in the applicant. 91 As noted previously, the control group of a partnership applicant must hold all of the general partnership interests. 50. Relaxing the attribution standard somewhat in determining the eligibility of woman and minority-owned companies to bid as small businesses directly addresses what most commenters have stated to be the biggest obstacle to entry for these designated entities: obtaining adequate financing. By this measure, women and minorities who are eligible to bid as small businesses ( i.e., who otherwise meet the $40 million gross revenue standard) will be required to maintain control of their companies and, at the same time, will have flexibility to attract significant infusions of capital from a single investor. The requirement that the minority and women principals hold 50.1 percent of the company's equity mitigates substantially the danger that a well-capitalized investor with a substantial ownership stake will be able to assume de facto control of the applicant.
