FR940304-2-00152 FR940304-2-00080 [Docket Nos. 50&hyph;272 and 50&hyph;311] Public Service Electric and Gas Co.; Consideration of Issuance of Amendment to Facility Operating License, Proposed No Significant Hazards Consideration Determination, and Opportunity for a Hearing The U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission (the Commission) is considering issuance of an amendment to Facility Operating License Nos. DPR&hyph;70 and DPR&hyph;75 issued to the Public Service Electric and Gas Company (the licensee) for operation of the Salem Nuclear Generating Station, Units 1 and 2, located in Salem County, New Jersey. The proposed amendment would increase the storage capacity of the spent fuel pool (SFP) from its current 1170 storage cells to 1632 storage cells. This would be accomplished by replacing 9 out of twelve of the existing high density fuel racks with 9 maximum density rack modules constructed of stainless steel and a neutron absorber material (boron carbide and aluminum-composite sandwich, product name ``boral''). The proposed change would extend the date when full core discharge capacity is no longer available for Salem 1 from 1998 to 2008, and for Salem 2 from 2002 to 2012. In addition, the proposed amendment would extend the decay time for refueling operations from 100 hours to 168 hours. Before issuance of the proposed license amendment, the Commission will have made findings required by the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended (the Act) and the Commission's regulations. The Commission has made a proposed determination that the amendment request involves no significant hazards consideration. Under the Commission's regulations in 10 CFR 50.92, this means that operation of the facility in accordance with the proposed amendment would not (1) involve a significant increase in the probability or consequences of an accident previously evaluated; or (2) create the possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any accident previously evaluated; or (3) involve a significant reduction in a margin of safety. As required by 10 CFR 50.91(a), the licensee has provided its analysis of the issue of no significant hazards consideration, which is presented below: 1. Do not involve a significant increase in the probability or consequences of an accident previously evaluated. [Public Service Electric and Gas Company] PSE&G has evaluated the following postulated accident scenarios: 1. A spent fuel assembly drop in the SFP. 2. Loss of SFP cooling. 3. A seismic event. 4. An installation accident during reracking. The Salem SFP has been analyzed considering fuel handling equipment, operating procedures, SFP cooling system, and seismic events. Reracking involves replacing 9 out of the 12 existing high density racks with 9 new maximum density racks. It does not require any system modifications or modifications to the cask handling crane, which by its physical location and design is prevented from moving over the SFP. Results confirm that the proposed modification does not increase the probability of the first three postulated accident scenarios. NUREG&hyph;0612, ``Control of Heavy Loads at Nuclear Power Plants,'' sections 5.1.1, 5.1.2, and 5.1.6, provide guidance for heavy load handling operations during spent fuel storage rack replacement. Section 5.1.2 lists (4) alternatives for assuring safe heavy load handling during a fuel storage rack replacement. Alternative (1) satisfies the control of heavy loads guidelines through the implementation of defense-in-depth measures. These measures ensure that the potential for a heavy load drop is extremely small. PSE&G intends to utilize the defense-in-depth concept during reracking activities.
