FR940722-1-00046 FR940722-1-00012 Section 23.1323␣Airspeed Indicating System The proposed new §23.1323(c) would add a requirement that each airspeed indicating system design and installation should provide positive drainage of moisture from the system. This proposal is consistent with the provisions required for a static system by §23.1325(b). If moisture enters, or accumulates in, an airspeed indicating system, that moisture could cause erroneous airspeed indications or the complete loss of airspeed information. The resulting loss of accurate airspeed information would be hazardous to the operation of the airplane; therefore, to assure the safety of the airplane, the FAA would need to apply the more general airworthiness requirements of §§23.1301 and 23.1309 to such a system and require provisions for drainage of moisture. Accordingly, this proposed revision of the airspeed indicating systems requirements only clarifies the criteria that must be applied to airspeed indicating systems. To better organize the requirements that are applicable to the airspeed systems on all airplane categories and those that would be additional requirements for the airspeed systems of commuter category airplanes, the FAA proposes to redesignate existing paragraphs (c) and (e), respectively, as paragraphs (e) and (d). By this redesignation, paragraphs (a), (b), (c), and (d) would apply to all airplanes, and paragraphs (e) and (f) would include additional requirements applicable to commuter category airplanes. The proposal for redesignated paragraph (e) would also remove the words ``in flight and'' from the first sentence of that paragraph. This would remove the requirement for the airspeed indicating system to be calibrated in flight. The requirement for an in flight calibration is provided in paragraph (b). Proposed redesignated paragraph (e) would apply to the calibration needed to determine the system error during the accelerate-takeoff ground run. As identified in the background section of this notice, the FAA is issuing additional notices that address proposed changes to the requirements for powerplant, flight, and airframe. Proposed revisions to subpart G in the flight NPRM include placing all of the requirements for what must appear in the Airplane Flight Manual (AFM) in that subpart. With the proposals to revise the AFM requirements, the flight NPRM also proposes that the requirement in existing §23.1323(d) (to show the relationship between IAS and CAS in the AFM) be added to §23.1587 as proposed new paragraph (d)(10). Because the AFM requirement would be added to §23.1587, it no longer needs to appear in §23.1323. Accordingly, this notice proposes to remove the text of existing §23.1323(d). Proposed new §23.1323(f) would provide that, on those commuter airplanes where duplicate airspeed indicators are required, the airspeed pitot tubes must be located far enough apart so that both tubes will not be damaged by a single bird strike. Section 23.1325␣Static Pressure System Current §23.1325(b)(3) establishes certain static pressure system requirements for airplanes that encounter icy conditions. Current §23.1325(g) exempts from the requirements of (b)(3) airplanes that are prohibited from flight in instrument meteorological conditions in accordance with §23.1559(b). After the adoption of §23.1325(g), it came to the FAA's attention that there are conditions other than instrument meteorological conditions where icing may be encountered and, therefore, that this paragraph should also exempt from the provisions of §23.1325(b)(3) airplanes that are prohibited from flight in icing conditions. Accordingly, §23.1325(g) would be revised to read, ``For airplanes prohibited from flight in instrument meteorological or icing conditions.'' As indicated in the background section of this notice, the FAA will issue additional notices that will address proposed changes to the requirements for powerplant, flight, and airframe. Revisions to Subpart G in the flight notice will propose to place all of the requirements that specify what must appear in the AFM in that subpart. With the proposals to revise the AFM requirements, the flight notice will also propose that §23.1325(f) be removed and the results of the altimeter system calibration would be required by §23.1587. Section 23.1326␣Pitot Heat Indication System Proposed new §23.1326 would require the installation of a pitot tube heat indicating system on those airplanes required to be equipped with a heated pitot tube. Heated pitot tubes ensure that moisture will not freeze in the tube and block or partially block the airspeed indicating system. Such blockage would result in the pilots receiving incorrect flight data with possibly disastrous results.
