FR940217-2-00123 FR940217-2-00069 SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION [Release No. 34&hyph;33614; File No. SR&hyph;NASD&hyph;94&hyph;6] Self-Regulatory Organizations; Filing and Immediate Effectiveness of Proposed Rule Change by National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. Relating to Assessments and Fees on Members February 10, 1994. Pursuant to section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act''), 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1), notice is hereby given that on February 9, 1994, the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. (``NASD'' or ``Association'') filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``SEC'' or ``Commission'') the proposed rule change as described in Items I, II, and III below, which Items have been prepared by the NASD. The NASD has designated this proposal as one establishing or changing a fee under section 19(b)(3)(A)(ii) of the Act, which renders the rule effective upon the Commission's receipt of this filing. The Commission is publishing this notice to solicit comments on the proposed rule change from interested persons. I. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Terms of Substance of the Proposed Rule Change The NASD is proposing a rule change to amend Schedule A, Section 2(b) to the By-Laws 1 to add the provision that any initial or transfer application for registration as a registered representative or registered principal with the NASD which requires a special registration review shall be assessed a surcharge of $85. 1 NASD Manual, By-Laws, Schedule A, Section 2(b), (CCH) ¶1753. II. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change In its filing with the Commission, the NASD included statements concerning the purpose of and basis for the proposed rule change and discussed any comments it received on the proposed rule change. The text of these statements may be examined at the places specified in Item IV below. The NASD has prepared summaries, set forth in Sections (A), (B), and (C) below, of the most significant aspects of such statements. (A) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change Any initial or transfer application to register as a representative or principal with the Association requires the submission of Form U&hyph;4, the Uniform Application for Securities Industry Registration or Transfer (``Form U&hyph;4''). Item 22 on page three of Form U&hyph;4 requires disclosure of violations of certain criminal and securities laws, rules and regulations. Any ``yes'' answer to item 22 requires additional detailed disclosure on the disclosure reporting page of Form U&hyph;4, which in turn requires a special registration review of such information by the Association. Pursuant to Article VI of the By-Laws of the Association, the NASD requires its members to pay a $65 fee for each application submitted to the Association for the registration or transfer of registration of a registered representative or registered principal, as set forth in Schedule A, Section 2(b) to the By-Laws. The NASD is proposing to amend Schedule A, Section 2(b) to the By-Laws to add the provision that any initial or transfer application which requires a special registration review shall be assessed a surcharge of $85. There are additional costs associated with performing a special registration review of information disclosed in the Form U&hyph;4 and maintaining such information in the NASD's Central Registration Depository disciplinary database (``CRD database''). These costs relate to conducting research on all criminal actions, disciplinary actions taken by the states, SROs and the SEC disclosed in the U&hyph;4 and including information on such actions on the CRD database. A special registration review will also require CRD to provide information on any criminal, disciplinary, or SEC action. Based on data for 1991, the Association estimates the extra costs attributable to U&hyph;4s in 1994 for which a special registration review is required will be approximately $85 per U&hyph;4 filing. The NASD, therefore, in accordance with its objective to align revenues with the cost of providing particular services to members and, specifically, its objective to focus fee increases on actions that impact the disciplinary process, is proposing to amend Schedule A, Section 2(b) to the By-Laws to add the provision that any initial or transfer application which requires a special registration review shall be assessed a surcharge of $85. The surcharge will take effect on March 1, 1994 for all initial and transfer filings either that have a ``yes'' answer to item 22 on Form U&hyph;4 or for which information exists in the CRD database that would require a ``yes'' answer to item 22 regardless of how it is answered.
