FR940513-0-00037 FR940513-0-00006 The Rule This amendment to part 71 of the Federal Aviation Regulations (14 CFR part 71) establishes Class E airspace areas at Dubuque Regional Airport, Iowa; Sioux City, Sioux Gateway Airport, Iowa; Waterloo Municipal Airport, Iowa; Fort Leavenworth, Sherman Army Air Field, Kansas; Fort Riley, Marshall Army Air Field, Kansas; Hutchinson Municipal Airport, Kansas; Manhattan Municipal Airport, Kansas; Olathe, Johnson County Executive Airport, Kansas; Olathe, Johnson County Industrial Airport, Kansas; Salina Municipal Airport, Kansas; Topeka, Forbes Field, Kansas; and Topeka, Philip Billard Airport, Kansas. Currently, this airspace is designated as Class D when the associated control tower is in operation. Nevertheless, controlled airspace to the surface is needed for IFR operations at Dubuque Regional Airport, Iowa; Sioux City, Sioux Gateway Airport, Iowa; Waterloo Municipal Airport, Iowa; Fort Leavenworth, Sherman Army Air Field, Kansas; Fort Riley, Marshall Army Air Field, Kansas; Hutchinson Municipal Airport, Kansas; Manhattan Municipal Airport, Kansas; Olathe, Johnson County Executive Airport, Kansas; Olathe, Johnson County Industrial Airport, Kansas; Salina Municipal Airport, Kansas; Topeka, Forbes Field, Kansas; and Topeka, Philip Billard Airport, Kansas, when the towers are closed. The intended effect of this action is to provide adequate Class E airspace for IFR operations at these airports when these control towers are closed. As noted in the Airspace Reclassification Final Rule, published in the Federal Register on December 17, 1991, airspace at an airport with a part-time control tower should be designated as a Class D airspace area when the control tower is in operation, and as a Class E airspace area when the control tower is closed (56 FR 65645). The coordinates for this airspace docket are based on North American Datum 83. Class E airspace designated as surface areas for airports are published in Paragraph 6002 of FAA Order 7400.9A, dated June 17, 1993, and effective September 16, 1993, which is incorporated by reference in 14 CFR 71.1 (58 FR 36298, July 6, 1993). The Class E airspace designations listed in this document will be published subsequently in the Order. Under the circumstances presented, the FAA concludes that there is an immediate need to establish these Class E airspace areas in order to promote the safe and efficient handling of air traffic in these areas. Therefore, I find that notice and public procedures under 5 U.S.C. 553(b) are impracticable and contrary to the public interest. The FAA has determined that this regulation only involves an established body of technical regulations for which frequent and routine amendments are necessary to keep them operationally current. It, therefore_(1) is not a ``significant regulatory action'' under Executive Order 12866; (2) is not a ``significant rule'' under DOT Regulatory Policies and Procedures (44 FR 11034; February 26, 1979); and (3) does not warrant preparation of a regulatory evaluation as the anticipated impact is so minimal. Since this is a routine matter that will only affect air traffic procedures and air navigation, it is certified that this rule will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities under the criteria of the Regulatory Flexibility Act. List of Subjects in 14 CFR Part 71 Airspace, Incorporation by reference, Navigation (air). Adoption of the Amendment In consideration of the foregoing, the Federal Aviation Administration proposes to amend 14 CFR part 71 as follows:
