FR941028-2-00199 FR941028-2-00109 1. Preventing the Escape of Droplet Nuclei From the Room Rooms used for TB isolation should be single-patient rooms with negative pressure relative to the corridor or other areas connected to the room. Doors between the isolation room and other areas should remain closed except for entry into or exit from the room. The room's openings (e.g., windows and electrical and plumbing entries) should be sealed as much as possible. However, a small gap of 1/8 to 1/2 inch should be at the bottom of the door to provide a controlled airflow path. Proper use of negative pressure will prevent contaminated air from escaping the room. 2. Reducing the Concentration of Droplet Nuclei in the Room ASHRAE ( 47 ), AIA ( 48 ), and the Health Resources and Services Administration ( 49 ) recommend a minimum of 6 ACH for TB isolation rooms and treatment rooms. This ventilation rate is based on comfort- and odor-control considerations. The effectiveness of this level of airflow in reducing the concentration of droplet nuclei in the room, thus reducing the transmission of airborne pathogens, has not been evaluated directly or adequately. Ventilation rates >6 ACH are likely to produce an incrementally greater reduction in the concentration of bacteria in a room than are lower rates ( 50&hyph;52 ). However, accurate quantitation of decreases in risk that would result from specific increases in general ventilation levels has not been performed and may not be possible. To reduce the concentration of droplet nuclei, TB isolation rooms and treatment rooms in existing health-care facilities should have an airflow of "6 ACH. Where feasible, this airflow rate should be increased to "12 ACH by adjusting or modifying the ventilation system or by using auxiliary means (e.g., recirculation of air through fixed HEPA filtration units or portable air cleaners) (Suppl. 3, Section II.C) ( 53 ). New construction or renovation of existing health-care facilities should be designed so that TB isolation rooms achieve an airflow of "12 ACH. 3. Exhaust From TB Isolation Rooms and Treatment Rooms Air from TB isolation rooms and treatment rooms in which patients with infectious TB may be examined should be exhausted directly to the outside of the building and away from air-intake vents, persons, and animals in accordance with federal, state, and local regulations concerning environmental discharges. (See Suppl. 3, Section II.C, for information regarding recirculation of exhaust air.) Exhaust ducts should not be located near areas that may be populated (e.g., near sidewalks or windows that could be opened). Ventilation system exhaust discharges and inlets should be designed to prevent reentry of exhausted air. Wind blowing over a building creates a highly turbulent recirculation zone, which can cause exhausted air to reenter the building (Figure S3&hyph;7). Exhaust flow should be discharged above this zone (Suppl. 3, Section II.C.1). Design guidelines for proper placement of exhaust ducts can be found in the 1989 ASHRAE Fundamentals Handbook ( 106 ). If recirculation of air from such rooms into the general ventilation system is unavoidable, the air should be passed through a HEPA filter before recirculation (Suppl. 3, Section II.C.2). E:GRAPHICSEN28OC94.009
