FR940810-1-00025 FR940810-1-00006 5. Section 350.4 is amended by revising the definitions and authority citations in paragraph (b) for Individual with handicaps, Individual with severe handicaps, Rehabilitation engineering, Research utilization, and Supported employment, and adding new definitions of Assistive technology device, Assistive technology service, Disability, and Personal assistance services, to read as follows: ยง350.4 What definitions apply to these programs? * * * * * (b) * * * Assistive technology device means any item, piece of equipment, or product system, whether acquired commercially or off the shelf, modified, or customized, that is used to increase, maintain, or improve functional capabilities of individuals with disabilities. (Authority: Sec. 7(23); 29 U.S.C. 706(23)) * * * * * Assistive technology service means any service that directly assists an individual with a disability in the selection, acquisition, or use of an assistive technology device. The term includes_ (1) The evaluation of the needs of an individual with a disability, including a functional evaluation of the individual in the individual's customary environment; (2) Purchasing, leasing, or otherwise providing for the acquisition of assistive technology devices by individuals with disabilities; (3) Selecting, designing, fitting, customizing, adapting, applying, maintaining, repairing, or replacing of assistive technology devices; (4) Coordinating and using other therapies, interventions, or services with assistive technology devices, such as those associated with existing education and rehabilitation plans and programs; (5) Training or technical assistance for an individual with disabilities, or, where appropriate, the family members, guardians, advocates, or authorized representatives of such an individual; and (6) Training or technical assistance for professionals (including individuals providing education and rehabilitation services), employers, or other individuals who provide services to employ, or are otherwise substantially involved in the major life functions of individuals with disabilities. (Authority: Sec. 7(24); 29 U.S.C. 706(24)) * * * * * Disability means a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one or more major life activities. (Authority: Sec. 7(26)(B); 29 U.S.C. 706(26)(B)) * * * * *
