FR940926-2-00094 FR940926-2-00078 •A study on the efficacy of allowing manufacturers to choose between the Hybrid III and the Hybrid II crash test dummy. NCAP data were utilized in this study along with an analysis of comments to Federal Register notices on the mandatory use of the Hybrid III crash test dummy in Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard (FMVSS) No. 208, Occupant Crash Protection, and in NCAP. From data analysis and the review of the comments to the notices, NHTSA has concluded that exclusive use of the Hybrid III in NCAP should begin with MY 1996 vehicles. This is two years earlier than the Hybrid III will be used exclusively for FMVSS No. 208 compliance tests. Beginning with MY 1994 vehicles, the Hybrid III is being used exclusively for NCAP testing for all seating positions in which the occupant is protected by an air bag. The report also includes a review of NCAP historical performance and the following future goals: •Reach a larger group of the population with simplified data that will assist consumers in their vehicle purchases. •Expand the collection of safety information by utilizing the additional injury-measuring capabilities of the more advanced Hybrid III dummy. •Expand NCAP to provide comparative side impact information to consumers along with the frontal NCAP information. •Monitor rollover safety activities to determine the potential for providing consumers with comparative information on levels of protection in the rollover crash mode and on vehicle roll stability. January 3, 1994 Request for Comments NHTSA published a notice in the Federal Register on January 3, 1994, (59 FR 104), to request comments on whether it should convene a public meeting to review and discuss issues of NCAP. Comments were solicited on: (1) the desirability and need for such a public meeting and (2) the topics for consideration if a meeting is conducted. Suggested topics included all items that were discussed in the Congressional report and others, such as_ (A) additional frontal crash modes and/or higher frontal test speeds. (B) additional injury measures. (C) whether crashworthiness assessment programs should precede or follow the rulemaking process. (D) review of the simplified NCAP format. Response to January 3, 1994 Request for Comments Comments were received from three automobile manufacturers (Toyota, Volkswagen (VW), and Volvo), two automobile manufacturer associations (Association of International Automobile Manufacturers (AIAM), and the American Automobile Manufacturers Association (AAMA)), the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety (IIHS), and four consumer groups (Advocates for Highway and Auto Safety (Advocates), Center for Auto Safety (CFAS), Institute for Injury Reduction, and Public Citizen). All commenters supported the holding of a public meeting. Toyota opposed the expansion of NCAP, urging the agency instead to provide consumers information on specific vehicle safety features. VW stated that NCAP expansion is premature while Volvo said that vehicle safety is more complex than can be represented by single tests at a single speed, etc. Conversely, Advocates, CFAS, and IIHS favor expansion of NCAP to other crash modes and speeds.
