FR940811-2-00121 FR940811-2-00075 If the market value of the REIT Portfolio plus the cumulative value of the dividends paid on the component REITs has declined below the Original Portfolio Value, the holder will receive not less than a specified percentage of the principal amount of the security. For example, if the Total Return Portfolio Value has declined more than 10% below the Original Portfolio Value, the owners of the REIT Portfolio MITTS will receive 90% of the principal amount of the securities. The payment at maturity is based on changes in the value of the REIT Portfolio and the payment of dividends on the securities that comprise the REIT Portfolio. As with other MITTS, REIT Portfolio MITTS may not be redeemed prior to maturity and are not callable by the issuer. 5 Owners may sell the security on the Exchange. The Exchange anticipates that the trading value of the security in the secondary market will depend in large part on the value of the REIT Portfolio and also on other factors, including dividend rates, the levels of interest rates, the volatility of the value of the REIT Portfolio, the time remaining to maturity, and the creditworthiness of the issuer, Merrill Lynch. 5 See, e.g., Securities Exchange Act Release No. 32840 (September 2, 1993), 58 FR 47485 (September 9, 1993) (approval order for Global Telecommunications Portfolio MITTS). The Exchange will only list for trading this issue of REIT Portfolio MITTS if there are at least one million outstanding securities, at least 400 holders, a minimum life of one year, a market value of at least $4 million, and the issue is in compliance with the Exchange's initial listing criteria. In addition, the Exchange will monitor the issue to verify that it complies with the Exchange's continued listing criteria. 6 6 See Section 703.19 of the Manual. Merrill Lynch will deposit registered securities representing REIT Portfolio MITTS with a depository, The Depository Trust Company (``DTC''), so as to permit book-entry settlement of transactions by participants in DTC. The Portfolio The REIT Portfolio consists of the common stock of 20 highly capitalized REITs. As of June 6, 1994, the market capitalizations ( i.e., the market price multiplied by the number of shares outstanding) of the 20 companies range from a high of $2.3 billion to a low of $216 million. Also on that date, the market prices of their common stocks ranged from a high of $40.25 to a low of $11.25. The common stocks of 19 of the 20 component REITs are listed on the Exchange. The common stock of the other component REIT is traded on the Amex. The initial weighings of the components of the REIT Portfolio will be based upon that stock's relative liquidity ( i.e., relative trading volume in dollars) in the United States. To determine relative liquidity, Merrill Lynch will compare the average daily consolidated dollar volume of the stock over the 90 day period immediately preceding the date on which the REIT Portfolio MITTS are priced for issuance to the average daily consolidated dollar volume for all of the stocks in the REIT Portfolio for that 90 day period. As of June 6, 1994, the highest weighting for any stock in the REIT Portfolio was 10.22% and the weighting for the five components with the highest relative liquidity was 42.64%. Also as of that date, the lowest weighting for any stock in the REIT Portfolio was 1.58% and the weighting for the five components with the lowest relative liquidity was 9.88%. Except for certain multiplier adjustments discussed below, once the initial weighings have been determined, the multipliers will remain constant throughout the term of the REIT Portfolio MITTS. The value of the REIT Portfolio MITTS at any point in time will equal the aggregate for the components of the price of each component times the multiplier for that component plus the cumulative dividends paid on that component since issue date for the REIT Portfolio MITTS. The multipliers assigned to the component REITs will be adjusted for certain events such as stock splits, reverse stock splits, or stock dividends, and the value of the common stock of the component REITs will also be adjusted for certain events including a liquidation, bankruptcy, insolvency, merger, or consolidation involving the issuer of the underlying shares. For example, if the issuer of the shares underlying a component REIT has been subject to a merger or a consolidation and is not the surviving entity, then a value for such common stock will be determined at the time such issuer is merged or consolidated and will equal the last available market price for such common stock and that value will be constant for the remaining term of the REIT Portfolio MITTS. 7 7 Merrill Lynch will not attempt to find a replacement stock or to compensate for the extinction of a security due to bankruptcy or a similar event. Based upon the reported prices of the common stock of the component REITs, an independent third party will calculate and disseminate the value of the REIT Portfolio no less frequently than once every minute through the trading day. The Issuer The Exchange has determined that the issuer of the REIT Portfolio MITTS, Merrill Lynch, meets the listing criteria set forth in Section 703.19 of the Manual. The Exchange states that Merrill Lynch is an Exchange-listed company in good standing and has sufficient assets to justify the issuance of MITTS offerings of the size contemplated by the proposed rule change. The Exchange believes that the proposed rule change is consistent with Section 6 of the Act, in general, and with Section 6(b)(5), in particular, in that it is designed to prevent fraudulent and manipulative acts and practices, to promote just and equitable principles of trade, to remove impediments to and perfect the mechanism of a free and open market and a national market system, and, in general, to protect investors and the public interest.
