FR941117-2-00086 FR941117-2-00054 September 6, 1994. Anne Bingaman, Deputy Attorney General Antitrust Division, Department of Justice, Washington, DC 20530, Via fax (202) 616&hyph;2645. Re: Microsoft, Inc. Settlement Dear Deputy Attorney General Bingaman: I am writing to ask you to please send me a set of the settlement documents for the Microsoft lawsuit which you recently settled, and also to request that you reopen that matter to consider postsettlement conduct by Microsoft. As I understand the basic parameters of the settlement, you sought to ``open up'' access to operating systems. However, I think you may have settled too soon, for too little. In the wake of your settlement Microsoft appears to have become more, not less, predatory. Last week I announced I would fight to stop Microsoft from monopolizing use of the word ``windows'' in computers. This past Sunday the New York Times carried a story indicating Microsoft is trying to strong-arm software suppliers into shifting to Windows 4.0 under pain of losing permission to use a ``compatibility'' logo, thereby forcing both producers and consumers of software to incur major expenses without any real need to do so. These gestures are the classic activity of a monopolist. I believe there is a reasonable, credible basis to believe that Microsoft is using your settlement as a sword, not a shield, and has gone on to initiate new forms of monopolistic conduct which may not be literally touched upon by your settlement. I therefore ask that you reopen your investigation and take meaningful steps to ensure a level playing field/open marketplace in computer software as well as in operating systems. 1 1 The Windows 4.0 product is also a new operating system so Microsoft is obviously trying to move its antitrust conduct downstream from compelled sales to compelled upgrading. I see no distinction between each type of anticompetitive conduct. Do you? ␣␣␣Respectfully submitted, Anthony R. Martin ARM: sp w/encl. NYT Sunday Sept. 4, 1994
