FR941011-1-00008 FR941011-1-00003 DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION Federal Aviation Administration 14 CFR Part 39 [Docket No. 94&hyph;NM&hyph;155&hyph;AD] Airworthiness Directives; Canadair Model CL&hyph;600&hyph;2B19 (Regional Jet Series 100) Series Airplanes AGENCY: Federal Aviation Administration, DOT. ACTION: Notice of proposed rulemaking (NPRM). SUMMARY: This document proposes the supersedure of an existing airworthiness directive (AD), applicable to certain Canadair Model CL&hyph;600&hyph;2B19 series airplanes, that currently requires a revision to the Airplane Flight Manual (AFM) to restrict altitude and airspeed operations of the airplane under certain conditions of hydraulic system failure. This action would add a requirement to remove certain shear pins and install certain new shear pins on the elevator flutter dampers, and replace certain shear pins at repetitive intervals. This proposal is prompted by the development of a temporary repair that entails repetitive replacement of discrepant pins in a timely manner to prevent failure of the pins. The actions specified by the proposed AD are intended to prevent undampened vibration of the elevators in normal cruise conditions; when combined with hydraulic system failures, this condition could result in reduced controllability of the airplane. DATES: Comments must be received by December 6, 1994. ADDRESSES: Submit comments in triplicate to the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), Transport Airplane Directorate, ANM&hyph;103, Attention: Rules Docket No. 94&hyph;NM&hyph;155&hyph;AD, 1601 Lind Avenue SW., Renton, Washington 98055&hyph;4056. Comments may be inspected at this location between 9:00 a.m. and 3:00 p.m., Monday through Friday, except Federal holidays. The service information referenced in the proposed rule may be obtained from Bombardier, Inc., Canadair, Aerospace Group, P.O. Box 6087 Station Centre-ville, Montreal, Quebec H3C 3G9, Canada. This information may be examined at the FAA, Transport Airplane Directorate, 1601 Lind Avenue, SW., Renton, Washington; or at the FAA, Engine and Propeller Directorate, New York Aircraft Certification Office, 181 South Franklin Avenue, Valley Stream, New York. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Franco Pieri, Aerospace Engineer, Airframe Branch, ANE&hyph;172, New York Aircraft Certification Office, FAA, Engine and Propeller Directorate, 181 South Franklin Avenue, Room 202, Valley Stream, New York 11581; telephone (516) 791&hyph;6221; fax (516) 791&hyph;9024. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Comments Invited Interested persons are invited to participate in the making of the proposed rule by submitting such written data, views, or arguments as they may desire. Communications shall identify the Rules Docket number and be submitted in triplicate to the address specified above. All communications received on or before the closing date for comments, specified above, will be considered before taking action on the proposed rule. The proposals contained in this notice may be changed in light of the comments received. Comments are specifically invited on the overall regulatory, economic, environmental, and energy aspects of the proposed rule. All comments submitted will be available, both before and after the closing date for comments, in the Rules Docket for examination by interested persons. A report summarizing each FAA-public contact concerned with the substance of this proposal will be filed in the Rules Docket. Commenters wishing the FAA to acknowledge receipt of their comments submitted in response to this notice must submit a self-addressed, stamped postcard on which the following statement is made: ``Comments to Docket Number 94&hyph;NM&hyph;155&hyph;AD.'' The postcard will be date stamped and returned to the commenter. Availability of NPRMs Any person may obtain a copy of this NPRM by submitting a request to the FAA, Transport Airplane Directorate, ANM&hyph;103, Attention: Rules Docket No. 94&hyph;NM&hyph;155&hyph;AD, 1601 Lind Avenue SW., Renton, Washington 98055&hyph;4056. Discussion On January 3, 1994, the FAA issued AD 94&hyph;01&hyph;09, amendment 39&hyph;8791 (59 FR 1471, January 11, 1994), applicable to certain Canadair Model CL&hyph;600&hyph;2B19 (Regional Jet Series 100) series airplanes, to require a revision to the Limitations Section of the FAA-approved Airplane Flight Manual (AFM) to restrict altitude and airspeed operations of the airplane under certain conditions of hydraulic system failure. That action was prompted by a report of sheared-off shear pins found on one airplane's elevator dampers. The requirements of that AD are intended to prevent undampened vibration of the elevators in normal cruise conditions; when combined with hydraulic system failures, this condition can result in reduced controllability of the airplane. Since the issuance of that AD, Bombardier, Inc., has developed a temporary repair, which involves removing the existing shear pins and installing new shear pins on the elevator flutter dampers, and then replacing the shear pins at repetitive intervals. The intent of this temporary repair is to replace discrepant pins in a timely manner in order to prevent the failure of the pins. (The manufacturer is currently developing a permanent modification.) Failure of the shear pins on the elevator damper, if not detected and corrected, may lead to undampened vibration of the elevators during normal cruise conditions; when combined with hydraulic system failures, this situation could result in reduced controllability of the airplane. Bombardier has issued Canadair ``Regional Jet'' Service Bulletin S.B. 601R&hyph;27&hyph;017, dated May 12, 1994, which describes procedures for accomplishing a temporary repair that entails the removal of shear pins having part number (P/N) HST22DU8&hyph;13, and the installation of new shear pins having P/N 601R24063&hyph;2501, on the elevator flutter dampers. This service bulletin also describes procedures for replacement of the new shear pins at repetitive intervals. Transport Canada Aviation, which is the airworthiness authority for Canada, classified this service bulletin as mandatory and issued Canadian Airworthiness Directive CF&hyph;93&hyph;32R1, dated August 12, 1994, in order to assure the continued airworthiness of these airplanes in Canada. This airplane model is manufactured in Canada and is type certificated for operation in the United States under the provisions of section 21.29 of the Federal Aviation Regulations (14 CFR 21.29) and the applicable bilateral airworthiness agreement. Pursuant to this bilateral airworthiness agreement, Transport Canada Aviation has kept the FAA informed of the situation described above. The FAA has examined the findings of Transport Canada Aviation, reviewed all available information, and determined that AD action is necessary for products of this type design that are certificated for operation in the United States. Since an unsafe condition has been identified that is likely to exist or develop on other airplanes of the same type design registered in the United States, the proposed AD would supersede AD 94&hyph;01&hyph;09 to require removal of existing shear pins and installation of certain new shear pins on the elevator flutter dampers; and to require replacement of shear pins at repetitive intervals. The actions would be required to be accomplished in accordance with the service bulletin described previously. The proposed AD would also continue to require the previously-required revision to the Limitations Section of the FAA-approved AFM to restrict altitude and airspeed operations under conditions of single or double hydraulic failure.
