FR941004-2-00080 FR941004-2-00050 IV. Model State Certification Program In the development of any operator certification program, several key factors must be addressed. Among these factors is which personnel should be required to be certified. The EPA believes certification should not be limited to only the operator with hands-on control of the boiler. These operators may lack the authority to request the assistance of a repairman when equipment needs maintenance or service. Also these operators may not be authorized to take corrective action in the event of equipment malfunction. Such authority may rest with the operator's supervisor. This may be a shift supervisor, chief engineer, plant manager, etc. It is the operator's supervisor who is usually responsible for making critical decisions regarding operation and maintenance of the equipment. Because decisions made by the operator's supervisor are key to proper operation of the boiler, the operator's supervisor must have a broader level of understanding than the operator. Thus, there is a need for separate levels of certification for operators and operator supervisors. In addition, the level of knowledge needed by an operator or operator supervisor is dictated by the complexity of the equipment operated. For example, the knowledge required to operate a coal-fired boiler with an air pollution control system is greater than that required to operate a gas-fired boiler without an air pollution control system. It may not be reasonable to require an operator of a boiler without an air pollution control system to demonstrate knowledge of such equipment. Therefore, several classes of boiler operator certification should probably be developed for each operator certification level. Furthermore, since, as the commenters have indicated, many boilers may operate with little or no operator attention, any certification program should consider including those individuals who perform the boiler tuning and maintenance. Another key area concerns the qualifications that an applicant should possess for certification. An acceptable level of skill and operating ability should be demonstrated on a boiler system which is equivalent to (or higher than) the class of boiler for which certification is being sought. This ``hands-on'' ability could be demonstrated by an on-site examination by a qualified/certified examiner or demonstration of ability before other certified operators who verify the applicant's ability. Also a consideration is the prior experience needed before applying for certification. The certification program should require some prior experience under the direct supervision of a certified operator/operator supervisor who verifies the proficiency of the applicant. Finally, an applicant should be required to successfully pass a written examination covering the areas of knowledge deemed necessary for the particular class/level of certification being sought. The written examination could be administered by the State or some authorized certification organization. The EPA's intention, announced in the October 6, 1993 Federal Register notice, for developing a model State certification program for high capacity fossil fuel-fired plants is to outline the scope and components that a State agency should include in a certification program. Components that should be considered for inclusion in any State developed or approved certification program are: 1. Coverage of the Certification Program. Determination of the type and size of boilers for which operator certification is appropriate. Boilers for which environmental regulations apply are candidates for inclusion in any certification program. 2. Level of Operators To Be Certified The duties and responsibilities of the positions of the operator and operator supervisor should be established for the purpose of identifying facility personnel to whom certification applies at fossil fuel-fired plants. Certification for all persons who have control over the process and can affect process emissions should be included. This may include operators, supervisors, maintenance personnel, and outside contractor personnel. An operator is generally in direct control of the operation of a boiler system and is responsible for the startup, operation, and shutdown of equipment. Typical responsibilities may include the following: a. Operating equipment in accordance with established practices and procedures; b. Operating equipment consistent with applicable federal, state, and local government requirements; c. Identifying and initiating responses to upsets and emergency conditions; d. Identifying and communicating the need for equipment repairs and maintenance; e. Communicating with management when system operation is in noncompliance with applicable regulations; f. Operating in a safe manner; g. Recording operational data as required. An operator supervisor generally has direct responsibility for the operation of a boiler system and is responsible for overall on-site supervision, technical direction, management, and performance of the facility. Typical responsibilities may include the following: a. Supervising, training, monitoring, and evaluating operators; b. Assuring operation in accordance with established practices and procedures; c. Assuring equipment is operated in accordance with applicable federal, state, and local government requirements;
