FR941006-1-00092 FR941006-1-00015 (b) Reimbursement limits. (1) The committee may seek reimbursement of the expenses described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section from the media representatives to whom those services were provided. The amount sought shall not exceed the media representative's pro rata share, or a reasonable estimate of the media representative's pro rata share, of the actual cost of the transportation and services mad available by more than 10%. Any reimbursement received in excess of 110% of the actual pro rata cost of the transportation and services made available shall be disposed of in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section. For the purposes of this section: (i) A media representative's pro rata share shall be calculated by dividing the total actual cost of the transportation and services by the total number of individuals to whom such transportation and services are made available. For purposes of this calculation, the total number of individuals shall include committee staff, media personnel, Secret Service personnel, national security staff and any other individuals to whom such transportation and services are made available; and (ii) ``Administrative costs'' shall include all costs incurred by the committee for making travel arrangements and for seeking reimbursement, whether performed by committee staff or independent contractors. (c) Deduction of reimbursements from expenditures subject to the overall expenditure limitation . The committee may deduct from the amount of expenditures subject to the overall expenditure limitation: (1) The amount of reimbursements received in payment for the transportation and services described in paragraph (a) of this section, up to the actual cost of transportation and services provided; and (2) An amount of reimbursements received representing the administrative costs incurred by the committee in providing these services and seeking reimbursement for them, equal to: (i) Three percent of the actual cost of transportation and services provided under this section; or (ii) An amount in excess of 3% representing the administrative costs actually incurred by the committee, provided that the committee is able to document that it incurred these higher administrative costs. (d) Disposal of excess reimbursements . If the committee receives reimbursements in excess of the amount deductible under paragraph (c) of this section, it shall dispose of the excess amount in the following manner: (1) Any reimbursement received in excess of 110% of the actual pro rata cost of the transportation and services made available to a media representative shall be returned to the media representative. (2) Any amount in excess of the amount deductible under paragraph (c) of this section that is not required to be returned to the media representative under paragraph (d)(1) shall be repaid to the Treasury. (e) Reporting . The total amount paid by an authorized committee for the cost of transportation or for ground services and facilities shall be reported as an expenditure in accordance with 11 CFR 104.3(b)(2)(i). Any reimbursement received by such committee for transportation or ground services and facilities shall be reported in accordance with 11 CFR 104.3(a)(3)(ix). 9. Section 9004.7 would be revised to read as follows: ยง9004.7 Allocation of travel expenditures. (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of 11 CFR 106.3, expenditures for travel relating to a Presidential or Vice Presidential candidate's campaign by any individual, including a candidate, shall, pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (b) of this section, be qualified campaign expenses and be reported by the candidate's authorized committee(s) as expenditures. (b)(1) For a trip which is entirely campaign-related, the total cost of the trip shall be a qualified campaign expense and a reportable expenditure.
