FR941219-0-00039 FR941219-0-00014 Federal actions that may affect the delta smelt or its critical habitat include those authorized, carried out, or funded by the Corps, Department of the Navy, the Bureau, NMFS, FERC, the Service, and EPA. The Corps funds projects and issues permits for water pumping and diversion facilities, levee construction or repair, bank protection activities, deep-water navigation channel dredging and dredge spoil disposal projects, sand and gravel extraction, marina and bridge construction, diking of wetlands for conversion to farmland, and tidal gate or barrier installation. The Corps also develops permits pursuant to section 404 of the CWA to the Department of the Navy so the Navy may dredge deep-water ship channels and dispose of dredge materials in Suisun Bay, San Pablo Bay, and San Francisco Bay. The Corps also conducts such activities for the Navy. The Bureau and DWR construct, operate, and manage water export facilities. EPA reviews State water quality standards and promulgates replacement standards, pursuant to the CWA, if the State standards are found to be inadequate. FERC licenses water storage facilities on tributaries to the Sacramento-San Joaquin Delta. In 1991, EPA disapproved portions of the State Board's Water Quality Control Plan for Salinity for the Estuary. Accordingly, EPA has prepared proposed and finalized replacement standards for those portions of the State's salinity standards that were disapproved. Measures to protect the federally listed winter-run chinook salmon, for which NMFS has jurisdiction under the Act, also may affect the delta smelt and may require consultation with the Service. The Service and the Bureau are jointly responsible for implementing the Central Valley Project Improvement Act (CVPIA). Activities under the CVPIA include, but are not limited to, management of a portion of the CVP water supply dedicated for fish and wildlife protection, restoration, and enhancement, acquisition of additional water supplies for the same purposes, and screening unscreened diversions in the Sacramento-San Joaquin watershed. Both the Bureau and Service activities under the CVPIA may affect delta smelt or its critical habitat, requiring consultation with the Service. Under section 4 of the Act, listing of the delta smelt provided a requirement for the development of a recovery plan. The Service convened the Delta Native Fishes Recovery Team to prepare a Recovery Plan for declining native fishes in the Estuary. The Recovery Plan, currently in draft form, will develop a framework for Federal, State, and private entities to coordinate activities and cooperate with each other in conservation efforts. The plan will set recovery priorities and estimate the costs of various tasks necessary to accomplish recovery goals. Site-specific management actions necessary to achieve survival and recovery of the delta smelt and other fishes native to the Estuary ecosystem also will be described in this plan. Summary of Comments and Recommendations Designation of critical habitat for the delta smelt was first proposed on October 3, 1991 (56 FR 50075), as part of the proposed rule to list the species. During the 4-month comment period following publication of the proposal, the Service received 360 written and oral comments from 348 individuals. Of the forty-four people who commented specifically on critical habitat, thirty-four opposed and ten supported the designation. On March 16, 1993 (58 FR 14199), the Service published a notice that the public comment period on the original proposed critical habitat designation for the delta smelt was reopened until April 30, 1993, to allow the Service to consider any information that previously had not been submitted. In response, the Service received seven letters_two in support of critical habitat designation as proposed, four in opposition, and a letter from EPA requesting that the Service consider the biological and hydrological information described in EPA's draft proposed rule to promulgate Bay/Delta water quality standards. On January 6, 1994 (59 FR 852), the Service revised the geographical area and refined the primary constituent elements described in the original critical habitat proposal. The public comment period for the revised proposed critical habitat designation was open from January 6, 1994, to March 7, 1994, and later extended to March 11, 1994 (59 FR 3829). During the 65-day comment period, the Service received written comments from forty-three parties on both the critical habitat designation and EPA's proposed water quality standards for the Bay/Delta. Thirty-two commenters were opposed to critical habitat designation, nine supported the decision, and two expressed no preference. Several commenters either referenced or supported the comments of the California Urban Water Agencies (CUWA). Four joint public hearings were held to solicit comments on the revised proposed critical habitat designation, the proposed threatened status for the Sacramento splittail, and the proposed water quality standards developed by EPA. A total of 125 people presented oral testimony and submitted written comments at the hearings, primarily on delta smelt critical habitat and Bay/Delta water quality standard issues. The Service received comments from elected officials, interested persons, municipal and agricultural water districts and associations, environmental organizations, business and industry owners and managers, fishing enthusiasts, farmers, agricultural commissions and dairy interests, biologists, county and municipal officials, power agency representatives, hospital and school district representatives, and building industry spokespeople. At the February 23, 1994, hearing in Fresno, thirty-eight people presented oral testimony_thirty-six people opposed and two supported critical habitat designation. Nineteen people testified at the February 24, 1994, Sacramento meeting_fifteen people were opposed to the designation, three were in support, and one person was neutral. Twelve people testified at the February 25, 1994, hearing in San Francisco_nine people supported and three opposed the critical habitat designation. At the February 28, 1994, hearing in Irvine, fifty-six people presented oral and written comments (fifty-one people testified and five submitted only written comments)_fifty of the fifty-six commenters opposed critical habitat, five were neutral, and one supported the designation. Comments addressing the issue of available scientific information used to revise the proposed rule were addressed in the revised proposed rule of January 6, 1994 (59 FR 852). The Service addressed EPA's comments, as well as comments provided by the State. All other comments are addressed below in this final rule. Because EPA can better respond to comments regarding the economic analysis and the assumptions used to develop its Bay/Delta water quality standards, the Service refers to EPA's ``Response to Comments'' document for responses to comments specific to those issues. However, the Service will respond to any comments regarding the relationship between EPA's water quality standards and the biological requirements of the delta smelt in this section, and to comments regarding the economic analysis as it is associated with the critical habitat designation. Comments are part of the administrative record and are available for public review. Written comments and oral statements presented at the public hearings and received during the comment periods are covered in the following summary. Comments of a similar nature or point are grouped into a number of general issues. These issues, and the Service's response to each, are discussed below.
