FR940125-2-00010 FR940125-2-00005 A. Making any representation, directly or by implication, regarding the performance, benefits, efficacy or safety of any food, or device, as those terms are defined in section 15 of the Federal Trade Commission Act, 15 U.S.C. 55, unless at the time of making such representation respondents possess and rely upon competent and reliable scientific evidence that substantiates the representation. B. Making any representation, directly or by implication, regarding the performance, benefits, efficacy or safety of any product or service (other than a product or service covered under Part IV.A. herein), unless at the time of making such representation respondents possess and rely upon competent and reliable evidence, which when appropriate must be competent and reliable scientific evidence, that substantiates the representation. V It is ordered, That respondents Nu Skin, CJM, Inc., CST Management, Inc., and CK&C, Inc., corporations, their successors and assigns, and their officers; Clara McDermott, individually and as an officer and director of CJM, Inc.; Craig Tillotson, individually and as an officer and director of CST Management, Inc.; Craig Bryson, individually and as an officer and director of CK&C, Inc., and respondents' agents, representatives and employees, directly or through any partnership, corporation, subsidiary, division, or other device, in connection with inducing or seeking to induce the participation of any person in any distribution, sales, or marketing plan, in or affecting commerce, as ``commerce'' is defined in the Federal Trade Commission Act, do forthwith cease and desist from: A. Misrepresenting, in any manner, the past, present, or future profits, earnings, income, or sales from such participation; and B. Representing, in any manner, directly or by implication, by use of hypothetical examples or otherwise, that distributors earn or achieve from such participation any stated amount of profits, earnings, income, or sales in excess of the average profits, earnings, income, or sales of all distributors in any time period respondents may select, unless in conjunction therewith such average profits, earnings, income, or sales are clearly and conspicuously disclosed, and the percent of all distributors who actually achieved such stated profits, earnings, income, or sales in such time period is clearly and conspicuously disclosed. VI It is further ordered, That respondent Nu Skin shall: A. Within thirty (30) days from the effective date of this Order deliver a dated and signed notification letter in the form set forth in Appendix A to this Order to each of its current officers, agents, representatives, employees, and distributors. B. For a period of five (5) years from the effective date of this Order deliver signed notification letter in the form set forth in Appendix A to this Order to each of its future officers, agents, representatives, employees, and distributors within three (3) days after the person assumes such position. Respondent Nu Skin shall be in compliance with this subparagraph with respect to notifying future distributors if such notification letter is included in each starter kit provided to each future distributor. C. Institute a reasonable program of continuing surveillance adequate to reveal whether the practices of each person described in Part VI.A. and B. conform to the requirements of this Order, and promptly investigate any complaints about any such person received by Nu Skin and maintain records of any such complaint, investigation and disposition of the complaint for five (5) years from the date of the complaint, such records to be furnished to the Commission upon request. D. Discontinue dealing with any person described in Part VI.A. and B: 1. Who engages in the acts or practices prohibited by Parts I.A., II.A. or III.A. of this Order; or 2. Once respondent Nu Skin has actual knowledge, or knowledge fairly implied on the basis of objective circumstances, that such person is engaged in acts or practices prohibited by any other part of this Order, unless such person immediately ceases engaging in such acts or practices. VII It is further ordered, That respondents CJM, Inc., CST Management, Inc., CK&C, Inc., Clara McDermott, Craig Tillotson, and Craig Bryson shall:
