FR940617-0-00113 FR940617-0-00026 As for the Agency's failure to account for the short lifetime of NO X and its subsequent low likelihood of long-range transport, the commenters failed to recognize NO X sinks. A NO X ``sink'' is a molecular compound which stores NO X (NO and NO 2 ) for potential later release. Therefore, the NO X itself may disappear, but it disappears into NO X sinks, sometimes referred to as NOy, and can then be re-released at a later time. Examples of NO X sinks include the nitrate radical (NO 3 ), which forms at night in the presence of ozone and nitrogen dioxide (NO 2 ) and then quickly photolyzes in the morning, 2 and nitrous acid (HONO), probably formed from NO 2 and water, which is a major source of the hydroxyl radical (OH), a primary constituent for tropospheric ozone formation. 3 Another NO X sink is peroxyacetyl nitrate (PAN), which transports NO X over relatively large distances through the atmosphere. The rate of PAN decomposition significantly increases with temperature, so that it can be formed in colder regions, transported, and then decomposed to deliver NO 2 to warmer regions. Another NO X sink, methyl peroxynitrate (CH 3 OONO 2 ) can last as many as two days in the upper troposphere and then quickly disassociate under surface level temperature conditions, thereby providing a source of NO 2 . 4 2 Finlayson-Pitts, B.J., and J.N. Pitts, Jr., ``Atmospheric Chemistry of Tropospheric Ozone Formation: Scientific and Regulatory Implications,'' Air & Waste, Vol. 43, August 1993, p. 1091. 3 Rethinking the Ozone Problem in Urban and Regional Air Pollution, National Research Council, 1991. 4 Rethinking the Ozone Problem in Urban and Regional Air Pollution, National Research Council, 1991. Regarding comments that EPA is required to show that NO X reductions will not lead to actual ozone increases, the Agency disagrees. Most studies indicate that reductions of both VOC and NO X will lead to reductions of ozone, except under specific circumstances. 5 The photochemical modeling of alternative emission control strategies contained in the ROMNET report 6 offers additional support: ROMNET found that reductions in both VOC and NO X emissions beyond the minimum requirements of the CAA and across the northeastern U.S. would be required to bring the major East Coast cities into attainment of the ozone standard. In addition, a National Academy of Sciences Study 7 states that, ``*␣*␣* ozone in rural areas of the eastern U.S. is limited by the availability of NO X rather than hydrocarbons, and that reductions in NO X probably will be necessary to reduce rural ozone values.'' This same study also states that, ``Control of NO X *␣*␣*, although it is predicted to lead to an increase in ozone in some places, such as downtown Los Angeles and New York City *␣*␣* will probably be necessary in addition to or instead of VOC control to alleviate the ozone problem in many cities and regions.'' Even under those circumstances where a NO X decrease can result in an ozone increase, the ozone increase occurs only until a ``ridgeline'' is reached, after which further NO X control results in reduced ozone concentrations. In areas with relatively high VOC/NO X ratios, typical of suburban and rural areas, decreasing NO X concentrations at constant VOC concentrations is very effective in ozone reduction. 8 5 Rethinking the Ozone Problem in Urban and Regional Air Pollution, National Research Council, 1991. B.J. Finalyson-Pitts and J.N. Pitts, Jr., ``Atmospheric Chemistry of Tropospheric Ozone Formation: Scientific and Regulatory Implications,'' Air and Waste, Vol. 43, August 1993. 6 U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, ``Regional Oxidant Modeling for Northeast Transport (ROMNET), EPA&hyph;450/4&hyph;91&hyph;002a, Research Triangle Park, NC: Office of Air Quality Planning and Standards, June 1991. 7 Rethinking the Ozone Problem in Urban and Regional Air Pollution, National Research Council, 1991, pp. 363 and 377. 8 B.J. Finlayson-Pitts and J.N. Pitts, Jr., ``Atmospheric Chemistry of Tropospheric Ozone Formation: Scientific and Regulatory Implications,'' Air and Waste, Vol. 43, August 1993. 3. Defining Significance Some commenters argued that EPA cannot make a significance determination without first defining a standard upon which to base that determination, the claim being that without first defining what is significant, any level of contribution could conceivably be deemed as significant. Some commenters argued that the legislative history found in a Senate report stating, ``Emissions from off-road and non-road engines and vehicles now make up a significant portion of pollution *␣*␣* [E]missions inventories from EPA estimate that farm and construction equipment emit 3.7 percent of CO nationwide, four percent of nationwide NO X , and 1.3 percent of total hydrocarbons *␣*␣*,'' 9 does not provide guidance on significance, as the NPRM stated. 9 S.R. Rept. No. 101&hyph;228, p. 104 (emphasis added). The Agency disagrees with the contention that a specific numerical standard for significance must be determined prior to considering whether nonroad emissions are significant. When Congress mandated that EPA determine the significance of nonroad emissions, Congress could have given EPA a specific numerical mandate for determining whether such emissions are significant contributors. Instead, Congress gave EPA wide discretion to determine whether the emissions of NO X , VOCs and CO from nonroad engines and vehicles are significant contributors to ozone or CO concentrations. In any case, any reasonable indicator of significance would conclude that emissions from nonroad engines and vehicles were indeed significant contributors. As presented in the NPRM and discussed above, the Agency's photochemical modeling showed that without nonroad sources, the ozone levels of 16 of the 19 analyzed nonattainment areas would decrease from three to eight percent from their current levels and differences in excess of five percent were indicated in eight of the 16 areas. Additionally, NO X emission levels from nonroad sources were found to be exceeded by only one other source: the generation of electrical power. Nonroad VOC emission levels were found to be exceeded by only two other sources: light-duty highway vehicles and solvent evaporation. Nonroad CO emission levels were found to be exceeded by only two other sources: light-duty highway vehicles and residential fuel use. In addition, emissions from nonroad engines and vehicles accounted for over ten percent of the inventory of: (1) VOCs in 12 to 14 of the 19 nonattainment areas studied in the nonroad study; (2) NO X in 16 to 19 of the areas studied; and (3) CO in six to seven of the areas studied.
