FR941216-1-00054 FR941216-1-00010 (ii) Daily portions. The daily portions of interest determined under paragraph (b)(3)(iii) of this section are not included in gross income by the holder. (iii) Modification to projected payment schedule. The yield on a tax-exempt obligation may not exceed the greater of the yield on the obligation determined without regard to the contingent payments, and the tax-exempt applicable Federal rate, as determined for purposes of section 1288(b)(1), that applies to the obligation. If the projected yield determined under paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section exceeds the yield determined under the preceding sentence, appropriate adjustments must be made to the projected payment schedule to create a projected yield that meets this requirement. (iv) Positive adjustments. Positive adjustments on a tax-exempt obligation are taken into account under this paragraph (d)(2)(iv) rather than under paragraph (b)(6) of this section. A positive adjustment on a tax-exempt obligation is treated as taxable gain to the holder from the sale or exchange of the obligation in the taxable year of the adjustment. (v) Negative adjustments. Negative adjustments on a tax-exempt obligation are taken into account under this paragraph (d)(2)(v) rather than under paragraph (b)(6) of this section. (A) Reduction of interest accruals. Total negative adjustments for a taxable year first reduce the tax-exempt interest the holder would otherwise account for on the tax-exempt obligation for the taxable year under paragraph (b)(3)(iii) of this section. (B) Reduction of other tax-exempt interest for taxable year. If the total negative adjustments on the tax-exempt obligation for a taxable year exceed the tax-exempt interest for the taxable year that the holder would otherwise account for on the tax-exempt obligation under paragraph (b)(3)(iii) of this section, the excess is treated as a reduction of the holder's other tax-exempt interest income for the taxable year. However, the amount treated as a reduction is limited to the amount by which the total tax-exempt interest the holder accounted for on the tax-exempt obligation in prior taxable years exceeds the amount of the holder's total negative adjustments on the tax-exempt obligation that reduced other tax-exempt interest under this paragraph (d)(2)(v)(B) in prior taxable years. (C) Carryforward of negative adjustment. If the total negative adjustments on the tax-exempt obligation for a taxable year exceed the sum of the amounts treated as a reduction of tax-exempt interest under paragraphs (d)(2)(v)(A) and (B) of this section, the excess is a negative adjustment carryforward for the taxable year. (1) In general. Except as provided in paragraph (d)(2)(v)(C)( 2 ) of this section, a negative adjustment carryforward on a tax-exempt obligation for a taxable year is treated as a negative adjustment on the tax-exempt obligation on the first day of the succeeding taxable year. ( 2 ) In year of sale, exchange, or retirement. Any negative adjustment carryforward on a tax-exempt obligation for a taxable year in which the debt instrument is sold, exchanged, or retired reduces the amount realized by the holder on the sale, exchange, or retirement. (vi) Gains. Notwithstanding paragraph (b)(8) of this section, any gain recognized on the sale, exchange, or retirement of a tax-exempt obligation is gain from the sale or exchange of the obligation. (vii) Losses_ (A) Reduction of tax-exempt interest income. Notwithstanding paragraph (b)(8) of this section, any loss recognized on the sale, exchange, or retirement of a tax-exempt obligation is treated as a reduction of the holder's tax-exempt interest income for the taxable year of the sale, exchange, or retirement. However, the amount treated as a reduction of tax- exempt interest income by the holder is limited to the amount by which the holder's total tax-exempt interest on the obligation exceeds the holder's total negative adjustments on the obligation that were treated as reductions of tax-exempt interest income under paragraph (d)(2)(v)(B) of this section. If the amount that would reduce tax-exempt interest income measured under the preceding sentence exceeds the holder's total tax-exempt interest income for the taxable year, the excess is carried forward to reduce the holder's tax-exempt interest income in subsequent taxable years.
