FR940318-1-00040 FR940318-1-00014 A. Attainment of the SO 2 NAAQS Air quality standards for SO 2 have been set for three averaging times: annual (at a level of 80 micrograms per cubic meter (μg/m 3 )), 24-hour (at a level of 365 μg/m 3 ), and 3-hour (at a level of 1300 μg/m 3 ). Two types of information are used to assess whether these standards are met: ambient monitoring data, and dispersion modeling estimates. Monitoring is generally conducted at too few locations to fully represent air quality near significant SO 2 sources. Therefore, it is common to rely more on dispersion modeling results in assessing areas' attainment status. Indeed, in 1976, for much of Ohio including the four counties addressed in Ohio's redesignation request, USEPA promulgated emissions limits found through modeling to be necessary to assure attainment. The nonattainment designations promulgated in 1978 for these four counties reflected comparison of the sources' emissions with these promulgated limits. (See Federal Register notices cited above.) Conversely, a redesignation of these four counties to attainment must be supported by modeling information as well as by any available monitoring information. Provided that the source mix in the areas remains largely unchanged, the modeling information may reflect the modeling underlying the applicable limits (whether approved State limits or federally promulgated limits). This would involve the State demonstrating attainment by showing that emissions levels are within limits that USEPA found would assure attainment. In the typical case involving a relatively small number of sources with explicit limits that dominate ambient concentrations, such a demonstration would be required to show compliance for all such sources. USEPA has examined ambient monitoring data from the Air Information Retrieval System (AIRS) data base for 1980 to 1992 in the four counties. These data indicate exceedance of an SO 2 standard on only one occasion, an exceedance in 1991 of the 3-hour average standard in Morgan County. The 3-hour and 24-hour average standards are not violated unless 2 or more exceedances occur in a year. Therefore, no SO 2 violations were recorded in the four county region during the 13 years examined. The submittal of fuel quality data to support the State's request raises several issues. The first issue is whether fuel quality data may be used to indicate attainment status, even though stack testing is the compliance test method USEPA has approved for sources subject to State Implementation Plan (SIP) limits and promulgated for sources subject to Federal Implementation Plan (FIP) limits. Since the purpose of this review is to assess air quality and not individual source compliance, USEPA judges the use of fuel quality data to be appropriate. Indeed, fuel quality data in conjunction with atmospheric dispersion analyses (in this case previously completed analyses) can provide information both for a broader set of times than stack testing and for a broader set of locations than ambient monitoring. An associated issue involves appropriate averaging times. The State's rules provide for 30-day averaging of fuel quality data, and USEPA has adopted a policy that gives enforcement priority to sources violating applicable limits on a 30-day average basis. Nevertheless, for purposes of reviewing whether the four counties are attaining the 24-hour average SO 2 standards, daily fuel quality information was used. Fuel quality data showing daily compliance with emissions limits which modeling showed would assure attainment is considered evidence of attainment of both the annual average and the 24-hour average standards. For the 3-hour standard, fuel quality data indicating continuous compliance on a 24-hour average basis is to be supplemented by stack test results demonstrating compliance on this shorter averaging time. An additional issue pertaining to the use of fuel quality data involves the appropriate conversion factor from fuel sulfur content to SO 2 emissions. Ohio's rules provide a conversion factor for coal of 1.9 pounds of SO 2 emissions per pound of sulfur in fuel. However, USEPA currently believes that 1.95 pounds of SO 2 are emitted per pound of sulfur in coal. USEPA's review of the State's fuel quality information used this slightly higher conversion factor.
