FR940428-2-00068 FR940428-2-00040 Appendix A Special Attention of: All Regional Administrators; Regional Directors of Housing; Regional Directors of Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity; Managers, Categories A, B and C Offices; Directors, Housing Management Divisions, Categories A, B and C Offices; Directors, Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity Divisions, Categories A, B and C Offices, Loan Management Branch Chiefs Subject: Elderly Persons and Persons with Disabilities in Assisted Housing_Population Mix Revisions to Chapter 2 of Handbook 4350.3, Chg&hyph;24, Occupancy Requirements of Subsidized Multifamily Housing Programs, were issued by the Office of Housing on January 19, 1993. Sections 2&hyph;1 through 2&hyph;19 of the Chapter have been questioned by a number of groups representing interested parties on several grounds, including that the potential exclusion of persons with dis- abilities could violate the Fair Housing Act and section 504 of the 1973 Rehabilitation Act. The questioned sections of the Handbook relate to the identification of projects or portions of projects for the exclusive use of elderly persons under the Sections 221(d) (3) and (4), 231 and 236 programs. Handbook guidance is necessary to insure clear and consistent direction to housing providers and to the Field, and the withdrawal of sections 2&hyph;1 through 2&hyph;19 of Chapter 2 could create further inconsistencies, confusion, and a greater likelihood of discrimination. The Department, therefore, has determined that Chapter 2, sections 2&hyph;1 through 2&hyph;19 would remain in effect, as modified by this Notice, pending issuance of regulations implementing subtitle D of Title VI of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1992. These changes do not involve provisions of the handbook related to the Section 202 program. When the regulations implementing subtitle D of Title VI are issued, the Department intends to review Chapter 2, making revisions where appropriate. In the interim, until handbook revisions consistent with this Notice are published, the Office of Housing and the Office of Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity (FH&EO) are issuing this Notice which provides the following clarifications of Chapter 2: •It was not the intent of Chapter 2 to require owners of projects with units covered by the Sections 221, 231 and 236 programs to identify their projects or portions of their projects as exclusively elderly. Therefore, the deadline for project identification (next application for a rent increase or June 1994, at the latest), as indicated in Figure 2&hyph;1, page 2&hyph;9, paragraph 3, is hereby deleted. Owners who have not already designated their project as elderly (age 62 or over) housing may choose to identify the project as elderly housing at any time in the future (e.g., after publication of regulations implementing subtitle D of Title VI). •If an owner identifies the project as described in paragraph 2 of Figure 2.1 of Chapter 2, he or she is reminded that the burden of proof supporting the identification of a project or portion of a project as elderly-only housing remains with them, and they may be required to document that proof to HUD and/or another party at some future time. •The number of units which are constructed to be accessible to people with physical disabilities is not intended to dictate any standard or cap on the number of units serving persons with disabilities. In addition, references to the term ``mobility impaired'' are being deleted from Chapter 2; wherever that term was used, it should be replaced by ``tenants needing the accessibility features of the units.'' •In Handbook 4350.3, Chg&hyph;24, Occupancy Requirements of Subsidized Multifamily Housing Programs, Chapter 2, Figure 2&hyph;1, page 2&hyph;8: _Remove the text of the second Note, which reads: ``In some elderly projects, a percentage of the units have been designed for households whose heads or spouse have mobility impairments, regardless of age. See paragraph 2&hyph;8c.'' _Replace that language with the second paragraph of the ``Note'' under Item No. 3, on page 2&hyph;9, which begins: ``Housing must be both designed and operated for the elderly.*␣*␣*'' These paragraphs were incorrectly placed when Chapter 2 was printed, and this change merely corrects that error. Project owners are also reminded that Chapter 2 includes the requirement to make reasonable accommodations to individuals with disabilities and other Civil Rights requirements in addition to requirements under the National Housing Act. Nicolas P. Retsinas, Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner. Roberta Achtenberg, Assistant Secretary for Fair Housing-Equal Opportunity. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;10146 Filed 4&hyph;26&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4210&hyph;27&hyph;P
