FR940503-1-00080 FR940503-1-00012 For the reasons set forth in the preamble, part 80 of title 40 of the Code of Federal Regulations are proposed to be amended as follows: PART 80_REGULATIONS OF FUELS AND FUEL ADDITIVES 1. The authority citation for part 80 continues to read as follows: Authority: Sections 114, 211 and 301(a) of the Clean Air Act as amended, 42 U.S.C. 7414, 7545 and 7601(a). 2. Section 80.84 is proposed to be added to subpart D to read as follows: §80.84 Individual baselines for foreign refineries. (a) Definitions. For purposes of this section, ``foreign refinery'' shall mean a specific refinery located outside the United States, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands. (b) Conditions for use of individual foreign refinery baselines. For purposes of compliance with the reformulated gasoline standards of §80.41, any importer may use a baseline established for a foreign refinery as the importer's individual baseline, but only for gasoline produced at that foreign refinery and provided that: (1) The Administrator has approved separate 1990 baseline properties and volume for the foreign refinery, as specified under paragraph (c) of this section; (2) The importer is able to establish that the imported gasoline was produced at the foreign refinery, as specified under paragraph (d) of this section; (3) An attest engagement is conducted of the foreign refinery operation for the calendar year during which the separate foreign refinery baseline is claimed by the importer, as specified under paragraph (e) of this section; and (4) Authorized representatives of the Administrator are given full and immediate access and are allowed to conduct inspections, review records and other documents, collect gasoline samples, and perform audits relating to the foreign refinery, as specified under paragraph (f) of this section. (c) Establishing individual foreign refinery baselines. (1) Any foreign refiner may seek a separate baseline for a foreign refinery by submitting a petition to the Assistant Administrator of EPA's Office of Air and Radiation, such petition to include the Method 1-, 2-, and/or 3-type data as specified in §80.91 for the foreign refinery, submitted as specified in §80.93, and verified as specified in §80.92 except that the baseline auditor shall be an individual who is a United States citizen. (2) The Assistant Administrator of EPA's Office of Air and Radiation may grant such petition if the properties and volume of the gasoline produced at the foreign refinery and imported for use in the United States in 1990 are established to the satisfaction of the Assistant Administrator. (3) Any petition under this paragraph (c) of this section shall: (i) Contain a declaration, signed by the owner or president of the foreign refiner business, that contains the following language: The information contained in this individual baseline petition is complete and accurate. I agree that any EPA inspector or auditor will be given immediate and complete access to the premises of [the name of foreign refinery for which an individual baseline is requested], to any other location where gasoline produced at [the name of the foreign refinery] for use in the United States during the period December 1994 through December 1997 is stored or transported, and to any other location where documents are kept which relate to this baseline petition or to the quality and/or quantity of the gasoline produced at the foreign refinery for use in the United States during the period December 1, 1994 through December 31, 1997, regardless of whether these inspections are announced in advance or are unannounced; and (ii) Be submitted by [insert date 6 months after publication of the Final Rule]. (d) Establishing refinery-of-origin. In order to establish the refinery-of-origin with regard to any batch of imported gasoline: (1) The gasoline to which the individual foreign refinery baseline would apply may not be combined with gasoline produced at any other refinery prior to arrival at the United States port-of-entry; (2)(i) A United States-based independent laboratory shall: (A) Collect a representative sample of the batch subsequent to loading on the ship that will transport the gasoline to the United States, and prior to departure of that ship from the port serving the refinery-of-origin; (B) Analyze such sample for each property specified in §80.65(e)(1) using the methodologies specified in §80.46; (C) Independently determine the volume of the batch; (D) Independently determine the refinery at which the subject gasoline was produced, and that the subject gasoline was not combined with gasoline produced at any other refinery before loading on the ship.
