FR940124-2-00033 FR940124-2-00027 [Finance Docket No. 32436] Rail Management and Consulting Corporation, Green Bay Packaging, Inc., K. Earl Durden, and Rail Partners, L.P._Continuance in Control Exemption_The Bay Line Railroad, L.L.C. Green Bay Packaging, Inc. (GBP), Rail management and Consulting Corporation (RMCC), Rail Partners, L.P. (Partners), and K. Earl Durden (Durden) (collectively, Owners), all noncarriers, have filed a notice of exemption to continue to control The Bay Line Railroad, L.L.C. (Bay Line) 1 , a noncarrier, upon Bay Line's becoming a carrier. Bay Line has concurrently filed a notice of exemption in Finance Docket No. 32435, The Bay Line Railroad, L.L.C._Acquisition and Operation Exemption_Rail Lines of Atlanta & St. Andrews Bay Railroad Company, to acquire from the Atlanta & St. Andrews Bay Railroad Company (ASAB), approximately 88 miles of main line trackage running from Panama City, FL, to Dothan, AL, together with substantially all of the other railroad operating assets of ASAB. 1 Bay Line is 100% owned and controlled by Rail Partners, L.P. (Partners), a Delaware limited partnership, and Panama City Beach Office Park, Ltd. (Office Park), a Florida limited partnership. Neither Partners nor Office Park is a carrier, and Office Park does not currently control a carrier. However, Partners is jointly owned and controlled by Durden, GBP, and RMCC, and with them jointly owns and controls several class III rail carriers, none of which would connect with Bay Line. Office Park is jointly owned and controlled by Partners and RMCC. Owners jointly control 10 class III rail carriers. Additionally, Durden individually controls another short line, the Lakeside Transportation Co. Owners indicate that: (1) Bay Line does not connect with any other railroad controlled by Owners; (2) the continuance in control is not a part of a series of anticipated transactions that would connect Bay Line with any other railroad controlled by Owners; 2 and (3) the transaction does not involve a class I carrier. The transaction therefore is exempt from the prior approval requirements of 49 U.S.C. 11343. See 49 CFR 1180.2(d)(2). 2 Also contemporaneous with this filing, the A&G Railroad, L.L.C. (A&G), another newly formed Alabama limited liability company, also owned by Partners and Office Park, is filing a notice of exemption in Finance Docket No. 32437, The A&G Railroad, L.L.C._Acquisition and Operation Exemption_Rail Lines of Abbeville & Grimes Railway Company, to acquire from Abbeville & Grimes Railway Company (Abbeville) and to operate approximately 27 rail miles in Alabama, between Abbeville and Grimes, together with incidental trackage rights over 7 miles of CSX Transportation, Inc. (CSXT) lines between Grimes and Dothan, AL, and substantially all of the other railroad operating assets of Abbeville. Bay Line states that because, as a carrier, it will connect with A&G by means of incidental trackage rights over CSXT, between Grimes and Dothan, the ownership of A&G will be placed in an independent voting trust prior to closing to prevent Durden, RMCC, GBP, Partners, and Office Park from retaining direct control over A&G once A&G becomes a carrier. Bay Line indicates that after the closing, a separate petition for exemption, or other pleading, will be filed with the Commission, seeking appropriate authority or exemption for Owners to dissolve the voting trust and acquire direct control over A&G. As a condition to use of this exemption, any employees affected by the transaction will be protected by the conditions set forth in New York Dock Ry._Control_Brooklyn Eastern Dist., 360 I.C.C. 60 (1979). Petitions to revoke the exemption under 49 U.S.C. 10505(d) may be filed at any time. The filing of a petition to revoke will not automatically stay the transaction. Pleadings must be filed with the Commission and served on: Donald G. Avery, Slover & Loftus, 1224 17th Street, NW, Washington, DC 20036. Decided: January 18, 1994. By the Commission, David M. Konschnik, Director, Office of Proceedings. Sidney L. Strickland Jr., Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;1551 Filed 1&hyph;21&hyph;94; 10:00 am] BILLING CODE 7035&hyph;01&hyph;P
