FR940106-1-00057 FR940106-1-00011 Three of these species, bay shrimp ( Crangon franciscorum ), starry flounder ( Platichthys stellatus ), and longfin smelt ( Spirinchus thaleichthys ), depend on brackish-water nursery habitat for a significant portion of their life cycles. Bay shrimp and starry flounder are important components of commercial and sport fisheries, and their protection is important to maintain the State's Ocean Commercial and Sport Fishing designated uses, as well as the Estuarine Habitat designated use. The bay shrimp is the largest shrimp species in the estuary, and has been the most numerous, except during recent prolonged drought conditions, when abundance has been very low. It supports a commercial bait fishery in the Bay, and is an important food source for the larger fish of the estuary. Reproductive adults and larvae are found in the more marine habitats of Central San Francisco Bay and nearshore Gulf of the Farallones. Transforming larvae and early juveniles move into the Bay from the nearshore ocean, and maturing juveniles are mainly found in warm, shallow, brackish water areas (2 to 22 ppt) of the estuary (CDFG 1992; WRINT&hyph;DFG&hyph;6). Starry flounder also use the brackish areas of San Francisco Bay as nursery habitat. After moving into the Bay as transforming larvae from the nearshore ocean during the spring, young-of-the-year juvenile flounder (smaller than 70 mm) are found primarily in warm shallows where salinities are less than 22 ppt (CDFG 1992, WRINT&hyph;DFG&hyph;6). By the second year of life (1+), the fish have moved out of fresh water completely and are concentrated in the brackish water areas of the Bay. By the third year of life (2+) they have spread throughout the higher salinity areas, and many have migrated out of the Bay. Starry flounder supports both a commercial and recreational fishery in the San Francisco Bay area. Commercial catch has varied between 486 thousand pounds in 1980 to a minimum of 40 thousand pounds in 1990. Although starry flounder are a small component of the flatfish catch (2 percent by weight), they are second only to California halibut in price per pound at the dock (CDFG 1992, WRINT&hyph;DFG&hyph;6). Commercial passenger fishery total catch and catch per unit effort in San Pablo Bay have declined dramatically since the mid-1970's. Abundance of starry flounder young-of-the-year and one-year-olds (1+) has been consistently low since 1986, and older starry flounder (two years old and older) have also declined in the Bay since the mid-1970's, based on Commercial Passenger Fishing Vessel logs (CDFG 1992, WRINT&hyph;DFG&hyph;6). Until recently, longfin smelt has been one of the most abundant fish species in the estuary. This species spawns in freshwater, and larvae and juveniles smaller than 50 mm are predominantly found in brackish water with bottom salinities less than 18 ppt. According to California DFG, water with less than 18 ppt salinity in the spring months of March through June constitutes important nursery habitat for longfin smelt (CDFG 1992, WRINT&hyph;DFG&hyph;6). Recent populations of longfin smelt have been very low, and in 1991 the population reached the lowest number ever recorded since monitoring was initiated in 1967. As a result, this species has been the subject of a petition for listing under the ESA. See Petition for Listing Under the Endangered Species Act_Longfin smelt and Sacramento splittail, National Heritage Institute (November 5, 1992). There are close correlations between the location of the near-bottom 2 ppt isohaline during winter/spring and annual abundance indices of bay shrimp, starry flounder, and longfin smelt (Jassby 1992). Annual abundances are low when the position of the near-bottom 2 ppt isohaline is upstream and does not move to and remain at a position near Roe Island for any extended period of time. Under these circumstances, the brackish-water nursery habitat favored by these species is primarily limited to Suisun Bay. Salinity data from California DFG studies indicate that when near-bottom salinities are at or below 2 ppt near Roe Island in Suisun Bay, salinities downstream over the large shallow flats of San Pablo Bay are characteristically less than 18 to 22 ppt (CDFG 1993). In years when the position of the near-bottom 2 ppt isohaline moves downstream at least as far as Roe Island in the spring, the area of low-salinity habitat expands into the large shallows of San Pablo Bay and these species are more abundant. These areas of San Pablo Bay provide greatly increased habitat within the salinity ranges preferred by juveniles of these species. As with striped bass, other factors are also likely to contribute to year-to-year variations in abundance of these species, including the strength of net landward bottom currents (shrimp and flounder), coastal distribution of reproductive adults and larvae (shrimp and flounder), and successful downstream transport and dispersal of larvae and juveniles (smelt) (CDFG 1992, WRINT&hyph;DFG&hyph;6). However, brackish-water nursery habitat is essential to the juveniles of these three species, and is a major factor in the strong correlation between the position of the near-bottom 2 ppt isohaline and abundance. According to studies by California DFG, an index of brackish water habitat is strongly correlated with abundance indices for these three species (CDFG 1992, figs 1&hyph;3, WRINT&hyph;DFG&hyph;6). EPA's proposed salinity criteria, by providing estuarine habitat conditions similar to the healthier reference period of the late 1960's to early 1970's, should restore and maintain the brackish-water nursery habitat required by these three species. _Suisun Bay Tidal Wetland Species. The tidal wetlands bordering Suisun Bay are characterized as brackish marsh because of their unique combination of species typical of both freshwater wetlands and more saline wetlands. 7 Suisun Marsh itself, bordering Suisun Bay on the north, is the largest contiguous brackish water marsh in the United States. A large portion of the wetland habitat (approximately 44,000 acres) in this marsh is currently diked and managed for waterfowl use and hunting. Approximately 10,000 acres bordering Suisun Bay are still fully tidal (Meiorin 1991). 7 There are currently no salinity criteria protecting the Estuarine Habitat, Wildlife Habitat, and other fish and wildlife uses of the brackish tidal marshes of Suisun Bay. These large tidal marshes are distinct from the ``managed'' marshes in the Suisun Bay. EPA's approval of the 1978 Delta Plan criteria was explicitly conditioned on the State Board's commitment to develop additional criteria for the tidal marshes and to protect aquatic life in the Suisun Marsh channels and open waters. Because these conditions have not been met, EPA, in its September 3, 1991 letter on the 1991 Bay/Delta Plan, disapproved the standards for Suisun Marsh and stated that the State Board should immediately develop salinity objectives sufficient to protect aquatic life and the brackish tidal wetlands surrounding Suisun Marsh.
