FR940826-0-00123 FR940826-0-00020 SBC urges the Commission to alter the stopping rule to allow the agency to issue a notice that bidding will close after a given number of rounds. 34 GTE and SBC ask the Commission to adopt a simpler activity rule, such as a requirement that bidders be active on a single license in each round. 35 AIDE urges that the activity rules be withdrawn, at least in the case of designated entities. 36 Pacbell counters that the three-stage Milgrom-Wilson activity rule avoids delay, provides meaningful information, and allows bidders the flexibility to react to that information, and that software is available to help ensure that the Milgrom-Wilson rule will not be hard to implement. 37 34 SBC Petition at 5. 35 GTE Petition at 10&hyph;11; SBC Petition at 5. 36 AIDE Petition at 12&hyph;13. 37 Bell Opposition at ii. 14. Discussion. As we noted in the Second Report and Order, the decision to use activity rules and the choice among activity rules involve tradeoffs among the speed of the auction, bidder flexibility, and simplicity. 38 The petitioners raise no issues relating to activity rules that we did not consider carefully in the Second Report and Order. 39 We see nothing in the petitions for reconsideration to cause us to change our opinion concerning the choices we made among these goals. 38 Second Report and Order at ¶ 134. 39 For instance, GTE notes that a bidder may be interested in some properties only if it can also acquire other key properties. GTE states that ``under the modified Milgrom-Wilson rule, the bidder could be forced to choose between dropping out of the auction prematurely or staying active in markets that may prove to be less valuable if the bidder loses out in the other key markets.'' GTE Petition at 9&hyph;10. The Second Report and Order considers the same situation of interdependency and concludes that a bidder would have more flexibility with the three-stage Milgrom-Wilson rule than with another possible activity rule, that of starting the bidding with the third stage of the Milgrom-Wilson rule. See Second Report and Order at ¶ 142. 15. We do not believe that the Milgrom-Wilson activity rules will excessively restrict bidders' flexibility to bid for desired combinations of licenses or cause licenses to be awarded to bidders who value them less than other bidders. The rules were expressly designed to counteract the incentive to delay serious bidding that occurs in simultaneous auctions, without unduly limiting bidders' flexibility to pursue backup strategies and to use new information. 40 The restrictions placed on bidders at the beginning of the three-stage auction procedure are modest. In the first stage, to retain full eligibility a bidder need only bid on, or have the highest bid from the previous round on, licenses representing at least one-third of the MHz-pops he or she ultimately hopes to win. In the second stage, the bidder must bid on, or hold the high bid on, two-thirds of the MHz-pops he or she hopes to win. Only in the third stage are bidders required to bid on the full amount of MHz-pops they hope to acquire. 41 Bidders may shift bids among any combination of licenses from round to round. 42 Paul Milgrom points out that at the shift from stage I to stage II there will be no more than three bidders on an average license, and at the shift to stage III there will be at most 11/2 bidders on an average license. 43 Because the progression to higher stages imparts such information, it gives the bidders important signals concerning the state of bidding. By stage III, bidding should be rapidly drawing to a close, and any major shifts in strategy should already have been implemented. Bidders who believe that they may want to expand their purchases if prices are unexpectedly low can guarantee their ability to do so by making a sufficiently high upfront payment. 40 Id. 41 Id. at ¶ 137. 42 Id. at ¶ 136. 43 Ex parte submission of Paul Milgrom, June 21, 1994 at 2. 16. In the Second Report and Order, we also stated our intention to reduce the complexity faced by bidders by developing bidding software and making it available to all bidders in auctions in which a Milgrom-Wilson activity rule is used. 44 SBC expresses concern that the software may not be available in time. Software was in fact developed in time for the July nationwide narrowband auction, and performed successfully in that auction. In light of that success, we have no doubt that appropriate software will also be available for the remaining narrowband and broadband auctions. 44 Second Report and Order at ¶ 143. 17. Finally, we remind petitioners that, in the Second Report and Order, we adopted the three-stage Milgrom-Wilson activity rules only as a preferred option. 45 We deferred to later, service-specific Orders the choice of actual rules to be used in auctions for individual services, depending, as discussed in the Second Report and Order, on the characteristics of the services and our experience with the conduct of auctions. In addition, we retained the flexibility to decide on an auction-by-auction basis, and to announce by Public Notice before the auction, whether to use an activity rule, and if so what type of rule. 46 Thus, if experience shows that the Milgrom-Wilson rules are unduly difficult to administer, we may shift to other activity rules, including the one recommended by petitioners requiring only that bidders be active on a single license in each round. We also expressly retained the discretion, requested by SBC, to announce at any point during a multiple round auction that the auction will end after some specified number of additional rounds. 47 45 Second Report and Order at ¶ 144. 46 Id. at ¶ 133. 47 Id. at ¶ 132. 18. In the Second Report and Order the Commission also retained the ability to speed up an auction by announcing at any time during an auction that the next stage of the auction will begin in the next bidding round. 48 In this Order the Commission wishes to make explicit that this discretion could be exercised by employing an alternative rule for moving from one stage of the auction to the next. The Commission will announce by Public Notice prior to an auction its intent to use an alternative rule. One possible alternative rule would be that the auction will move to the next stage if in each of some fixed number of rounds, bidding activity is below some level measured as the ratio of new bids (measured in terms of MHz-pops) to available licenses (measured in terms of MHz-pops). The ratio of new bids to licenses may be a better measure of bidding activity than the percentage of total licenses on which the high bid has increased (measured in terms of MHz-pops) because it accounts for the possibility that bidding may be concentrated on a few licenses. In contrast, the latter measure indicates the same level of bidding activity regardless of how many bids are made on a given set of licenses. 48 Id. at n.110.
