FR940425-2-00017 FR940425-2-00016 Department of the Air Force Privacy Act of 1974; Delete and Amend Systems of Records AGENCY: Department of the Air Force, DoD. ACTION: Delete and amend systems of records. SUMMARY: The Department of the Air Force proposes to delete three and amend two systems of records in its inventory of record systems subject to the Privacy Act of 1974 (5 U.S.C. 552a), as amended. DATES: The deleted systems are effective May 25, 1994. The amended systems will be effective May 25, 1994, unless comments are received which result in a contrary determination. ADDRESSES: Send comments to the Air Force Access Programs Manager, SAF/AAIA, 1610 Air Force Pentagon, Washington, DC 20330&hyph;1610. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mr. James H. Gibson at (703) 697&hyph;3491 or DSN 227&hyph;3491. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Department of the Air Force Privacy systems of records notices have been published in the Federal Register and are available from the address above. The deleted and amended systems are not within the purview of subsection (r) of the Privacy Act (5 U.S.C. 552a), as amended, which requires the submission of an altered system report. The specific changes to the systems of records being amended are set forth below, followed by the systems of records notices published in their entirety, as amended. Dated: April 18, 1994. Patricia L. Toppings, Alternate OSD Federal Register Liaison Officer, Department of Defense. DELETIONS F030 AFIS B System name: Air Force Attache Personnel System (February 22, 1993, 58 FR 10315). Reason: System is no longer needed. There are no plans to reinstate this system in the future. Records maintained in this system have been retired. F050 ACC A System name: Student Record File (February 22, 1993, 58 FR 10384). Reason: System is no longer needed. There are no plans to reinstate this system in the future. Records maintained in this system have been merged with Air Force system of records F050 AF A, entitled Student Record. F125 AF FSP C System name: Management Information and Research System (MIRS) (January 26, 1994, 59 FR 3672). Reason: System is no longer needed. There are no plans to reinstate this system in the future. Records maintained in this system will be retired to the Washington National Records Center for a 20-year retention. AMENDMENTS F110 AF JA A System name: Legal Assistance Administration (February 22, 1993, 58 FR 10424). Changes: System name: Delete the letters `JA A' before system name. System location: Delete entry and replace with `Air Force Legal Services Agency, Legal Assistance Division, 172 Luke Avenue, Bolling Air Force Base, DC 20332&hyph;5113. Headquarters of major commands and at all levels down to and including Air Force installations. Official mailing addresses are published as an appendix to the Air Force's compilation of record systems notices.' Categories of individuals covered by the system: Add to end of entry `and Air Force civilian personnel stationed overseas.' * * * * * Storage: Delete entry and replace with `Maintained in file folders, card files, in computers and on computer output products.' Retrievability: Add to end of entry `or Social Security Number.' Safeguards: Add to end of entry `Computers must be accessed with a password.' Retention and disposal: Add to end of entry `Computer records are destroyed by erasing, deleting or overwriting.' System manager(s) and address: Delete entry and replace with `Commander, Air Force Legal Services Agency, 172 Luke Avenue, Suite 343, Bolling Air Force Base, DC 20332&hyph;5113. Legal Assistance Officers at Air Force installations. Official mailing addresses are published as an appendix to the Air Force's compilation of record systems notices.' Notification procedure: Delete entry and replace with `Individuals seeking to determine whether this system of records contains information on them should address inquiries to the Air Force Legal Services Agency, Legal Assistance Division, 172 Luke Avenue, Bolling Air Force Base, DC 20332&hyph;5113, or to Legal Assistance Officers at Air Force installations. Official mailing addresses are published as an appendix to the Air Force's compilation of record systems notices.' Record access procedures: Delete entry and replace with `Individuals seeking to access records about themselves contained in this system should address requests to the Air Force Legal Services Agency, Legal Assistance Division, 172 Luke Avenue, Bolling Air Force Base, DC 20332&hyph;5113, or to Legal Assistance Officers at Air Force installations. Official mailing addresses are published as an appendix to the Air Force's compilation of record systems notices.' Contesting record procedures: Delete `Air Force Regulation 12&hyph;35' and insert `Air Force Instruction 37&hyph;132.' * * * * * F110 AF JA A System name: Legal Assistance Administration. System location: Air Force Legal Services Agency, Legal Assistance Division, 172 Luke Avenue, Bolling Air Force Base, DC 20332&hyph;5113. Headquarters of major commands and at all levels down to and including Air Force installations. Official mailing addresses are published as an appendix to the Air Force's compilation of record systems notices. Categories of individuals covered by the system: Active duty and retired military personnel, and their dependents and Air Force civilian personnel stationed overseas. Categories of records in the system: Social Security Numbers, and personal letters and documents furnished by person seeking advice and legal assistance record. Authority for maintenance of the system: 10 U.S.C. 8072, Judge Advocate General: Appointment and duties; and E.O. 9397. Purpose(s): Records kept to render proper advice for continuing assistance. Used by attorney and client with attorney-client relationship to assist in personal legal problems. Routine uses of records maintained in the system, including categories of users and the purposes of such uses: In addition to those disclosures generally permitted under 5 U.S.C. 552a(b) of the Privacy Act, these records or information contained therein may specifically be disclosed outside the DoD as a routine use pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(b)(3) as follows: The `Blanket Routine Uses' set forth at the beginning of the Air Force's compilation of systems of records notices apply to this system. Policies and practices for storing, retrieving, accessing, retaining, and disposing of records in the system: Storage: Maintained in file folders, card files, in computers and on computer output products. Retrievability: Retrieved by name or Social Security Number. Safeguards: Records are accessed by person(s) responsible for servicing the record system in performance of their official duties. Records are stored in locked cabinets or rooms. Computers must be accessed with a password. Retention and disposal: Retained in office files until superseded, obsolete, no longer needed for reference, or on inactivation, then destroyed by tearing into pieces, shredding, pulping, macerating, or burning. Computer records are destroyed by erasing, deleting or overwriting. System manager(s) and address: Commander, Air Force Legal Services Agency, 172 Luke Avenue, Suite 343, Bolling Air Force Base, DC 20332&hyph;5113. Legal Assistance Officers at Air Force installations. Official mailing addresses are published as an appendix to the Air Force's compilation of record systems notices. Notification procedure: Individuals seeking to determine whether this system of records contains information on them should address inquiries to the Air Force Legal Services Agency, Legal Assistance Division, 172 Luke Avenue, Bolling Air Force Base, DC 20332&hyph;5113, or to Legal Assistance Officers at Air Force installations. Official mailing addresses are published as an appendix to the Air Force's compilation of record systems notices. Record access procedures: Individuals seeking to access records about themselves contained in this system should address requests to the Air Force Legal Services Agency, Legal Assistance Division, 172 Luke Avenue, Bolling Air Force Base, DC 20332&hyph;5113, or to Legal Assistance Officers at Air Force installations. Official mailing addresses are published as an appendix to the Air Force's compilation of record systems notices. Contesting record procedures: The Air Force rules for accessing records, and for contesting contents and appealing initial agency determinations are published in Air Force Instruction 37&hyph;132; 32 CFR part 806b; or may be obtained from the system manager. Record source categories: Information furnished by client. Exemptions claimed for the system: None. F111 AF JA A System name: Automated Military Justice Analysis and Management System (AMJAMS) (February 22, 1993, 58 FR 10432). System location: Delete entry and replace with `Air Force Legal Information Services Directorate, Air Force Legal Services Agency (AFLSA/JAS), Maxwell Air Force Base, AL 36112&hyph;6148.' * * * * * Authority for maintenance of the system: Delete entry and replace with `10 U.S.C. 8072, Judge Advocate General: appointment; duties; 10 U.S.C. 806, Judge Advocates and Legal Officers; 10 U.S.C. 867, Review by the Court of Military Appeals, and the Uniform Code of Military Justice.' * * * * * Storage: Delete entry and replace with `Maintained in the memory of the host computer at AFLSA/JAS, Maxwell Air Force Base, AL, and archived on magnetic tapes.' * * * * * Safeguards: Add to end of entry `Computer records are destroyed by erasing, deleting or overwriting.' Retention and disposal: Delete entry and replace with `Records remain in the memory of the host computer indefinitely. Archived copies of the data are retained as permanent records at AFLSA/JAS, Maxwell Air Force Base, AL.' System manager(s) and address: Delete entry and replace with `Commander, Air Force Legal Services Agency, 172 Luke Avenue, Suite 343, Bolling Air Force Base, DC 20332&hyph;5113.' Notification procedure: Delete entry and replace with `Individuals seeking to determine whether this system of records contains information on them should address inquiries to the Military Justice Division, Air Force Legal Services Agency, 172 Luke Avenue, Bolling Air Force Base, DC 20332&hyph;5113. Requester may visit the Military Justice Division, and will be required to present a valid identification card or driver's license.' Record access procedures: Delete entry and replace with `Individuals seeking to access records about themselves contained in this system should address requests to the Military Justice Division, Air Force Legal Services Agency, 172 Luke Avenue, Bolling Air Force Base, DC 20332&hyph;5113. Requester may visit the Military Justice Division, and will be required to present a valid identification card or driver's license. Information required will be full name, Social Security Number, unit of assignment and date of trial or imposition of Article 15 punishment.' * * * * * F111 AF JA A System name: Automated Military Justice Analysis and Management System (AMJAMS). System location: Air Force Legal Information Services Directorate, Air Force Legal Services Agency (AFLSA/JAS), Maxwell Air Force Base, AL 36112&hyph;6148. Categories of individuals covered by the system: All persons subject to the Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ) (10 U.S.C. 802) who receive Article 15 punishment or against whom courts-martial charges are preferred. Categories of records in the system: Article 15 records included personnel background information, nature of offenses involved, punishment imposed and results of appeals filed and subsequent actions taken affecting the punishment. Courts-martial records include personnel background information, offenses charged, pretrial proceedings, results of trial or other disposition of case, sentence, action of convening authority and results of appellate review. Authority for maintenance of the system: 10 U.S.C. 8072, Judge Advocate General: appointment; duties; 10 U.S.C. 806, Judge Advocates and Legal Officers; 10 U.S.C. 867, Review by the Court of Military Appeals, and the Uniform Code of Military Justice; and E.O. 9397. Purpose(s): Records are maintained in order to preserve an accurate statistical accounting of courts-martial and Article 15 activities for use in assisting The Judge Advocate General and Field Staff Judge Advocates in the management and administration of military justice, and for conducting statistical studies which measure disciplinary rates and trends and evaluate military justice involvement as it affects the quality of the force and the ability of the Air Force to carry out its mission. Routine uses of records maintained in the system, including categories of users and the purposes of such uses: In addition to those disclosures generally permitted under 5 U.S.C. 552a(b) of the Privacy Act, these records or information contained therein may specifically be disclosed outside the DoD as a routine use pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(b)(3) as follows: The `Blanket Routine Uses' published at the beginning of the Air Force's compilation of systems of records notices apply to this system. Policies and practices for storing, retrieving, accessing, retaining, and disposing of records in the system: Storage: Maintained in the memory of the host computer at AFLSA/JAS, Maxwell Air Force Base, AL, and archived on magnetic tapes. Retrievability: Retrieved by name and Social Security Number. Safeguards: Records are accessed by custodian of the record system and by person(s) responsible for servicing the record system in performance of their official duties who are properly screened and cleared for need-to-know. Records are stored in vaults or locked cabinets or rooms and controlled by personnel screening. Computer records are destroyed by erasing, deleting or overwriting. Retention and disposal: Records remain in the memory of the host computer indefinitely. Archived copies of the data are retained as permanent records at AFLSA/JAS, Maxwell Air Force Base, AL. System manager(s) and address: Commander, Air Force Legal Services Agency, 172 Luke Avenue, Suite 343, Bolling Air Force Base, DC 20332&hyph;5113. Notification procedure: Individuals seeking to determine whether this system of records contains information on them should address inquiries to the Military Justice Division, Air Force Legal Services Agency, 172 Luke Avenue, Bolling Air Force Base, DC 20332&hyph;5113. Requester may visit the Military Justice Division, and will be required to present a valid identification card or driver's license. Record access procedures: Individuals seeking to access records about themselves contained in this system should address requests to the Military Justice Division, Air Force Legal Services Agency, 172 Luke Avenue, Bolling Air Force Base, DC 20332&hyph;5113. Requester may visit the Military Justice Division, and will be required to present a valid identification card or driver's license. Information required will be full name, SSN, unit of assignment and date of trial or imposition of Article 15 punishment. Contesting record procedures: The Air Force rules for accessing records, and for contesting contents and appealing initial agency determinations are published in Air Force Instruction 37&hyph;132; 32 CFR part 806b; or may be obtained from the system manager. Record source categories: Information obtained from automated system interfaces, and from records of trial by courts-martial and Article 15 punishment actions. Exemptions claimed for the system: None. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;9860 Filed 4&hyph;22&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 5000&hyph;04&hyph;F
