FR940223-2-00190 FR940223-2-00098 (2) Where a Request for an Extraordinary Challenge Committee pursuant to Article 1904.13(a)(i) of the Agreement is filed, the responsible Secretary shall, upon receipt thereof, (a) forward a copy of the Request, Index and annex to the other involved Secretary; and (b) serve a copy of the Request, Index and annex on the other involved Party, on the panelist against whom the allegation contained in the Request is made and on the participants in the panel review, together with a statement setting out the date on which the Request was filed and stating that all briefs of (i) the Party who has filed the Request and of every participant who files a Notice of Appearance in support of the Request shall be filed no later than 21 days after the date of filing of the Request, (ii) every participant who files a Notice of Appearance in opposition to the Request shall be filed no later than 21 days after the expiration of the time period, referred to in subrule (i), for filing of briefs, and (iii) the Party who has filed the Request and of every participant who files a brief under subrule (i) in reply to the grounds and arguments set forth in the briefs filed pursuant to subrule (ii) shall be filed no later than 10 days after the expiration of the time period, referred to in subrule (ii), for filing of briefs. (3) The responsible Secretary shall serve orders and decisions of a committee and Notices of Completion of Extraordinary Challenge on the participants. (4) Where the decision of a committee referred to in subrule (3) relates to a panel review of a final determination made in Canada, the decision shall be served by registered mail. 59. The responsible Secretary shall cause notice of a final decision of a committee issued pursuant to rule 63, and any order that the committee directs the Secretary to publish, to be published in the official publications of the involved Parties. 60. Where the time period fixed, pursuant to rule 41, for filing an ex parte motion referred to in subrule 41(1)(c) has expired, the responsible Secretary shall serve on all participants (a) where no motion is filed pursuant to that subrule, the documents referred to in rules 39 and 41; (b) where the committee issues an order referred to in subrule 45(1)(a), the documents referred to in rules 39 and 41 in accordance with any order of the committee; and (c) where the committee issues an order referred to in subrule 45(1)(b), the documents referred to in rules 39 and 41, in accordance with subrule 45(1)(b)(ii) and any order made by the committee. Part V_Orders and Decisions 61. All orders and decisions of a committee shall be made by a majority of the votes of all members of the committee. 62. (1) Where a Notice of Motion requesting dismissal of an extraordinary challenge proceeding is filed by a participant, the committee may issue an order dismissing the proceeding. (2) Where the motion referred to in subrule (1) is consented to by all the participants and an affidavit to that effect is filed, or where all participants file Notices of Motion requesting dismissal, the extraordinary challenge proceeding is terminated. 63. (1) A final decision of a committee shall (a) affirm the decision of the panel; (b) vacate the decision of the panel; or (c) remand the decision of the panel to the panel for action not inconsistent with the final decision of the committee. (2) Every final decision of a committee shall be issued in writing with reasons, together with any dissenting or concurring opinions of the members of the committee. (3) Subrule (2) shall not be construed as prohibiting the oral delivery of the decision of a committee.
