FR940516-2-00154 FR940516-2-00097 SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: I. Introduction The Fish and Wildlife Act of 1956, as amended, at 16 U.S.C. 753 (a), authorizes the Secretary of Commerce (Secretary), for the purpose of developing adequate, coordinated, cooperative research and training programs for fish and wildlife resources, to continue to enter into cooperative agreements with colleges and universities, with game and fish departments of the several states, and with non-profit organizations relating to cooperative research units. The Departments of Commerce (DOC), Justice, State, the Judiciary, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act of 1994 makes funds available to the Secretary. The research to be funded is in support of the Oyster Disease Research Program, which provides information on American oyster disease-related research and management concerns in the northeastern United States. The program investigates selected aspects of the life cycle of oyster pathogens, physiological and genetic factors that influence disease resistance in the American oyster, Crassostrea virginica, and management strategies that would enhance survival of the public fishery and prospects for resource rehabilitation. Oyster disease research is essential, given the recent devastating effect of oyster diseases on the Maryland and Virginia oyster fisheries. Oyster harvests from the Chesapeake Bay reached record lows in 1992&hyph;1993. Fishery management approaches that manage around the diseases have not been able to guard against widespread disease outbreaks. New research into the diseases should provide new knowledge and new tools for managing and restoring these oyster populations. II. Areas of Special Emphasis A. Proposals should exhibit familiarity with related work that is completed or ongoing. Where appropriate, proposals should be multidisciplinary. Coordinated efforts involving multiple eligible applicants or persons are encouraged. Eligible women and minority scientists, associated with eligible applicants, are encouraged to submit applications. While the areas for special emphasis are listed below, proposals in other areas will be considered on a funds-available basis. Primary consideration for funding will be given to applications addressing the specific priorities listed in this section. These priorities are not listed in any implied order. NMFS will accept proposals that address other significant areas of research on C. virginica; however, consideration cannot be guaranteed. Consideration will be given to applications that address the following American oyster disease research and management priorities for the northeastern United States: 1. Technical Priorities a. Investigate the basic mechanisms (physiological, genetic, immunological, biochemical, etc.) that may make C. virginica resistant/susceptible to the diseases currently affecting the Northeast Region's oyster populations. This includes the genetic basis for disease resistance and the possible development of gene transfer techniques that could lead to improved native oysters. b. Investigate selected aspects of the life cycle and natural history of C. virginicus pathogens, with emphasis on transmission dynamics; identification of intermediate hosts; and determination of the time/age when young oysters first become susceptible to Haplosporidium nelsoni, commonly known as MSX, or Perkinsus marinus, known as Dermo. c. Utilize P. marinus cultures and isolated cells to investigate the biochemistry and physiology of this pathogen, with emphasis on osmotic tolerance of cells in vitro and the role of virulence factors in pathogenicity. d. Investigate juvenile oyster mortalities occurring in the Northeast Region, including the identification of the definitive disease agent, its range, and impact on the oyster industry.
