FR940429-2-00095 FR940429-2-00070 After the liquidation, a specialist is required to re-enter the market on the opposite side of the market from the liquidating transaction to offset any imbalances between supply and demand. During any period of volatile or unusual market conditions resulting in a significant price movement in a specialist's specialty stock, the specialist's re-entry into the market must reflect, at a minimum, his or her usual level of dealer participation in the specialty stock. In addition, during such periods of volatile market conditions or unusual price movements, re-entry into the market following a series of transactions must reflect a significant level of dealer participation. Thus, the amendments to Rule 170.02 would reinforce the specialist's affirmative obligation to maintain a fair and orderly market by providing stabilizing dealer participation to the marketplace, especially during periods of volatile or unusual market activity. For example, during periods of high market volatility, not only would specialists continue to be obligated to temper disparities between supply and demand, but would specifically have to reenter the market after a liquidating transaction. Similarly, the amendments to Rule 170.02 would reinforce the negative market making obligations of specialists. For example, a specialist would not be permitted to reliquify in the absence of a large dealer position; rather he or she would only be able to do so if reasonably necessary to enable him or her to maintain fair and orderly market. Thus, the new amendments to Rule 170.02 would not allow the specialist to use the rule as a vehicle for trading. During future periods of market volatility, accompanied by increasing volume and selling pressure, specialists may be under extreme pressure to keep the markets orderly and continuous by entering the market as buyers. In these instances, the Commission believes that the amendments to Rule 170.02 should assist specialists in tempering sudden price movements and keeping any general price movements orderly, thereby furthering the maintenance of fair and orderly markets consistent with Sections 6 and 11 under the Act. The Commission emphasizes that reliquifications are not precluded during periods of significant price movements, but they should be accompanied by the necessary dealer participation against the trend of the market, even in situations where continuity and depth reflect variations that may normally be experienced in the stock. In addition, the Commission believes that approval of the Amex proposal for a one year pilot period will provide the Commission and Exchange an opportunity to monitor the operation of the rule during periods of unusual or volatile market conditions. This one year period also will allow the Commission and the Exchange the opportunity to monitor specialist compliance with the new rule to ensure that specialists are properly assuming their responsibilities of re-entering the market following liquifying transactions. Finally, in its rule filing, the Amex indicated that, during the one year pilot period, the Exchange would monitor compliance with the requirements of the Rule. Specifically, the Amex stated that liquidation transactions effected by specialists on direct plus or minus destabilizing ticks will initially be reviewed as to whether the requisite Floor Official approval was obtained, and will be subjected to a further review with respect to the specialist's dealer participation levels, re-entry into the market in terms of timing and support, and whether to transactions were counter to the market trend. The Exchange also stated that it would provide the Commission with a report summarizing the results of its surveillance prior to the conclusion of the pilot period. In this regard, the Commission requests that the Exchange submit a report, by January 22, 1995, setting forth the criteria developed by the Exchange to determine whether any reliquifications by specialists were necessary and appropriate in connection with fair and orderly markets and providing information gathered regarding the Exchange's monitoring of liquidation transactions effected by specialists on any destabilizing tick. In addition, the Commission requests that the Amex provide, among other things, the following information in its report: (1) A review of all liquidation transactions effected by specialists on any destabilizing ticks; (2) A review of liquidating transactions by specialists to determine that the required Floor Official approval was obtained where necessary; (3) And a review of liquidating transactions in light of dealer participation levels and re-entry into the market in terms of timing and support (e.g., whether the specialist's transactions were counter to the market trend). It therefore is ordered, pursuant to section 19(b)(2) of the Act, 18 that the proposed rule change is approved for a one year pilot period ending on April 22, 1995. 18 18 U.S.C. 78s(b)(2) (1988). For the Commission, by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. 19 19 17 CFR 200.30&hyph;3(a)(12) (1991). Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;10251 Filed 4&hyph;28&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
