FR940512-2-00144 FR940512-2-00067 [Docket No. 50&hyph;397] Washington Public Power Supply System; Notice of Consideration of Issuance of Amendment to Facility Operating License, Proposed No Significant Hazards Consideration Determination, and Opportunity for a Hearing The U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission (the Commission) is considering issuing an amendment to Facility Operating License No. NPF&hyph;21 issued to Washington Public Power Supply System (the licensee) for operation of its Nuclear Project No. 2 (WNP&hyph;2) plant, located in Benton County, Washington. The proposed amendment changes the plant operating license to rename three primary containment isolation check valves listed in the technical specifications. The licensee is making an administrative change to rename valve PI&hyph;EFC&hyph;X29d to make its number consistent with other similar valves in the technical specifications. The license is renaming excess flow check valves PI&hyph;EFCX&hyph;72f and PI&hyph;EFCX&hyph;73e because they are replacing them with swing check valves that have a different numbering nomenclature. Before issuance of the proposed license amendment, the Commission will have made findings required by the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended (the Act), and the Commission's regulations. The Commission has made a proposed determination that the amendment request involves no significant hazards consideration. Under the Commission's regulations in 10 CFR 50.92, this means that operation of the facility in accordance with the proposed amendment would not (1) involve a significant increase in the probability or consequences of an accident previously evaluated; or (2) create the possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any accident previously evaluated; or (3) involve a significant reduction in a margin of safety. As required by 10 CFR 50.91(a), the license has provided its analysis of the issue of no significant hazards consideration, which is presented below: The Supply System has evaluated the proposed changes against the above standards as required by 10 CFR 50.91(a) and concluded that the change does not: (1) Involve a significant increase in the probability or consequences of an accident previously evaluated: Revising the equipment piece number (EPN) for PI&hyph;EFC&hyph;X29d to PI&hyph;EFC&hyph;X29b in Technical Specification Table 3.6.3&hyph;1 is an administrative change and provides consistency between the Technical Specifications and approved design bases. PI&hyph;EFC&hyph;X29d provides instrument line break (ILB) mitigation as analyzed in FSAR Section 15.6.2. Renaming PI&hyph;EFC&hyph;X29d has no impact on FSAR accident analyses. Replacing existing excess flow check valves PI&hyph;EFCX&hyph;72f and PI&hyph;EFCX&hyph;73e with swing check valves and changing the EPNs has no impact on the containment isolation design basis described in FSAR Section 6.2.4.3.2.2.3.3. This plant modification will conform the plant to the FSAR design basis. The FSAR describes the drywell and suppression chamber air sampling lines and indicates that ``the return lines are equipped with *␣*␣* a reverse-oriented excess flow check valve used as a simple check valve inside of containment.'' Replacement of the spring loaded excess flow check valve with a simple check valve (without a spring) meets plant design bases and 10CFR50 Appendix A, General Design Criterion (GDC) 56 criteria for containment isolation. The valve change and resulting EPN change do not impact the FSAR design analyses. Therefore, this change does not increase the probability or consequences of an accident previously evaluated. (2) Create the possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any accident previously evaluated: No new mode of operation of any equipment results from the valve design change or EPN change for the three excess flow check valves. Renaming valve PI&hyph;EFC&hyph;X29d is an administrative change.
