FR940505-1-00068 FR940505-1-00012 b. SIP rules. In section II.C.2., EPA proposes to conditionally approve commitments by the SCAQMD and CARB to continue their development of a number of new or strengthened regulations and to adopt them within the next two years to accomplish the first rate-of- progress installments required under the Act. These committal measures have the potential to deliver approximately 83 tons per day of VOC. Scheduled SCAQMD rule development could also contribute substantial additional NO X reductions. In preparing the November 1994 ozone attainment plan, CARB, SCAQMD, and SCAG are now reassessing strategies for adopting measures to reduce NO X and VOC emissions. The SCAQMD is also developing a VOC RECLAIM program for near-term adoption and implementation. For purposes of this attainment demonstration, however, EPA is not assigning emission reduction credit to measures until they are fully adopted in enforceable form. EPA urges the responsible State and local agencies to complete rule development and submit rules for SIP approval as soon as they are fully adopted. This will allow EPA to approve the regulations and substitute the locally developed measures for FIP rules. c. FIP Rules. The set of FIP measures proposed for implementation in the South Coast relies largely on those regulations discussed in Section III.B as elements common to all three FIP areas. This includes the controls for onroad and nonroad mobile sources, supplemented by such elements as I/M and sticker programs. In addition, the proposed FIP for the South Coast includes the mobile source controls discussed in the Ventura FIP summary, and two measures peculiar to the South Coast FIP: A fee-based program to reduce emissions from ports and a locomotive cap rule. For stationary and area sources, it includes regulations for service stations, livestock waste, fugitive emission controls for petroleum and chemical facilities, and waste burning, as well as the statewide measures and the emission cap program. Finally, the South Coast FIP relies on the new technology commitments discussed immediately below. d. Section 182(e)(5) provisions. (1) Statutory provision and General Preamble requirements Section 182(e)(5) of the Clean Air Act applies exclusively to ``Extreme'' ozone areas (i.e., only the South Coast area). This provision authorizes the State (or EPA, standing in the shoes of the State 30 ) to rely for its ozone attainment demonstration on conceptual, as yet unadopted measures that anticipate new or improved technology. The South Coast's 1991 Air Quality Management Plan employs a similar approach in its ``Tier II'' and ``Tier III'' new technology measures, which consist of brief discussions of control targets (percentage and emission reductions) for specific or general source categories, to be achieved in future years through technological advances. 30 As discussed above, the Ninth Circuit has held that ``Acting in place of the State of Arizona pursuant to a FIP under 42 U.S.C. §7410(c), EPA `stands in the shoes of the defaulting State, and all of the rights and duties that would otherwise fall to the State accrue instead to EPA.''' Central Arizona Water Conservation District et al. v. EPA, 990 F.2d 1531, 1541 (9th Cir. 1993). For EPA to credit such measures toward the ozone attainment demonstration (either by SIP approval or FIP promulgation), EPA must find that the measures are not needed to meet the Act's progress requirements for the first 10 years (see section 182(e)(5)(A)), and EPA must approve State commitments or make its own commitments to submit contingency measures no later than three years before proposed implementation of the measures, sufficient to ensure the required rate of progress and attainment (section 182(e)(5)(B)). EPA's General Preamble for the Implementation of Title I provides the Agency's preliminary articulation of how it will exercise its considerable discretion under section 182(e)(5). At this time, EPA, in approving or promulgating measures under this section, will look to see that the plan shows that the measures cannot be fully developed and adopted by the submittal date for the attainment demonstration; that the plan contains a schedule outlining the steps leading to final development and adoption of the measures; and that the plan contains commitments from those agencies that would be involved in developing and implementing the schedule for each measure (57 FR 13524, April 16, 1992). With respect to the Act's requirement that the technology advancement measures not be needed to achieve progress required during the first 10 years, EPA believes that the Administrator should satisfy herself with respect to three separate progress requirements applicable during the 10-year period following enactment of the 1990 Amendments to the Act: (1) 15 percent reduction of VOC emissions for the 6-year period from 1990 to 1996, as required by section 182(b)(1); (2) 9 percent reduction of VOC and/or NO X emissions for the 3-year period from 1997 to 1999, as required by section 182(c)(2)(B); and (3) a further 3 percent reduction of VOC and/or NO X emissions during the year 2000, as the initial installment of the 9 percent reductions required for the period 2000 to 2002. 31 In section III.B.5.d.(4) of this NPRM, EPA demonstrates that each of these three progress requirements is satisfied (with regard to section 182(e)(5)) by the combination of State and local measures and the FIP regulations proposed in this NPRM. 31 EPA policies on rate-of-progress plan requirements, including substitution of NO X for VOC emissions reductions for the post-1996 period, appear in two recent guidance documents: Guidance for Growth Factors, Projections, and Control Strategies for the 15 Percent Rate-of-Progress Plans (EPA&hyph;452/R&hyph;93&hyph;002, March 1993); and Guidance on the Post-1996 Rate-of-Progress Plan and the Attainment Demonstration. (2) Need for additional time to develop new technologies in enacting special provisions for ozone attainment in the South Coast, Congress recognized that attainment in this area may require 20 years, even on an expeditious schedule of progress. The difficulty of the ozone attainment project derives primarily from the topography and climate of the South Coast basin, which combine to produce ideal conditions for the formation and persistence of tropospheric ozone. In this setting exists one of the world's largest industrial and commercial centers, with a population projected to approach 18 million by the attainment year. The technological challenge of attainment is evident in the extraordinary remaining ozone precursor reduction requirements_ approximately 90% for VOC and 70% for NO X _which are superimposed on an already very strict level of existing control. Complete elimination of all emissions from motor vehicles would not accomplish even half of the needed reductions. In fact, the South Coast could not reach attainment even if there were no mobile source and industrial emissions in the basin. The area's unique reduction responsibilities therefore necessitate breakthroughs in air pollution control technologies for practically every pollution source, coupled with the most advanced techniques and initiatives for preventing pollution. EPA believes that the pace of air pollution control technology development in the past provides a reasonable basis for confidence that the South Coast can meet the Clean Air Act's 2010 ozone attainment goal using section 182(e)(5). Lacking sufficiently detailed data to predict and mandate specific controls for each particular source category, however, EPA proposes to employ section 182(e)(5) commitments to extend the rate of progress beyond the levels now foreseeable and reflected in the declining cap rules discussed above. EPA also proposes to commit to achieving additional reductions from smaller stationary source categories than are covered under the proposed cap rules, as well as from area and mobile sources. The commitments would allow EPA, the State, and the affected sources sufficient time to cooperate in the further development and commercialization of control approaches to deliver the remaining reductions needed for attainment. EPA strongly encourages CARB and SCAQMD to devote their substantial resources to expediting development and adoption of State and local controls in advance of the section 182(e)(5) commitment dates for rule adoption and implementation. (3) Federal Role in Support of Technological Development Activities (a) Scope of EPA's Responsibilities. From its inception, EPA has been charged with a leadership role in coordinating, assisting, and independently advancing national research efforts to develop methods and technologies for air pollution control. This continuous program has taken many forms: •EPA laboratories to conduct research, testing, and development; •EPA surveys, reports, networks, and clearinghouses to disseminate the most current information on technology development and transfer; •EPA programs and EPA-lead task forces to coordinate technology development and application studies and projects with other Federal departments and agencies; with State, local, and international air pollution control agencies; with private agencies, institutions, and organizations; and with involved industries;
