FR940511-0-00051 FR940511-0-00015 Comment: Require all vessels to have English speaking bridge personnel. Response: All vessels required to participate in the Juan de Fuca region CVTMS are required to make all reports in English. Comment: Curtail traffic during poor weather conditions. Response: NOAA will work with the state, U.S. Coast Guard, and appropriate public agencies to determine the need for further vessel traffic regulations to specifically address vessel traffic during adverse weather conditions. During conditions of vessel congestion, adverse weather, reduced visibility, or other hazardous circumstances in the area of the Juan de Fuca Region CVTMS, the Cooperative Vessel Traffic Management Center may issue directions to control and supervise traffic. They may also specify times when vessels may enter, move within or through, or depart from ports, harbors, or other waters of the CVTMS Zone. Further, the U.S. Coast Guard's Navigation Rules, International and Inland, speak specifically to the conduct of vessels while at sea. Rule 6 of the International and Inland Steering and Sailing Rules states that ``Every vessel shall at all times proceed at a safe speed so that she can take proper and effective action to avoid collision and be stopped within a distance appropriate to the prevailing circumstances and conditions.'' Comment: Prohibit engine powered water craft of any type. Response: A fundamental objective of the sanctuary program is ``to facilitate, to the extent compatible with the primary objective of resource protection, all public and private uses of the resources of these marine areas not prohibited pursuant to other authorities'' (16 U.S.C. 1431(b)(5)). NOAA will consider the threats from all types of vessels_power driven, sailing, or paddle propelled_as a continuing analysis of vessel traffic within the sanctuary boundaries. Comment: Manage the off-loading or exchange of cargo or oil. Response: No offloading or exchange of oil occurs within the boundary of the Sanctuary. This activity generally occurs in ports which are located outside of the Sanctuary boundary. Further, this type of activity is addressed by both OPA 90 and programs being established by the recently created Washington State OMS. Comment: Prohibit shipment of reclaimed spent nuclear fuel from foreign reactors through the Sanctuary. Response: As previously noted, NOAA has recommended to the U.S. Coast Guard that an IMO approved ATBA be established within the Sanctuary boundary. This would require vessels transporting hazardous materials to remain at least 25 nautical miles offshore while in the vicinity of Sanctuary waters or until making their approach to the Strait of Juan de Fuca using the established CVTMS traffic separation scheme. NOAA will also work with the State of Washington's OMS and both the U.S. and Canadian Coast Guards to be informed of, and alerted to, in a timely and regular manner, all hazardous cargo carriers transiting near Sanctuary waters. Further, through participation in regular meetings of the Washington State Regional Marine Safety Committees and discussions with the U. S. Coast Guard, NOAA will ensure that contingency plans adequately address such transport issues. Comment: Prohibit commercial vessel anchorages within the Sanctuary, particularly off Makah Bay, except in emergencies. Response: The use of the Makah Bay anchorage by vessels waiting either for an available pilot at Port Angeles or instructions from their home office, has been examined. Currently, its use as a temporary anchorage has been agreed upon by both the U.S. and Canadian Coast Guards. This is viewed as a more favorable alternative than having such vessels continuously underway within, and off the entrances to, the Strait. Vessels at anchor are subject to MARPOL, U.S. Federal law, and Sanctuary regulations regarding discharges. The use of this anchorage is monitored by Tofino Vessel Traffic Service which can also educate such vessels regarding the Sanctuary and its regulations.
