FR941110-0-00159 FR941110-0-00016 In reviewing actual cases, we concluded that the determination of repeat substandard quality of care in a certified facility should be made without regard to the type of program participation involved; that is, any standard surveys conducted in the facility for Medicare, Medicaid or both should be considered. Since the survey process is the same for both Medicare and Medicaid participating facilities, there is no reason to consider the facility's type of program participation in the determination of whether repeated substandard quality of care has occurred. These issues are being clarified in ยง488.414. We also concluded that sections 1819(h)(2)(E) and 1919(h)(2)(D) of the Act indicate statutory intent that specific remedies be imposed any time substandard quality of care is repeatedly noted. Further, the Congress specifically provided the authority for continuation of these remedies after compliance has been achieved. The Congress' specific description of how this type of noncompliance must be dealt with clearly sets it apart from the handling of other cases. Therefore, we have concluded that a facility's allegation of compliance or actual attainment of compliance following the third consecutive standard survey which found substandard quality of care will not stop the imposition of the denial of payment or State monitoring. The remedy may be lifted when the facility has demonstrated its ability to maintain substantial compliance to the satisfaction of HCFA or the State. This point is also being clarified in this section of the regulation. Comment: A number of commenters asked for a clearer definition of ``substandard care.'' Some asked whether substandard care and substandard quality of care are one and the same. Others pointed out that sections 1819(h)(2)(E) and 1919(h)(2)(D) of the Act specify that action is to be taken based on the provision of substandard quality of care. Response: We are changing the regulation to match the Act and indicate that this provision will apply when substandard quality of care is identified. For the purpose of this provision, substandard quality of care is defined in ยง488.301. Comment: Several commenters requested that the word ``standard'' be inserted between ``consecutive'' and ``surveys.'' They pointed out that the proposed regulation does not match the wording of the Act at sections 1819(h)(2)(E) and 1919(h)(2)(D), both of which specify that the substandard quality of care must be identified in three consecutive standard surveys. Response: We agree with the commenters. We are amending this section to indicate that the repeated substandard quality of care must have been noted through three consecutive standard surveys. Standard surveys are those described in ยง488.305. Comment: Four commenters asked for a clearer definition of repeated noncompliance. Two commenters indicated that repeat noncompliance should be defined as actual repeats of the same problem and the content of the deficiency and not just a repeat of a deficiency at the same tag number. Response: Sections 1819(h)(2)(E) and 1919(h)(2)(D) of the Act clearly indicate that action must be taken when repeat noncompliance in the form of substandard quality of care is identified. The Act does not narrow the scope to specify that the basis for finding substandard quality of care in a facility must be identical from one standard survey to the next or for all three of the consecutive standard surveys considered in making the determination that repeated substandard quality of care has occurred. Accordingly, we do not believe that the regulation should more narrowly define what constitutes substandard quality of care for the purpose of this provision. The regulation is being modified to clarify that action must be taken any time any deficiencies which constitute substandard quality of care are identified in the last three consecutive standard surveys. This provision will be applied solely on the basis of the repeated finding of substandard quality of care, and no attempt will be made to determine whether the substance of the noncompliance or the exact tag numbers for deficiencies which constitute noncompliance were repeated.
