FR940725-0-00063 FR940725-0-00008 e. The child, if appropriate. f. For a preschool child or child with a disability who has been evaluated, a member of the evaluation team or another person knowledgeable about the evaluation procedures used with that student and familiar with the results of the evaluation. g. Other individuals, at the reasonable discretion of the parent(s) or the school. 7. Section 6 School Arrangements shall: 2a. Ensure that an IEP meeting is held, normally within 10 working days, following a determination by the appropriate CSC that the preschool child or child is eligible to receive special education and/or related services. b. Address the needs of a preschool child or child with a current IEP who transfers from a school operated by the DoD in accordance with 32 CFR part 1 or from a Section 6 School Arrangement to a Section 6 School Arrangement, by: 1 Copies of DoD Directive 1342.6 may be obtained, at cost, from the National Technical Information Service, 5285 Port Royal Road, Springfield, VA 22161. (1)Implementing the current IEP; or (2) Revising the current IEP with the consent of a parent; or (3) Initiating, with the consent of a parent, an evaluation of the preschool child or child, while continuing to provide appropriate services through a current IEP; or (4) Initiating, with the consent of the parent, an evaluation of the preschool child or child without the provision of the services in the current IEP; or (5) Initiating mediation, and if necessary, due process procedures. c. Afford the preschool child's or child's parent(s) the opportunity to participate in every IEP or CSC meeting about their preschool child or child by: (1) Providing the parent(s) adequate written notice of the purpose, time, and place of the meeting. (2) Attempting to schedule the meeting at a mutually agreeable time and place. 8. If neither parent can attend the meeting, other methods to promote participation by a parent, such as telephone conservations and letters, shall be used. 9. A meeting may be conducted without a parent in attendance if the Section 6 School Arrangement is unable to secure the attendance of the parent. In this case, the Section 6 School Arrangement must have written records of its attempts to arrange a mutually acceptable time and place. 10. If the parent(s) attends the IEP meeting, the Section 6 School Arrangement shall take necessary action to ensure that at least one of the parents understands the proceedings at the meeting, including providing an interpreter for a parent who is deaf or whose native language is other than English. 11. The section 6 School Arrangement shall give a parent a copy of the preschool child's IEP. 12. Section 6 School Arrangements shall provide special education and related services, in accordance with an IEP, provided that the Department of Defense, its constituent elements, and its personnel, are not accountable if a preschool child or child does not achieve the growth projected in the IEP. 13. Section 6 School Arrangements shall ensure that an IEP is developed and implemented for each preschool child or child with a disability whom the CSC places in a non-Section 6 School or other facility.
