FR940505-1-00306 FR940505-1-00012 (B) The reduced daily baseline emissions shall be annualized by multiplying the daily value by 365. This value shall be defined as the reduced annual baseline emissions and is denoted in pounds of VOC/year. (C) The reduced annual baseline emissions shall be converted into a monthly value by dividing by 12. This value shall be defined as the implementation year monthly baseline. (5) Enforcement. (i) All sources and facilities subject to provisions of ยง52.2952 shall be subject to unannounced inspections by representatives of the USEPA pursuant to section 114 of the Clean Air Act. (ii) Documentation maintained by all sources, facilities, and persons subject to this section must be sufficient to demonstrate compliance with all requirements of this section and must be provided to representatives of USEPA upon request. (iii) Failure to comply with any provision of this section is a violation of the applicable implementation plan for purposes of section 113 of the Clean Air Act. (iv) Each 50 pounds of emissions in excess of a facility's monthly cap shall be a separate violation for federal enforcement purposes. (b) Stationary and Area Source Control Measures. (1) Industrial and Commercial Solvents/Coatings. (i) Definitions. (A) For the purpose of paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the general definitions in paragraph (a)(3) of this section apply. (B) For the purpose of paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the following definitions also apply: Adhesives means any substance or mixture of substances intended to serve as a joining compound. Aerospace component means the fabricated part, assembly of parts, or completed unit of any aircraft or space vehicle. Aerospace component coating facility means a facility that includes one or more aerospace component coating unit(s). Aerospace component coating unit means a coating unit in which any protective, decorative, or functional coating or reinforcing material is applied on or impregnated into an aerospace component. Aircraft means any machine designed to travel through the air above ground without leaving the earth's atmosphere, whether heavier or lighter than air, including airplanes, balloons, dirigibles, helicopters, and missiles. Automobile means a motor vehicle capable of carrying no more than 12 passengers. Can means any cylindrical, single walled container that is manufactured from metal sheets thinner than 29 gauge (0.0141 in.); with or without a top, cover, spout, or handles; into which solid or liquid materials are packaged. Can coating facility means a facility that includes one or more can coating unit(s). Can coating unit means a coating unit in which any protective, decorative, or functional coating is applied onto the surface of cans or can components. Coating means a material applied onto or impregnated into a substrate for protective, decorative, or functional purposes. Such materials include, but are not limited to, paints, varnishes, sealants, adhesives, thinners, diluents, inks, maskants, and/or temporary protective coatings. Coating applicator means any equipment or device, including but not limited to cloth, rollers, brushes, spray guns, and dip tanks, used to apply a coating onto or into a substrate. Coating unit means a series of one or more coating applicators and any associated drying areas and/or oven wherein a coating is applied, dried, and/or cured. A coating unit ends at the point where the coating is dried or cured, or prior to any subsequent application of a different coating. It is not necessary to have an oven or a flashoff area in order to be included in this definition. Coil means any continuous metal sheet or strip with thickness of 0.15 mm (0.006 in.) or more that is packaged in a roll or coil. Coil coating facility means a facility that includes one or more coil coating unit(s).
