FR941025-0-00021 FR941025-0-00005 The Air Transport Association (ATA) of America states that, while its members are not opposed to accomplishing periodic operational tests of the sync-lock following its installation [proposed in paragraph (d) of the AD] as part of their maintenance programs, these members are opposed to accomplishing the tests as part of the requirements of an AD. The ATA members believe that the requirement for operational tests is equivalent to issuing a Certification Maintenance Requirements (CMR) item by means of an AD. ATA adds that, if the FAA finds sufficient justification to include the requirement for operational tests in the AD, an alternative to accomplishment of the tests should be provided in the final rule. ATA reasons that an alternative is justified because no data exist to show that repetitive tests of a modified thrust reverser cannot be handled adequately through an operator's maintenance program. The suggested alternative follows: Within 3 months after accomplishing the sync-lock installation, revise the FAA-approved maintenance inspection program to include an operational test of the sync-lock. The initial test would be accomplished within 1,000 hours time-in-service after modification. The AD would no longer be applicable for operators that have acceptably revised the maintenance program. Operators choosing this alternative could use an alternative recordkeeping method in lieu of that required by §§91.417 or 121.380 of the Federal Aviation Regulations (FAR) (14 CFR 91.417 or 121.380). The FAA would be defined as the cognizant Principal Maintenance Inspector (PMI) for operators electing this alternative. The FAA recognizes the concerns of the commenter regarding the requirement for periodic operational tests of the sync-lock following its installation. However, the FAA finds that these tests are necessary to provide an adequate level of safety and to ensure the integrity of the sync-lock installation. The actions required by this AD are consistent with actions that have been identified by an industry-wide task force as necessary to ensure adequate safety of certain thrust reverser systems installed on transport category airplanes. Representatives of the Aerospace Industries Association (AIA) of America, Inc., and the FAA comprise that task force. Representatives from other organizations, such as ATA, have participated in various discussions and work activities resulting from the recommendations of the task force. The FAA acknowledges that the operational tests specified in this AD and CMR items are similar in terms of scheduled maintenance and recordkeeping. This AD addresses an unsafe condition and requires installation of the sync-lock to correct that unsafe condition. The FAA has determined that the requirement for operational tests is necessary to ensure the effectiveness of that installation in addressing the unsafe condition. This determination is based on the fact that the sync-lock is a new design whose reliability has not been adequately proven through service experience. In addition, service experience to date has demonstrated that failures can occur within the sync-lock that may not be evident during normal operation of the thrust reverser system and may not result in activation of the sync-lock ``unlock'' indicator. The ATA's suggested alternative to accomplishment of the operational tests would permit each operator to determine whether and how often these tests should be conducted. In light of the severity of the unsafe condition, however, the FAA has determined that allowing this degree of operator discretion is not appropriate at this time. Therefore, this AD is necessary to ensure that operators accomplish tests of the integrity of the sync-lock installation in a common manner and at common intervals. Two commenters question why the proposed operational tests would be required at more frequent intervals following installation of an additional safety feature than prior to its installation. One of these commenters suggests that Boeing should prove the reliability of the system prior to its operation, and that the operational tests should be required at intervals not to exceed 3,000 hours time-in-service.
