FR941006-2-00102 FR941006-2-00079 Commission Public Hearing AGENCY: Physician Payment Review Commission. ACTION: Topics for Commission Public Hearing. SUMMARY: The Commission will hold a public hearing on Monday, November 21, 1994, at the Washington Marriott, 1221 22nd Street NW., Washington, DC in the Dupont Room. Groups may request to testify on the following topics from the Commission's work plan: Health System Issues The Emerging Market for Health Services Work on those topics will include documenting changes in the way that health care is organized, financed, and delivered; drawing out the implications of these changes; identifying policy options to facilitate desirable changes and to address problems; and assessing the likely effects of those options. •Relationships between purchasers (employers; alliances) and health plans •Relationships between health plans and providers: _Section and retention of providers by health plans _Mechanisms through which plans pay physicians •Relationships among providers: _Integration of medical practice within and across providers _Network development in rural areas _Antitrust issues for provider-directed plans •Implications for consumers •Implications for academic medical centers •Role of state regulatory policies •Efforts to ensure quality: _State quality assurance requirements _Managed care plans' internal quality assurance systems •Disclosure of health plan information: _Quality (report cards; how plans and consumers use quality information) _Financial arrangements between plans and physicians •Implications for Medicare and Medicaid: _Potential for access problems _Potential for adoption of private sector innovations Structure of Insurance Markets and Potential Reforms •Interrelationships between insurance rules, community rating, and risk adjustment; principles underlying insurance reform in the absence of universal coverage •Issues in opening FEHBP to a broader population •Monitoring state-level reforms Technology Assessment and Coverage Decisions •Consideration of costs in technology assessment and coverage decisions Outcomes Research and Practice Guidelines •Update on development and use of practice guidelines •Analysis of issues related to research design for outcomes and effectiveness studies Workforce •Follow up on graduate medical education reform proposals Improving Access for the Poor •Successful models for delivering care to urban undeserved populations •Development of options for addressing nonfinancial barriers to care Expenditures in Medicare and the Private Sector •Analysis of trends •Changes in practice patterns •Causes for slowdown in spending growth Medicare Medicare Cuts •Analysis of options •Implications for access •Comments on the President's budget Medicare Fee Schedule •Five year review of relative work values •Impact of Medicare reforms on physicians and beneficiaries (preview of work on access and financial liability presented in 1995 annual report) •Effects of changes in Medicare relative values, GPCIs, conversion factor updates, and other fee schedule changes on the pattern of payment 3Volume Performance Standards •Preparation of report on trends in Medicare expenditures and recommendations on setting Volume Performance Standards and updating the Medicare Fee Schedule conversion factors Beneficiary Access •Preparation of annual report on access drawing on analyses of Medicare claims data, the Current Beneficiary Survey, the National Ambulatory Medical Care Survey, and Commission surveys on beneficiary complaints. •Preparation on annual report on beneficiary financial liability Resource-based Practice Expense •Analysis of upcoming results from HCFA microcosting study Making Medicare User Friendly •Identification of key beneficiary concerns and update of HCFA efforts to reduce complexity and to facilitate review and processing of claims Medicare Risk Contracting •Options for improving the AAPCC and alternative payment arrangements Medicare and Other Payers •Use of Medicare relative value scale by Medicaid, private insurers, and organized health plans Medicaid Policy Issues Surrounding Section 1115 Waivers Please contact Annette Hennessey or Lauren LeRoy at 202&hyph;653&hyph;7220 no later than Friday, October 7, 1994 if your group wishes to testify at the hearing. Groups will be notified by Tuesday, October 11 whether or not they were chosen to present testimony. If an organization is not selected to testify, it may submit written testimony for the hearing record. Two hundred (200) copies of your organization's testimony or written statement (including a one-page summary of the most important points in the testimony) must be submitted to the Commission's office no later than 5 p.m. on Tuesday, November 8, 1994. Groups submitting testimony later than 5 p.m. on November 8, 1994, will not be allowed to testify at the hearing; testimony or written statements received after the deadline will not be included in the hearing record. ADDRESSES: Please note that the Commission has a new address: 2120 L Street, NW., Suite 200, Washington, DC 20037. The telephone number is the same: 202/653&hyph;7220. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTRACT: Lauren LeRoy, Deputy Director, or Annette Hennessey, Executive Assistant, at 202/653&hyph;7220. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Agendas for the hearing will be available on Friday, November 4, 1994 and will be mailed out at that time. To receive an agenda, please direct all requests to the receptionist at 202/653&hyph;7220. Paul B. Ginsburg, Exectuvie Director. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;24803 Filed 10&hyph;5&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6820&hyph;SE&hyph;M
