FR941128-0-00027 FR941128-0-00007 If the EPA later determines that NO X reductions are beneficial based on new photochemical grid modeling in an area initially exempted, the area would be removed from exempt status and would be required to adopt the NO X RACT and NSR rules, except to the extent that modeling shows NO X reductions to be ``excess reductions.'' In the rulemaking action which removes the exempt status, the EPA would specify a schedule for States to adopt the NO X RACT and NSR rules and for sources to comply with the NO X RACT emission limits. The subsequent modeling analyses mentioned above need not be limited to the purpose of demonstrating attainment in the 1994 SIP revisions without the need for NO X controls required under section 182(f). For example, future modeling might also be initiated to resolve issues related to transport of ozone and ozone precursors into downwind nonattainment areas. An area might want to consider a strategy that phases-in NO X reductions only after certain VOC reductions are implemented. As improved emission inventories and ambient data become available, areas may choose to remodel. In addition, alternative control strategy scenarios might be considered in subsequent modeling analyses in order to improve the cost-effectiveness of the attainment plan. In summary, the EPA is conditionally approving the section 182(f) exemptions for the DFW and El Paso areas, conditioned upon EPA's approval of the modeling portion of the attainment demonstrations for these areas. These exemptions will remain effective for only as long as modeling in each nonattainment area continues to show that NO X control activities would not be beneficial in the DFW or El Paso nonattainment areas. In addition, the State of Texas and EPA have committed to data-gathering and modeling throughout the El Paso-Juarez air basin in accordance with Annex V of the La Paz Agreement for Environmental Cooperation on the U.S.-Mexico Border. Once the data are collected and basin-wide modeling is concluded, the EPA, the State of Texas, and the Republic of Mexico can develop a binational control strategy that will result in improved air quality throughout the airshed. If EPA review of modeling and air quality data confirms that NO X control requirements on local U.S. sources would not be beneficial, the exemption would be sustained. In contrast, if the EPA determines that NO X control requirements would be beneficial, the exemption would be rescinded. Regulatory Process Under the Regulatory Flexibility Act, 5 U.S.C. 600 et seq., the EPA must prepare a regulatory flexibility analysis assessing the impact of any proposed or final rule on small entities (5 U.S.C. 603 and 604). Alternatively, the EPA may certify that the rule will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. Small entities include small businesses, small not-for-profit enterprises, and government entities with jurisdiction over populations of less than 50,000. Approvals of NO X exemption petitions under section 182(f) of the CAA do not create any new requirements. Therefore, because the Federal approval of the petitions does not impose any new requirements, the EPA certifies that it does not have a significant impact on affected small entities. Moreover, due to the nature of the Federal-State relationship under the CAA, preparation of a regulatory flexibility analysis would constitute Federal inquiry into the economic reasonableness of State action. The CAA forbids the EPA to base its actions concerning SIPs on such grounds ( Union Electric Co. v. U.S. E.P.A., 427 U.S. 246, 256&hyph;66 (S. Ct. 1976); 42 U.S.C. 7410 (a)(2)). If the conditional approval is converted to a disapproval based on the State's failure to meet the condition upon which the approval is granted, it will not affect any existing State requirements applicable to small entities. Federal disapproval of the State submittal does not affect its State-enforceability. Moreover, the EPA's disapproval of the submittal does not impose a new Federal requirement. Therefore, the EPA certifies that this disapproval action would not have a significant impact on a substantial number of small entities because such disapproval would not remove existing State requirements, nor does it substitute a new Federal requirement. Under section 307(b)(1) of the CAA, petitions for judicial review of this action must be filed in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the appropriate circuit by January 27, 1995. Filing a petition for reconsideration by the Administrator of this final rule does not affect the finality of this rule for the purposes of judicial review nor does it extend the time within which a petition for judicial review may be filed, and shall not postpone the effectiveness of such rule or action. This action may not be challenged later in proceedings to enforce its requirements. (See section 307(b)(2).)
