FR940620-1-00067 FR940620-1-00009 227.503&hyph;13 Government right to review, verify, challenge and validate asserted restrictions. (a) General. An offeror's or contractor's assertion(s) of restrictions on the Government's rights to use, modify, reproduce, release, or disclose computer software or computer software documentation do not, by themselves, determine the extent of the Government's rights in such software or documentation. The Government may require an offeror or contractor to submit sufficient information to permit an evaluation of a particular asserted restriction and may challenge asserted restrictions when there are reasonable grounds to believe that an assertion is not valid. (b) Requests for information. Contracting officers should have a reason to suspect that an asserted restriction might not be correct prior to requesting information. When requesting information, provide the offeror or contractor the reason(s) for suspecting that an asserted restriction might not be correct. A need for additional license rights is not, by itself, a sufficient basis for requesting information concerning an asserted restriction. Follow the procedures at 227.503&hyph;5(d) when additional license rights are needed but there is no basis to suspect that an asserted restriction right not be valid. (c) Transacting matters directly with subcontractors. The clause at 252.227&hyph;7019 obtains the contractor's agreement that the Government may transact matters under the clause directly with a subcontractor or supplier at any tier, without creating or implying privity of contract. Contracting officers should permit a subcontractor or supplier to transact challenge and validation matters directly with the Government when_ (1) A subcontractor's or supplier's business interests in its technical data would be compromised if the data were disclosed to a higher tier contractor; or, (2) There is reason to believe that the contractor will not respond in a timely manner to a challenge and an untimely response would jeopardize a subcontractor's or supplier's right to assert restrictions; or, (3) Requested to do so by a subcontractor or supplier. (d) Challenging asserted restrictions. (1) Pre-award considerations. The challenge procedures in the clause at 252.227&hyph;7019, ``Validation of Asserted Restrictions_Computer Software'' could significantly delay competitive procurements. Therefore, avoid challenging asserted restrictions prior to a competitive contract award unless resolution of the assertion is essential for successful completion of the procurement. (2) Computer software documentation. Computer software documentation is technical data. Challenges to asserted restrictions on the Government's rights to use, modify, reproduce, release, perform, display, or disclose computer software documentation must be made in accordance with the ``Validation of Asserted Restrictions'' clause, 252.227&hyph;7037, and the guidance at 227.403&hyph;13. The procedures in that clause implement requirements contained in 10 U.S.C. 2321. Resolution of questions regarding the validity of asserted restrictions using the process described at 227.403&hyph;12(b)(2) is strongly encouraged. (3) Computer software. (i) Asserted restrictions should be reviewed before acceptance of the computer software deliverable under a contract. The Government's right to challenge an assertion expires 3 years after final payment under the contract or three years after delivery of the software, whichever is later. Those limitations on the Government's challenge rights do not apply to software that is publicly available, has been furnished to the Government without restrictions, or has been otherwise made available without restrictions. (ii) Contracting officers must have reasonable grounds to challenge the current validity of an asserted restriction. Before challenging an asserted restriction, carefully consider all available information pertaining to the asserted restrictions. Resolution of questions regarding the validity of asserted restrictions using the process described at 227.503&hyph;12(b)(2) is strongly encouraged. After consideration of the situations described in 227.503&hyph;13(c), contracting officers may request the person asserting a restriction to furnish a written explanation of the facts and supporting documentation for the assertion in sufficient detail to enable the contracting officer to determine the validity of the assertion. Additional supporting documentation may be requested when the explanation provided by that person does not, in the contracting officer's opinion, establish the validity of the assertion.
