FR941110-0-00182 FR941110-0-00016 Response: The Act does not permit the Secretary to delegate the authority to impose a civil money penalty on a Medicare participating facility to the State. Section 1819(h)(2) of the Act charges the Secretary, upon the recommendation of the State, with the authority to impose remedies. HCFA's decision to monitor a State's performance does not hinge on the imposition of civil money penalties. Further, any civil money penalties collected under Medicare will be returned to the Medicare Trust Fund. Comment: A few commenters are concerned that the proposed definition of deficiency will make any failure to comply, no matter how small, subject to a fine. Response: We agree with the commenters' concern that, as described in the proposed rule, very minimal deficiencies could be subject to civil money penalties. As a result, we revised the rule and developed enforcement action categories which correspond to the seriousness of the deficiencies. These enforcement action categories are described at §488.408, Selection of remedies. Also, as discussed previously in this preamble, we are accepting the commenters' implicit suggestion to incorporate the concept of substantial compliance as a standard SNFs and NFs must meet to participate in the Medicare and Medicaid programs. Using the standard of performance of substantial compliance for these providers ensures virtual compliance with sections 1819(b), (c), and (d) and 1919(b), (c), and (d) of the Act because the type of deficiency tolerated under a substantial compliance standard is very limited. We are defining substantial compliance at §488.301. We consider substantial compliance to satisfy a facility's obligation to meet requirements. Therefore, facilities in substantial compliance adequately protect the health and safety of nursing home residents and will not be subject to a civil money penalty. Section 488.430␣Basis for Imposing Penalty Comment: Several commenters were confused and requested that we clarify the number of days of noncompliance between two certifications of compliance at proposed §488.230(a)(2). Response: We revised this paragraph of the rule and redesignated it as §488.430(b). It now provides that HCFA or the State may impose a civil money penalty for the number of days of past noncompliance since the last standard survey, including the days of immediate jeopardy. We believe that this revision implements sections 1819(h) and 1919(h) of the Act, which state that if a facility meets the requirements of subsections (b), (c), and (d), but as of a previous period did not meet such requirements, a civil money penalty could be imposed for the days in which the facility was not in compliance with the requirements. We believe this statutory provision permits a civil money penalty to be imposed whenever there is past noncompliance with the participation requirements between standard surveys. The following example illustrates one application of this provision: A facility had a survey on July 1, 1993, and it was in substantial compliance with all of the participation requirements. During the orientation tour at the next survey, June 15, 1994, surveyors observed questionable infection control procedures. This observation prompted the surveyors to further examine records and the facility's infection control program. This examination indicated that the facility was out of compliance with infection control requirements (§483.65) from October 15 to October 30, 1993. However, at the time of the June 15, 1994, survey, the facility was again in substantial compliance with participation requirements. The number of days of noncompliance would be 16, which is the number of days between (and including) October 15 and October 30. This noncompliance existed for 16 days, but it did not exist at the time of either survey. Although we may have discretion with respect to the selection of remedies to address noncompliance that is corrected by the time of a survey, it is likely that we would give serious consideration to civil money penalties in such cases. The Act, at sections 1819(h)(1) and 1919(h) (1) and (3), expressly authorizes the impositions of these sanctions even if, at the time of the survey, the facility is in substantial compliance. Comment: Another commenter suggested incorporating language which says, ``HCFA or the State may impose a civil money penalty for the number of days of noncompliance between two certifications of compliance if the deficiency was at a severity level of 4 and the facility could have prevented it.'' Response: We do not accept this suggestion. Adding this language narrows the authority of the Secretary and the State. Limiting this enforcement authority could allow noncompliance to go unsanctioned. We see no justification for narrowing this authority. Comment: A consumer organization specifically recommended we clarify proposed §488.230(a)(2) to say, ``the penalty accrues as of the first day that noncompliance existed in a previous period.'' Resident records or resident witnesses with corroboration would be sufficient evidence to determine noncompliance. Response: In this final rule, we are revising this paragraph to provide that HCFA or the State may impose a civil money penalty for the number of days of past noncompliance since the last standard survey, including the number of days of immediate jeopardy. It is evident in this situation the civil money penalty could be imposed for all of the days of noncompliance. We do not accept the suggestion to incorporate into the regulation what specific evidence must be used to determine noncompliance, as each situation of noncompliance is unique. Comment: Several commenters recommended that the word ``impose'' be changed to ``collect'' at proposed §488.230(a)(2), since the Act authorizes the use of civil money penalties for past noncompliance that has been corrected. Response: While it is true that the Act specifies that a civil money penalty may be imposed for past noncompliance that has been corrected, it is not necessarily true that a civil money penalty will be collected in every case. For instance, if a facility prevails at a hearing, a civil money penalty will not be collected. Accordingly, we are not adopting this recommendation. Comment: A provider organization suggested that we expand proposed §488.230(b) by adding, ``(2) HCFA will not and the State may not impose a civil money penalty on a facility that is being terminated or is under temporary management or a denial of payment for all new admissions, except for a denial of payment under paragraph (a)(1) of [proposed] §488.217.''
