FR940928-1-00037 FR940928-1-00011 (1) Basic information. (i) Name, mailing address including zip code, telephone number, social security number, and date of birth of the applicant. (ii) Name and address of any affiliated company, institution, or organization. (iii) Information concerning vessels and harvesting gear/methods requested by the Regional Director. (iv) Any other information that may be necessary for the issuance or administration of the permit. (2) Scientific, educational, or restoration purpose. An applicant for a prohibited coral permit or a wild live rock permit for a scientific, educational, or restoration purpose must specify the amount and size of prohibited coral or wild live rock to be harvested, by species, its intended use, and proposed locations and periods of fishing. (3) Allowable chemical. An applicant for an allowable chemical permit must specify the type of chemical to be used, species to be harvested and their intended use, and proposed locations and periods of fishing. (4) Aquacultured live rock. An applicant for an aquacultured live rock permit must identify each vessel that will be depositing material on or harvesting aquacultured live rock from the proposed aquacultured live rock site, must specify the port of landing of aquacultured live rock, and must provide a site evaluation report that_ (i) Provides accurate coordinates of the proposed harvesting site so that it can be located using LORAN or Global Positioning System equipment; (ii) Shows the site on a chart in sufficient detail to determine its size and allow for site inspection; (iii) Discusses possible hazards to safe navigation or hindrance to vessel traffic, traditional fishing operations, or other public access that may result from aquacultured live rock at the site; (iv) Describes the naturally occurring bottom habitat at the site; and (v) Specifies the type and origin of material to be deposited on the site and how it will be distinguishable from the naturally occurring substrate. (c) Change in application information. An individual, the owner of a vessel, or a person with a permit must notify the Regional Director within 30 days after any change in the application information specified in paragraph (b) of this section. The permit is void if any change in the information is not reported within 30 days. (d) Fees. A fee is charged for each permit application submitted under paragraph (b) of this section. The amount of the fee is calculated in accordance with the procedures of the NOAA Finance Handbook for determining the administrative costs of each special product or service. The fee may not exceed such costs and is specified with each application form. The appropriate fee must accompany each application. (e) Issuance. (1) The Regional Director will issue a permit at any time to an applicant if the application is complete. An application is complete when all requested forms, information, and documentation have been received and the applicant has submitted all applicable reports specified at ยง638.5. (2) Upon receipt of an incomplete application, the Regional Director will notify the applicant of the deficiency. If the applicant fails to correct the deficiency within 30 days of the date of the Regional Director's letter of notification, the application will be considered abandoned. (f) Duration. A permit remains valid for the period specified on it unless it is revoked, suspended, or modified pursuant to subpart D of 15 CFR part 904 or the permitted vessel is sold. (g) Transfer. A permit issued pursuant to this section is not transferable or assignable, except as provided under paragraph (a)(1)(iv)(A) of this section for a wild live rock vessel permit. An individual or person who desires to conduct an activity for which a permit is required must apply for a permit in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (b) of this section. The application must be accompanied by a copy of a signed bill of sale or equivalent acquisition papers if the application involves a current permit for aquacultured live rock.
