FR941221-1-00045 FR941221-1-00013 3M Corporation provided test data using both the proposed procedure and the appropriate approved procedure to extract pesticides and PCBs from 10 wastewaters. The results from the proposed alternate method were compared to the approved EPA Method by EPA statisticians and chemists, who conducted detailed reviews of the data. The recovery and precision of the submitted data for both the approved and proposed methods were also compared to the recovery and precision acceptance criteria derived for EPA Method 608 from Performance Evaluation Studies WP 18 and 23. The Agency has judged the currently approved Method 608 method to be acceptable in their evaluation of the proposed procedure. EPA's Environmental Monitoring Systems Laboratory in Cincinnati, Ohio (EMSL-Cincinnati) thoroughly reviewed and evaluated the supporting data submitted by the 3M Corporation. The reviews indicated that the analyses afforded comparable recovery and precision in the recommended concentration ranges for the listed organochlorine pesticides and PCBs. EPA is proposing approval of the Empore TM disk procedure and is seeking public comment on the suitability of this procedure as an alternate procedure for use in the determination of the parameters listed. The administrative record is on file at EMSL-Cincinnati, 26 W. Martin Luther King Dr., Cincinnati, Ohio 45268. The record is available for public inspection. Description of the proposed procedure is also available from 3M Corporation, 3M Center Building 220&hyph;9E&hyph;10, St. Paul, MN 55144&hyph;1000. Based on EMSL-Cincinnati's review, and pursuant to 40 CFR 136.5, EPA proposes to approve the 3M Corporation's ``Organochlorine Pesticides and PCBs in Wastewater Using Empore TM Disk'' method as an acceptable alternative procedure for nationwide use. Specifically, the method exhibits sufficient precision and recovery to establish (1) its acceptability under Part 136 and (2) its comparability to the approved procedure for analysis of the stated organochlorine pesticides and PCBs. As an approved alternate test procedure, this procedure is acceptable for use by any person required to test for these parameters using Method 608. Public comment is requested concerning the suitability of this method for the determination of the specified analytes in wastewater. IV. Regulatory Requirements A. Executive Order 12866 Under Executive Order 12866, EPA must judge whether a regulation is ``major'' and, therefore, requires a regulatory impact analysis. EPA has determined that this regulation is not major as it will not result in an effect on the economy of $100 million or more, a significant increase in cost or prices, or any of the effects described in the Executive Order. This proposed rule would simply specify an alternate analytical procedure which may be used by laboratories in measuring concentrations of organochlorine pesticides and PCBs using EPA Method 608 and, therefore, would have no adverse economic impacts. This action was submitted to OMB for review under the Executive Order. B. Regulatory Flexibility Act This amendment is consistent with the objectives of the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. 602 et seq.) because it will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. The procedure included in this proposed rule would give all laboratories the flexibility to use this alternate procedure or not to use it. C. Paperwork Reduction Act This rule contains no requests for information activities and, therefore, no information collection request (ICR) was submitted to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) for review in compliance with the Paperwork Reduction Act, (44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq.). List of Subjects in 40 CFR Part 136 Incorporation by reference, Water pollution control. Dated: December 13, 1994. Carol M. Browner, Administrator.
