FR940720-0-00071 FR940720-0-00006 4. Correct Value of D ARO The regulations describing the linear extrapolation methodology for exhaust VOC and NO X contained two other typographical errors that nevertheless were substantial in their effects. The first arose in paragraphs (c)(1)(iv)(C)( 9 ), (c)(1)(iv)(D)( 9 ), and (d)(1)(iv)(C)( 9 ) of §80.45 in the specification of the value of D ARO. The value of D ARO should generally be set equal to ( D ARO_18 volume percent) for any target fuel having an aromatics content of less than 18 volume percent. Thus D ARO will be negative when the VOC or NO X equation is linearly extrapolated with respect to aromatics at the low end of the valid range. However, for target fuels having an aromatics content of less than 10 volume percent, the VOC extrapolation should be flat-line instead of linear. In this case, D ARO should be fixed at a value of ^8 volume percent. The value in the regulations was given incorrectly as +8 volume percent. 5. Correct Specification of D E300 The second typographical error that requires explanation and correction involves the specification of D E300 in paragraphs (c)(1)(iv)(C)( 13 ) and (c)(1)(iv)(D)( 13 ). The first sentence in each of these two paragraphs contains two conditions that must be met for D E300 to be set equal to (E300_94 percent). The first condition incorrectly states that the E300 level of the target fuel must be less than 94 percent, when in fact the condition should state that the E300 level of the target fuel must be greater than 94 percent. The remainder of both of these paragraphs is correct. 6. Eliminate References to E300 in NO X Extrapolation Finally, the linear extrapolation methodology for NO X in the final rule contained references to the allowable range for E300, despite the fact that the NOx equation is not extrapolated with respect to E300. Thus all references to E300 in paragraphs (d)(1)(iv)(A) and (d)(1)(iv)(B) are removed by this direct final rule. Note that, since all exhaust equations in the Complex Model are flat-line extrapolated for E300 values greater than 95 percent, the flat-line extrapolation for E300 specified in paragraph (d)(1)(iv)(C)(5) is correct (except for the changes described above). B. Nonexhaust Model The equations giving nonexhaust VOC as a function of RVP for the Complex Model were originally proposed in the February 1993 NPRM (58 FR 17175). No changes to those equations were intended for the final rule on reformulated gasoline. However, typographical errors arose in a number of the coefficients in the nonexhaust VOC model when they were entered into the final regulations. These errors would have a small, but not insignificant impact on the VOC emission performances provided by the Complex Model. The errors in the nonexhaust VOC portion of the Complex Model lay in four places. The first was in the sign of the coefficient for RVP in the Phase I running loss equation for Region 1. The second was in the coefficient for RVP in the Phase II hot soak equation for Region 1. The third was in the coefficient for RVP in the Phase II refueling loss equation for Region 1. And the fourth was in the sign of the RVP coefficient for the Phase II running loss equation for Region 2. All the coefficients in the nonexhaust model have been returned to their proper values and signs by this direct final rule. C. Annual Average Calculations Since the averaging standards for toxics under the Complex Model are year-round standards, each refiner who is complying under an averaging scenario must determine the average year-round toxics emissions performance for the fuels that it sold during a given year. Each batch of fuel is uniquely associated with toxic emissions as estimated by the Complex Model. Thus refiners require a method for combining per batch emission performances into a single year-round value. The regulations provided two contradictory methods for combining per batch emission performances into such a single year-round value. Paragraph (g) et al. of §80.67 directs refiners to weight the emission performances by batch volume and then add them in order to determine a year-round value. In calculating emission performances with the Complex Model, fuels sold in the winter are evaluated with the winter model, while fuels sold in the summer are evaluated with the summer model. Thus this ``volume-weighted'' approach to determining year-round values correctly leads to an average toxic emissions value for the year. Paragraph (e)(3) of §80.45 incorrectly directs refiners to weight summer and winter toxic emissions by fixed values to obtain year-round averages. Under this portion of the regulations, summer batches of fuel would be individually weighted by their batch volumes to obtain average summer emission performance estimates. Likewise winter batches would be weighted by their batch volumes to obtain average winter emission performance estimates. However, the fixed weighting of summer and winter emission estimates for the purposes of determining a year-round value would not necessarily mimic a refiner's true ratio of summer to winter fuel. The fixed weightings given in paragraph (e)(3) were used to determine the performance standards, and are not relevant to determining compliance by individual refiners. Therefore, paragraph (e)(3) will be revised to refer to §80.67(g), and paragraphs (e)(3)(i) and (e)(3)(ii) of §80.45 will be removed. IV. Enforcement Corrections and Clarifications The following section contains corrections and clarifications to the enforcement portions of the final reformulated gasoline and anti-dumping regulations that were published on February 16, 1994 (59 FR 7716), and to enforcement portions of the preamble of the notice of final rulemaking. 2 The reasons for the changes are listed below. 2 Hereinafter in Part IV of this notice (unless otherwise indicated), references to ``final rule'' or ``final regulations'' shall refer to the regulations promulgated in the February 16, 1994, notice of final rulemaking. A. Reformulated Gasoline Regulation (40 CFR Part 80, Subpart D)
