FR940725-2-00061 FR940725-2-00036 Review Criteria: Applications for traineeship grants will be reviewed and award amounts will be calculated by staff in the Division of Nursing and in the Grants Management Branch of the Bureau of Health Professions based on the formula set forth in 42 CFR 57, subpart F. The review of applications for education program grants will take into consideration the following criteria: 1. The national or special local need which the particular project proposes to serve with special emphasis on meeting shortages in underserved areas; 2. The potential effectiveness and impact of the proposed project including its potential contribution to nursing; 3. The administrative and managerial capability of the applicant to carry out the proposed project; 4. The appropriateness of the plan, including the timetable for carrying out the activities of the proposed project and achieving and measuring the project's stated objectives; 5. The capability of the applicant to carry out the proposed project; 6. The reasonableness of the budget for the proposed project, including the justification of the grant funds requested; and 7. The potential of the nurse anesthetist program to continue on a self-sustaining basis after the period of grant support. Applications for faculty fellowships will be reviewed and award amounts will be calculated by staff in the Division of Nursing and in the Grants Management Branch of the Bureau of Health Professions. The review of applications for faculty fellowships will take into consideration the following criteria which were established in 1990 (55 FR 36325, 9/5/90): 1. The eligibility of applicants; 2. The eligibility of faculty; and 3. The extent to which an applicant meets the funding preferences. The following criteria for fellows were established in FY 1993 after public comment (58 FR 40658, 7/29/93), and will be extended in fiscal year 1995. To be eligible for fellowship support an individual must be: 1. A United States citizen, noncitizen national, or foreign national who possesses a visa permitting permanent residence in the United States; 2. A certified registered nurse anesthetist with current licensure to practice, and with teaching responsibilities in an accredited nurse anesthetist education program; 3. Enrolled or accepted for enrollment in a formal program of study which leads to a master's or doctoral degree; 4. Proposed for a fellowship in the applicant institutions' grant proposal; and 5. A faculty member employed by, or affiliated with, the applicant institution during the period of approved fellowship support. The following policy on payment of stipends for faculty fellowships was established in fiscal year 1990 after public comment (55 FR 36325, dated 9/5/90) and is being extended in fiscal year 1995. A faculty member may be paid a stipend for living costs if attending an educational institution as a full-time student; no stipend would be available for a faculty member who is enrolled in part-time study or who is employed on a full-time basis. This policy is designed to target stipend assistance to the individuals who are most in need of such aid. Funding Factors Statutory Funding Preference: Section 860(e) of the PHS Act, as amended by the Nurse Education and Practice Improvement Amendments of 1992, title II of the Health Professions Education Extension Amendments of 1992, Public Law 102&hyph;408, enacted on October 13, 1992, provides for the following statutory preference for this program of Grants for Nurse Anesthetists, as well as for certain other programs under titles VII and VIII of the PHS Act. Statutory preference will be given to qualified applicants that: (A) Have a high rate for placing graduates in practice settings having the principal focus of serving residents of medically underserved communities; or
