FR941227-2-00120 FR941227-2-00082 III. Discussion On the basis of the evidence developed during the investigation, OI determined that two allegations were partially substantiated. Regarding the first partially substantiated allegation, OI determined that Rosemount presented incomplete and inaccurate information to the NRC during a public meeting on April 13, 1989. However, the evidence developed during OI's investigation did not substantiate that this presentation of incomplete and inaccurate information was deliberate. Although the NRC staff recognized that the inaccurate and incomplete statements made to the NRC during the public meeting on April 13, 1989, were not deliberate, it had substantial concerns about this matter and emphasized to Rosemount in the letter of November 15, 1994, that the submittal of inaccurate or incomplete information to the NRC is unacceptable and that the NRC expects all licensee and vendor communications to be complete and accurate and to properly reflect situations that could have implications for public health and safety. Regarding the second partially substantiated allegation, OI determined that Rosemount acted with careless disregard when, in violation of 10 CFR Part 21, it failed to adequately identify and report a deviation regarding sensor cell oil-loss that was known to Rosemount staff and to inform its customers of the problem. This violation was of concern because Rosemount did not fulfill its basic 10 CFR 21.21 responsibility of ``informing the licensee or purchaser of the [transmitter oil-loss] deviation in order that the licensee or purchaser may cause the deviation to be evaluated unless the deviation has been corrected.'' Rosemount was aware that its manufacturing processes and testing were causing and allowing slow leaking sensor cells to be used in nuclear transmitters, but Rosemount did not apprise NRC licensees of those circumstances. Although the different causes of the oil-loss problem were known to the Rosemount staff, that information was not accurately or completely transmitted to individual licensees for their use in performing an evaluation pursuant to Part 21. As a result, the licensee Part 21 evaluations that were performed with the information which was provided to them by Rosemount did not encompass all of the known circumstances surrounding the oil-loss problem. The objective evidence indicated that Rosemount field service staff became concerned after the discovery of several transmitters with degraded operation that exhibited oil-loss at one NRC-licensed facility in 1984. Additional instances of oil-loss in the nuclear transmitters continued to be documented by Rosemount between 1984 and 1988. It appeared to the NRC staff that Rosemount's emphasis was on correcting the manufacturing and testing weaknesses which allowed degraded transmitter operation due to oil-loss without much consideration of candidly informing NRC licensees of the potential for degraded operation of Rosemount transmitters installed in safety-related applications at NRC licensed operating nuclear power plants. Between 1984 and 1988, Rosemount received many of the failed units from its nuclear customers, performed failure analyses, and determined that the degraded operation of these units was caused from sensor cell oil-loss. Despite these numerous indications of potential problems with the Rosemount Models 1152, 1153 and 1154 transmitters, Rosemount failed to comply with 10 CFR Part 21 requirements and its own internal policy and procedure and inform its customers of the potential problem in a timely fashion. The NRC inspectors concluded, partly on the basis of Rosemount internal memoranda, discussions with past and present Rosemount staff and correspondence between Rosemount and licensees, that weaknesses in Rosemount's 10 CFR Part 50, Appendix B, quality assurance (QA) program and the reluctance of Rosemount managers to be candid in their communications with customers contributed to Rosemount's failure to promptly inform customers of the oil-loss problem. If Rosemount had established effective measures to ensure that conditions adverse to quality, such as failures, malfunctions, deficiencies, deviations and nonconformances, were promptly identified and corrected, Rosemount management could have seen the developing trend of degraded transmitter response caused by inadequate or inconsistent controls over the sensor cell manufacturing process. Rosemount did not begin to inform its nuclear power plant customers, as required by 10 CFR Part 21 and its own procedures, of the deviation regarding the oil-loss problem until December 1988. The NRC staff believes that Rosemount's failure to take action between 1984 and 1988_as a result of its failure to avail itself of the multiple opportunities to recognize the generic implications of sensor cell oil-loss in its 1150-series transmitters, repeated failure to recognize the problems identified by experienced Rosemount personnel, and the reluctance of Rosemount personnel to allow candid communications with customers of the circumstances surrounding the deviations_reflects careless disregard of the requirements of 10 CFR Part 21. In summary, the NRC staff concluded that the failure of Rosemount to provide timely and complete notification of NRC licensees in the more than four years that the company was aware, or should have been aware, of the problem indicates a careless disregard of the reporting requirements of 10 CFR Part 21. In accordance with the Enforcement Policy, Supplement VII, Section C.5, the failure either to perform an adequate Part 21 review or to inform Rosemount customers about the problem would be classified as a Severity Level III violation. However, in accordance with Section IV.C of the Enforcement Policy, the severity level was increased to Severity Level II because of the careless disregard of 10 CFR Part 21 by the Rosemount nuclear department management between 1984 and 1988. No civil penalty was proposed because the staff had not found that the requirements of 10 CFR 21.61 for issuance of a civil penalty_that a director or other responsible officer knowingly and consciously failed to provide the notice required by 10 CFR 21.21_have been met in this case. IV. Conclusions The Petitioner's requests were granted, in part, and denied, in part, as discussed herein. As provided in 10 CFR 2.206(c), a copy of this Decision will be filed with the Secretary of the Commission for the Commission's review. Dated at Rockville, Maryland, this 15th day of December, 1994. For the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. William T. Russell, Director, Office of Nuclear Reactor Regulation. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;31777 Filed 12&hyph;23&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 7590&hyph;01&hyph;M
