FR940812-2-00176 FR940812-2-00065 NAB supports the position that the 1992 Cable Act is not an amendment of the 1976 must-carry rules. NAB notes that the House Judiciary Committee Report accompanying the 1976 Copyright Act specifically omits mention of §76.51 in its discussion of the must-carry rules, thereby indicating that Congress did not intend to freeze §76.51 for compulsory license purposes: In explaining the definition of the ``local service area'' in Section 111(f) as being that area in which stations were entitled to must carry under the FCC's rules in effect on April 15, 1976, this report specifically referenced Sections 76.57, 76.59, 76.61 and 76.63. It did not reference Section 76.51. . . . The logical explanation for the omission of Section 76.51 is that Congress did not intend to freeze, in perpetuity, the list of top 100 markets as they existed on April 15, 1976. NAB, comments at 3 n.4. Press Broadcasting also argues that Congress must have intended not to freeze §76.51; otherwise the 1992 Cable Act direction to update the list would not make sense. Press Broadcasting, comments at 4. The MPAA, unlike the other commentators, takes the position that the 1992 Cable Act is a separate and independent action of Congress and is an amendment of the 1976 must-carry rules. MPAA, comments at 4. According to MPAA, however, the Copyright Office still has authority to adopt the FCC changes to the §76.51 list, but it is not statutorily bound by such changes. MPAA compares the Cable Act amendment with the invalidation of the 1976 must-carry rules in the Quincy case. The invalidation of the must-carry rules ``was effectively an amendment of the 1976 regulations'' but the ``Copyright Office did not eliminate local station carriage for royalty purposes.'' Id. The statutory justification for the Copyright Office to either accept or reject amendments of §76.51 does not come from whether there has been a change of the 1976 rules, but is the ``responsibility assigned . . . [the office] to implement the provisions of the [compulsory license] plan. That responsibility requires the Office to determine the appropriate copyright policy related to the circumstances.'' Id. MPAA asserts that the Copyright Office is free to either follow or reject FCC changes to §76.51 depending upon how they affect copyright policy. b. Response to Question 2. The FCC's Report and Order redesignating the Ohio, Connecticut, and Georgia markets concluded that Congress specifically intended to affect copyright liability through its direction to the Commission to update §76.51. In question # 2 we sought specific evidence to back the FCC's conclusion. The FCC argues that the legislative history of the 1992 Cable Act clearly reflects Congress' intention to affect liability under the cable compulsory license through its direction to the 1992 Commission to update the §76.51 list. Although we noted in our NOI that the amendment to the Cable Act offered by Congressman McEwen did not explain the reasons for updating §76.51, see 58 FR at 34594 n. 1 (June 28, 1993), the FCC reveals that Rep. John Dingell, Chairman of the House Committee on Energy and Commerce, did include a statement accompanying the McEwen amendment. ``The McEwen amendment requires the FCC to update the list of the Nation's television markets in order to clarify whether a signal of a television station is considered to be local or distant.'' Amendment No. 14, 138 Cong. Rec. H6529 (daily ed. July 23, 1992). Furthermore, the FCC notes that Congressman McEwen represented the Sixth District of Ohio, which is where Chillocothe, one of the Commission's redesignated markets, is located. FCC comments at 5. The FCC urges that it is therefore clear that Congress attempted to affect copyright liability through the Cable Act: In short, the sequence of events, including the hyphenation of the Orlando market by the Commission and the acceptance of that amendment of Section 76.51 for copyright purposes by the Copyright Office; the Copyright Office's [1992 cable] report specifically bringing this to the attention of Congress; the specific problem associated with the Columbus-Chillocothe television market and the response thereto; and the legislative history's indication that such changes were to define stations as ``local'' or ``distant;'' all point to or are entirely consistent with a Congressional intention that changes resulting from the inclusion of Section 614(f) in the 1992 Cable Act were intended to have both communications and copyright consequences. Id at 6. See generally comments of R&R Media Corp. and NAB. c. Response to Question 3. Question # 3 asks whether the Copyright Office, assuming it accepts the FCC's redesignations of the Ohio, Connecticut, and Georgia markets, should accept future Commission redesignations as a matter of course or on a case-by-case basis. With the exception of the MPAA, all parties addressing the issue believed that the Office should accept FCC redesignations as a matter of course. See, e.g., Force Amusement Enterprises, Inc., comments at 1&hyph;2; NCTA, comments at 4; NAB, comments at 1&hyph;2; INTV, comments at 4; WLIG-TV, Inc., comments at 1; Professional Sports, comments at 5&hyph;6; TV 14, Inc., comments at 1; Press Broadcasting, comments at 3&hyph;4. Since the FCC announced in its Report & Order that redesignations will be made on a case-by-case basis, the parties argue that this approach will provide the necessary governmental scrutiny and avoid widescale market changes affecting the copyright status of distant signals. One commentator declared: ``The addition or deletion of individual communities to or from designated markets listed in §76.51 of the Commission's Rules should have little overall effect on the cable copyright compulsory license royalty scheme.'' Professional Sports, comments at 5. According to this commentator, reconsideration of each Commission redesignation by the Copyright Office is therefore not only unnecessary, but unwise. Furthermore, several commentators noted that acceptance of future redesignations for copyright purposes is consistent with the position taken by the Office in its 1987 Policy Decision accepting the Florida and California redesignations, and with other Copyright Office declarations on the subject. The MPAA is the one commentator arguing that we should not accept FCC redesignations as a matter of course. MPAA supports acceptance of the Ohio, Connecticut, and Georgia redesignations by the Office for compulsory license purposes, but states that the ``acceptance should be specifically limited to the current circumstances and should have no controlling effect on future cases.'' MPAA, comments at 5. MPAA is concerned that the FCC may apply ADI (Area of Dominant Influence), adopted by the 1992 Cable Act for determining must-carry status, to future redesignations. Widescale use of ADI could, according to MPAA, transform the mere ``renaming'' of markets into a virtual ``reordering'' of the top 100 markets, thereby dramatically affecting the compulsory license royalty scheme. MPAA, comments at 3 n.1. While this has not yet happened, MPAA urges the Copyright Office to ``set clear guidelines now to govern cable royalty reporting and payment practices in the event the FCC replaces the 1970 major market list with one based on current ADI designations.'' Id. at 3.
