FR940812-0-00078 FR940812-0-00019 (3) Cash in hands of subgrantees. When considered necessary and feasible by the Federal agency, grantees may be required to report the amount of cash advances in excess of three days' needs in the hands of their subgrantees or contractors and to provide short narrative explanations of actions taken by the grantee to reduce the excess balances. (4) Frequency and due date. Grantees must submit the report no later than 15 working days following the end of each quarter. However, where an advance either by letter of credit or electronic transfer of funds is authorized at an annualized rate of one million dollars or more, the Federal agency may require the report to be submitted within 15 working days following the end of each month. (d) Request for advance or reimbursement._ (1) Advance payments. Requests for Treasury check advance payments will be submitted on Standard Form 270, Request for Advance or Reimbursement. (This form will not be used for drawdowns under a letter of credit, electronic funds transfer or when Treasury check advance payments are made to the grantee automatically on a predetermined basis.) (2) Reimbursements. Requests for reimbursement under nonconstruction grants will also be submitted on Standard Form 270. (For reimbursement requests under construction grants, see paragraph (e)(1) of this section.) (3) The frequency for submitting payment requests is treated in paragraph (b)(3) of this section. (e) Outlay report and request for reimbursement for construction programs._ (1) Grants that support construction activities paid by reimbursement method. (i) Requests for reimbursement under construction grants will be submitted on Standard Form 271, Outlay Report and Request for Reimbursement for Construction Programs. Federal agencies may, however, prescribe the Request for Advance or Reimbursement form, specified in paragraph (d) of this section, instead of this form. (ii) The frequency for submitting reimbursement requests is treated in paragraph (b)(3) of this section. (2) Grants that support construction activities paid by letter of credit, electronic funds transfer or Treasury check advance. (i) When a construction grant is paid by letter of credit, electronic funds transfer or Treasury check advances, the grantee will report its outlays to the Federal agency using Standard Form 271, Outlay Report and Request for Reimbursement for Construction Programs. The Federal agency will provide any necessary special instruction. However, frequency and due date shall be governed by paragraphs (b) (3) and (4) of this section. (ii) When a construction grant is paid by Treasury check advances based on periodic requests from the grantee, the advances will be requested on the form specified in paragraph (d) of this section. (iii) The Federal agency may substitute the Financial Status Report specified in paragraph (b) of this section for the Outlay Report and Request for Reimbursement for Construction Programs. (3) Accounting basis. The accounting basis for the Outlay Report and Request for Reimbursement for Construction Programs shall be governed by paragraph (b)(2) of this section.
