FR941219-2-00062 FR941219-2-00042 a. a supermarket owned or operated by any respondent and located within four blocks of either of the two supermarkets listed in Paragraph II. A. 2. 3. Greenwich Village: In addition to one of the four Greenwich Village supermarkets listed in Paragraph II. A. 4., either one other supermarket listed in Paragraph II. A. 4., or one of the following: a. Gristede's located at 77 Seventh Avenue (store no. 37) or the nearest alternate supermarket owned or operated by any respondent; or b. Gristede's located at 311 Bleecker Street (store no. 83) or the nearest alternate supermarket owned or operated by any respondent. The assets to be divested shall consist of the grocery business operated, and all assets, leases, properties, business and goodwill, tangible and intangible, utilized in the distribution or sale of groceries at the listed locations that are divested. C. Respondents shall divest the assets to be divested only to an acquirer or acquirers that receive the prior approval of the Commission and only in a manner that receives the prior approval of the Commission. The purpose of the divestiture of the assets to be divested is to ensure the continuation of the assets to be divested as ongoing, viable enterprises engaged in the supermarket business and to remedy the lessening of competition resulting from the acquisitions as alleged in the Commission's complaint. D. Pending divestiture of such assets to be divested to comply with Paragraphs II. and III. of this order, respondents shall take such actions as are necessary to maintain the viability and marketability of such assets to be divested to comply with Paragraphs II. and III. of this order and to prevent the destruction, removal, wasting, deterioration, or impairment of such assets to be divested to comply with Paragraphs II. and III. of this order except in the ordinary course of business and except for ordinary wear and tear. III It is further ordered that: A. If respondents have not divested, absolutely and in good faith and with the Commission's prior approval, such assets to be divested to comply with Paragraph II. of this order within twelve months from the date this order becomes final, the Commission may appoint a trustee to divest any of the supermarkets listed in Paragraph II. (and all assets, leases, properties, business and goodwill, tangible and intangible, utilized in the distribution or sale of groceries at the listed locations) that are owned or operated by any respondent at the time of the appointment of the trustee in order to satisfy the requirements of Paragraph II. A. and II. B. of this order. In the event that the Commission or the Attorney General brings an action pursuant to section 5(l) of the Federal Trade Commission Act, 15 U.S.C. 45(l), or any other statute enforced by the Commission, respondents shall consent to the appointment of a trustee in such action. Neither the appointment of a trustee nor a decision not to appoint a trustee under this Paragraph shall preclude the Commission or the Attorney General from seeking civil penalties or any other relief available to it, including a court-appointed trustee, pursuant to section 5(l) of the Federal Trade Commission Act, or any other statute enforced by the Commission, for any failure by the respondents to comply with this order. B. If a trustee is appointed by the Commission or a court pursuant to Paragraph III. A. of this order, respondents shall consent to the following terms and conditions regarding the trustee's powers, duties, authority, and responsibilities: 1. The Commission shall select the trustee, subject to the consent of respondents, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld. The trustee shall be a person with experience and expertise in acquisitions and divestitures. If respondents have not opposed, in writing, including the reasons for opposing, the selection of any proposed trustee within ten (10) days after written notice by the staff of the Commission to respondents of the identity of any proposed trustee, respondents shall be deemed to have consented to the selection of the proposed trustee. 2. Subject to the prior approval of the Commission, the trustee shall have the exclusive power and authority to divest any of the supermarkets listed in Paragraph II (and all assets, leases, properties, business and goodwill, tangible and intangible, utilized in the distribution or sale of groceries at the listed locations) that are owned or operated by any respondent at the time of the appointment of the trustee in order to comply with Paragraph II. of this order. 3. Within ten (10) days after appointment of the trustee, respondents shall execute a trust agreement that, subject to the prior approval of the Commission and, in the case of a court-appointed trustee, of the court, transfers to the trustee all rights and powers necessary to permit the trustee to effect the divestitures required by Paragraph II. of this order. Such trust agreement may include a confidentiality agreement. 4. The trustee shall have twelve (12) months from the date the Commission or court approves the trust agreement described in Paragraph III. B. 3. to accomplish the divestitures, which shall be subject to the prior approval of the Commission. If, however, at the end of the twelve-month period, the trustee has submitted a plan of divestiture or believes that divestiture can be achieved within a reasonable time, the divestiture period may be extended by the Commission, or, in the case of a court-appointed trustee, by the court; provided, however, the Commission may extend this 12-month period only one (1) time for one (1) year.
