FR940429-0-00005 FR940429-0-00003 14 CFR Part 39 [Docket No. 94&hyph;NM&hyph;46&hyph;AD; Amendment 39&hyph;8898; AD 94&hyph;09&hyph;09] Airworthiness Directives; SAAB Aircraft Model SAAB SF340A and SAAB 340B Airplanes AGENCY: Federal Aviation Administration, DOT. ACTION: Final rule; request for comments. SUMMARY: This amendment adopts a new airworthiness directive (AD) that is applicable to certain SAAB Model SAAB SF340A and SAAB 340B airplanes. This action requires installation of a placard in the cockpit that informs the flight crew of the prohibition against moving the power levers below ``flight idle'' (beta mode) when the airplane is airborne. This amendment is prompted by an incident during which a Model SAAB 340B airplane, that was in ``beta mode'' for a short duration during descent, lost all engine power. The action specified in this AD is intended to prevent engine overspeed and the resultant loss of engine power. DATES: Effective May 16, 1994. The incorporation by reference of certain publications listed in the regulations is approved by the Director of the Federal Register as of May 16, 1994. Comments for inclusion in the Rules Docket must be received on or before June 28, 1994. ADDRESSES: Submit comments in triplicate to the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), Transport Airplane Directorate, ANM&hyph;103, Attention: Rules Docket No.94&hyph;NM&hyph;46&hyph;AD, 1601 Lind Avenue SW., Renton, Washington 98055&hyph;4056. The service information referenced in this AD may be obtained from SAAB Aircraft AB, SAAB Aircraft Product Support, S&hyph;581 88, Linköping, Sweden. This information may be examined at the FAA, Transport Airplane Directorate, 1601 Lind Avenue SW., Renton, Washington; or at the Office of the Federal Register, 800 North Capitol Street, NW., suite 700, Washington, DC. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mark Quam, Aerospace Engineer, Standardization Branch, ANM&hyph;113, FAA, Transport Airplane Directorate, 1601 Lind Avenue SW., Renton, Washington 98055&hyph;4056; telephone (206) 227&hyph;2145; fax (206) 227&hyph;1320. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Recently, the FAA has received a report that a SAAB Model SAAB 340B airplane lost all engine power during descent. In this incident, the flight crew managed to land the airplane with no turbine power. However, the airplane ran off the end of the runway and sustained damage in the process. The flight data recorder from this airplane revealed that the power levers were set below ``flight idle'' (beta mode) for approximately eight seconds during the airplane's descent from 9,200 feet altitude. Further, the FAA has received reports of other incidents in which operators of Model SAAB SF340A and SAAB 340B airplanes have selected ``beta mode'' either inadvertently or intentionally during flight. The FAA has determined that if the flight crew moves the power levels below ``flight idle'' (beta mode) when the airplane is airborne, the propeller will go into a low pitch angle and the propeller speed may increase uncontrollably. This condition, if not corrected, could result in engine overspeed and the resultant loss of engine power. SAAB Aircraft has issued Service Bulletin 340&hyph;76&hyph;033, dated March 31, 1994, that describes procedures for installation of a placard in the cockpit of certain Model SAAB SF340A and SAAB 340B airplanes. The placard informs the flight crew of the prohibition against moving the power levers below ``flight idle'' (beta mode) when the airplane is airborne. These airplane models are manufactured in Sweden and are type certificated for operation in the United States under the provisions of Section 21.29 of the Federal Aviation Regulations and the applicable bilateral airworthiness agreement. The FAA has reviewed all available information, and determined that AD action is necessary for products of this type design that are certificated for operation in the United States. Since an unsafe condition has been identified that is likely to exist or develop on other airplanes of the same type design registered in the United States, this AD is being issued to prevent engine overspeed and the resultant loss of engine power. This AD requires installation of a placard in the cockpit of certain SAAB Model SAAB SF340A and SAAB 340B airplanes. The actions are required to be accomplished in accordance with the service bulletin described previously. This is considered to be interim action until final action is identified, at which time the FAA may consider further rulemaking. Since a situation exists that requires the immediate adoption of this regulation, it is found that notice and opportunity for prior public comment hereon are impracticable, and that good cause exists for making this amendment effective in less than 30 days. Comments Invited Although this action is in the form of a final rule that involves requirements affecting flight safety and, thus, was not preceded by notice and an opportunity for public comment, comments are invited on this rule. Interested persons are invited to comment on this rule by submitting such written data, views, or arguments as they may desire. Communications shall identify the Rules Docket number and be submitted in triplicate to the address specified under the caption ADDRESSES . All communications received on or before the closing date for comments will be considered, and this rule may be amended in light of the comments received. Factual information that supports the commenter's ideas and suggestions is extremely helpful in evaluating the effectiveness of the AD action and determining whether additional rulemaking action would be needed. Comments are specifically invited on the overall regulatory, economic, environmental, and energy aspects of the rule that might suggest a need to modify the rule. All comments submitted will be available, both before and after the closing date for comments, in the Rules Docket for examination by interested persons. A report that summarizes each FAA-public contact concerned with the substance of this AD will be filed in the Rules Docket. Commenters wishing the FAA to acknowledge receipt of their comments submitted in response to this notice must submit a self-addressed, stamped postcard on which the following statement is made: ``Comments to Docket Number 94&hyph;NM&hyph;46&hyph;AD.'' The postcard will be date stamped and returned to the commenter.
