FR940803-0-00109 FR940803-0-00040 Many manufacturers expressed concern that the proposed testing to determine energy efficiency of dual-fueled automobiles is excessive and may be a deterrent to alternative-fueled vehicle development and production. The manufacturers recommended that the equal or superior energy efficiency determination could be adequately demonstrated when the vehicle is first certified. The comparison of the three fuels could be made one time, for each engine family and could be based on the highway test only. The regulations should allow EPA to waive the 50/50 mixture testing requirement if demonstrated M85 (or M100) tests indicate a significant increase in fuel efficiency when compared to gasoline tests in the same vehicle. EPA Response to Comments The AMFA does not specify how the energy efficiency is to be calculated. However, the intent of the Act is to encourage the use of alternative fuels and the energy efficiency requirement is a means of ensuring that dual-fueled automobiles are designed to be equally or more energy efficient while operating on the alternative fuel. Based on comments submitted by manufacturers, EPA realizes that the proposal to require the manufacturer to test each vehicle used for fuel economy purposes using the three fuels could be unnecessarily burdensome and costly for the manufacturer as compared to the test requirements for gasoline-fueled vehicles, which require tests using one test fuel. For example, if a vehicle, when fueled with an M85 blend, demonstrated significantly superior energy efficiency performance compared to when fueled with gasoline, it is likely to have superior energy efficiency performance when operating on the 50/50 blend as when operating on gasoline. EPA expects that in the vast majority of vehicles demonstrating a superior M85 energy efficiency performance, testing with a 50/50 blend would only serve to confirm expected performance. The energy efficiency requirements could still be equally served by lessening the testing requirements on the manufacturer in conjunction with provisions for EPA to reserve the right to audit test any vehicle used for fuel economy purposes. Therefore, this final rule requires that to satisfy the equal or superior energy efficiency requirements of AMFA for favorable CAFE treatment eligibility for dual-fueled vehicles, manufacturers must: (1) Perform city and highway fuel economy tests on all vehicles used for fuel economy purposes using both gasoline and the alternative fuel, and, additionally for alcohol dual-fueled vehicles, (2) during initial certification, either perform city and highway fuel economy tests on one emission data vehicle (EDV) per engine family using the 50/50 alcohol/gasoline mixture, or provide a statement attesting that equal or superior energy efficiency is attained while using a 50/50 mixture compared to using gasoline. The EPA retains the right to audit test any vehicle used for fuel economy purposes to confirm the manufacturer's statement. This approach will reduce the test burden on the manufacturer while preserving the intent of the AMFA to ensure that vehicles are designed to be equally or more energy efficient while operating on both the alternative fuel and 50/50 alcohol/gasoline mixture than when operating on gasoline. The recommendations regarding the sole use of the highway test cycle for determining energy efficiency may not ensure that the equal or superior energy efficiency requirements of the AMFA are met. City and highway energy efficiencies could differ due to engine calibration differences and other design differences. This may not assure that the city energy efficiency requirements for CAFE credit are met as a result of testing using the highway cycle. To better represent in-use driving conditions, the energy efficiency determination should be based on both the city and highway cycles. After experience is gained with the relationship between highway and city energy efficiency for alternative-fueled vehicles, this issue can be revisited. D. Fuel Economy Calculations_Fuel Properties Summary of the Proposal The proposed fuel economy equation was based on fixed values for the fuel properties of carbon weight fraction and density. For determining energy efficiency, EPA proposed that the manufacturers would be required to determine the net heating values and densities of the alternative fuel, petroleum fuel, and a 50 percent alcohol, 50 percent gasoline mixture where appropriate. EPA proposed that upon reviewing the net heating values and densities submitted by the manufacturer, the Administrator would determine the net heating values and densities to be used in the energy efficiency determination. Summary of the Comments The MVMA and Ford recommend that actual methanol fuel properties be used in both the fuel economy calculation and energy efficiency equations with the option of using standard or ``fixed'' values if the methanol fuel property data are unavailable. The use of actual fuel properties for the gasoline calculations and standard fuel properties for the methanol calculations creates an inconsistency in the energy efficiency calculations since the proposed energy efficiency comparison equation is a ratio of these two values. MVMA suggested two alternative methods to be used for determining the heating value for methanol fuel blends. The first is to measure the heating value using ASTM D 240, which uses a bomb calorimeter. The second method is to calculate the heating value using: LHV(BTU/lb)=(mass fraction methanol×8560)+(mass fraction gasoline×LHV gasoline), where the LHV gasoline is the heating value of the gasoline portion of the M85 fuel and is measured using ASTM D 3338. Ford recommended the following equation to calculate fuel economy for methanol vehicles using measured values for the carbon weight fraction and density of the methanol blend: (CWF × SG × 3777.623)/[(CWF exHC × HC)+(0.429 × CO)+(0.273 × CO 2 )+(0.375 × CH 3 OH)+(0.400 × HCHO)] Ford recommended that the carbon weight fraction (CWF) of the methanol blend should be determined using ASTM D 3343 and the specific gravity of the methanol blend should be determined using ASTM D 1298. The equation proposed in the NPRM should be contained in the regulation only as an option; with the density of gasoline in the equation revised from 2796 to 2830. Regarding the determination of the carbon weight fraction of exhaust hydrocarbons (CWF exHC ) in the denominator of the methanol fuel economy equation, manufacturers agreed that the effect of this term on fuel economy is very small and measurement of this value is difficult to obtain. They agreed that a standard value should be determined. However, some of the commenters stated that the standard value of 0.866 is not appropriate and the carbon weight fraction of the exhaust hydrocarbons of each blend should be specified and based on test data. One manufacturer agreed that the hydrogen to carbon ratio of 1.85:1 (i.e., CWF exHC =0.866) is adequate for calculating fuel economy.
