FR940429-0-00057 FR940429-0-00010 (2) The agency's definition of substantive change includes, but is not limited to, the following types of change: (i) Any change in the established mission or objectives of the institution; (ii) Any change in the legal status or form of control of the institution; (iii) The addition of courses or programs that represent a significant departure, in terms of either in the content or method of delivery, from those that were offered when the agency most recently evaluated the institution; (iv) The addition of courses or programs at a degree or credential level above that included in the institution's current accreditation or preaccreditation; (v) A change from clock hours to credit hours or vice versa ; and (vi) A substantial increase in_ (A) The number of clock or credit hours awarded for successful completion of a program; or (B) The length of a program. (c) The agency has discretion to determine the procedures it will use to grant prior approval of the substantive change, which may, but need not, require an on-site evaluation before approval is granted. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1099b) ยง602.26 Required accreditation standards. (a)(1) To be listed by the Secretary as a nationally recognized accrediting agency, an accrediting agency must demonstrate to the Secretary that its accreditation or preaccreditation standards, or both, are sufficiently rigorous to ensure that the agency is a reliable authority as to the quality of the education or training provided by the institutions or programs it accredits. (2) For a programmatic accrediting agency that does not serve as an institutional accrediting agency for any of the programs it accredits, the standards must address the areas contained in paragraph (b) of this section in terms of the type and level of the program rather than in terms of the institution. (3) If none of the institutions an agency accredits participates in any Title IV, HEA program, or if the agency only accredits programs within institutions accredited by an institutional accrediting agency recognized by the Secretary, the accrediting agency is not required to have the standards described in paragraphs (b)(7), (b)(8), (b)(10), and (b)(12) of this section. (b) In order to assure that an accrediting agency is a reliable authority as to the quality of the education or training provided by an institution or program it accredits, the agency must have standards that effectively address the quality of an institution or program in the following areas: (1) Curricula. (2) Faculty. (3) Facilities, equipment, and supplies. (4) Fiscal and administrative capacity as appropriate to the specified scale of operations. (5) Student support services. (6) Recruiting and admissions practices, academic calendars, catalogs, publications, grading, and advertising. (7) Program length and tuition and fees in relation to the subject matters taught and the objectives of the degrees or credentials offered. (8) Measures of program length in clock hours or credit hours. (9) Success with respect to student achievement in relation to mission, including, as appropriate, consideration of course completion, State licensing examination, and job placement rates. (10) Default rates in the student loan programs under Title IV of the Act, based on the most recent data provided by the Secretary. (11) Record of student complaints received by, or available to, the agency. (12) Compliance with the institution's program responsibilities under Title IV of the Act, including any results of financial or compliance audits, program reviews, and such other information as the Secretary may provide to the agency. (c)(1) An accrediting agency shall take appropriate action if its review of an institution or program under any standard indicates that the institution or program is not in compliance with that standard. (2) If the agency believes that the institution or program is not in compliance with the standards, the agency shall_
