FR940810-0-00238 FR940810-0-00021 (E) The purpose, proper use, fitting instructions, and limitations of respirators as required by 29 CFR 1910.134; (F) The appropriate work practices for performing the asbestos job; (G) Medical surveillance program requirements; and (H) The content of this standard, including appendices. (I) The names, addresses and phone numbers of public health organizations which provide information, materials and/or conduct programs concerning smoking cessation. The employer may distribute the list of such organizations contained in Appendix J, to comply with this requirement. (J) The requirements for posting signs and affixing labels and the meaning of the required legends for such signs and labels. (9) Access to training materials. (i) The employer shall make readily available to affected employees without cost written materials relating to the employee training program, including a copy of this regulation. (ii) The employer shall provide to the Assistant Secretary and the Director, upon request, all information and training materials relating to the employee information and training program. (iii) The employer shall inform all employees concerning the availability of self-help smoking cessation program material. Upon employee request, the employer shall distribute such material, consisting of NIH Publication No, 89&hyph;1647, or equivalent self-help material, which is approved or published by a public health organization listed in Appendix J. (1) Housekeeping_(1) Vacuuming. Where vacuuming methods are selected, HEPA filtered vacuuming equipment must be used. The equipment shall be used and emptied in a manner that minimizes the reentry of asbestos into the workplace. (2) Waste disposal. Asbestos waste, scrap, debris, bags, containers, equipment, and contaminated clothing consigned for disposal shall be collected and disposed of in sealed, labeled, impermeable bags or other closed, labeled, impermeable containers. (3) Care of asbestos-containing flooring/deck material. (i) All vinyl and asphalt flooring/deck material shall be maintained in accordance with this paragraph unless the building/facility owner demonstrates, pursuant to paragraph (g) that the flooring/deck does not contain asbestos. (i) Sanding of flooring/deck material is prohibited. (ii) Stripping of finishes shall be conducted using low abrasion pads at speed lower than 300 rpm and wet methods. (iii) Burnishing or dry buffing may be performed only on flooring/deck which has sufficient finish so that the pad cannot contact the flooring/deck material. (4) Dust and debris in an area containing accessible thermal system insulation or surfacing material or visibly deteriorated ACM. (i) shall not be dusted or swept dry, or vacuumed without using a HEPA filter; (ii) shall be promptly cleaned up and disposed in leak tight containers. (m) Medical surveillance_(1) General_(i) Employees covered. The employer shall institute a medical surveillance program for all employees who for a combined total of 30 or more days per year are engaged in Class I, II, and III work or are exposed at or above the permissible exposure limit or excursion limit, and for employees who wear negative pressure respirators pursuant to the requirements of this section. (ii) Examination by a physician. (A) The employer shall ensure that all medical examinations and procedures are performed by or under the supervision of a licensed physician, and are provided at no cost to the employee and at a reasonable time and place. (B) Persons other than such licensed physicians who administer the pulmonary function testing required by this section shall complete a training course in spirometry sponsored by an appropriate academic or professional institution. (2) Medical examinations and consultations_(i) Frequency. The employer shall make available medical examinations and consultations to each employee covered under paragraph (m)(1)(i) of this section on the following schedules: (A) Prior to assignment of the employee to an area where negative-pressure respirators are worn; (B) When the employee is assigned to an area where exposure to asbestos may be at or above the permissible exposure for 30 or more days per year, a medical examination must be given within 10 working days following the thirtieth day of exposure; (C) And at least annually thereafter. (D) If the examining physician determines that any of the examinations should be provided more frequently than specified, the employer shall provide such examinations to affected employees at the frequencies specified by the physician. (E) Exception: No medical examination is required of any employee if adequate records show that the employee has been examined in accordance with this paragraph within the past 1-year period. (ii) Content. Medical examinations made available pursuant to paragraphs (m)(2)(i) (A) through (m)(2)(i) (C) of this section shall include: (A) A medical and work history with special emphasis directed to the pulmonary, cardiovascular, and gastrointestinal systems. (B) On initial examination, the standardized questionnaire contained in Part 1 of Appendix D to this section and, on annual examination, the abbreviated standardized questionnaire contained in Part 2 of Appendix D to this section. (C) A physical examination directed to the pulmonary and gastrointestinal systems, including a chest ,x-ray to be administered at the discretion of the physician, and pulmonary function tests of forced vital capacity (FVC) and forced expiratory volume at one second (FEV(1)). Interpretation and classification of chest roentgenogram shall be conducted in accordance with Appendix E to this section. (D) Any other examinations or tests deemed necessary by the examining physician. (3) Information provided to the physician. The employer shall provide the following information to the examining physician: (i) A copy of this standard and Appendices D, E, G, and I to this section; (ii) A description of the affected employee's duties as they relate to the employee's exposure; (iii) The employee's representative exposure level or anticipated exposure level; (iv) A description of any personal protective and respiratory equipment used or to be used; and (v) Information from previous medical examinations of the affected employee that is not otherwise available to the examining physician. (4) Physician's written opinion. (i) The employer shall obtain a written opinion from the examining physician. This written opinion shall contain the results of the medical examination and shall include: (A) The physician's opinion as to whether the employee has any detected medical conditions that would place the employee at an increased risk of material health impairment from exposure to asbestos;
