FR940419-0-00093 FR940419-0-00019 (h) If the Contractor seeks an expedited decision regarding its initial future contracting request, the Contractor may submit its request to both the Contracting Officer and the next administrative level within the Contracting Officer's organization. (i) A review process available to the Contractor when an adverse determination is received shall consist of a request for reconsideration to the Contracting Officer or a request for review submitted to the next administrative level within the Contracting Officer's organization. An adverse determination resulting from a request for reconsideration by the Contracting Officer will not preclude the Contractor from requesting a review by the next administrative level. Either a request for review or a request for reconsideration must be submitted to the appropriate level within 30 calendar days after receipt of the initial adverse determination. (End of clause) Limitation of Future Contracting; Alternate III (ESAT) (May 1994) (a) The parties to this contract agree that the Contractor will be restricted in its future contracting in the manner described below. Except as specifically provided in this clause, the Contractor shall be free to compete for contracts on an equal basis with other companies. (b) If the Contractor, under the terms of this contract, or through the performance of work pursuant to this contract, is required to develop specifications or statements of work and such specifications or statements of work are incorporated into an EPA solicitation, the Contractor shall be ineligible to perform the work described in that solicitation as a prime Contractor or subcontractor under an ensuing EPA contract. (c) To the extent that the work under this contract requires access to proprietary or confidential business or financial data of other companies, and as long as such data remains proprietary or confidential, the Contractor shall protect such data from unauthorized use and disclosure. (d) The Contractor agrees to insert in each subcontract or consultant agreement placed hereunder, except for subcontracts or consultant agreements for nondiscretionary technical or engineering services, including treatability studies, well drilling, fence erecting, plumbing, utility hookups, security guard services, or electrical services, provisions which shall conform substantially to the language of this clause, including this paragraph (d) unless otherwise authorized by the Contracting Officer. The Contractor may request in writing that the Contracting Officer exempt from this clause a particular subcontract or consultant agreement for nondiscretionary technical or engineering services not specifically listed above, including laboratory analysis. The Contracting Officer will review and evaluate each request on a case-by-case basis before approving or disapproving the request. (e) If the Contractor seeks an expedited decision regarding its initial future contracting request, the contractor may submit its request to both the Contracting Officer and the next administrative level within the Contracting Officer's organization. (f) A review process available to the Contractor when an adverse determination is received shall consist of a request for reconsideration to the Contracting Officer or a request for review submitted to the next administrative level within the Contracting Officer's organization. An adverse determination resulting from a request for reconsideration by the Contracting Officer will not preclude the Contractor from requesting a review by the next administrative level. Either a request for review or a request for reconsideration must be submitted to the appropriate level within 30 calendar days after receipt of the initial adverse determination. (End of clause)
