FR940622-1-00070 FR940622-1-00029 Section 674.38␣Deferment Procedures The Secretary is proposing to amend §674.38 to include the requirement that a defaulted borrower make satisfactory arrangements to repay the loan as one of the conditions to be met in order to be granted a deferment to bring the Federal Perkins Loan program in line with the FFEL program. Section 674.42␣Contact With the Borrower The Secretary is proposing to amend §674.42 (a)(1)(ii) and (a)(3) in accordance with amended sections 464(e) and 485(b) of the HEA, which require each institution to notify the borrower during the exit interview of the right to forbearance and to require the borrower to provide during the exit interview: (1) The borrower's expected permanent address after leaving the institution (regardless of the reason for leaving); (2) the name and address of the borrower's expected employer after leaving the institution; (3) the name and address of the borrower's next-of-kin; and (4) any corrections in the institution's records relating to the borrower's name, address, social security number, personal references, and driver's license number. Section 674.43␣Billing Procedures The Secretary is proposing to amend §674.43 to allow a borrower to elect to repay his or her Federal Perkins loan by means of the electronic transfer of funds from the borrower's bank account. The Secretary believes that implementing this provision would result in a burden reduction for both the borrower and the institution. Section 674.44␣Address Searches Section 463(e) of the HEA has been added to make use of the Internal Revenue Service and Department of Education's skip-tracing service permissive rather than mandatory for institutions. Currently, institutions are required to use the Internal Revenue Service and Department of Education's skip-tracing service in order to assign a Federal Perkins loan to the Department. The Secretary proposes to amend §674.44 to eliminate skip-tracing as a required due diligence step. Also, the Secretary proposes to amend §674.44, in accordance with a provision of the Amendments that eliminates the statute of limitations as a limitation on the litigation of a Federal Perkins Loan. Section 674.45␣Collection Procedures The Secretary is proposing to amend §674.45 in accordance with amended section 463(c) of the HEA to require institutions to report defaulted loans to any one of the credit bureau organizations with which the Secretary has an agreement. The Secretary proposes to amend §674.45 in accordance with a provision of the Amendments that eliminate the statute of limitations as a limitation on recovering amounts owed on defaulted accounts. The Secretary is also proposing to amend this section to clarify that these regulations preempt State collection laws. This change is needed because some states do not allow a collection agency to collect a Federal Perkins Loan if the collection agency is not physically located in the state and this circumstance directly conflicts with the exercise of Federal authority. Section 674.46␣Litigation Procedures In accordance with the changes made to section 484A of the HEA, the Secretary is proposing to amend §674.46 to eliminate the statute of limitations as a limitation on the litigation of a Federal Perkins Loan. Section 674.48␣Use of Contractors to Perform Billing and Collection or Other Program Activities The HEA has been amended to prohibit requiring contractors to deposit funds they collect into an interest-bearing account, unless those funds will be held longer than 45 days. The Secretary is proposing to add this provision in §674.48 in accordance with section 463(d) of the HEA. Section 674.50␣Assignment of Defaulted Loans to the United States The Secretary is proposing to amend §674.50 to reflect the statutory change from default rate to cohort default rate as a measurement of institutional administrative capability. Pursuant to the statute, institutions with cohort default rates of at least 20 percent will be required to provide documentation demonstrating due diligence to assign loans to the United States. Section 674.51␣Special Definitions The Amendments added new loan cancellation provisions for borrowers who perform certain kinds of public service. The cancellation provisions use several terms which need to be defined. The Amendments provided definitions for ``Low-income communities,'' ``High-risk children,'' ``Infants and toddlers with disabilities,'' ``Children and youth with disabilities,'' ``Early intervention services,'' and ``Qualified professional provider of early intervention services.'' The Secretary is proposing definitions for ``Nurse,'' ``Medical technician,'' and ``Teaching in a field of expertise.'' The Secretary proposes to amend §674.51 to incorporate the definitions of these terms based on consultations with appropriate experts in these fields. Section 674.53␣Teacher Cancellation_Federal Perkins Loans and Direct Loans Made on or After July 23, 1992 Section 465(a)(2) of the HEA has been amended by removing the 50-percent limitation on all Chapter 1 schools in a State. Teacher cancellation provisions are expanded for loans made on or after July 23, 1992, to include loan cancellation for service as: (1) A full-time special-education teacher, including teachers of infants, toddlers, children, or youth with disabilities in a public or other nonprofit elementary or secondary school system, or a full-time qualified professional provider of early- intervention services in a public or other nonprofit program under public supervision; or (2) a full-time teacher of mathematics, science, foreign languages, bilingual education, or any other field of expertise that is determined by the State education agency to have a shortage of qualified teachers. The Secretary proposes to add this section to incorporate these statutory changes.
