FR940105-0-00031 FR940105-0-00007 In general, the Commission understands that El Paso's and ANR's interpretation of the manner in which the data sets are designed to operate accords with the intent of the Working Groups, and the Commission agrees with that approach. The Commission, however, sees a need to provide further clarification of the operation of the data sets and the mandatory and optional characterization of certain fields. At the outset, it is important to recognize that these data sets must apply to all pipelines, and, therefore, the Working Groups had to design them to be flexible enough to accommodate the different operational characteristics and information requirements of different pipelines. Implementation of the data sets perforce will differ across pipelines. The data sets are organized along the following lines. First, they are divided into generic groups for offers, bids, awards, withdrawals, operationally available capacity, and system wide notices. Some of these groups are then divided into specialized data sets, for example for receipt and delivery point information or for storage releases. Each of these subsets contain mandatory, optional, or contingent fields. All pipelines must support the six broad categories of data sets. Pipeline support of the subsets within each category, however, may depend on the operational characteristics of individual pipelines. 23 For example, data sets are included for receipt and delivery point information and for segment information although not all pipelines are segment systems. Pipelines will choose from among the combination of these data sets the ones that best present the relevant information for their systems. 23 The easiest example is the storage data sets which obviously will not have to be supported by pipelines without storage fields. All pipelines choosing a particular data set will be required to support the mandatory fields in that data set. Pipelines are not required by this rule to support the optional fields. Some pipelines, however, may be required by their tariffs or other requirements, to support some of the optional fields. 24 Moreover, pipelines must display all information, whether mandatory or optional, on their on-line EBBs. For example, if a pipeline is not now displaying mandatory information on its on-line EBB, it must revise its display format to accommodate that information. 24 The contingent fields are filled only when a condition in another field is met. As mentioned earlier, the Working Groups are continuing to make refinements in the data sets. In making these refinements, they should make a further effort to clarify how pipelines must implement these requirements, such as which fields pipelines must support and which are optional. Enron suggests the standardized data sets should be minimum requirements that pipelines can supplement to accommodate tariff provisions. As an example, it claims the data sets do not accommodate Florida Gas' proposal to permit several shippers temporarily to combine their capacity rights to facilitate release transactions. The Commission is not sure what flexibility Enron is requesting. Pipelines cannot add or delete fields from the capacity data sets because standardization requires that all pipelines use the same structure for downloading, so shippers can process that information using the same computer software. For example, if pipelines could add new data fields, shippers' ASC X12 software might be unable to interpret the information because the software is keyed to the specific fields on the implementation guide. Moreover, the Working Groups anticipated the need to accommodate special release offers or unique circumstances and included special terms and miscellaneous note fields for providing such details. 25 As discussed previously, the Commission recognizes that pipelines may uncover difficulties in correlating their information requirements with the downloadable data sets and the Commission anticipated possibly having to make corrections to the data sets. The best way for pipelines to avoid problems is to begin the implementation process immediately so they can report difficulties to the Working Groups for resolution prior to implementation. 25 Enron did not describe the specific problem created by combination offers, and the Commission cannot discern why it could not be accommodated within the prescribed data sets. For example, the combination offer could be assigned a single offer number (Data Set I.1, line 3) with any special circumstances described in the miscellaneous field (Data Set I.1, line 52).
