FR940617-0-00211 FR940617-0-00026 §89.507&hyph;96 Sample selection. (a) Engines comprising a test sample will be selected at the location and in the manner specified in the test order. If a manufacturer determines that the test engines cannot be selected in the manner specified in the test order, an alternative selection procedure may be employed, provided the manufacturer requests approval of the alternative procedure prior to the start of test sample selection, and the Administrator approves the procedure. (b) The manufacturer must assemble the test engines of the family selected for testing using its normal mass production process for engines to be distributed into commerce. If, between the time the manufacturer is notified of a test order and the time the manufacturer finishes selecting test engines, the manufacturer implements any change(s) in its production processes, including quality control, which may reasonably be expected to affect the emissions of the engines selected, then the manufacturer must, during the audit, inform the Administrator of such changes. If the test engines are selected at a location where they do not have their operational and emission control systems installed, the test order will specify the manner and location for selection of components to complete assembly of the engines. The manufacturer must assemble these components onto the test engines using normal assembly and quality control procedures as documented by the manufacturer. (c) No quality control, testing, or assembly procedures will be used on the test engine or any portion thereof, including parts and subassemblies, that have not been or will not be used during the production and assembly of all other engines of that family, unless the Administrator approves the modification in assembly procedures pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section. (d) The test order may specify that an EPA enforcement officer(s) or authorized representative(s), rather than the manufacturer, select the test engines according to the method specified in the test order. (e) The order in which test engines are selected determines the order in which test results are to be used in applying the sampling plan in accordance with §89.510&hyph;96. (f) The manufacturer must keep on hand all untested engines, if any, comprising the test sample until a pass or fail decision is reached in accordance with §89.510&hyph;96(e). The manufacturer may ship any tested engine which has not failed the requirements as set forth in §89.510&hyph;96(b). However, once the manufacturer ships any test engine, it relinquishes the prerogative to conduct retests as provided in §89.508&hyph;96(i). §89.508&hyph;96 Test procedures. (a)(1) For nonroad engines subject to the provisions of this subpart, the prescribed test procedures are the nonroad engine 8-mode test procedure as described in subpart E of this part, the federal smoke test as described in part 86, subpart I of this chapter, and the particulate test procedure as adopted in the California Regulations for New 1996 and Later Heavy-Duty Off-Road Diesel Cycle Engines. This procedure is incorporated by reference. See §89.6. (2) The Administrator may, on the basis of a written application by a manufacturer, prescribe test procedures other than those specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section for any nonroad engine he or she determines is not susceptible to satisfactory testing using the procedures specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section. (b)(1) The manufacturer may not adjust, repair, prepare, or modify the engines selected for testing and may not perform any emission tests on engines selected for testing pursuant to the test order unless this adjustment, repair, preparation, modification, and/or tests are documented in the manufacturer's engine assembly and inspection procedures and are actually performed or unless these adjustments and/or tests are required or permitted under this subpart or are approved in advance by the Administrator. (2) The Administrator may adjust or cause to be adjusted any engine parameter which the Administrator has determined to be subject to adjustment for certification and Selective Enforcement Audit testing in accordance with §89.108&hyph;96, to any setting within the physically adjustable range of that parameter, as determined by the Administrator in accordance with §89.108&hyph;96, prior to the performance of any tests. However, if the idle speed parameter is one which the Administrator has determined to be subject to adjustment, the Administrator may not adjust it to any setting which causes a lower engine idle speed than would have been possible within the physically adjustable range of the idle speed parameter if the manufacturer had accumulated 125 hours of service on the engine under paragraph (c) of this section, all other parameters being identically adjusted for the purpose of the comparison. The manufacturer may be requested to supply information needed to establish an alternate minimum idle speed. The Administrator, in making or specifying these adjustments, may consider the effect of the deviation from the manufacturer's recommended setting on emission performance characteristics as well as the likelihood that similar settings will occur on in-use engines. In determining likelihood, the Administrator may consider factors such as, but not limited to, the effect of the adjustment on engine performance characteristics and surveillance information from similar in-use engines.
