FR940317-0-00055 FR940317-0-00022 In response to a request by Commission Chairman Arthur Levitt for a recommended ``market-participant sponsored solution'' to the disclosure issues in the municipal securities market, on December 20, 1993, 12 groups and associations representing a broad range of market participants submitted to the Commission a Joint Statement on Improvements in Municipal Securities Market Disclosure (the ``Joint Statement''). 27 The Joint Statement sets forth ``a framework for improving the availability of information in the marketplace'' that calls for both continued market initiatives to improve issuer disclosure and ``support from the SEC and the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board (MSRB).'' 28 Among other things, its participants recommend the adoption of a rule or interpretive guidance restricting underwriting of municipal issues unless continuing information covenants are provided by the issuer. 27 Joint Statement on Improvements in Municipal Securities Market Disclosure (``Joint Statement'') (Dec. 20, 1993) at 1. The Joint Statement was submitted by the American Bankers Association's Corporate Trust Committee, American Public Power Association, Association of Local Housing Finance Agencies, Council of Infrastructure Financing Authorities, Government Finance Officers Association, National Association of Bond Lawyers, National Association of Counties, National Association of State Auditors, Comptrollers and Treasurers, National Association of State Treasurers, National Council of State Housing Agencies, National Federation of Municipal Analysts, and Public Securities Association. 28 Id. III. Primary Offering Disclosure A. Application of the Antifraud Provisions The antifraud provisions of the federal securities laws prohibit fraudulent or deceptive practices in the offer and sale of municipal securities. 29 Disclosure documents used by municipal issuers, such as official statements, are subject to the prohibition against false or misleading statements of material facts, including the omission of material facts necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances in which they are made, not misleading. The adequacy of the disclosure provided in municipal security offering materials is tested against an objective standard: an omitted fact is material if there is a substantial likelihood that, under all the circumstances, the omitted fact would have assumed actual significance in the deliberations of the reasonable [investor]. Put another way, there must be a substantial likelihood that the disclosure of the omitted fact would have been viewed by the reasonable investor as having significantly altered the ``total mix'' of information made available. 30 29 See In re Washington Public Power Supply System Securities Litigation, 623 F. Supp. 1466, 1478 (W.D. Wash. 1985). See also Brown v. City of Covington, 805 F.2d 1266, 1270 (6th Cir. 1986). 30 TSC Industries, Inc. v. Northway, Inc., 426 U.S. 438, 449 (1976). B. Voluntary Guidelines In the primary offering of municipal securities, the extensive voluntary guidelines issued by the Government Finance Officers Association (``GFOA'') have received widespread acceptance and, among a number of larger issuers, have been viewed as ``in essence obligatory rules.'' 31 Other groups, including the National Federation of Municipal Analysts (``NFMA''), have published voluntary disclosure guidelines covering industry specific sectors, including among others, housing, student loans, transportation and health care. 32 In connection with the offering of municipal securities, the GFOA Guidelines call for: 33 31 Letter from Harlan E. Boyles, Treasurer of North Carolina to SEC Chairman Levitt, dated December 7, 1993. See Government Finance Officers Association, Disclosure Guidelines for State and Local Government Securities (Jan. 1991) (``GFOA Guidelines''). 32 See NFMA, Disclosure Handbook for Municipal Securities 1992 Update (Nov. 1992) (``NFMA Handbook''). See also Government Accounting Standards Board, Codification of Government Accounting and Financial Reporting Standards (2d ed. 1987); PSA, Recommendations for a Consistent Presentation of Basic Bond Provisions in Official Statements (Dec. 1989). 33 GFOA Guidelines at xv&hyph;xix (summary). •An introduction to serve as the guide to the official statement; •A description of the securities being offered, including complete information regarding the purposes of the offering, the plan of financing, the security and sources of repayment, and the priority of the securities, as well as structural characteristics, such as call provisions, tender options, original issue or deep discount, variable rates, and lease purchase agreements; •Information regarding the nature and extent of any credit enhancement and financial and business information about the issuer of the enhancement;
