FR940930-0-00142 FR940930-0-00028 EPA must also compare CARB standards to the following federal requirements that apply to CFVs to assess whether ``each of such sets of California standards is, in the aggregate, at least as protective'' as the federal standards: cold CO emissions, evaporative emissions, onboard refueling vapor recovery, on-board diagnostics, total hydrocarbons, and non-methane hydrocarbon standards. These standards are compared individually below. i. Cold CO emissions. The currently waived California program does not have a cold CO standard which corresponds to the federal cold CO standard. It is not yet possible for EPA to consider CARB's cold CO standards in its comparison of the respective mobile source programs since California has not yet requested nor received a waiver. In vehicles using liquid fuel, the difficult process of vaporizing cold liquid fuel for combustion contributes significantly to cold start emissions. Gasoline vehicles are most susceptible to this phenomenon in cold conditions. On July 17, 1992, EPA promulgated a cold CO standard (57 FR 31888, 40 CFR 86.201) in order to control CO emissions from gasoline-powered vehicles when operating in cold temperatures. 12 These regulations became effective for MY 1994. Although these regulations cover only gasoline-fueled vehicles, CAA section 242(b) extends the regulations to all CFVs regardless of fuel type by requiring that CFVs meet all federal requirements of Title II of the CAA that apply to gasoline vehicles of the same category and model year. 12 CAA Section 202(j) contains provisions for cold CO requirements. On January 14, 1993, CARB approved a cold CO standard which became effective in September 1993. CARB's regulations include gasoline-fueled, LPG, and alcohol-fueled vehicles, but do not cover other fuels. EPA is not able at this time to consider the CARB cold CO regulations because CARB has not requested nor received a waiver of federal preemption for its cold CO requirements. ii. Evaporative emissions. The currently waived CARB evaporative emission standards and test procedures are not comparable to the recently promulgated federal evaporative emission standards and test procedures. Current federal regulations for evaporative emissions testing are effective through MY 1995, after which new federal regulations will be phased in. California has two sets of new evaporative emissions regulations: one set will be implemented only for 10 percent of California's MY 1995 vehicles and the second set, which CARB is in the process of finalizing at this time, will be phased in beginning in MY 1996. Indications are that CARB will seek a waiver for their 1996 evaporative emission regulations once they are finalized. EPA cannot yet consider CARB's revised evaporative emission regulations applicable to the 1995 and later model years because CARB has not yet received a waiver for them. iii. Refueling emissions. Based on the currently waived California program, EPA cannot at this time conclude that CARB's refueling emission control regulations are as stringent as the federal onboard refueling vapor recovery (ORVR) standards. The currently waived California Program does not have a mobile source component which addresses refueling emissions. Federal Title II standards for ORVR will be required on certain vehicles beginning in MY 1998 (59 FR 16262; April 6, 1994). 13 CARB, which currently requires the use of Stage II vapor recovery equipment at most service stations in California, has held two workshops to discuss the proper application of refueling control (November 2, 1993 and March 15, 1994). CARB considered three options: adopting the federal ORVR regulations,; adopting a California-specific ORVR rule, test, or standard; or maintaining that California's current motor vehicle control program is, in the aggregate, at least as protective as the federal program notwithstanding the lack of ORVR controls. In a recent CARB mailout (94&hyph;27) dated May 27, 1994, ARB staff announced their proposal to allow the certification of ORVR-equipped vehicles for sale in California. However, the ARB staff did not address the equipped vehicles for sale in California. However, the ARB staff did not address the specific issue of whether ARB will require ORVR controls for certification. California's final determination regarding ORVR control must ultimately be approved by the Air Resources Board. 13 The phase-in schedule requires that ORVR standards apply to 40 percent of each manufacturer's LDV sales volume in MY 1998, 80 percent in 1999, and 100 percent in MY 2000. The same phase-in schedule applies to LDTs up to 8,500 lbs. GVWR but will not begin until MY 2001 for LDTs up to 6,000 lbs. GVWR and in MY 2004 for LDTs between 6,001 and 8,500 lbs. GVWR. The requirements do not apply to vehicles above 8,500 lbs. GVWR. EPA is likely to consider California's lack of an ORVR aspect of its program in the next section 209 waiver proceeding for CARB regulations applicable to model years 1998 and later. EPA will likely decide in that context whether California's motor vehicle program absent ORVR is at least as protective of California as the federal program. iv. Volatile organic compound emissions. EPA and California use different approaches to regulate emissions of volatile organic compounds (VOCs) from vehicles. Therefore, EPA believes it is useful to compare California VOC emission standards to the analogous federal standards on a fuel-by-fuel basis, as presented below. For gasoline- and diesel-fueled vehicles, EPA concludes that the CARB VOC emission standards are individually at least as stringent as the federal standards. However, EPA cannot make this comparison for gaseous and alcohol fuels at this time because CARB has not yet finalized RAFs (reactivity adjustment factors) for these fuels.
