FR940511-0-00061 FR940511-0-00015 Research/Education Protocol Comment: Research results and data should be shared through existing databases with Federal and state agencies and tribes. The sharing of data should be formalized through cooperative agreements. Response: NOAA agrees that research results and data should be shared and will pursue appropriate cooperative agreements to ensure this coordination. Comment: It is unnecessary to severely restrict or eliminate activities such as fishing, commercial vessel activity, dredging and aircraft operation in order to carry out the Sanctuary goals of promoting research and public education. Response: The primary goal of sanctuary designation is the comprehensive long-term protection of marine resources. Some restrictions are necessary to accomplish this goal. Of the above activities, only dredging is being eliminated within the Sanctuary boundary. Research and education provide additional means to promote the goal of marine resource protection. Comment: Geophysical exploration should not be prohibited, as the information gathered from this research can benefit coastal communities and academic institutions. Response: NOAA's emphasis on research within the Sanctuary allows for research which may involve an otherwise prohibited activity (such as alteration of or construction on the seabed) as long as researchers obtain a research permit pursuant to ยง925.9 of the Sanctuary regulations. NOAA will determine the environmental consequences of the proposed research, including short and long term effects on marine biota (such as noise which may interfere with cetacean communication) in deciding whether to issue a permit. Comment: The research program should stress applied research such as research which can facilitate fisheries management, provide information on long-term environmental trends, and provide links between the marine systems and the adjacent terrestrial systems. Providing research results to decision makers at the various governmental levels would be an important link in addressing marine resource problems. Response: NOAA agrees and has clarified this point in the research section of the management plan. Comment: Criteria for acceptable research within the Sanctuary should be established prior to formal designation of the Sanctuary. The criteria should be used in review of research permit applications, and an appeal process should be established in the case of research permit application denial. Response: Research permit applications will be reviewed on a case-by-case basis and evaluated to determine the potential short and long term impacts of the proposed activities. In addition, ยง925.12 of the regulations sets forth the procedures for appealing to the Assistant Administrator the denial of a research permit. Comment: NOAA should conduct research into the effects of fishing activities on the entire marine system. Fish stocks, species abundance, and monitoring information should be presented to the PFMC. Response: The National Ocean Service (which includes the Sanctuaries and Reserves Division) and the NMFS have entered into a Memorandum of Understanding outlining the working relationship between the Sanctuary Program and the NMFS. The PFMC will be involved in this agreement, through its relationship with the NMFS. Research which benefits the overall goal of resource protection is addressed within this agreement by highlighting the need for interagency coordination, research and monitoring. Comment: The benefits of sanctuary designation to the fishing community and others should be clearly articulated. Additionally, connections between the regulations and resource protection should be integrated in the education plan (e.g., establishing warning signs at popular access sites to alert boaters and hikers to the effect of disturbance of pelagic birds and marine mammals.) Response: NOAA agrees and has clarified the education goals in the Sanctuary management plan. NOAA has articulated the benefits of the Sanctuary program for the fishing community. NOAA will coordinate with the USFWS and the NPS to post warning signs around critical marine bird and mammal habitat. Comment: NOAA should provide for increased education and interpretation of the shoreline through a variety of media. Educational materials and outreach programs should be developed by pre-existing facilities and organizations on the Olympic Peninsula. Response: Sanctuary designation will provide for increased education and interpretation of the entire Sanctuary ecosystem. Education materials and outreach programs will be developed in cooperation with existing Federal, tribal, state and local entities. Issue: Informational Amendments of the DEIS/MP Biological Amendments Comment: The discussion of the neretic and shelf edge environments in the DEIS/MP needs to be expanded. The resource assessment must stress the biological richness of the area. Response: The resource assessment describing the ecosystem of the Sanctuary study area has been expanded in the FEIS/MP. Comment: Biological resources need to be discussed in terms of ecosystem interactions and not single species descriptions. Response: NOAA has expanded the discussion to include a description of the study area from an ecosystem perspective.
