FR940217-1-00065 FR940217-1-00013 Potential activities that may affect the salamander and its habitat include (1) urban development over the recharge and contributing zones that may lead to contamination of the species' water supply through one or more accidental contaminant spills or chronic water quality degradation, (2) increased groundwater withdrawal leading to reduced groundwater levels and springflow (compounded if drought occurs), and (3) certain pool maintenance practices or other activities that may impact the salamander and its surface habitat (such as use of chemicals and high pressure hoses in areas occupied by salamanders and removal of substrates used for cover). Federal agency actions that may require conference and/or consultation as described in the preceding paragraph include Army Corps of Engineers involvement in projects such as the construction of roads, bridges, and dredging projects subject to section 404 of the Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. 1344 et seq .) and section 10 of the Rivers and Harbors Act of 1899 (33 U.S.C. 401 et seq .), pipeline projects, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency authorized discharges under the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES), and Soil Conservation Service and U.S. Housing and Urban Development projects. The Act and its implementing regulations found at 50 CFR 17.21 set forth a series of general prohibitions and exceptions that apply to all endangered wildlife. These prohibitions, in part, make it illegal for any person subject to the jurisdiction of the United States to take (includes harass, harm, pursue, hunt, shoot, wound, kill, trap, capture, or collect; or to attempt any of these), import or export, ship in interstate commerce in the course of commercial activity, or sell or offer for sale in interstate or foreign commerce any listed species. It also is illegal to possess, sell, deliver, carry, transport, or ship any such wildlife that has been taken illegally. Certain exceptions apply to agents of the Service and State conservation agencies. Permits may be issued to carry out otherwise prohibited activities involving endangered wildlife species under certain circumstances. Regulations governing permits are codified at 50 CFR 17.22 and 17.23. Such permits are available for scientific purposes, to enhance the propagation or survival of the species, and/or for incidental take in the course of otherwise lawful activities. This species is not in trade, and such permit requests are not expected. Requests for copies of the regulations regarding listed wildlife and inquiries regarding prohibitions and permits may be addressed to the Office of Management Authority, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, room 420C, 4401 N. Fairfax Drive, Arlington, Virginia 22203 (703/358&hyph;2104; FAX 703/358&hyph;2281). Public Comments Solicited The Service intends that any final action resulting from this proposal will be as accurate and as effective as possible. Therefore, comments or suggestions from the public, other concerned governmental agencies, the scientific community, industry, or any other interested party concerning this proposed rule are hereby solicited. Comments particularly are sought concerning: (1) Biological, commercial trade, or other relevant data concerning any threat (or lack thereof) to the Barton Springs salamander; (2) The location of any additional populations of this species and the reasons why any habitat should or should not be determined to be critical habitat as provided by section 4 of the Act; (3) Additional information concerning the range, distribution, and population size of this species; and (4) Current or planned activities in the Barton Springs segment of the Edwards Aquifer, its contributing zone, and the area around Barton Springs and possible impacts on this species resulting from these activities.
