FR940722-0-00121 FR940722-0-00019 133. The definition of a minority or women-owned firm and of a small business are set forth below. 111 To receive a 10 percent bidding credit, a small business must satisfy a gross revenue test. As explained more fully below in the small business definition section, a consortium consisting entirely of small businesses also is eligible for a 10 percent bidding credit even if the combined gross revenues of the consortium exceed the small business gross revenues threshold. In addition, a small business that is owned by women and minorities must satisfy the definition of a business owned by minorities and women as well as the small business definition to receive a 25 percent bidding credit. Finally, a consortium of small firms owned by women and/or minorities is eligible for a 25 percent bidding credit, provided that each member of the consortium meets the definition of a small business and a minority and/or women-owned firm. 111 See infra ¶¶ 172&hyph;192. 134. Unjust Enrichment Applicable to Bidding Credits. To ensure that bidding credits benefit the parties to whom they are directed, we adopt strict repayment penalties. If, within the original term, a licensee applies to assign or transfer control of a license to an entity that is not eligible for as a high a level of bidding credit, then the difference between the bidding credit obtained by the assigning party and the bidding credit for which the acquiring party would qualify must be paid to the U.S. Treasury as a condition of approval of the transfer. For example, an assignment of a license from a small minority-owned firm to a women-owned firm with revenues greater than $40 million would require repayment of 10 percent of the original bid price (25 percent less 15 percent) to the Treasury. A sale to an entity that would not qualify for bidding credits will entail full payment of the bidding credit as a condition of transfer. Small businesses also will be bound by the financial eligibility rules during the entire license term as set forth below. Thus, if after licensing an investor purchases an ``attributable'' interest in the business and, as a result, the gross revenues of the firm exceed the $40 million small business cap, this repayment provision will apply. 112 These repayment provisions apply throughout the original term of the license to help promote the long-term holding of licenses by those parties receiving bidding credits. 112 See infra ¶¶ 158&hyph;168, for a discussion of which investor interests are ``attributable'' for purposes of calculating the gross revenues caps. F. Installment Payments 135. A significant barrier for most businesses small enough to qualify to bid in the entrepreneurs' blocks will be access to adequate private financing to ensure their ability to compete against larger firms in the PCS marketplace. 113 In the Second Report and Order, we concluded that installment payments are an effective means to address the inability of small businesses to obtain financing and will enable these entities to compete more effectively for the auctioned spectrum. We also determined that small businesses eligible for installment payments would only be required to pay half of the down payment (10 percent of the winning bid, as opposed to 20 percent) five days after the auction closes, with the remaining 10 percent payment deferred until five days after grant of the license. Finally, we indicated that installment payments should be made available to small businesses at an interest rate equal to the rate for U.S. Treasury obligations. See Second Report and Order at ¶¶ 236&hyph;240. 113 See e.g., comments of SBA Chief Counsel of Advocacy at 6, 20&hyph;21. NTIA at 27; SBAC Report at 2 (September 15, 1993). 136. In light of the expected substantial capital required to acquire and construct broadband PCS licenses, we conclude that installment payments are an appropriate measure for most businesses that obtain broadband PCS licenses in the entrepreneurs' blocks. By allowing payment in installments, the government is in effect extending credit to licensees, thus reducing the amount of private financing needed prior to and after the auction. Such low cost government financing will promote long-term participation by these businesses, which, because of their smaller size, lack access to sufficient capital to compete effectively with larger PCS licensees. Under the rules we adopt today, installment payments are available to small entities that do not technically qualify as small businesses for purposes of other measures we have adopted, such as bidding credits. We believe, however, that, given the enormous costs of broadband PCS and the likelihood of very large participants in the other blocks, this option is fully consistent with the congressional intent in enacting Section 309(j)(4)(A) to avoid a competitive bidding program that has the effect of favoring incumbent providers of other communications services, with established revenue streams, over smaller entities. 114 114 See H.R. Rep. No. 103&hyph;111 at 255 (Commission has the authority to design alternative payment schedules in order that the auction process does not inadvertently favor only those with ``deep pockets'' over new or small companies).
