FR940110-1-00069 FR940110-1-00006 2. Calculation of AHP Subsidy The Board is considering adopting rules on the calculation of AHP subsidies for subsidized advances and specifically requests comments on the following proposals. Under consideration is whether AHP application approvals should commit to provide a dollar amount of subsidy, or should commit to make a subsidized advance at a specific interest rate. Another possibility is that the Bank can select on a case-by-case basis to do one or the other or both but the choice must be specified in its approval. The rule could require the Bank's AHP implementation plan to describe the Bank's procedures in this area. The Board specifically requests comments as to whether an AHP approval should commit to provide a specific dollar amount of subsidy for a subsidized advance. If interest rates rise after the approval, should the interest rate on the subsidized advance be increased so that the present value of the amount needed to subsidize the reduction in interest rate is equal to the subsidy amount originally approved? Should the applicant be given the option of either reducing the principal amount of the loan and keeping the originally requested interest rate unchanged, or increasing the interest rate on the loan and keeping the principal amount of the loan unchanged? If interest rates fall after the approval, should the specific dollar amount of approved subsidy stay the same, or be adjusted? Alternatively, if the AHP approval commits to make a subsidized loan at a specified interest rate, then a number of issues are raised. First, should the amount of the subsidy to be charged against the AHP fund be calculated at the time the application is approved, or at the time of disbursement. If the calculation is not done at the time the application is approved but is done at the time of funding and interest rates have fallen since the approval, the amount of the subsidy provided to subsidize the advance would decrease and the amount of subsidy charged against the AHP fund would decrease. If the calculation is done at the time of funding and interest rates have risen since the approval, the amount of the subsidy provided to subsidize the advance would increase and the amount of subsidy charged against the AHP fund would increase. If the increase in subsidy is permitted to be charged against the AHP fund, should there be any limits on the amount of increase in subsidy? If the amount that could be charged against the AHP fund could be increased without limit, these charges could reduce the amount of funds available for future cycles of AHP funding. One option would be to put an upper limit, for example a specified number of basis points, as the maximum amount by which additional AHP funds would be provided to cover the interest rate increase. Another option would be to approve the amount of the subsidy as well as the interest rate on the advance at the time the advance is approved and permit the subsidy to be increased up to a specified amount. Another issue is whether funds from future AHP funding cycles should be used to pay for increased subsidies due to interest rate increases. The Board specifically requests comments on these options. The Board is concerned about the calculation of subsidies where non-amortizing subsidized advances are used by members to fund amortizing AHP loans from members to sponsors. Since principal is repaid on a different schedule for amortizing loans than non-amortizing loans, the Banks must adjust their subsidy calculation methodologies to ensure that they have properly adjusted for these differences. As AHP principal is repaid to a member but not repaid to the Bank, the benefit of these subsidized funds may not be passed on to the ultimate borrower, as required in section 10(j)(9)(E) of the Act. See 12 U.S.C. 1430(j)(9)(E). Without proper adjustment for differences in the cash flows for an amortizing loan and an interest-only advance, the amount of subsidy actually received by a project will be less than the amount incurred by the Bank as an AHP expense. The Board specifically requests comments as to whether an amortizing advance structure is required to assure that the subsidy amount incurred by the Bank as an AHP expense matches the amount of the subsidy actually received by a sponsor. In addition, the Board requests comments as to whether there are alternative appropriate methods to deal with the discrepancy in the subsidy amounts where such advances are used to fund amortizing loans. 3. Verification at Initial Disbursement of Subsidized Advances or Direct Subsidies
