FR941028-1-00040 FR941028-1-00006 All comments submitted in response to this notice will be available for public inspection during and after the comment period in rooms 4400 and 4100, respectively, Portals Building, 1250 Maryland Avenue SW., Washington, DC, between the hours of 8:30 a.m. and 4:30 p.m., Monday through Friday of each week except Federal holidays. (Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance Numbers: 84.010, Educationally Deprived Children in Local Educational Agencies; 84.011, Migrant Education Basic State Formula Grant Program; 84.013, Chapter 1 Program for Neglected or Delinquent Children; 84.213, Even Start Program) Dated: October 25, 1994. Thomas W. Payzant, Assistant Secretary for Elementary and Secondary Education. Appendix_Questions for Consideration on Schoolwide Programs and Standards and Assessment Listed below are discussions and related questions for consideration on two Title I provisions_schoolwide programs and standards and assessment_that are required by statute to be addressed during the negotiated rulemaking process. The Assistant Secretary specifically invites comments on these questions but welcomes other comments, as well, including whether regulations are necessary and whether nonregulatory guidance would be helpful. Schoolwide Programs Under section 1114 of Title I, a local educational agency (LEA) may use funds received under Part A of Title I, in combination with other Federal, State, and local funds, to upgrade the entire educational program in schools in which not fewer than 50 percent of the children enrolled are from low-income families or that are located in school attendance areas in which not fewer that 50 percent of the children are from low-income families. (The poverty threshold is 60 percent for the 1995&hyph;96 school year and decreases to 50 percent in subsequent school years.) A schoolwide program school must conduct a comprehensive needs assessment of the performance of all children in the school in relation to the State's content and performance standards and implement schoolwide reform strategies that provide opportunities for all children in the school to meet those standards. _Under section 1114(b)(1)(B)(iv), each school operating a Title I schoolwide program must address the needs of all children in the school, particularly children who are members of the target population of any program included in the schoolwide program, and determine if those needs have been met. What guidance, if any, should the Department provide to ensure that schoolwide program schools develop a comprehensive plan that results in a coherent rather than fragmented instructional program while addressing the needs of specific target populations? _For the Migrant Education Program (MEP), under section 1306(b)(3), a schoolwide program school must address the needs of migratory children, identified through a Statewide migrant comprehensive plan required under section 1306(a), that result from the effects of the children's migratory lifestyle or that are needed to permit them to participate effectively in school. Unlike the Part A program, a State MEP establishes a set of service priorities to govern the expenditure of MEP funds within the State. What guidance, if any, should the Department provide to promote the integration of an SEA's Statewide MEP comprehensive plan and priorities with the overall reform strategies of those schools that operate schoolwide programs? _Section 1114(b)(1)(H) requires a schoolwide program to ensure that students experiencing difficulty mastering any of the standards required by section 1111(b) during the course of the school year are provided with effective, timely additional assistance. What guidance, if any, should the Department provide regarding this provision? _The provision for schoolwide programs is predicated on the assumption that a well-coordinated, comprehensive schoolwide program that combines all available Federal resources to improve the effectiveness of the entire instructional program in the school will help all at-risk students in the school reach the State's challenging academic content and performance standards better than fragmented, categorical programs aimed at specific target populations. Thus, section 1114(a)(4)(A) authorizes the Secretary, through publication of a notice in the Federal Register , to exempt schoolwide programs from statutory or regulatory provisions of any noncompetitive, formula grant program or any discretionary grant program administered by the Department (with the exception of grant funds allocated under the Individuals with Disabilities Act), if the intent and purposes of such other programs are met. If clarification is necessary, how should the Department clarify how the ``intent and purposes'' of exempted programs can be met? _Section 1114(a)(4)(B) specifies that the Secretary may not relieve schoolwide programs from certain requirements, including requirements relating to student and parental participation and involvement.
