FR940719-2-00085 FR940719-2-00052 What approaches have been proposed or tried to integrate acute and long-term care for children with disabilities? What features must be present in an integrated approach? What are the impacts of varying approaches to managed care and of state Medicaid reform efforts and other state health reform initiatives on children with disabilities? What other systems have been put together by states, localities, or private sector entities to serve children with disabilities in a comprehensive manner? What are their outcomes and costs? Part III. Organization of Applications_Outline of Narrative Description All applications must contain the required Federal forms and a narrative description of proposed project. All pages of the narrative should be numbered consecutively. Applications should be limited to 30 single-spaced typed pages, exclusive of forms, resumes, and budget. Each applicant must present their responses to one or more questions in the Issue Area(s) which they have selected for research. (See part II (A) through (F) and indicate how they fulfill the following requirements). Applications should be assembled as follows: A. Abstract Provide a one-page summary of the proposed project. B. Goals, Objectives, and Potential Usefulness of the Project Include an overview which describes the need for the proposed project; indicates the background and significance of the issue area(s) to be researched including a critique of related studies; the specific questions to be investigated; and describes how the proposed project will advance scientific knowledge and policy development in the area of children's disability. C. Methodology and Design Provide a description and justification of how the proposed research project will be implemented, including methodologies, approach to be taken, data sources to be used, and proposed research and analytic plans. Identify any theoretical or empirical basis for the methodology and approach proposed. D. Experience of Personnel/Organizational Capacity Briefly describe the applicant's organizational capabilities and experience in conducting pertinent research projects. Identify the key staff who are expected to carry out the research project and provide a curriculum vitae for each person. Provide a discussion of how key staff will contribute to the success of the project. E. Budget Submit a request for Federal funds using Standard Form 424A and provide a proposed budget using the categories listed on this form. Part IV. Receipt and Processing of Applications A. Deadline for Submitting of Applications The closing date for submittal of applications is July 18, 1994. Applications must be postmarked or hand-delivered to the application receipt point no later than 5 p.m. on the closing date. Applications which do not meet the deadline are disqualified and will not be considered further. DHHS will send a letter to this effect to each late applicant. An application will be considered as meeting the deadline if it is either: (1) Received at, or hand-delivered to, the mailing address on or before the due date, or (2) postmarked before midnight of the deadline date and received in time to be considered during the competitive review process. Hand-delivered applications will be accepted Monday through Friday, excluding Federal holidays during the working hours of 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. in the lobby of the Hubert H. Humphrey building located at 200 Independence Avenue SW., in Washington, DC. No faxes will be accepted. When hand-delivering an application, call 690&hyph;8794 from the lobby for pick up. A staff person will be available to receive applications. When mailing applications, applicants are strongly advised to obtain a legibly dated receipt from a commercial carrier (such as UPS, Federal Express, etc.) or from the U.S. Postal service as proof of mailing by the deadline date. If there is a question as to when an application was mailed, applicants will be asked to provide proof of mailing by the deadline date. When proof is not provided, an application will not be considered for funding. Private metered postmarks are not acceptable as proof of timely mailing.
