FR940223-2-00182 FR940223-2-00098 16. The responsible Secretary shall serve Proprietary Information Access Orders granted to members of a committee, assistants to committee members, court reporters, interpreters or translators, and any amendments or modifications thereto or notices of revocation thereof, on all participants other than the investigating authority. 17. (1) A counsel of record, or a professional retained by, or under the control or direction of, a counsel of record, who has not been issued a Proprietary Information Access Order in the panel review or in these proceedings and who wishes disclosure of proprietary information in the file of an extraordinary challenge proceeding, shall file a Proprietary Information Access Application, as follows: (a) with the responsible Secretariat, four copies; and (b) with the investigating authority, one original and any additional copies that the investigating authority requires. (2) A Proprietary Information Access Application referred to in subrule (1) shall be served on all participants. (3) The investigating authority shall, within 10 days after a Proprietary Information Access Application is filed with it in accordance with subrule (1), serve on the person who filed the Proprietary Information Access Application (a) a Proprietary Information Access Order; or (b) a notification in writing setting out the reasons why a Proprietary Information Access Order is not issued. 18. (1) Where (a) an investigating authority refuses to issue a Proprietary Information Access Order to a counsel of record or to a professional retained by, or under the control or direction of, a counsel of record, or (b) an investigating authority issues a Proprietary Information Access Order with terms unacceptable to a counsel of record, the counsel of record may file with the responsible Secretariat a Notice of Motion requesting that the committee review the decision of the investigating authority. (2) Where, after consideration of any response made by the investigating authority referred to in subrule (1), the committee decides that a Proprietary Information Access Order should be issued or that the terms of a Proprietary Information Access Order should be amended or modified, the committee shall so notify counsel for the investigating authority. (3) Where the final determination was made in the United States and the investigating authority fails to comply with the notification referred to in subrule (2), the committee may issue such orders as are just in the circumstances, including an order refusing to permit the investigating authority to make certain arguments in support of its case or striking certain arguments from its pleadings. 19. (1) Where a Proprietary Information Access Order is issued to a person in an extraordinary challenge proceeding, the person shall file with the responsible Secretariat a copy of the Proprietary Information Access Order. (2) Where a Proprietary Information Access Order is revoked, amended or modified by an investigating authority, the investigating authority shall provide to the responsible Secretariat and to all participants a copy of the Notice of Revocation, amendment or modification. 20. In an extraordinary challenge proceeding that commences with a Request for an Extraordinary Challenge Committee pursuant to Article 1904.13(a)(i) of the Agreement, personal information shall be kept confidential (a) where a Notice of Motion is filed pursuant to subrule 41(1)(c), (i) until the committee makes an order referred to in subrule 45(1)(a), or (ii) where the committee makes an order referred to in subrule 45(1)(b), indefinitely, unless otherwise ordered by the committee; and (b) in any other case, until the day after the expiration of the time period fixed, pursuant to rule 41, for filing a Notice of Motion referred to in subrule 41(1)(c). 21. Where a person alleges that the terms of a Proprietary Information Access Application or Proprietary Information Access Order have been violated, the committee shall refer the allegations to the investigating authority for investigation and, where applicable, the imposition of sanctions in accordance with section 77.034 of the Special Import Measures Act, as amended, section 777(f) of the Tariff Act of 1930, as amended, or article 93 of the Ley de Comercio Exterior. Violation of Code of Conduct 22. Where a participant believes that a committee member or an assistant to a committee member is in violation of the Code of Conduct, the participant shall forthwith notify the responsible Secretary in writing of the alleged violation. The responsible Secretary shall promptly notify the other involved Secretary and the involved Parties of the allegations. Pleadings and Simultaneous Translation of Extraordinary Challenge Proceedings in Canada 23. Rules 24 to 26 apply with respect to an extraordinary challenge of a panel review of a final determination made in Canada. 24. Either English or French may be used by any person, panelist or member of a committee in any document or oral proceeding. 25. (1) Subject to subrule (2), any order or decision including the reasons therefor, issued by a committee shall be made available simultaneously in both English and French where (a) In the opinion of the committee, the order or decision is in respect of a question of law of general public interest or importance; or
