FR940224-2-00066 FR940224-2-00040 The Board believes that collateral and pricing serve two related but separate purposes. Although collateral limits Reserve Bank risk, its purpose is to make discount window loans to book-entry securities overdrafters feasible during periods of operational difficulty. The daylight overdraft penalty fee is designed to create economic incentives to eliminate the use of daylight credit by institutions without regular discount window access. Their lack of access to the discount window suggests that Edge corporations should be subject to the same policy as bankers' banks that do not maintain reserves. The policy statement notes that the parent of an Edge or agreement corporation could fund its subsidiary during the day over Fedwire and/or the parent could substitute itself for its subsidiary on private networks. Such an approach by the parent could both reduce systemic risk exposure and permit the Edge or agreement corporation to continue to service its customers. Competitive Impact Analysis The Board assesses the competitive impact of changes that have a substantial effect on payments system participants. 7 Under this analysis, the Board determines whether the change would have a direct and material adverse effect on the ability of other service providers to compete effectively with the Federal Reserve in providing similar services. 7 These assessment procedures are described in the Board's policy statement entitled ``The Federal Reserve in the Payments System'' (55 FR 11648, March 29, 1990). Many corporate credit unions have argued that the daylight overdraft penalty fee would put them at a competitive disadvantage vis-a-vis other payments system participants, particularly in book-entry security settlement and safekeeping services. These commenters asserted that daylight overdraft penalty fees would drive corporate credit unions out of the securities services and would force credit unions to do business with other service providers. Such other service providers could be private institutions, such as commercial banks, or credit unions could choose to establish accounts directly with a Federal Reserve Bank. The Board does not believe that its policy adversely affects the ability of corporate credit unions to compete with the Reserve Banks in providing payments services. The policy places controls on the use of the Federal Reserve Banks' funds and book-entry transfer services, which are consistent with controls used in private clearing and settlement systems. Corporate credit unions have the ability to establish caps and collateralize book-entry securities overdrafts if they voluntarily maintain reserves, as commercial banks are required to do. By voluntarily maintaining reserves, the corporate credit unions would avoid the penalty fees that, according to their comments, would cause their customer credit unions to go to the Reserve Banks or elsewhere for payments services. In addition, the penalty rate adopted by the Board is significantly lower than the rates proposed in 1990 and 1993 and will result in a lower cost burden on corporate credit unions vis-a-vis their competitors. Policy Statement The Board has adopted the following to replace part (I)(D)(4) of its ``Federal Reserve System Policy Statement on Payments System Risk'' under the headings ``I. Federal Reserve Policy'', ``D. Net Debit Caps'', and ``4. Special Situations,'' effective April 14, 1994: 4. Special Situations. Special risks are presented by the participation on Fedwire of Edge and agreement corporations, bankers' banks that are not subject to reserve requirements, limited-purpose trust companies, and institutions that have been assigned a cap of zero by their Reserve Banks. Most of these institutions lack regular discount window access. In developing its policy for these institutions, the Board has sought to balance the goal of reducing and managing risk in the payments system, including risk to the Federal Reserve, with that of minimizing the adverse effects on the payments operations of these institutions. Regular access to the Federal Reserve discount window generally is available to institutions that are subject to reserve requirements. If an institution that is not subject to reserve requirements and thus does not have regular discount window access were to incur a daylight overdraft, the Federal Reserve may face the necessity of extending overnight credit to that institution if the daylight overdraft is not covered by the end of the business day. This credit would be contrary to the quid pro quo of reserves for discount window access established in the Federal Reserve Act and Board regulations. In addition, the Board expects that assessing a fee for daylight overdrafts could lead to an intraday funds market, similar to the current overnight funds market. As daylight credit begins to have significant value, daylight overdrafts in accounts at the Federal Reserve will begin to appear more and more like overnight extensions of credit by Reserve Banks. Thus, institutions that do not have regular access to the discount window should not incur either overnight overdrafts or daylight overdrafts in their Federal Reserve accounts.
