FR940610-1-00045 FR940610-1-00007 (C) An ordinary remainder or reversionary interest is the right to receive an interest in property at the end of one or more measuring lives or for some other defined period. A standard section 7520 remainder factor for an ordinary remainder or reversionary interest represents the present worth of the right to receive $1.00 at the end of a defined period, using the interest rate prescribed under section 7520 for the appropriate month. (ii) Certain restricted beneficial interests. A restricted beneficial interest is an annuity, income, remainder, or reversionary interest that is subject to any contingency, power, or other restriction, whether the restriction is provided for by the terms of the trust, will, or other governing instrument or is caused by other circumstances. In general, a standard section 7520 annuity, income, or remainder factor may not be used to value a restricted beneficial interest. However, a special section 7520 annuity, income, or remainder factor may be used to value a restricted beneficial interest under some circumstances. See Examples 3 , 4 , and 5 in §25.7520&hyph;3(b)(2)(iv) and the Example in §25.7520&hyph;3(b)(4), which illustrate situations in which special section 7520 actuarial factors are needed to take into account limitations on beneficial interests. See §25.7520&hyph;1(c) for requesting a special factor from the Internal Revenue Service. (iii) Other beneficial interests. If, under the provisions of §25.7520&hyph;3(b), the interest rate and mortality components prescribed under section 7520 are not applicable in determining the value of any annuity, income, remainder, or reversionary interest, the actual fair market value of the interest (determined without regard to section 7520) is based on all of the facts and circumstances if and to the extent permitted by the Internal Revenue Code provision applicable to the property interest. (2) Provisions of governing instrument and other limitations on source of payment _(i) Annuities . A standard section 7520 annuity factor is not to be used to determine the present value of an annuity for a specified term of years or the life of one or more individuals unless the effect of the trust, will, or other governing instrument is to ensure that the annuity will be paid for the entire defined period. In the case of an annuity payable from a trust or other limited fund, the annuity is not considered payable for the entire defined period if, considering the applicable section 7520 interest rate, the annuity is expected to exhaust the fund before the last possible annuity payment is made in full. For this purpose, it must be assumed that it is possible for each measuring life to survive until age 110, because every standard section 7520 annuity factor is calculated on the basis of that assumption. If it is determined that the trust or other fund from which an annuity is to be paid may exhaust before the end of the defined period of the annuity, it will be necessary to calculate a special section 7520 annuity factor that takes into account the facts and circumstances that may exhaust the trust or fund. (ii) Income and similar interests _(A) Beneficial enjoyment. A standard section 7520 income factor for an ordinary income interest is not to be used to determine the present value of an income or similar interest in trust for a term of years, or for the life of one or more individuals, unless the effect of the trust, will, or other governing instrument is to provide the income beneficiary with that degree of beneficial enjoyment of the property during the term of the income interest that the principles of the law of trusts accord to a person who is unqualifiedly designated as the income beneficiary of a trust for a similar period of time. This degree of beneficial enjoyment is provided only if it was the transferor's intent, as manifested by the provisions of the governing instrument and the surrounding circumstances, that the trust provide an income interest for the income beneficiary during the specified period of time that is consistent with the value of the trust corpus and with its preservation. In determining whether a trust arrangement evidences that intention, the treatment required or permitted with respect to individual items must be considered in relation to the entire system provided for in the administration of the subject trust. Similarly, in determining the present value of the right to use tangible property (whether or not in trust) for one or more measuring lives or other specified period of time, the interest rate component prescribed under section 7520 and §25.7520&hyph;1 is not to be used unless, during the specified period, the beneficiary is entitled to that degree of use, possession, and enjoyment of the property that an outright owner would be entitled to exercise during a similar period of time. (B) Diversions of income and corpus. A standard section 7520 income factor for an ordinary income interest is not to be used to value an income interest or similar interest in property for a term of years, or for one or more measuring lives, if_ ( 1 ) The trust, will, or other governing instrument requires or permits the beneficiary's income or other enjoyment to be withheld, diverted, or accumulated for another person's benefit without the consent of the income beneficiary; or
