FR940728-2-00145 FR940728-2-00106 Thursday July 28, 1994 Part IV Department of Education Educational Media Research, Production, Distribution, and Training Program; Notice Federal Register ␣/␣Vol. 59, No. 144␣/␣Thursday, July 28, 1994␣/␣Notices DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION Educational Media Research, Production, Distribution, and Training Program AGENCY: Department of Education. ACTION: Notice of Proposed Funding Priorities. SUMMARY: The Secretary proposes priorities under the Educational Media Research, Production, Distribution, and Training Program. The Secretary takes this action to focus Federal financial assistance on those areas of greatest need. These priorities are intended to ensure the continued availability of closed-captioned daytime television programming, provide cultural experiences to deaf and hard of hearing individuals, continue to provide educational books on audiotapes to people who are visually or print disabled, continue the operation of the captioned films/video distribution system, and support video description of national television programming. DATES: Comments must be received on or before August 29, 1994. ADDRESSES: All comments concerning these proposed priorities should be addressed to Ernest E. Hairston, U.S. Department of Education, 400 Maryland Avenue, SW., Room 4629, Switzer Building, Washington, DC 20202&hyph;2731. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Ernest E. Hairston Telephone: (202) 205&hyph;9172; Users of telecommunications devices for the deaf (TDDs) may call (202) 205&hyph;8169; or the Federal Information Relay Service (FIRS) at 1&hyph;800&hyph;877&hyph;8339 between 8 a.m. and 8 p.m., Eastern time, Monday through Friday. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: This notice contains five proposed priorities under the Educational Media Research, Production, Distribution, and Training Program authorized under Part F of the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA). The purposes of the program are to promote the general welfare of deaf and hard of hearing individuals and individuals with visual impairments, and to promote the educational advancement of individuals with disabilities. The priorities proposed in this notice would ensure the continued availability of closed-captioned daytime television programming. In addition, the proposed priorities would support activities that provide cultural experiences to enrich the lives of deaf and hard of hearing individuals, including children and youth, as well as adults. The proposed priorities would provide educational reading materials and textbooks on audiotape to persons who are visually or print disabled. Additional proposed priorities would support a captioned films/videos distribution system to provide hearing impaired and other qualified individuals with access to captioned educational and general interest films and videos on a nonprofit free loan basis, and video description of national television programming in order to make television more accessible to persons with visual impairments. This program supports the National Education Goals by assisting those with disabilities in school readiness and adult literacy. The Secretary will announce the final priorities in a notice in the Federal Register . The final priorities will be determined by comments received in response to this notice, available funds, and other considerations of the Department. Funding of particular projects depends on the availability of funds, the content of the final priorities, and the quality of the applications received. The publication of these proposed priorities does not preclude the Secretary from proposing additional priorities, nor does it limit the Secretary to funding only these priorities, subject to meeting applicable rulemaking requirements. Note: This notice of proposed priorities does not solicit applications. A notice inviting applications under these competitions will be published in the Federal Register concurrent with or following publication of the notice of final priorities. Priorities Under 34 CFR 75.105(c)(3) the Secretary proposes to give an absolute preference to applications that meet the following priorities. The Secretary proposes to fund under these competitions only those applications that meet these absolute priorities:
