FR940627-2-00148 FR940627-2-00065 Applicable Regulations The Education Department General Administrative Regulations (EDGAR) as follows: (1) 34 CFR Part 74 (Administration of Grants to Institutions of Higher Education, Hospitals, and Nonprofit Organizations). (2) 34 CFR Part 75 (Direct Grant Programs). (3) 34 CFR Part 77 (Definitions that Apply to Department Regulations). (4) 34 CFR Part 79 (Intergovernmental Review of Department of Education Programs and Activities). (5) 34 CFR Part 82 (New Restrictions on Lobbying). (6) 34 CFR Part 85 (Governmentwide Debarment and Suspension (Nonprocurement) and Governmentwide Requirements for Drug-Free Workplace (Grants)). (7) 34 CFR Part 86 (Drug-Free Schools and Campuses). Description of Program: The Secretary shall only award grants to support centers that (1) receive more than 50 percent of their funding from public or private United States sources; (2) have a permanent presence in the country in which the center is located; and (3) are organizations described in section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, which are exempt from taxation under section 501(a) of the Code. Grants may be used to pay all or a portion of the cost of establishing or operating a center or program, including the cost of faculty and staff stipends and salaries, faculty, staff and student travel, the operation and maintenance of overseas facilities, the cost of teaching and research materials, the cost of acquisition, maintenance and preservation of library collections, the cost of bringing visiting scholars and faculty to a center to teach or to conduct research, the cost of organizing and managing conferences, and the cost of publication and dissemination of material for the scholarly and general public. Selection Criteria (a) (1) The Secretary uses the following selection criteria to evaluate applications for new grants under this competition. (2) The maximum score for all of these criteria is 100 points. (3) The maximum score for each criterion is indicated in parentheses. The regulations in 34 CFR 75.210 (a) and (c) provide that the Secretary may award up to 100 points for the selection criteria, including distribution of an additional 15 points. For this competition, the Secretary distributes the 15 additional points as follows: 3 points to selection criterion 34 CFR 75.210(b)(4) (Quality of key personnel) for a possible total of 10 points; 10 points to selection criterion 34 CFR 75.210(b)(5) (Budget and cost effectiveness) for a possible total of 15 points; and 2 points to selection criterion 34 CFR 75.210(b)(7) (Adequacy of resources) for a possible total of five points. (b) The criteria _(1) Meeting the purposes of the authorizing statute. (30 points) The Secretary reviews each application to determine how well the project will meet the purpose of the American Overseas Research Centers program, including consideration of_ (i) The objectives of the project; and (ii) How the objectives of the project further the purposes of the American Overseas Research Centers program. (2) Extent of need for the project. (20 points) The Secretary reviews each application to determine the extent to which the project meets specific needs recognized in Title VI of the Higher Education Act of 1965, as amended, including consideration of_ (i) The needs addressed by the project; (ii) How the applicant identified those needs; (iii) How those needs will be met by the project; and (iv) The benefits to be gained by meeting those needs. (3) Plan of operation. (15 points) The Secretary reviews each application to determine the quality of the plan of operation for the project, including_ (i) The quality of the design of the project; (ii) The extent to which the plan of management is effective and ensures proper and efficient administration of the project; (iii) How well the objectives of the project relate to the purpose of the program; (iv) The quality of the applicant's plan to use its resources and personnel to achieve each objective; (v) How the applicant will ensure that project participants who are otherwise eligible to participate are selected without regard to race, color, national origin, gender, age, or handicapping condition; and (4) Quality of key personnel. (10 points) (i) The Secretary reviews each application to determine the quality of key personnel the applicant plans to use on the project, including_ (A) The qualifications of the project director (if one is to be used); (B) The qualifications of each of the other key personnel to be used in the project; (C) The time that each person referred to in paragraphs (b)(4)(i) (A) and (B) will commit to the project; and (D) How the applicant, as part of its nondiscriminatory employment practices, will ensure that its personnel are selected for employment without regard to race, color, national origin, gender, age, or handicapping condition. (ii) To determine personnel qualifications under paragraphs (b)(4)(i) (A) and (B), the Secretary considers_ (A) Experience and training in fields related to the objectives of the project; and (B) Any other qualifications that pertain to the quality of the project. (5) Budget and cost effectiveness. (15 points) The Secretary reviews each application to determine the extent to which_
