FR940920-1-00098 FR940920-1-00008 Another potential regulatory approach to assure optimal performance would be to supplement the current emission guidelines (which must be demonstrated by annual stack tests) with more stringent emission guidelines calculated for each pollutant based on long-term average emission levels. Compliance with this supplemental emission level would be determined by continuous monitoring, where applicable, or by the average of the annual tests from the current year and one or more preceding years. The current guideline emission levels account for variability from one emissions test to another, whereas the composite average emission levels would reflect the mean performance level. This may be a preferable measure of environmental performance for some of the pollutants because it is their long term or cumulative emissions that are of most concern. Other formats of the guidelines that encourage optimal performance would also be possible. Comments and suggestions are requested. Based on the information and comments received, the EPA may change the form of the rule to include a long term emissions average, and alternative compliance testing schedule, or other alternative format to encourage optimal performance of the air pollution control system. Additionally, the EPA requests comment and suggestions on specific work practice requirements or equipment requirements that would assure optimal operation of the air pollution control system and minimize emissions. Such operating practices or equipment practices would be most beneficial for minimizing emissions of those pollutants for which annual stack testing is the proposed compliance test method. Comments are specifically requested on work practices or equipment requirements that would minimize dioxin/furan, Hg, Cd, and PM emissions. Based on the information received, the EPA may require specific work practices or equipment to supplement the emission limits included in the final guidelines. H. Performance Test Methods and Monitoring Requirements The emission guidelines promulgated on February 11, 1991 (56 FR 5514) for MWC's with unit capacities above 225 Mg/day established performance testing and monitoring requirements for MWC acid gases (SO 2 and HCl), MWC metals (PM and opacity), MWC organics (dioxins/furans), and MWC operating practices (CO, load, and flue gas temperature). These same requirements would be adopted under today's proposed emission guidelines, except that: (1) Procedures are being proposed for determining dioxin/furan emissions on a TEQ basis; (2) testing schedule provisions have been incorporated for annual compliance testing for PM (opacity not included), HCl, and dioxins/furans at small MWC plants; and (3) annual opacity tests using EPA Reference Method 9 (in combination with continuous monitoring of opacity levels) would be required for both large and small MWC plants. Furthermore, today's proposal includes new data availability requirements for CEMS. Today's proposal requires that valid paired CEMS hourly averages (i.e., SO 2 and O 2 (or CO 2 ), NO X and O 2 (or CO 2 ), and CO and O 2 (or CO 2 )) be obtained for 75 percent of the hours per day for 90 percent of the days per calendar quarter that the MWC is operating and combusting MSW.
