FR940805-2-00077 FR940805-2-00044 MRI can assist in the differential diagnosis of mediastinal and retroperitoneal masses, including abnormalities of the large vessels such as aneurysms and dissection. When a clinical need exists to visualize the parenchyma of solid organs to detect anatomic disruption or neoplasia, this can be accomplished in the liver, urogenital system, adrenals, and pelvic organs without the use of radiological contrast materials. When MRI is considered reasonable and necessary, the use of paramagnetic contrast materials may be covered as part of the study. MRI may also be used to detect and stage pelvic and retroperitoneal neoplasms and to evaluate disorders of cancellous bone and soft tissues. It may also be used in the detection of pericardial thickening. Primary and secondary bone neoplasm and aseptic necrosis can be detected at an early stage and monitored with MRI. Patients with metallic prostheses, especially of the hip, can be imaged in order to detect the early stages of infection of the bone to which the prothesis is attached. Effective for services provided on or after 03/22/94 MRI may also be covered to diagnose disc disease without regard to whether radiological imaging has been tried first to diagnose the problem. C. Gating Devices and Surface Coils (Effective for Services On or After 3/04/91)._Gating devices which eliminate distorted images caused by cardiac and respiratory movement cycles are now considered state of the art techniques and may be covered. Surface and other specialty coils may also be covered, as they are used routinely for high resolution imaging where small limited regions of the body are studied. They produce high signal-to-noise ratios resulting in images of enhanced anatomic detail. D. Contraindications and Non-Covered Uses._ 1. Contraindications._MRI is not covered when the following patient-specific contraindications are present. It is not covered for patients with cardiac pacemakers or with metallic clips on vascular aneurysms. MRI during a viable pregnancy is also contraindicated at this time. The danger inherent in bringing ferromagnetic materials within range of MRI units generally constrains the use of MRI on acutely ill patients requiring life support systems and monitoring devices which employ ferromagnetic materials. In addition, the long imaging time and the enclosed position of the patient may result in claustrophobia, making patients who have a history of claustrophobia unsuitable candidates for MRI procedures. 2. Non-Covered Uses._Several uses of MRI have been identified as investigational and are not covered. These include measurement of blood flow and spectroscopy. In addition, MRI is not suitable for the imaging of cortical bone and calcifications and for procedures involving spatial resolution of bone or calcifications. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;19111 Filed 8&hyph;4&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4120&hyph;01&hyph;P
