FR941031-2-00004 FR941031-2-00003 Opportunity for Designation in the Detroit (MI), Keokuk (IA), and Michigan (MI) Areas AGENCY: Federal Grain Inspection Service (FGIS). ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: The United States Grain Standards Act, as amended (Act), provides that official agency designations shall end not later than triennially and may be renewed. The designations of Detroit Grain Inspection Service, Inc. (Detroit), Keokuk Grain Inspection Service (Keokuk), and Michigan Grain Inspection Services, Inc. (Michigan), will end April 30, 1995, according to the Act, and FGIS is asking persons interested in providing official services in the specified geographic areas to submit an application for designation. DATES: Applications must be postmarked or sent by telecopier (FAX) on or before November 30, 1994. ADDRESSES: Applications must be submitted to Janet M. Hart, Chief, Review Branch, Compliance Division, FGIS, USDA, Room 1647 South Building, P.O. Box 96454, Washington, DC 20090&hyph;6454. Telecopier (FAX) users may send applications to the automatic telecopier machine at 202&hyph;720&hyph;1015, attention: Janet M. Hart. If an application is submitted by telecopier, FGIS reserves the right to request an original application. All applications will be made available for public inspection at this address located at 1400 Independence Avenue, S.W., during regular business hours. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Janet M. Hart, telephone 202&hyph;720&hyph;8525. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: This action has been reviewed and determined not to be a rule or regulation as defined in Executive Order 12866 and Departmental Regulation 1512&hyph;1; therefore, the Executive Order and Departmental Regulation do not apply to this action. Section 7(f)(1) of the Act authorizes FGIS' Administrator to designate a qualified applicant to provide official services in a specified area after determining that the applicant is better able than any other applicant to provide such official services. FGIS designated Detroit, main office located in Emmett, Michigan; Keokuk, main office located in Keokuk, Iowa; and Michigan, main office located in Marshall, Michigan, to provide official inspection services under the Act on May 1, 1992. Section 7(g)(1) of the Act provides that designations of official agencies shall end not later than triennially and may be renewed according to the criteria and procedures prescribed in Section 7(f) of the Act. The designations of Detroit, Keokuk, and Michigan end on April 30, 1995. The geographic area presently assigned to Detroit, pursuant to Section 7(f)(2) of the Act, which will be assigned to the applicant selected for designation is as follows: Bounded on the West by U.S. Route 127 north to U.S. Route 27; U.S. Route 27 north to the northern Clinton County line; Bounded on the North by the northern Clinton County line; the eastern Clinton County line south to State Route 21; State Route 21 east to State Route 52; State Route 52 north to the Shiawassee County line; the northern Shiawassee County line east to the Genesee County line; the western Genesee County line; the northern Genesee County line east to State Route 15; State Route 15 north to Barnes Road; Barnes Road east to Sheridan Road; Sheridan Road north to State Route 46; State Route 46 east to State Route 53; State Route 53 north to the Michigan State line; Bounded on the East by the Michigan State line south to State Route 50; and Bounded on the South by State Route 50 west to U.S. Route 127. The following location, outside of the above contiguous geographic area, is part of this geographic area assignment: Countrymark Cooperative, Inc., St. Johns, Clinton County (located inside Michigan Grain Inspection Services, Inc.'s, area). The geographic area presently assigned to Keokuk, pursuant to Section 7(f)(2) of the Act, which will be assigned to the applicant selected for designation is as follows: Fulton, Hancock, Mason, and McDonough Counties, Illinois. Davis, Lee, and Van Buren Counties, Iowa. The following locations, all in Illinois, outside of the above contiguous geographic area, are part of this geographic area assignment: Ursa Farmers Co-op, Meyer, and Ursa Farmers Co-op, Ursa, both in Adams County (located inside Quincy Grain Inspection & Weighing Service's area). The geographic area presently assigned to Michigan, pursuant to Section 7(f)(2) of the Act, which will be assigned to the applicant selected for designation is as follows: Bounded on the North by the northern and eastern Mason and Newago County lines; the northern Montcalm County line; the western, northern, and eastern Isabella County lines; the northern Gratiot and Saginaw County lines; the western Bay County line; the western and northern Arenac County lines; the western and northern Iosco County lines; Bounded on the East by the Lake Huron and Saginaw Bay shorelines south and east to State Route 53; State Route 53 south to State Route 46; Bounded on the South by State Route 46 west to Sheridan Road; Sheridan Road south to Barnes Road; Barnes Road west to State Route 15; State Route 15 south to the Genesee County line; the northern Genesee County line west to the Shiawassee County line; the northern Shiawassee County line west to State Route 52; State Route 52 south to State Route 21; State Route 21 west to Clinton County; the eastern and northern Clinton County lines west to U.S. Route 27; U.S. Route 27 south to U.S. Route 127; U.S. Route 127 south to the southern Hillsdale County line; the southern Hillsdale and Branch County lines; the western Branch County line north to the Kalamazoo County line; the southern Kalamazoo and Van Buren County lines; and Bounded on the West by the Lake Michigan shoreline north to the northern Mason County line. An exception to Michigan's assigned geographic area is the following location inside Michigan's area which has been and will continue to be serviced by the following official agency: Detroit Grain Inspection Service, Inc.: Countrymark Cooperative, Inc., St. Johns, Clinton County. Interested persons, including Detroit, Keokuk, and Michigan are hereby given the opportunity to apply for designation to provide official services in the geographic areas specified above under the provisions of Section 7(f) of the Act and section 800.196(d) of the regulations issued thereunder. Designation in the specified geographic areas is for the period beginning May 1, 1995, and ending April 30, 1998. Persons wishing to apply for designation should contact the Compliance Division at the address listed above for forms and information. Applications and other available information will be considered in determining which applicant will be designated. Authority: Pub. L. 94&hyph;582, 90 Stat. 2867, as amended (7 U.S.C. 71 et seq. ). Dated: October 24, 1994. Neil E. Porter, Director, Compliance Division. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;26903 Filed 10&hyph;28&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3410&hyph;EN&hyph;F
