FR940413-1-00009 FR940413-1-00004 NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION 10 CFR Part 50 [Docket No. PRM&hyph;50&hyph;60] Virginia Power; Filing of Petition for Rulemaking AGENCY: Nuclear Regulatory Commission. ACTION: Notice of receipt of petition for rulemaking. SUMMARY: The Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) is publishing for public comment a notice of receipt of petition for rulemaking dated December 30, 1993, which was filed with the Commission by Virginia Power. The petition was assigned Docket No. PRM&hyph;50&hyph;60 on January 19, 1994. The petitioner requests that the Commission amend its emergency preparedness requirements to change the frequency with which each licensee conducts independent reviews of its emergency preparedness program from annually to biennially. DATES: Submit comments June 27, 1994. Comments received after this date will be considered if it is practical to do so, but assurance of consideration cannot be given except as to comments received on or before this date. ADDRESSES: Submit comments to the Secretary, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Attention: Docketing and Service Branch, Washington, DC 20555. For a copy of the petition, write to the Rules Review Section, Rules Review and Directives Branch, Division of Freedom of Information and Publications Services, Office of Administration, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Michael T. Lesar, Chief, Rules Review Section, Rules Review and Directives Branch, Division of Freedom of Information and Publications Services, Office of Administration, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555, Telephone: 301&hyph;492&hyph;7758 or Toll Free: 800&hyph;368&hyph;5642. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background The Commission's regulations currently require that each licensee conduct an independent audit of its emergency preparedness program by personnel who have no direct responsibility for the subject areas at least every 12 months. Petitioner's Request Virginia Power requests that the NRC amend its regulations to require that each licensee conduct, at a minimum, a biennial, rather than annual, independent audit of its emergency preparedness program. The petitioner states that, if warranted by performance, the resources previously dedicated to the conduct of mandatory audits in this area could now be more effectively used to address performance issues of safety significance. The petitioner indicates that audit functions concerning emergency preparedness would in turn become more performance-based rather than schedule-driven according to the present annual requirement. The petitioner notes that this request is consistent with the recommendation of the NRC Regulatory Review Group Summary and Overview Report (August 31, 1993). Grounds for Request The petitioner states that the changes requested are identified as present requirements which are resource intensive but of marginal importance to safety. The petitioner offers the following reasons for the request. 1. The underlying purpose of the existing rule is to ensure the continued emergency preparedness program effectiveness in taking the required actions necessary to provide for the health and safety of the public in the event of plant emergencies. This can be readily attained by a more performance-based approach to emergency preparedness overview. The frequency of audits need not be set on an annual basis if performance warrants a different frequency. The proposed rule provides for a nominal frequency of 24 months based on existing performance. 2. Industry performance to date indicates excellent implementation and effective emergency preparedness programs. Industry-wide SALP ratings for emergency preparedness have improved from an average of 2.29 in 1980 to 1.26 in 1992. A two-year audit schedule would permit the licensee an increased degree of flexibility to concentrate available audit resources in areas of observed weakness based on performance rather than conducting a mandatory annual audit of marginal safety significance. 3. The existing requirement to conduct an annual audit is not of itself necessary to achieve the underlying purpose of 10 CFR 50.54(t). Performance-based overview with a two-year maximum interval is sufficient and the proposed rule does not preclude an increased audit frequency if performance warrants. Based on the existing performance within the industry, biennial audits represent an acceptable minimum frequency.
