FR940527-1-00049 FR940527-1-00014 Life insurance (if employee is owner or beneficiary) Accident insurance (if employee is owner or beneficiary) Disability insurance (if employee is owner or beneficiary) Long-term care insurance (if employee is owner or beneficiary) Workmen's compensation insurance Retiree health care cost (only current year, not the extraordinary accrual required by FASB 106 (that is, the non-cumulative portion)) (4) Taxes: FICA_employers portion only Medicare taxes_employers portion only Unemployment insurance State or Federal unemployment taxes (5) Other: Executive deferred compensation Day care cost and allowances Tuition reimbursement b. Other Wage-Related Costs. A hospital may be able to report an additional wage-related cost that does not appear on the core list if it meets the following criteria: •The wage-related cost is provided at a significant financial cost to the employer. To meet this test the individual wage-related cost must be greater than 1 percent of total salaries after the direct excluded salaries are removed (Column 3, line 3 on Worksheet S&hyph;3, Part II). •Any wage-related cost that would be a fringe benefit if reported to the IRS as a fringe benefit. •The wage-related cost has not been furnished for the convenience of the provider. We note that those wage-related costs that are required to be reported to the IRS as salary (for example, loan forgiveness and sick pay accruals) would not be included as other wage-related costs, since the costs associated with these items are considered salaries and would already be included in the total salaries reported on line 1.01 of the Worksheet S&hyph;3, Part II. c. Wage-Related Costs (Excluded Area). Wage-related costs associated with employees in areas of the hospital that are excluded from the data used to calculate the wage index (such as a hospital-based SNF) should be removed from the total wage-related costs. This is not a new policy; however, to ensure that hospitals are removing these costs, we have added a new line on the Worksheet S&hyph;3, Part II. In addition to the above changes, we are proposing that, beginning on or after October 1, 1994, hospitals use Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) in developing the wage-related costs contained in the Worksheet S&hyph;3, Part II, for purposes of the hospital wage index. For all other purposes, however, Medicare principles will continue to apply in determining the allowability of fringe benefit costs. The MTAG task force recommended application of GAAP for purposes of developing wage-related costs used to construct the hospital wage index. We believe it is appropriate to apply GAAP for these purposes because the function of the wage index is to measure relative hospital labor costs across areas. This function is distinct from that of cost reimbursement, in which applicable Medicare principles (which may differ from GAAP) measure the actual costs incurred by individual hospitals. We believe the application of GAAP for purposes of compiling data on wage-related costs used to construct the wage index will more accurately reflect relative labor costs, because certain wage-related costs (such as pension costs) as recorded under GAAP tend to be more static from year to year. Application of Medicare principles, on the other hand, could create large swings in these costs from year to year, particularly in years when there are large over- or under-funded pension estimates; such application might lead to a wage index that does not accurately reflect relative labor costs. Again, we emphasize that under this proposal, GAAP will apply only for purposes of developing wage-related costs on Worksheet S&hyph;3 Part II. Our policy requiring the use of applicable Medicare principles for determining fringe benefits for all other purposes remains unchanged. The revised cost report and the HCFA&hyph;339 forms are currently being evaluated by the Office of Management and Budget. Once these forms are approved, we propose to implement the form to collect wage data for any cost report beginning on or after October 1, 1994. However, we will issue subsequent revisions to the forms and instructions to reflect any changes incorporated in the final rule based on public comments. D. Revisions to the Wage Index Based on Hospital Redesignation Under section 1886(d)(8)(B) of the Act, hospitals in certain rural counties adjacent to one or more Metropolitan Statistical Areas (MSAs) are considered to be located in one of the adjacent MSAs if certain standards are met. Under section 1886(d)(10) of the Act, the Medicare Geographic Classification Review Board (MGCRB) considers applications by hospitals for geographic reclassification for purposes of payment under the prospective payment system.
