FR940406-2-00037 FR940406-2-00019 (c) Placement services in occupations that the students are preparing to enter; (d) If practical, projects that will benefit the public, such as the rehabilitation of public schools or housing in inner cities or economically depressed rural areas; or (e) Employment-based learning programs. Required Activities The Secretary requires that any projects funded under this competition_ (a) Coordinate with community agencies that furnish transitional supportive services to criminal offenders such as individual and family counseling, housing assistance, transportation, and social and cultural activities; (b) Include a well-designed staff inservice education component to ensure the effective implementation of the program; (c) Address the special learning needs of offenders; (d) Use applied learning strategies to teach life skills, jobs skills, and literacy; (e) If applicable, provide for a transition from institutional environments to community settings; (f) Address State and local labor shortages and consult the State Occupational Information Coordinating Committee or State Labor Market Information Unit in making this determination; and (g) Must submit proof of committed partnerships between public agencies and the private sector. The definitions of ``private'' and ``public'' contained in 34 CFR 77.1 do not include entities under the supervision or control of the Federal Government; thus, Federal entities, including Federal prisons, are not eligible members of the partnerships required by 34 CFR 426.4(b). This program activity is authorized by section 420A(a)(2) of the Perkins Act (Pub. L. 101&hyph;392, 104 Stat. 753 (1990)). Invitational Priorities Within the absolute priority specified in this notice, the Secretary is particularly interested in applications that meet one or more of the following invitational priorities. However, under 34 CFR 75.105(c)(1) an application that meets these invitational priorities does not receive competitive or absolute preference over other applications: Invitational Priority 1_Advanced Technologies Projects that incorporate the use of interactive instructional technologies, such as distance learning, in the context of both student training and staff inservice training. Invitational Priority 2_Community Corrections Projects that provide integrated vocational and academic education to individuals on probation or parole in community corrections. Invitational Priority 3_Juvenile Justice Education Projects that provide integrated vocational and academic education to students in the juvenile justice system. This may include youth placed in detention centers, training schools, boot camps, or community-based programs. Definitions As used in this notice_ ``Applied learning'' is actively student-oriented, characterized by lively classroom discussions, absorbing group projects, meaningful homework assignments, laboratory experiments, live and videotaped presentations, and other hands-on activities. The purpose of applied learning is to create an environment that actively engages students and teachers in a collaborative learning process. ``Community corrections'' refers to programs serving probationers and parolees. ``Life skills'' includes self-development, communication skills, job development, and education. ``Literacy'' means an individual's ability to read, write, and speak in English and compute and solve problems, at levels of proficiency necessary to function on the job and in society, to achieve one's goals, and to develop one's knowledge and potential. Criteria for Evaluating Applications For the FY 1995 grant competition under the Cooperative Demonstration program (Correctional Education) only, the Secretary uses the selection criteria and assigned points in 34 CFR 426.21 with the exception of 34 CFR 426.21(a) and (b), which are replaced with the following: (a) Program factors. (25 points) The Secretary reviews the application to assess the quality of the proposed project, including the extent to which the proposed project will provide_ (1) Integrated academic and vocational activities that reflect current and projected labor market trends and are based upon the Secretary of Labor's Commission on Achievement of Necessary Skills (SCANS) report recommendations; (2) Transition from correctional education programs to productive employment including one or more of the following: (i) Work experience or apprenticeship projects. (ii) Transitional worksite job training for vocational education students that is related to their occupational goals and closely linked to classroom and laboratory instruction provided by an eligible recipient. (iii) Placement services in occupations that the students are preparing to enter. (iv) If practical, projects that will benefit the public, such as the rehabilitation of public schools or housing in inner cities or economically depressed rural areas. (v) Employment-based learning programs. (3) Post-sentence transitional services and follow-up assistance; (4) Interdisciplinary staff in-service education that includes security personnel; (5) Inmate assessment that addresses academic, vocational and special learning needs; (6) Ongoing occupational counseling to assist with the development of an individual vocational plan;
