FR940506-2-00077 FR940506-2-00048 D. Spraying such product into the air eliminates pollen. E. Spraying such product into the air eliminates airborne bacteria. F. Spraying such product into the air eliminates household insects. G. Spraying such product into the air eliminates pet dander. H. Spraying such product into the air eliminates rather than masks odors. For the purposes of this Order, ``substantially similar product'' shall mean any air cleaning or air freshening product which contains d-limonene as its sole active ingredient. II It is further ordered that respondents, Mia Rose Products, Inc., a corporation, its successors and assigns, and its officers, and Mia Palencar, individually and as an officer of said corporation, and respondents' agents, representatives and employees, directly or through any corporation, subsidiary, division or other device, in connection with the manufacturing, labelling, advertising, promotion, offering for sale, sale, or distribution of any air cleaning, air freshening, or insecticidal product in or affecting commerce, as ``commerce'' is defined in the Federal Trade Commission Act, do forthwith cease and desist from representing, in any manner, directly or by implication, the efficacy or performance of any such product, unless such representation is true, and at the time of making such representation, respondents possess and rely upon competent and reliable evidence, which when appropriate must be competent and reliable scientific evidence, that substantiates such representation. For purposes of this Order, ``competent and reliable scientific evidence'' shall mean tests, analyses, research, studies or other evidence based on the expertise of professionals in the relevant area, that has been conducted and evaluated in an objective manner by persons qualified to do so, using procedures generally accepted in the profession to yield accurate and reliable results. III It is further ordered that for five (5) years after the last date of dissemination of any representation covered by this Order, respondents, or their successors and assigns, shall maintain and upon request make available to the Federal Trade Commission for inspection and copying: A. All materials that were relied upon in disseminating such representation; and B. All tests, reports, studies, surveys, demonstrations, or other evidence in their possession or control that contradict, qualify, or call into question such representation, or the basis relied upon for such representation, including complaints from consumers. IV It is further ordered that provisions of this Order shall not apply to the printing on cans of Air Therapy or Pet Air which were manufactured prior to September 1, 1993, and shipped by respondents to distributors or retailers prior to four (4) months from the date of issuance of this Order. V It is further ordered that respondents shall notify the Commission at least thirty (30) days prior to any proposed change in the corporate respondent such as dissolution, assignment or sale resulting in the emergence of a successor corporation, the creation or dissolution or subsidiaries, or any other change in the corporation which may affect compliance obligations arising out of this Order. VI It is further ordered that the individual respondent shall, for a period of five (5) years after the date of service of this Order upon her, promptly notify the Commission, in writing, of her discontinuance of her present business or employment and of her affiliation with a new business or employment. For each such new affiliation, the notice shall include the name and address of the new business or employment, a statement of the nature of the new business or employment, and a description of respondent's duties and responsibilities in connection with the new business or employment. VII It is further ordered that the corporate respondent shall, within ten (10) days from the date of service of this Order upon them, distribute a copy of this Order to each of its officers, agents, representatives, independent contractors, and employees involved in the preparation and placement of advertisements or promotional materials, or is in communication with customers or prospective customers, or who have any responsibilities with respect to the subject matter of this Order; and for a period of five (5) years, from the date of issuance of this Order, distribute a copy of this Order to all of respondent's future such officers, agents, representatives, independent contractors, and employees. VIII It is further ordered that respondents shall, within sixty (60) days from the date of service of this Order upon them, and at such other times as the Commission may require, file with the Commission a report, in writing, setting forth in detail the manner and form in which they have complied with this order.
