FR940503-2-00123 FR940503-2-00084 III. Findings and Conclusions The Commission finds that the proposed rule change is consistent with the requirements of the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder applicable to a national securities exchange, and, in particular, the requirements of Section 6(b)(5). 20 Specifically, the Commission finds that the trading of Global telecommunications Index options, including full-value and reduced-value Index LEAPS, will serve to promote the public interest and help to remove impediments to a free and open securities market by providing investors with a means of hedging exposure to market risk associated with securities in the global telecommunications industry. 21 20 15 U.S.C. 78f(b)(5) (1988). 21 Pursuant to Section 6(b)(5) of the Act, the Commission must predicate approval of any new option proposal upon a finding that the introduction of such new derivative instrument is in the public interest. Such a finding would be difficult for a derivative instrument that served no hedging or other economic function, because any benefits that might be derived by market participants likely would be outweighed by the potential for manipulation, diminished public confidence in the integrity of the markets, and other valid regulatory concerns. In this regard, the trading of listed index options and full-value index LEAPS on the Global Telecommunications Index will provide investors with a hedging vehicle that should reflect the overall movement of the stocks and ADRs comprising the global telecommunications industry in the U.S. securities markets. The Commission also believes that these Index options will provide investors with a means by which to make investment decisions in the global telecommunications industry sector of the U.S. securities markets, allowing them to establish positions or increase existing positions in such markets in a cost effective manner. Moreover, the Commission believes that the reduced-value Index LEAPS, which will be traded on an index computed at one-tenth the value of the Global Telecommunications Index, will serve the needs of retail investors by providing them with the opportunity to use a long-term option to hedge their portfolios from long-term market moves at a reduced cost. The trading of options on the Global Telecommunications Index, including full-value and reduced-value LEAPS on the Index, however, raises several concerns, namely issues related to index design, customer protection, surveillance, and market impact. The Commission believes, for the reasons discussed below, that the CBOE adequately has addressed these concerns. A. Index Design and Structure The Commission finds that the Global Telecommunications Index is a narrow-based index. The Global Telecommunications Index is composed of only twenty securities, all of which are within one industry_the global telecommunications industry. 22 Accordingly, the Commission believes it is appropriate for the CBOE to apply its rules governing narrow-based index options to trading in the Index options. 23 22 The reduced-value Global Telecommunications Index, which is composed of the same component securities as the Index and calculated by dividing the Index value by ten, is identical to the Global Telecommunications Index. 23 See supra notes 15 through 18, and accompanying text. The Commission also finds that the large capitalizations, liquid markets, and relative weightings of the Index's component securities significantly minimize the potential for manipulation of the Index. First, the overwhelming majority of the components that compose the Index are actively traded, with a mean and median average daily trading volume of 425,652 and 252,187 shares, respectively. 24 Second, the market capitalizations of the securities in the Index are very large, ranging from a high of $73.61 billion to a low of $144.21 million as of November 30, 1993, with the mean and median being $14.79 billion and $8.14 billion, respectively. Third, although the Index is only comprised of twenty component securities, no one particular security or group of securities dominates the Index. Specifically, no one stock or ADR comprises more than 9.08% of the Index's total value and the percentage weighting of the five largest issues in the Index account for 37.07% of the Index's value. 25 Fourth, at least 90% of the twenty securities in the Index by weight must be eligible for standardized options trading. 26 The proposed CBOE maintenance requirement that 90% of the weighting of the Index be comprised of securities that are eligible for options trading will ensure that the Index is almost completely comprised of options eligible securities. Fifth, if the CBOE increases the number of component securities to more than twenty-six or decreases that number to less than fourteen, the CBOE will be required to seek Commission approval pursuant to Section 19(b)(2) of the Act before listing new strike price or expiration month series of Global Telecommunications Index options and Index LEAPS. This will help protect against material changes in the composition and design of the Index that might adversely affect the CBOE's obligations to protect investors and to maintain fair and orderly markets in Global Telecommunications Index options and Index LEAPS. Sixth, the CBOE will be required to ensure that each component of the Index is subject to last sale reporting requirements in the U.S. 27 This will further reduce the potential for manipulation of the value of the Index. Finally, the Commission believes that the expense of attempting to manipulate the value of the Global Telecommunications Index in any significant way through trading in component stocks, ADRs, or securities underlying ADRs (or options on those securities) coupled with, as discussed below, existing mechanisms to monitor trading activity in those securities, will help deter such illegal activity. 24 In addition, for the six-month period between June 1 and November 30, 1993, no component of the Index had an average daily trading volume of less than 51,000 shares per day. 25 For an index with a significantly greater number of securities than twenty issues, the Commission might come to a different conclusion if only a few securities accounted for a significant portion of the index's weighting. Further, if an index contained only a few stocks, the Commission might question whether it can be traded as an index product. 26 See supra note 9. 27 See February 14 Letter, supra note 8.
