FR940617-2-00093 FR940617-2-00053 [FRL&hyph;5000&hyph;5] Transfer of Data to Contractors AGENCY: Environmental Protection Agency. ACTION: Notice of transfer of data and request for comments. SUMMARY: EPA will transfer to its contractor Industrial Economics, Inc., and its subcontractors, ABT Associates, Inc., Apogee Research, Inc., Dale W. Jorgenson Associates, Kerr and Associates, Inc., National Economic Research Associates, Inc., Oak Ridge National Laboratory, Research Triangle Institute, Resources for the future, Sciences Applications International Corp. (SAIC), Sociotechnical Research Applications, Inc., Tetra Tech, Inc., Dyncorp, Inc.; and its consultants: Scott Farrow, Robert W. Hahn, Nancy H. Hammett, Brian F. Mannix, Ann Vanino, and Marcia Williams, information which has been or will be submitted to EPA under Section 3007 of the Resources Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA). These data pertain to facility production process and waste management practices, waste characteristics and constituent concentrations, waste volumes, waste management, treatment and disposal. Some of the information may have a claim of confidentiality. DATE: Transfer of confidential data submitted to EPA will occur no sooner than June 27, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments should be sent to Margaret Lee, Document Control Officer, Office of Solid Waste (5305), U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, 401 M Street, SW., Washington, DC 20460. Comments should be identified as ``Transfer of Confidential Data.'' FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Margaret Lee, Document Control Officer, Office of Solid Waste (5305), U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, 401 M Street, SW., Washington, DC 20460, 202&hyph;260&hyph;3410. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: 1. Transfer of Data Under EPA Contract 68&hyph;W3&hyph;0028, Industrial Economics, Inc., its subcontractors and its consultants will assist the Communications Analyses and Budget Division of the Office of Solid Waste. The contractor will conduct a wide range of quantitative policy analysis to support the RCRA program. These studies will involve development of methods and cross-programmatic scoping studies. In particular, the contractor will conduct quantitative benefit analyses. The economic impacts of the regulations will be assessed to help determine if industry sectors are significantly impacted by facility closure. Confidential information submitted under 3007 of RCRA will be used to complete the above-noted analyses. The CBI information will pertain to facility production process and waste management practices, waste characteristics and constituent concentrations, waste volumes, waste management, treatment and disposal. In accordance with 40 CFR 2.305(h), EPA has determined that Industrial Economics, Inc., its subcontractors and its consultants, require access to CBI submitted to EPA under the authority of RCRA to perform work satisfactorily under the above-noted contract. EPA is submitting this notice to inform all submitters of CBI that EPA may transfer to this firm, on a need-to-know basis, CBI collected under the authority of RCRA. Upon completing their review of materials submitted, Industrial Economics will return all such materials to EPA. Industrial Economics, Inc., its subcontractors and its consultants have been authorized to have access to RCRA CBI under the EPA ``Contractor Requirements for the Control and Security of RCRA Confidential Business Information Security Manual.'' EPA will approve the security plan of the contractor and approve it prior to RCRA CBI being transmitted to the contractor. Industrial Economics, Inc., its subcontractors and its consultants will be required to sign non-disclosure agreements and be briefed on appropriate security procedures before they are permitted access to confidential information. Dated: June 9, 1994. Elliott P. Laws, Assistant Administrator. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;14814 Filed 6&hyph;16&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;M
