FR940118-0-00055 FR940118-0-00014 (d) Empowerment Zone/Enterprise Community Social Service Block Grant (EZ/EC SSBG) funds. §25.3 Definitions. As used in this part_ Applicant means the lead entity that has prepared and will implement the community's strategic plan, pursuant to the provisions of §25.200(c) of this part, for comprehensive economic, human, community, and physical development within the area; such an entity may include, but is not limited to, state governments, local governments, regional planning agencies, non-profit organizations, community-based organizations, or a partnership of community members and other entities. Designation means the process by which the Secretary designates rural areas as Empowerment Zones or Enterprise Communities eligible for tax incentives and credits established by subchapter U of the Internal Revenue Code (26 U.S.C. 1391 et seq.), EZ/EC Social Service Block Grants as established by the Department of Health and Human Services, and for special consideration for programs of Federal assistance. Empowerment Zone means a rural area so designated by the Secretary pursuant to this part. Up to three such Zones may be designated. Enterprise Community means a rural area so designated by the Secretary pursuant to this part. Up to 30 such Communities may be designated. Indian reservation means a reservation as defined in section 3(d) of the Indian Financing Act of 1974 (25 U.S.C. 1452(d)) or section 4(10) of the Indian Child Welfare Act of 1978 (25 U.S.C. 1903(10)). Local government means any county, city, town, township, parish, village, or other general purpose political subdivision of a State, and any combination of these political subdivisions which is recognized by the Secretary. Nominated area means an area which is nominated by one or more local governments and the State or States in which it is located for designation pursuant to this part. Population census tract means a census tract, or, if census tracts are not defined for the area, a block numbering area. Poverty means the number of persons listed as being in poverty in the 1990 Census. Revocation of designation means the process by which the Secretary may revoke the designation of an area as an Empowerment Zone or Enterprise Community pursuant to §25.403 of this part. Rural area means any area defined pursuant to §25.504 of this part. Secretary means the Secretary of Agriculture. State means any State in the United States. Strategic plan means a strategy developed by the applicant, with the participation and commitment of local governments, State government(s), private sector, community members and others, pursuant to the provisions of §25.200(c) of this part. The plan must include written commitments from the local governments and State(s) that they will adhere to the strategy. USDA means the U.S. Department of Agriculture. §25.4 Secretarial review and designation. (a) Designation. The Secretary will review applications for the designation of nominated rural areas to determine the effectiveness of the strategic plans submitted by applicants in accordance with §25.200 of this part. The Secretary will designate up to three rural Empowerment Zones and up to 30 rural Enterprise Communities. (b) Period of designation. The designation of a rural area as an Empowerment Zone or Enterprise Community shall remain in full effect during the period beginning on the date of designation and ending on the earliest of: (1) The close of the tenth calendar year beginning on or after the date of designation; (2) The termination date designated by the State and local governments in their application for nomination; or (3) The date the Secretary revokes or modifies the designation, in accordance with §25.402 or §25.403 of this part. §25.5 Waivers. The Secretary may waive any provision of this part in any particular case subject only to statutory limitations, for good cause, where it is determined that application of the requirement would produce a result adverse to the purpose and objectives of this part. Subpart B_Area Requirements §25.100 Eligibility requirements and data usage.
