FR940830-0-00017 FR940830-0-00005 One commenter suggested that the OTS shorten the review period for applications submitted by savings associations, where the association previously had sought expedited treatment, but the OTS had advised the association that it was not eligible for expedited treatment. Under the final rule, such applications will be processed under standard time frames regardless of prior filings. However, to the extent a previously filed notice provides the OTS with useful information regarding a proposed transaction, it is likely that the OTS will be able to act on a subsequent, properly filed application prior to expiration of the full 60-day review period. This same commenter inquired how the OTS would treat applications filed under ยง563.22 that are awaiting OTS action at the effective date of the amended regulation, and whether such applications would need to be re-filed in accordance with the procedures adopted in the final rule. The commenter also inquired about the treatment that would be accorded applications that were approved but not consummated prior to adoption of this rule. Both pending applications and proposed transactions that are now solely within the scope of new ยง563.22(b)(1) will be subject to the new procedures upon the effective date of the amendments. Other applications currently awaiting OTS action will continue to be subject to the standards and procedures in effect at the time the applications were filed. Previously approved transactions must be consummated in accordance with the terms and conditions set forth in the OTS's approval order. Some commenters expressed confusion about the proposed application and notice procedures. Many of these concerns are addressed in technical and clarifying changes made throughout the final rule. III. Summary of Revisions As more fully discussed below, the final regulations implement section 502 of the FDICIA by authorizing Federal stock associations to combine with any FDIC-insured depository institution, and by authorizing Federal mutual associations to combine with any FDIC-insured depository institution, provided that a mutual association is the resulting institution. In addition, the final regulations authorize certain combinations involving Federal associations and depository institutions not insured by the FDIC. The final regulations specifically authorize Federal stock savings associations to convert to state or national banks, and permit any stock-form depository institution that is, or is eligible to become, a member of a Federal Home Loan Bank, to convert to a Federal stock savings association charter. Finally, the OTS is amending its regulations governing the procedures regarding applications to engage in the above-described actions, and has made various technical and conforming amendments. A. Expansion of Permissible Combinations for Federal Stock Savings Associations The final rule revises 12 CFR 552.13(c) to permit Federal stock savings associations to combine with any depository institution, upon compliance with appropriate application or notice requirements, described in Section III.D. below. The rule also establishes standards for combinations, including standards that address compliance with the asset composition requirements of section 5(c) of the HOLA and the qualified thrift lender requirements of section 10(m) of the HOLA, when a thrift acquires a bank. In addition, the regulation modifies and adds definitions for terms used throughout amended sections 552.13 and 563.22 to implement the new provisions of the HOLA and the FDIA. The final regulation differs from the proposal in certain respects. The term ``acquire'' has been changed to ``combination,'' and expanded to include combinations involving depository institutions not insured by the FDIC. Also, the term ``combination'' has been clarified to include purchase and assumption transactions that involve all or substantially all of a depository institution's assets or liabilities, rather than transactions of a lesser scope, such as branch sale transactions. The definition of the term ``combination'' reflects the OTS's position that the definition of the term ``acquire'' at section 10(s)(3) does not preclude a Federal savings association from holding another insured depository institution as a subsidiary, pursuant to a separate source of authority to do so. Section 10(s)(1) of the HOLA states that Federal savings associations may acquire or be acquired by any insured depository institution, subject to sections 5(d)(3) and 18(c) of the FDIA, and all other applicable laws. The OTS has concluded that the reference to section 5(d)(3) of the FDIA does not mean that section 5(d)(3) must be applicable in order for a combination transaction to be permissible. The grant of authority in section 10(s)(1) of the HOLA to Federal savings associations to acquire or be acquired by another insured depository institution simply requires that any Federal savings association that proposes such a transaction comply with all applicable laws. Section 10(s)(1) was not intended to withhold from Federal associations the authority to engage in transactions exempted from the FIRREA moratorium on conversion transactions under other provisions of the FDIA, 3 or in transactions that are not subject to the moratorium in the first place (for example, because the transaction involves two SAIF-insured savings associations, or occurs after expiration of the moratorium). The OTS has clarified the final regulation accordingly. 13 See, e.g. , Section 5(d)(2)(C) (ii) and (iii) of the FDIA, 12 U.S.C. 1815(d)(2)(C) (ii) and (iii).
