FR941021-2-00065 FR941021-2-00046 •Making appropriate payments to the provider, beneficiary, physician, and/or supplier of services. Fiscal intermediary and carrier performance is monitored by HCFA at the central office and regional office (RO) levels. In general, issues that affect policies on a national level are addressed by the central office, and issues dealing with regional and local policies, as well as those of an operational nature, are addressed by the ROs. Continuous communication between HCFA and the fiscal intermediaries and carriers is established through consultation workgroups that meet on a regular basis and are comprised of representatives from the central office, ROs, and Medicare contractors. II. Fiscal Intermediary and Carrier Budget Process HCFA's central office is responsible for developing a national contractor budget for Parts A and B of the Medicare program. The budget is formulated over an 18-month period, beginning in March of the calendar year preceding the fiscal year (FY) to which it applies. Input from the contractor community, HCFA, the Department of Health and Human Services, and the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) is received and included before submission to the President for approval and forwarding to the Congress. Once the national contractor budget has been approved, HCFA issues Budget and Performance Requirements (BPRs). BPRs specify the level of effort required for contractor functions and serve as the statement of work for contractor use in preparing their individual budgets for submission to HCFA. The budgets submitted by contractors are reviewed by the ROs during a budget level determination process that is based on current claims processing trends, legislative mandates, administrative initiatives, current year performance standards and criteria, and the availability of funds appropriated by the Congress. We subsequently allocate funding within these constraints. This notice contains the proposed data, standards, and methodology that we intend to use to establish a national contractor budget for fiscal intermediaries and carriers for FY 1995. As in prior years, we have had, and will continue to seek, extensive input from the involved parties, particularly contractors, when establishing the national contractor budget. The national contractor budget (the FY 1995 President's budget) has already been presented to the Congress. Nevertheless, to the extent that we receive comments during this comment period, which warrant revisions to the data, standards, and methodology we used, we will make the necessary changes before publishing the final notice.
