FR940720-0-00069 FR940720-0-00006 B. Extending the Valid Range for Conventional Gasoline Under the anti-dumping provisions of the final rule, refiners use their individual 1990 baselines to determine compliance with the regulations under both the Simple and Complex Models. Depending on the compliance model being used, the values for particular fuel parameters are restricted by the valid range limits. For instance, if a refiner is using the Simple Model to comply with the anti-dumping regulations, VOC and NO X emissions are regulated through caps on the baseline levels of sulfur, olefins, and T90, while toxic emissions are regulated through an equation giving the benzene fraction of VOC emissions. Since the benzene fraction equation contains only benzene and aromatics as independent variables, the only valid range limits that apply to refiners using the Simple Model to comply with the anti-dumping regulations are those specified in §80.42(c)(1) for benzene and aromatics content. If, alternatively, a refiner is using the Complex Model to comply with the anti-dumping regulations, NO X and toxics emissions are regulated through the Complex Model. Thus the valid range limits that apply to refiners using the Complex Model to comply with the anti-dumping regulations are those specified in §80.45(f)(1)(ii) for oxygen content, sulfur content, RVP, E200, E300, aromatics content, olefins content, and benzene content. Section 80.91(f)(2)(ii) allows a refiner to extend the conventional gasoline valid range for the Complex Model if one or more of the fuel parameter values for its individual 1990 baseline fuel falls outside of the valid range specified in §80.45(f)(1)(ii). However, the regulations did not adequately specify the method, applicability, or limitations of such a valid range extension. As written, the regulations state that, for each baseline fuel parameter value which is outside of the Complex Model conventional gasoline valid range, the Complex Model valid range is extended only for such fuel parameters. The only stated limitation is that such an extension is applicable only to the applicable summer or winter season. The Agency has determined that this portion of the regulations is ambiguous, and requires revision. 1. Applicability of the Provision for Valid Range Extension The Agency has only been made aware of the potential need for extension of the valid range for olefins, aromatics, and benzene. Therefore, a provision for the extension of the valid range has only been made for the high end of the specified valid range for these three fuel parameters. In each case, if the valid range limit is extended, the refiner in question must still be limited by a valid range to eliminate the possibility that the Complex Model will be used for aromatics, olefins, and/or benzene values that are very high, which might compromise the primary objective of the anti-dumping program. As specified in the final regulations, a refiner is allowed to extend the Complex Model valid range for both baseline and compliance emissions calculations, but is not directed as to the specification of any new valid range limits. Such a provision for the extension of the valid range that does not include limitations on fuel parameter values that can be evaluated with the Complex Model would defeat the purposes of specifying a valid range, and was not the Agency's intent. The Agency has determined that the best approach to limiting the extension of the valid range is to allow target fuels to have values at least up to the baseline level. Since the baseline fuel is an ``average'' fuel of sorts, the Agency has also determined that refiners should be given some flexibility beyond the baseline value. For aromatics, this flexibility will be fixed at a value of 5.0 volume percent. For olefins this flexibility will be fixed at a value of 3.0 volume percent. And for benzene this flexibility will be fixed at a value of 0.5 volume percent. Thus, for example, the extended valid range limit for aromatics would be equal to the individual refiner's baseline fuel value for aromatics, plus 5.0 volume percent. A similar calculation would be necessary for extending the valid range for olefins or benzene. The Agency has no reason to believe that provisions for the extension of the valid range for fuel parameters other than aromatics, olefins, and benzene on either the low or high ends are necessary. For instance, the Complex Model conventional gasoline valid ranges for oxygen, sulfur, aromatics, olefins, and benzene all have 0.0 as their lower limit. Thus no valid range extension would be required on the low end of the valid range for these fuel parameters. Similarly for E300, a fuel can have an E300 value of no higher than 100 percent, which is also the high end of the specified valid range. Other limitations, such as ASTM specifications and the volatility rule, should eliminate the need for valid range extensions in other cases. 2. No-Benefit Limitation of the Provision for Valid Range Extension The Agency continues to believe that the valid range limits specified in §80.42(c)(1) and §80.45(f)(1)(ii) identify the fuel parameter values beyond which the compliance models are not considered accurate. Thus the Agency has determined that any extension of the specified valid ranges for conventional gasoline should incorporate flat-line extrapolation. Under flat-line extrapolation, the compliance models provide no emissions benefit or detriment when raising the value of either aromatics or olefins above the values specified in §80.42(c)(1) and §80.45(f)(1)(ii). This flat-line extrapolation will apply to both the baseline fuel and any target fuels evaluated with the compliance models under the anti-dumping regulations. 3. Expanding the Applicability of the Valid Range Extension Provision to the Simple Model This direct final rule expands the applicability of the valid range extension provision given in §80.91(f)(2)(ii) to the Simple Model. However, as noted above, the only fuel parameters having valid range limits under the Simple Model anti-dumping regulations are aromatics and benzene content. The Simple Model valid ranges for both aromatics and benzene are being expanded to be equal to the corresponding ranges for the Complex Model, as described in sections II.A.3&hyph;5 of this rule. Thus the new valid range under the Simple Model will be 0&hyph;55 volume percent for aromatics and 0&hyph;4.9 volume percent for benzene. No valid range extension will be required for either of these fuel parameters on the low end of the valid range. Thus the only relevant valid range extensions that would be necessary for the Simple Model would be for the high end of aromatics and the high end of benzene.
