FR940613-0-00060 FR940613-0-00015 The NPRM proposed to cap the duration of minor adjustments at 1 year. Adjustments lasting more than 1 year would not be considered to be of a temporary or emergency nature. Minor adjustments for the same emergency would not be permitted to be broken into periods of less than 1 year to extend the emergency for a period longer than that. Similarly, an emergency would not be permitted to be broken into 30-day or shorter periods to avoid reporting. The FHWA re-examined the issue in light of the comments received to the NPRM docket. Subsequently, the SNPRM removed the NPRM's 1-year maximum duration for a minor adjustment, but clearly spelled out that the FHWA must approve any minor adjustments which exceed 30 days. The SNPRM proposal also clearly spelled out that rejection of a State's request would cause the immediate reimposition of freeze restrictions, with failure to do so putting a State at risk of a funding penalty pursuant to 23 U.S.C. 141. Two sets of comments to the SNPRM addressed the issue, those of the CRASH and those of the Advocates For Highway and Auto Safety (Advocates). Both organizations objected to the removal of the original 1-year time limit. They feared that under the SNPRM States would be allowed to detour LCV's onto highways less capable of safely accommodating these vehicles for unspecified, indefinite lengths of time. The Advocates also objected to the SNPRM proposal because It fails to provide any criteria for the states to use in choosing alternate routes. The agency (FHWA) simply asserts that it will exercise its discretion to review and approve or disapprove any state's request for an LCV routing adjustment. It argues that the FHWA is reserving for itself a power to make decisions on an important issue without publicly available guidelines which have been developed through a rulemaking process. The criteria represented in the final rule by ยง658.23(c) are necessarily general and rely on the review-and-approval nature of the Federal-State relationship. It is not practical to develop specific criteria to evaluate requests which might originate for any number of reasons. However, to allay the concerns of both the CRASH and Advocates_that minor adjustments, insofar as alternate routes are concerned, will result in LCV's temporarily operating on highways perceived to be less safe_this final rule includes additional guidance in selecting alternate routes. Section 658.23(c) now provides that in selecting alternate routes, States should, to the extent possible, select routes with geometric and pavement design features equivalent to those of the highway segment which is temporarily unavailable. In addition, each request involving an alternate route should include a discussion of what steps the State will take to mitigate any operational and/or safety problems that may develop. The operating philosophy of the FHWA with respect to State issues has always been that of individual office autonomy within broad national guidelines. The Division Office of Motor Carriers within each State is in the best position to evaluate requests involving truck issues in the State. However, in order to assure that a degree of uniformity is applied to such requests, the Regional Office of Motor Carriers must be consulted before a decision is made on a State's request. On issues which involve alternate routes for LCV's, the final rule directs the Division Office of Motor Carriers to coordinate with the Division Administrator before consulting with the Regional Office. Definition of Nondivisible Loads Background The definition of a nondivisible vehicle or load included in the NPRM was criticized by many commenters, and the following revised definition was therefore proposed in the SNPRM: Nondivisible vehicle or load. As used in this part, ``nondivisible'' means any vehicle or load exceeding applicable length or weight limits which cannot readily be separated into smaller vehicles or loads that comply with such limits without: (1) Compromising the intended use of the vehicle, (2) Destroying the value of the load, or (3) Using expert knowledge or specially designed tools. The intended use of a vehicle would be compromised if separating it into smaller units would make it unable to perform the function for which it was designed. The value of a load would be destroyed if separating it into smaller units would make the load unusable for its intended purpose. Expert knowledge means familiarity with procedures required to dismantle and reassemble a load which are beyond the job requirements typically associated with positions in the motor carrier industry. Specially designed tools means equipment designed and manufactured only for use with the load in question. A State may treat a sealed containerized load moving in international commerce as a nondivisible load. Many of those who responded to the SNPRM discussed nondivisible loads, but a number of comments suggested that the scope of the definition requires clarification. The definition adopted here (and the others already codified in 23 CFR 658.5) apply, like the ISTEA freeze itself, to the same highways and vehicle characteristics as the underlying Federal law. The following paragraphs explain that principle in more detail.
