FR940217-1-00076 FR940217-1-00014 A third-party servicer would be required to have an audit performed at least once every two years if the servicer administers less than $1,000,000 under the Title IV, HEA programs for the period covered by the audit, or if the servicer's most recently submitted audit report did not contain any material deficiencies and was submitted in a timely fashion. Also, a third-party servicer would not be required to have an audit performed for any year in which the servicer administers less than $250,000 under the Title IV, HEA programs. The Secretary is proposing these Title IV, HEA program fund thresholds, for purposes of exceptions to the audit requirements of this section, on the assumption that a large amount of Title IV, HEA program funds are not at risk in the case of a third-party servicer that administers less than $250,000 during the audit period. Similarly, the Secretary believes that a third-party servicer administering less than $1,000,000 in the Title IV, HEA programs during the audit period or whose most recently submitted audit report revealed no abnormal practices or material discrepancies in the servicer's administration of those funds, provided that the audit report was submitted in a timely fashion, would not be likely to endanger those funds. By proposing these exceptions to the audit requirements of this section, and thus limiting the scope of these provisions, the Secretary believes that the Department of Education will be able to concentrate on those third-party servicers that pose the greatest financial risk to the Title IV, HEA programs; these exceptions also reduce the administrative burden on those qualifying for the exemptions. The threshold amounts were extrapolated from similar exemptions to audit submission requirements for institutions under the Single Audit Act ($100,000 and $25,000) and increased by a factor of ten in order to cover third-party servicer activities because these entities generally contract with multiple clients and thus would administer greater amounts of Title IV, HEA program funds than any single institution. These provisions are intended to parallel similar audit requirements for institutions (in proposed regulations to be published shortly after these). The intent is to minimize the burden associated with these regulations, both to the servicing industry and to the Federal Government, as called for under E.O. 12866. The Secretary believes that these exceptions would not harm the integrity of the audit oversight that Congress intended under section 487(c)(1)) of the HEA. Under that section and these regulations, the Secretary retains the authority to require any third-party servicer to have an audit performed on an annual basis if the Secretary believes it is necessary. This section would be amended to provide that the servicer's first audit would cover the servicer's first full fiscal year after the effective date of these regulations and any period on or after the effective date of these regulations up to the beginning of the servicer's first full fiscal year. The Secretary believes that initial audits will be more useful and effective if they encompass an entire fiscal year. The Secretary also believes that allowing servicers additional time to prepare for the implementation of these regulations would enable servicers to comply more fully with these regulations as well as defray the costs associated with an audit of a partial fiscal year. Subsequent audits would, as required by statute, encompass the entire period since the servicer's previous audit. A third-party servicer that is required to have an audit performed would be required to submit that audit to the Department of Education's Inspector General by the deadlines established in the audit guide developed by the Department's Office of Inspector General. The Secretary also proposes to apply the statutory requirements of section 487(c) of the HEA to third-party servicers such that the results of these audits would be made available to the appropriate authorities, as detailed in the discussion at the beginning of this section. (The Secretary intends to propose similar requirements for institutions required to have an audit performed in proposed regulations to be published shortly after these). Section 668.24␣Audit exceptions and repayments. The Secretary proposes to extend to a third-party servicer the provisions governing audit exceptions and determinations of audit liabilities that currently apply to institutions. These modifications would simply reflect the Secretary's current practice under this section as applied to a third-party servicer. In addition, an institution or a third-party servicer would have an opportunity to demonstrate within 45 days (35 days is mandated under the current regulations) of the Secretary's notification that the expenditure or compliance was proper. The Secretary is proposing 45 days to make the response period consistent with other reporting requirements in this part.
