FR940706-0-00074 FR940706-0-00015 (1) Technical assistance, which provides services instead of money; (2) Other assistance in the form of loans, loan guarantees, interest subsidies, or insurance; (3) Direct payments of any kind to individuals; and (4) Contracts which are required to be entered into and administered under procurement laws and regulations. Cash contributions means the recipient's cash outlay, including the outlay of money contributed to the recipient by third parties. Closeout means the process by which the Secretary determines that all applicable administrative actions and all required work of the award have been completed by the recipient and Department of Education (ED). Contract means a procurement contract under an award or subaward, and a procurement subcontract under a recipient's or subrecipient's contract. Cost sharing or matching means that portion of project or program costs not borne by the Federal Government. Date of completion means the date on which all work under an award is completed or the date on the award document, or any supplement or amendment thereto, on which Federal sponsorship ends. Disallowed costs means those charges to an award that the Secretary determines to be unallowable, in accordance with the applicable Federal cost principles or other terms and conditions contained in the award. Equipment means tangible nonexpendable personal property including exempt property charged directly to the award having a useful life of more than one year and an acquisition cost of $5,000 or more per unit. However, consistent with recipient policy, lower limits may be established. Excess property means property under the control of ED that is no longer required for its needs or the discharge of its responsibilities. Exempt property means tangible personal property acquired in whole or in part with Federal funds, where the Secretary has statutory authority to vest title in the recipient without further obligation to the Federal Government. An example of exempt property authority is contained in the Federal Grant and Cooperative Agreement Act (31 U.S.C. 6306) for property acquired under an award to conduct basic or applied research by a non-profit institution of higher education or non-profit organization whose principal purpose is conducting scientific research. Federal awarding agency means the Federal agency that provides an award to the recipient. Federal funds authorized means the total amount of Federal funds obligated by the Federal Government for use by the recipient. This amount may include any authorized carryover of unobligated funds from prior funding periods when permitted by ED regulations or ED implementing instructions.
