FR940127-2-00108 FR940127-2-00071 August 1993 Request for Comments In August 1993, the Board published for comment the proposed rule change. Comment letters were received from Fidelity Investments, First Interstate Bank of Oregon, Heitner Corporation, Lehman Brothers, Liberty Bank and Trust Company of Tulsa, Merrill Lynch, and the Securities Department of Arkansas. Comments on the General Approach of the Proposed Rule Change In general, the commentators' reaction to the approach taken by the proposed rule change was favorable. One commentator agreed with the Board's approach by stating that the proposed rule change would address a ``difficult problem'' by deleting the ``not unsuitable'' and ``notwithstanding'' provisions from the current suitability rule. Another commentator noted that rule G&hyph;19 ``as reformulated by the Board sets forth an appropriate affirmative standard.'' Two other commentators also expressed general support for the approach taken by the proposed rule change. Two commentators expressed reservations over removal of the ``not unsuitable'' and the ``notwithstanding'' provisions. One commentator opposed both changes because of its belief that the majority of its customers are not willing ``to divulge their financial strength.'' Another commentator, while indicating that it does not make recommendations in municipal securities to customers, also believes that the ``notwithstanding'' provision should be retained because a customer may disagree with a dealer's opinion of unsuitability. That commentator indicated that dealers should be permitted to make recommendations to a customer who has already decided to purchase a municipal security and who asks for assistance in choosing an issue, even if the transaction would be unsuitable for the customer. While the ``not unsuitable'' and the ``notwithstanding'' provisions were initially adopted by the Board in the late 1970s for reasons similar to those cited by the commentators, the Board notes that there have been significant changes in the municipal securities market since that time. The number of retail investors has increased and the introduction of increasing numbers of complex, and in some cases, speculative municipal securities has become a characteristic of today's market. In such an environment, the Board believes that it is critical that dealers have clear policies to ensure that sales personnel do not recommend securities to customers without first establishing the suitability of the transaction. Therefore, the Board believes that the proposed rule change deleting these provisions is necessary.
