FR941202-0-00085 FR941202-0-00010 (A) Ensure that the cover opens only for part entrance and removal and completely covers the cleaning machine openings when closed. (B) Ensure that the working-mode cover is maintained free of cracks, holes, and other defects. (iv) If an idling-mode cover is used to comply with these standards, the owner or operator shall comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (e)(2)(iv)(A) and (e)(2)(iv)(B) of this section. (A) Ensure that the cover is in place whenever parts are not in the solvent cleaning machine and completely covers the cleaning machine openings when in place. (B) Ensure that the idling-mode cover is maintained free of cracks, holes, and other defects. (v) If a dwell is used to comply with these standards, the owner or operator shall comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (e)(2)(v)(A) and (e)(2)(v)(B) of this section. (A) Determine the appropriate dwell time for each type of part or parts basket, or determine the maximum dwell time using the most complex part type or parts basket, as described in §63.465(d). (B) Ensure that, after cleaning, each part is held in the solvent cleaning machine freeboard area above the vapor zone for the dwell time determined for that particular part or parts basket, or for the maximum dwell time determined using the most complex part type or parts basket. (vi) If a superheated vapor system is used to comply with these standards, the owner or operator shall comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (e)(2)(vi)(A) through (e)(2)(vi)(C) of this section. (A) Ensure that the temperature of the solvent vapor at the center of the superheated vapor zone is at least 10 ○F above the solvent's boiling point. (B) Ensure that the manufacturer's specifications for determining the minimum proper dwell time within the superheated vapor system is followed. (C) Ensure that parts remain within the superheated vapor for at least the minimum proper dwell time. (vii) If a carbon adsorber in conjunction with a lip exhaust is used to comply with these standards, the owner or operator shall comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (e)(2)(vii)(A) through (e)(2)(vii)(C) of this section. (A) Ensure that the concentration of organic solvent in the exhaust from this device does not exceed 100 parts per million of any halogenated HAP compound as measured using the procedure in §63.466(e). If the halogenated HAP solvent concentration in the carbon adsorber exhaust exceeds 100 parts per million, the owner or operator shall adjust the desorption schedule or replace the disposable canister, if not a regenerative system, so that the exhaust concentration of halogenated HAP solvent is brought below 100 parts per million. (B) Ensure that the carbon adsorber bed is not bypassed during desorption. (C) Ensure that the lip exhaust is located above the solvent cleaning machine cover so that the cover closes below the lip exhaust level. (3) If any of the requirements of paragraph (e)(2) of this section are not met, determine whether an exceedance has occurred using the criteria in paragraphs (e)(3)(i) and (e)(3)(ii) of this section. (i) An exceedance has occurred if the requirements of paragraphs (e)(2)(ii)(B), (e)(2)(iii)(A), (e)(2)(iv)(A), (e)(2)(v), (e)(2)(vi)(B), (e)(2)(vi)(C), (e)(2)(vii)(B), or (e)(2)(vii)(C) of this section have not been met. (ii) An exceedance has occurred if the requirements of paragraphs (e)(2)(i), (e)(2)(ii)(A), (e)(2)(iii)(B), (e)(2)(iv)(B), (e)(2)(vi)(A), or (e)(2)(vii)(A) of this section have not been met and are not corrected within 15 days of detection. Adjustments or repairs shall be made to the solvent cleaning system or control device to reestablish required levels. The parameter must be remeasured immediately upon adjustment or repair and demonstrated to be within required limits.
