FR941004-2-00114 FR941004-2-00068 See Doc. 9.22_Draft Infractions Report for COP9. Support the Secretariat's review of alleged infractions by the Parties, and necessary and appropriate recommendations to obtain wider compliance with the terms of the Convention. Support an open discussion at COP9 of major infractions, and a greater emphasis by the Parties on the enforcement of the laws and regulations implementing the Convention. Article XIII of the Convention provides for COP review of alleged infractions. The Secretariat prepares an Infractions Report for each COP, which details instances that the Convention is not being effectively implemented, or where trade is adversely affecting a species. The first draft of the Infractions Report contains numerous such alleged infractions. The United States has commented on the draft Infractions Report. A cursory review of the alleged infractions indicates a great difference in the depth of the reporting on infractions over previous reports. The United States considers this to be an excellent, well-researched and well-prepared Secretariat document. A large number of infractions are caused by lack of training, lack of personnel, or lack of knowledge on the workings of CITES. The majority of the alleged infractions should be a major cause of concern to the Parties. When the final Infractions Report (incorporating the comments of Parties) is circulated by the Secretariat, it will be available to the public upon request. 5. Implementation of the Convention in the European Community No document has been received from the CITES Secretariat yet; no position is possible at this time. This issue was discussed extensively at COP8; absent any document, the United States cannot formulate a position at this time. 6. National Laws for Implementation of the Convention No document has been received from the CITES Secretariat yet; no position is possible at this time. The United States was strongly supportive at COP8 of a review of national laws for the implementation of the Convention; such laws are required by Article VIII of the Convention. The Service provided funding for this project, and has already received reviews of national legislation for several countries. The United States believes that the Convention's effectiveness is undermined when Party states do not have national laws implementing the Convention, including laws and regulations that authorize seizure and/or forfeiture of specimens imported or exported in contravention of the Convention, and laws and regulations that provide appropriate penalties for such violations. 7. Enforcement of the Convention No document has been received from the CITES Secretariat yet; no complete position is possible at this time. Support establishment of a Law Enforcement Network. Notification to the Parties number 776 asked the Parties for their comments on a proposal for establishment of a Law Enforcement Network. The United States supported establishment of such a network at that time, and continues to do so. The United States will continue its support for the provision of law enforcement training to assist Parties in implementing and enforcing the Convention. Nine Parties responded to Notification 776, which asked the Parties for their comments on the proposed Law Enforcement Network, as follows: five countries (Australia, South Africa, Switzerland, the United Kingdom, and the United States) supported the proposal; three countries (Belgium, France and Uruguay) opposed the proposal; and one country (Spain) was neutral. Although it was not adopted by the Standing Committee, it was agreed that the Parties should discuss the issue at the COP. The United States considers effective enforcement of the Convention to be a critical element that is lacking for many countries, for a number of reasons, including: lack of training, inadequate legislation or regulations, lack of funding, lack of infrastructure, and inadequate communications and networking with other countries and entities. The United States believes that establishment of a Law Enforcement Network, comparable to other committees or working groups established by the Parties, will begin the process of alleviating these deficiencies.
