FR940223-2-00240 FR940223-2-00104 5. Funding 5.1␣Direct Funding from DOT Funds appropriated to DOT agencies will be available to partially finance initial national and community service projects in some of the five DOT programs in fiscal year 1994 (see individual discussions on funding in the individual DOT Program descriptions set forth in Section 2). These funds also may be allocated to finance portions of projects involving activities in more than one program area. Appropriations for fiscal year 1995, which begins October 1, 1994, are not expected to be enacted until September 1994, and it is not possible to verify the availability of follow-on funding at this time. However, it is anticipated that direct funding of all DOT national and community service Programs identified in this RFP may be available from DOT in future years. Depending on the nature of the proposal and the DOT Program to be implemented, it may be necessary for DOT funding to be given to State or local agencies, which will in turn pass the funding through to the service organization implementing the projects. DOT officials will advise and assist a service organization in arranging such coordination if its proposal is selected, and this coordination should not be viewed as an obstacle to the submission of an application at this time. Other restrictions on the use of Federal funds are discussed in Section 5.4 below. 5.2␣National Service Corporation Funding DOT will submit a multi-program application containing all of the selected proposals and related partnership agreements to the National Service Corporation in order to request funding for the remaining program costs that cannot be covered by direct funding from DOT and matching funds from the service organization. Any funding provided by the National Service Corporation will come from the funds earmarked for Federal agencies. Since there is no guarantee that DOT will receive funding from the National Service Corporation, a proposal accepted by DOT ultimately may not be fully funded or funded at all if DOT's request for funding from the National Service Corporation is not granted. 5.3␣Matching Funds Each selected applicant must provide matching funds equal to at least 25% of the cost of the program. Where authorized, other federal, state or local sources (not including funds provided directly by DOT or the National Service Corporation) may be counted as matching funds. In-kind contributions, including facilities, equipment, goods or services, may also be counted as matching funds. (In-kind contributions to be used as a match in more that one program must be divided between the programs in proportion to use.) Note that a preference will be given to proposals that provide the match through non-federal sources and matches that exceed the minimum match requirement. 5.4␣Restrictions on Use of Federal and Corporation Funds a. Restrictions on Benefits No more than 85% of the living stipend for participants may be paid from federal sources (including funds received from the National Service Corporation and any other federal funds received, including DOT funds). No more than 85% of the costs of the most affordable health care policy that provides minimum benefits may be paid from with National Service Corporation funds. Payment of the 15% of the living stipend from non-federal sources and 15% of health care benefits from non-Corporation sources will be included as part of the overall match for the program. b. Restrictions on Administrative Costs Not more than 5% of the National Service Corporation funds may be used to pay for administrative costs. Administrative costs are costs associated with the overall administration of the program. Such costs include the following: (1) Indirect costs (i.e., costs identified with two or more cost objectives but not identified with a particular cost objective) as described in applicable provisions of Office of Management and Budget Circulars that relate to indirect costs; (2) costs for financial, accounting, or contracting functions; (3) costs for insurance that protects the entity that operates the program; and (4) costs related to the evaluation of the program; and (5) costs for salaries and benefits of staff who recruit, train, place, or supervise participants. Particular costs such as those associated with staff who perform both administrative and program functions may be prorated between administrative costs and costs directly related to program operations. c. Restrictions on Equipment Purchases. Not more than 10% of National Service Corporation funds may be used to purchase equipment to be used for programmatic operation. d. Compliance with OMB Circulars Programs must comply with all applicable Office of Management and Budget circulars for grant management, including Circulars A&hyph;133, A&hyph;128 and A&hyph;110, and with all applicable Federal, State and local laws.
