FR940419-2-00023 FR940419-2-00017 Further information on general DOE floodplain environmental review requirements is available from: Ms. Carol M. Borgstrom, Director, Office of NEPA Oversight (EH&hyph;25), U.S. Department of Energy, 1000 Independence Avenue, SW., Washington, DC 20585, (202) 586&hyph;4600 or leave a message at (800) 472&hyph;2756. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: This is a Floodplain Statement of Findings for the proposed interim remedial action at WAG 5 at ORNL, prepared in accordance with 10 CFR part 1022. A Notice of Floodplain/Wetlands Involvement was published in the Federal Register [58 FR 51624 (October 4, 1993)] and a floodplain assessment was completed; no wetlands are involved in the proprosed action. DOE is proposing to capture and treat ground water that is emanating from Seep Area D as a means of reducing the amount of strontium-90 (90Sr) being discharged into Melton Branch, which contributes between 10 and 15 percent of the total amount of 90Sr that passes over White Oak Lake Dam and enters the Clinch River. The proposed action is comprised of the following three components: (1) A collection component consisting of a collection structure; (2) in-ground treatment component using pipelines to carry ground-water discharge to and from a treatment chamber for capture of the 90Sr in the ground-water discharge; and (3) a pumping and trucking component using a pipe transfer line to a truck transfer station for removal of ground-water discharge that has not been effectively treated for 90Sr removal. Proposed activities associated with the Seep Area D interim removal action would involve less than a quarter of an acre of the 100-year floodplain of White Oak Creek. The proposed action is not expected to adversely impact the floodplain or measurably change flood levels. Rather, the proposed action would have an overall positive effect on the environment and human health by reducing the amount of radioactive contaminants entering the riverine environment. The proposed activities associated with Seep Area D interim remedial action include extending an existing gravel road in the floodplain by about 150 feet to gain access to the seep area and installing a collection structure, a supply pipeline to, and discharge pipeline from, a treatment chamber located outside of the floodplain, a pipe transfer line to a truck transfer station also located outside of the floodplain, and a single power pole. During construction, a temporary dam, diversion pump, and flexible pipe would be installed in the floodplain to divert stream water around the construction site. The collection structure would consist of a gravel bed located under Melton Branch to intercept the ground-water discharge, a concrete cover to isolate the gravel bed from Melton Branch, and pumps and piping for transferring the discharge water to either the treatment chamber or truck transfer station. A different structure, but of similar design, would be installed if final field monitoring data indicate that such a structure would better divert and collect the ground-water discharge. Regardless of final design, the effects of any such structure on the floodplain would be negligible. Ground-water discharge in the seep area would be collected in the gravel bed and pumped either to the treatment chamber or a truck transfer station. The treatment chamber would contain an ion-exchange medium to remove 90Sr. (An ion-exchange medium is a chemical compound, such as zeolite, that selectively adsorbs 90Sr, thereby removing this radionuclide from the ground-water discharge.) Upon entering the treatment chamber, the ground-water discharge would pass through the ion-exchange medium and then be released to Melton Branch. Pumping to the truck transfer station would take place if the ion-exchange medium does not remove sufficient 90Sr (the criteria for removal has been established at 90 percent as measured from water samples taken from the treatment chamber supply and discharge pipelines). Tanker trucks would transfer the ground water from the storage tank to the ORNL Process Waste Treatment Plant for processing. The Process Waste Treatment Plant is an existing, permitted facility. The proposed action has been designed to avoid or minimize impacts to the floodplain; negligible adverse impacts to the floodplain are expected to occur as a result of taking the proposed action. Best management practices would be strictly adhered to for all proposed activities. Sediment control measures, such as silt fences and diversion ditches would be used. Excavated soil would be sampled to determine the level of contamination, if any. To minimize the possibility of any contaminated soil entering the nearby creeks, contaminated soil would be disposed of according to ORNL construction guidelines. Where possible, disturbed areas would be graded to preconstruction contours, seeded, and allowed to return to their natural state. Construction is estimated to take between 3 and 5 months. Construction activities would be scheduled during the dry season and would be substantially reduced and curtailed during unfavorable weather. Several alternatives to the proposed action were considered, including no action, in-ground treatment without a pipe transfer line to a truck transfer station, collection and transfer to the Process Waste Treatment Plant by tanker truck without in-ground treatment, collection and transfer to the Process Waste Treatment Plant by pipeline without in-ground treatment, and on-site treatment. The no-action alternative was deemed least desirable because of the release of 90 Sr from the seep area since continued release would not be protective of human health and the environment. The other alternatives were excluded on the basis of efficiency, implementability, and cost. Effects upon the floodplain would not be measurably reduced under any of the other alternatives to the proposed action. The proposed action has been designed to avoid or minimize impacts to the floodplain and no significant adverse impacts to the floodplain are expected to occur. The proposed action does conform to applicable State floodplain standards. DOE will endeavor to allow 15 days of public review after publication of the statement of findings prior to implementing the proposed action. James J. Fiore, Director, Office of Eastern Area Programs, Office of Environmental Restoration. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;9405 Filed 4&hyph;18&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6450&hyph;01&hyph;P
