FR941110-0-00160 FR941110-0-00016 Comment: One commenter stated that a facility's performance on surveys which were conducted prior to the effective date of this regulation should be counted in the determination of whether there is repeated noncompliance. Response: We agree with this comment. The survey process specified in the OBRA '87 provisions was effective for all surveys conducted on or after October 1, 1990. Even though the implementation of the corresponding enforcement provisions was not concurrent, any standard survey completed on or after October 1, 1990 must be considered in the determination of whether there is repeated noncompliance that resulted in substandard quality of care. Comment: One commenter suggested that to be consistent with the intent of the Act to have facilities maintain compliance, regulations should require that facilities maintain compliance with the deficient requirement after correction. The commenter recommended requiring termination if a facility corrects the deficiency, but then falls out of compliance with the same requirement during the same correction period. Response: The Act provides that when a facility has had findings of substandard quality of care on three consecutive standard surveys, the Secretary or the State must impose a denial of payment and a State monitor. In addition, sections 1819(h)(2)(E) and 1919(h)(2)(D) of the Act require that the denial of payment for new admissions and State monitor remedies must remain in force until the facility not only achieves substantial compliance but demonstrates that it can maintain substantial compliance. As we have explained earlier, substantial compliance constitutes compliance for the purpose of imposing or lifting a remedy, as well as issuing a certification of compliance. We do not foresee the situation described by the commenter as a problem. If a facility has corrected a deficiency, or is at least considered to be in substantial compliance, any remedy(ies) in effect would be lifted as well as compliance certified. We would not normally revisit a facility after compliance has been certified unless there is a complaint or some other impetus. If, at some later date after compliance has been certified, the facility is found to have a recurrence of the same deficiency that causes the facility to be out of substantial compliance, either a new continuation of payment period would begin, or termination (or cessation of FFP payments) would occur, depending on the seriousness of the noncompliance. However, any termination would be based on the fact that the facility was not in substantial compliance with sections 1819 (b), (c), and (d) and 1919 (b), (c), and (d) of the Act by the end of the correction period, and not on the fact that the noncompliance was repeated. We have not adopted the commenter's suggestion to terminate a facility solely on the basis of repeated noncompliance. Section 488.415␣Temporary Management Comment: One commenter asked that we clarify the term ``disciplinary action'' and state that the temporary manager must not have been found guilty of misconduct by any licensing board or professional society, and another commenter recommended that HCFA maintain a national registry of nursing home administrator disciplinary actions. Response: To avoid confusion surrounding the interpretation of ``disciplinary action,'' we will not use the term in the requirement at §488.415(b)(2) as we did in §488.215(b)(3) of the proposed rule. Instead, we are structuring the provision to read that the temporary manager must ``not have been found guilty of misconduct by any licensing board or professional society in any State.'' We agree that it may be beneficial to have a misconduct registry for nursing home administrators, and we intend to examine the feasibility of developing one. Comment: Many commenters recommended that we include requirements that the temporary manager must have had no adverse ties to the problem facility, and must not have been fired from the facility in the past. Another commenter proposed that we include a requirement that the temporary manager have had no business or professional relationship with the facility for a minimum of 3 years prior to his or her appointment to operate the facility. Response: We agree with the commenters that the individual chosen to be temporary manager must not have been recently employed by the facility to be managed. We believe that an individual's previous employment relationship with a facility could positively or negatively prejudice that individual in his or her present dealings with the facility. Therefore, we are incorporating into the regulation, at §488.415(b)(4), a requirement that the temporary manager must not currently serve, or, within the past 2 years, have served as a member of the staff of the noncompliant facility. This requirement is similar to the requirement for surveyors, which we believe is appropriate, since effective evaluation is a necessary tool of both surveyors and temporary managers and requires their objectivity.
