FR940711-1-00018 FR940711-1-00003 The Commission believes that utilities should retain the option of seeking recovery of stranded costs in rates for transmission services during the transition period, but only in the limited circumstance described. 43 The Commission is proposing this limitation in order to encourage utilities and their customers to negotiate stranded cost provisions in accordance with the other provisions of the proposed regulations. 43 See also, supra, n.1 (discussing transmitting utilities that are not public utilities). The Commission proposes to apply the above limitations on recovery of stranded costs in wholesale transmission rates to all utilities, whether or not they currently have on file transmission tariffs containing stranded cost provisions. 44 The Commission seeks comment on this proposal. 44 See, e.g., Entergy. Filings to recover stranded costs in transmission rates during the transition period will be permitted regardless of whether the service is voluntarily provided (under section 205 of the FPA pursuant to an open-access tariff, a tariff of general applicability or an individual contract) or mandated under section 211 of the FPA. However, the Commission invites public comment on the issue of whether stranded cost recovery should be different depending on whether transmission service is under section 205 or 211. As noted earlier, supra, section III.C., the proposed regulations allow utilities an opportunity to seek direct assignment of stranded costs to the departing wholesale customer. We request comment on whether, in lieu of direct assignment, utilities should be able to seek a general surcharge to all of their transmission customers to cover the costs stranded by a departing customer. 45 45 For example, the Commission followed this type of approach in Order No. 636 with respect to gas supply realignment charges. See Pipeline Service Obligations and Revisions to Regulations Governing Self-Implementing Transportation; and Regulation of Natural Gas Pipelines After Partial Wellhead Decontrol, 57 FR 13267 (Apr. 16, 1992), III FERC Stats. & Regs. Preambles ¶ 30,939 at 30,457&hyph;460 (Apr. 8, 1992), order on reh'g, Order No. 636&hyph;A, 57 FR 36128 (Aug. 12, 1992), III FERC Stats. & Regs. Preambles ¶ 30,950 (Aug. 3, 1992), order on reh'g, Order No. 636&hyph;B, 57 FR 57911 (Dec. 8, 1992), 61 FERC ¶ 61,272 (1992), appeal re-docketed sub nom., Atlanta Gas Light Company and Chattanooga Gas Company, et al. v. FERC, No. 94&hyph;1171 (D.C. Cir. May 27, 1994). The Commission does not in this proposed rulemaking address who will bear the stranded costs caused by a departing customer if the Commission finds that the utility had no reasonable expectation of continuing to serve that customer. Under the proposed rule, the costs cannot be recovered from the departing customer through transmission rates for that customer or through a unilateral exit fee amendment in that customer's power sales contract. We anticipate that in such a case a public utility will seek in subsequent requirements rate cases to have the costs reallocated among the remaining customers on its system. The Commission recognizes that stranded costs can occur when a customer fails to renew its requirements contract and, instead of obtaining unbundled transmission services from its former requirements supplier, obtains unbundled transmission services from another utility. We anticipate that in such a case any prudent costs that are stranded as a result of the customer's departure would be reallocated to remaining customers in the utility's next requirements rate case. This results in the departing customer bearing none of the costs which it may have caused to be stranded. We request comments on how the Commission should deal with such costs. 4. Filing Requirements for Wholesale Stranded Cost Recovery The Commission proposes to amend Part 35, Chapter I, Title 18 of the Code of Federal Regulations to establish filing requirements for public utilities (as defined in FPA section 201(e)) and transmitting utilities (as defined in FPA section 3(23)) that seek stranded cost recovery. Our view is that the only circumstance in which transmitting utilities that are not also public utilities may seek stranded cost recovery from this Commission is through rates for transmission services under FPA sections 211 and 212. The proposed regulations define ``wholesale stranded cost'' as ``any legitimate, prudent and verifiable cost incurred by a public utility or transmitting utility to provide service to a wholesale requirements customer that subsequently becomes, in whole or in part, an unbundled transmission customer of such public utility or transmitting utility.'' 46 46 In theory, a utility's stranded costs could include transmission and distribution facilities. However, when a customer switches from being a requirements customer and becomes a transmission service-only customer, the public utility or transmitting utility probably will continue to provide roughly equivalent amounts of transmission services and, if relevant, distribution services. Thus, the Commission's preliminary view is that stranded costs will primarily be related to power production, i.e., generation costs. The proposed regulations would permit a public utility or transmitting utility to seek recovery of wholesale stranded costs as follows. First, for stranded costs associated with new wholesale requirements contracts ( i.e., any wholesale requirements contract executed after the date that this order is published in the Federal Register ), the proposed regulations would allow recovery of stranded costs only if the contract explicitly provides for recovery of stranded costs. Second, for existing wholesale requirements contracts ( i.e., any wholesale requirements contract executed on or before the date that this order is published in the Federal Register ), the proposed regulations would specify that a utility may not recover stranded costs associated with such contract if recovery is explicitly prohibited by the contract (including associated settlements) or by any power sales or transmission tariff on file with the Commission. 47 47 See Maine Public Service Company, 61 FERC ¶ 61,319 (1992), reh'g denied, 62 FERC ¶ 61,226 (1993).
