FR941020-2-00064 FR941020-2-00038 6. Designs complex computer-based systems to improve efficiency of DCPEA operations and functions. Performs management analysis of requirements, workflow, work processes and writes specifications for computer systems needed to improve operations, work processes and tasks. 7. Provides day-to-day operational management and support services for the Office Support System (OSS), including minicomputers, network, communications and microcomputer operations. 8. Serves as DCPEA electronic mail administrator. 9. Maintains electronic gateways from OSS networks into Agency and non-SSA mainframe and other computer systems. Add Subchapter Subchapter S5J The Office of Public Inquiries S5J.00␣Mission S5J.10␣Organization S5J.20␣Functions Section S5J.00␣The Office of Public Inquiries_(Mission) The Office of Public Inquiries (OPI) provides a central receipt, control, acknowledgment, response, and referral program for all high-priority and other inquiries addressed to, or telephone calls directed to, SSA headquarters, the Commissioner or other SSA executives. The Office develops correspondence policy and procedure and guide language on recurring topics and issues for use throughout the Agency. Section S5J.10␣The Office of Public Inquiries_(Organization) OPI, under the leadership of the Director of the Office of Public Inquiries, includes: A. The Director of the Office of Public Inquiries (S5J). B. The Immediate Office of the Director of the Office of Public Inquiries (S5J). C. The Procedures, Appraisal and Systems Group (S5JA). D. The Correspondence Analysis and Response Group (S5JB). Section S5J.20␣The Office of Public Inquiries_(Functions) A. The Director of the Office of Public Inquiries (S5J) is directly responsible to the Deputy Commissioner, Policy and External Affairs (DCPEA), for carrying out OPI's mission and provides managerial direction to the major components of OPI. B. The Immediate Office of the Director of the Office of Public Inquiries (S5J) provides the Director with staff assistance on the full range of his/her responsibilities. C. The Procedures, Appraisal and Response Group (PARG) (S5JA) develops policy and procedures concerning the style, control, workflow and signature of correspondence, and disseminates the information to headquarters components. The Group performs a pre-release quality review of final replies prepared to OPI to ensure that they are well-written, accurate and responsive. The Group designs and oversees OPI's electronic correspondence management system and provides support to system users. The Group directs surveys and analyses to increase the effectiveness of the correspondence workflow process throughout SSA. D. The Correspondence Analysis and Response Group (CARG) (S5JB) processes all written and telephone inquiries received in OPI. The Group performs correspondence receipt, screening, imaging, routing and letterwriting functions. Identifies sensitive inquiries and trends. The Group receives and responds to telephone inquiries. Add Subchapter Subchapter S5K The Office of Disclosure Policy S5K.00␣Mission S5K.10␣Organization S5K.20␣Functions Section S5K.00␣The Office of Disclosure Policy_(Mission) The Office of Disclosure Policy (ODP) develops and interprets SSA policy governing requests for disclosure of information from SSA records made under the provisions of the Privacy Act and the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA).
