FR941110-2-00056 FR941110-2-00022 DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE Office of the Secretary of the Army Notice of Intent To Prepare a Draft Environmental Impact Statement (DEIS) for the Installation Operations and Master Plan Update, U.S. Army Aviation Center (USAAC) and Fort Rucker, Fort Rucker, Alabama AGENCY: Department of Army, DoD. ACTION: Notice of Intent. SUMMARY: The United States Army proposes to prepare a Draft Environmental Impact Statement (DEIS) for changes to the operation and ongoing mission of the U.S. Army Aviation Center and Fort Rucker, Alabama. The DEIS will identify and evaluate the environmental, social, and economic aspects of the installation operation, master planned component plans and their alternatives for the proposed changes to the ongoing mission and training activities of the USAAC and Fort Rucker. Alternatives to be evaluated include: a. No action. Installation ongoing operations, development and training would continue at current levels. b. Master plan and component plans would be implemented and current operations, development and training levels would be maintained. Construction listed in the master plan would be implemented. c. Master plan and component plans would be revised and expanded to support new and changing missions. Operations, development and training programs may be expanded. Construction above the level outlined in the master plan would be implemented as necessary to meet total requirements. The U.S. Army will conduct scoping meetings on or near Fort Rucker. As soon as dates and locations of the scoping meetings have been established, they will be published in local newspapers. The purpose of the meetings will be to gather information from the public about the issue they would like to see addressed in the DEIS. Comments may be made orally or in writing at the meetings. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION: Questions regarding this action may be directed to Mr. Larry Neal at (803) 234&hyph;3000 or at the following address: RUST Environment and Infrastructure Inc., ATTN: Mr. Larry Neal, Post Office Box 24000, Greenville, SC 29616. Dated: October 28, 1994. Lewis D. Walker, Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Army, Environment, Safety and Occupational Health, OASA(I,L&E). [FR Doc. 94&hyph;27784 Filed 11&hyph;9&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3710&hyph;08&hyph;M
