FR940503-2-00165 FR940503-2-00101 (h) Disseminate lessons learned to other schools participating in the program, and to others such as schools with similar needs in the project site State, institutions and organizations providing pre-service and in-service teacher development programs in the project site State, and other interested parties that could benefit from this information. Dissemination must begin while the project is in progress and use electronic as well as other forms of communication. Applicants may request Federal funding to support dissemination activities, including travel for dissemination, in amounts not to exceed 20% of the total Federal portion of the project budget. Projects must participate in meetings of the Eisenhower Program held annually in Washington, DC. Absolute Priority 2_Encouraging Female and Minority Students in Mathematics and Science The Secretary will support model projects designed to stimulate and sustain the interest and attainments of female and minority children in mathematics and science. Each project must: (a) Make use of research and the experience of projects that have achieved success in the area of the priority. (b) Collaborate in the planning and operation of the project with the State science teachers' association and/or the State mathematics teachers' association and with at least one other party such as a school, another educational institution, a local or state educational agency, a national education organization, a science-technology center, or private sector parties; and with these other parties, develop plans for continuing project activities after Federal support has ended. (c) Evaluate lessons learned from the project and use them to improve activities on a continuing basis. (d) Disseminate lessons learned to interested parties. Dissemination must begin while the project is in progress and use electronic as well as other forms of communication. (e) In the case of projects serving elementary and middle schools, increase teachers' own mastery of mathematics and science in order to increase their confidence and skill in teaching these subjects (including skills in providing hands-on learning). (f) Involve parents and community members as role models and/or mentors for female and minority children. Absolute Priority 3_Science-Based Teacher Professional Development in Environmental Education The Secretary will support model science-based professional development projects designed to improve student achievement in environmental education. Each project must: (a) Make use of research and the experience of projects that have achieved success in the area of the priority. (b) Collaborate in the planning and operation of the project with at least two other parties such as schools, other educational institutions, local or state educational agencies, national education organizations, science-technology centers, or private sector parties; with these other parties, develop plans for continuing project activities after Federal support has ended. (c) Use environmental education as a means to enhance students' interest, literacy, and achievement in science. (d) Increase teachers' own mastery of environmental issues, including related scientific issues. (e) Train teachers to develop varied learning experiences for students in environmental education that include field components and the study of individual themes, such as ecosystems (e.g., wetlands), the water cycle, and global climate change; and enable teachers to pilot-test these varied learning experiences with students. (f) Evaluate lessons learned from the project and use them to improve activities on a continuing basis. (g) Disseminate lessons learned to interested parties. Dissemination must begin while the project is in progress and use electronic as well as other forms of communication. Intergovernmental Review This program is subject to the requirements of Executive Order 12372 and the regulations in 34 CFR part 79. The objective of the Executive order is to foster an intergovernmental partnership and a strengthened federalism by relying on processes developed by State and local governments for coordination and review of proposed Federal financial assistance. In accordance with the order, this document is intended to provide final notification of the Department's specific plans and actions for this program. Applicable Program Regulations: 34 CFR part 755. Program Authority: 20 U.S.C. 2992. (Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance Number 84.168, Dwight D. Eisenhower National Program for Mathematics and Science Education) Dated: April 26, 1994. Sharon P. Robinson, Assistant Secretary, Office of Educational Research and Improvement. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;10483 Filed 5&hyph;2&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4000&hyph;01&hyph;P
