FR940628-2-00130 FR940628-2-00096 (iv) TAB 3_Program implementation plan (Tasks 1&hyph;4). Applicants must prepare a plan that describes clearly and in detail the strategy and structure for the implementation of all tasks within this NOFA: (A) The first year of project implementation, identifying: ( 1 ) Each task that will be initiated in the first year; ( 2 ) A plan to implement task 1, 3 and 4 throughout all of the below listed 11 designated housing authorities over the course of the five year strategy_Baltimore HA and Community Development, Baltimore, MD; Boston HA, Boston, MA; Chicago HA, Chicago, IL; Cuyahoga Metropolitan HA, Cleveland, OH; HA of the City of Los Angeles, Los Angeles, CA; Newark HA, Newark, NJ; HA of the City of Oakland, Oakland, CA; Philadelphia HA, Philadelphia, PA; Buffalo HA, Buffalo, NY; HA of the City of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA; and the HA of the City of Waterbury, Waterbury, CT. The plan must indicate where the tasks initiated in the first year will be carried out; and ( 3 ) A plan to implement Tasks 2, 3 and 4 for a minimum of 15 cities throughout all of the cities in the first year. ( 4 ) There must be a time-task plan which clearly identifies the major milestones and products, organizational responsibility, and schedule for the completion of activities and products. (v) TAB 3A_First year timetable. A timetable for the completion of each task initiated in the first year, which may extend beyond the first year. (vi) TAB 3B_Five year timetable. A timetable for initiation and completion of each remaining task over the five year period. (vii) TAB 4_Applicant's corporate qualifications. (A) Each applicant must fully describe its organizational structure, staff size, and prior experience in community policing and security issues in public housing and/or other programs designed to provide security to residents of public housing. Applicants must demonstrate that their organizational structure, staff size, and prior experience is sufficient to implement effectively a project of this size and scope. In addition, the applicant must demonstrate experience in conducting assessments of security/law enforcement in public housing; executive experience in managing and implementing accreditation of law enforcement agencies; and experience in technical physical security in both public housing and the private sector. (B) The plan must include an annotated organizational chart depicting the roles and responsibilities of key organizational and functional components and a list of key personnel responsible for managing and implementing the major elements of the program. (viii) TAB 5_Qualifications of the Program Staff. Applicant must fully describe the capabilities and work experience of all key staff who will be working on this project. Applicants must include a staffing plan to fulfill the requirements of the required tasks, including staff titles and the staff's related educational background, experience, and skills; and the time each will be required to contribute to the project. (ix) TAB 6_Representations, certifications, and other statements of the vendor. (A) Certification Regarding Federal Employment. (B) Certification of Procurement Integrity. (C) Certification and Disclosure Regarding Payments to Influence Certain Federal Transactions. (D) SF&hyph;LLL Disclosure of Lobbying Activities. (E) Certification Regarding Debarment, Suspension, Proposed Debarment, and other Responsibility Matters.
