FR940825-1-00020 FR940825-1-00002 Exception: A pressurized stairway system may be used where the ATCT is protected by an automatic sprinkler system or is provided with equivalent levels of protection established in this standard (e.g., fire resistance rated protectives, fire detection and alarm systems). (d) Pressurized Stairway Requirements. Smokeproof enclosures by stairway pressurization shall comply with the following: (1) the ATCT meets the other criteria established in this standard (e.g., fire resistance rated protectives, fire detection and alarm systems); and (2) the exist stairways are pressurized to a minimum of 0.15 inch of water column and a maximum of 0.35 inch of water column in the shaft relative to the building measured with all stairway doors closed under maximum anticipated stack pressures. 14. Exit Signs (a) Exists shall be marked by a readily visible sign. Access to exists shall be marked by readily visible signs in all cases where the exit or pathway to an exit is not immediately visible to the occupants. (b) Any door, passage, or stairway which is neither an exit nor a way of exit access, and which is so located or arranged as to be likely to be mistaken for an exit, shall be identified by a sign reading ``Not an Exit'' or similar designation, or shall be identified by a sign indicating its actual character, such as ``To Basement,'' ``Storeroom,'' ``Linen Closet,'' or the like. (c) Every required sign designating an exit or way of exit access shall be so located and of such size, color, and design as to be readily visible. No decorations, furnishings, or equipment which impair visibility of an exit sign shall be permitted, nor shall there be any brightly illuminated sign (for other than exit purposes), display, or object in or near the line of vision to the required exit sign of such a character as to so detract attention from the exit sign that it may not be noticed. (d) Lettering of exit signs shall be at least 6 inches high with the principal strokes of letters not less than three-fourths of an inch wide. (e) A sign reading ``Exit,'' or similar designation, with an arrow indicating the directions, shall be placed in every location where the direction(s) of travel to reach the nearest exit is not immediately apparent. (f) Every exit sign shall be suitably illuminated by a reliable light source of not less than 5 foot-candles, either internally or externally, on the illuminated surface. Exception: Approved internally illuminated signs which evenly illuminate letters shall have a minimum luminance of 0.06 foot lambert. 15. Illumination of Means of Egress (a) An emergency lighting system for means of egress shall be provided for every ATCT facility. (b) In the absence of an emergency lighting system consisting of a prime mover-operated electric generator, electric battery-operated emergency lights shall be used which comply fully with the National Electrical Code, NFPA 70. (c) Illumination of means of egress shall be continuous during the time the ATCT is occupied. (d) The floors throughout the means of egress shall have an illumination of not less than 1 footcandle. (e) Any required illumination shall be arranged so that failure of any single lighting unit will not leave any area in total darkness. 16. Emergency Power Requirements (a) ATCTs more than 75 feet high shall have stand-by power in accordance with NFPA 70_National Electrical Code and NFPA 110_Emergency Standby Power Systems, Class I, Type 60 for the emergency lighting, automatic fire alarm system, electrical fire pump, central control station, mechanical equipment for smokeproof enclosures, and at least one elevator serving all floors except the cab which is transferable to any elevator. (b) ATCTs less than 75 feet shall have emergency power for emergency lighting, automatic fire alarm systems, and mechanical equipment for smokeproof enclosures. Exception: In existing ATCTs, emergency power to elevators is not required provided the ATCT meets the other criteria established in this standard (e.g., fire resistance rated protectives, fire detection and alarm systems). 17. Fire Escape Ladders and Exterior Stairs (a) Fire escape ladders and exterior stairs shall not constitute any of the required means of egress in ATCTs. (b) Although this standard contains provisions for fire escape ladders and exterior stairs on ATCTs, it does not recommend their use for several primary reasons: (1) possible icing in cold conditions; (2) fear of height by users; (3) poor condition due to low maintenance; (4) lack of protection from smoke and fire; (5) lack of appropriate fall protection; and (6) slow descent rate of users. (c) Fire Escape Ladders. (1) Fire escape ladders shall be permitted to be used only under the following conditions:
