FR940906-2-00115 FR940906-2-00083 (e) Provide, in cooperation with other Federal agencies, the personnel and equipment needed to perform radiological monitoring and assessment activities; (f) Request supplemental assistance and technical support from other Federal agencies as needed; and (g) Arrange consultation and support services through appropriate Federal agencies to all other entities (e.g., private contractors) with radiological monitoring functions and capabilities, and technical and medical advice on handling radiological contamination. (2) Transition of Response Coordination Responsibility. The DOE FRMAC Director will work closely with the Senior EPA representative to facilitate a smooth transition of the Federal radiological monitoring and assessment coordination responsibility to EPA at a mutually agreeable time and after consultation with the States and LFA. The following conditions are intended to be met prior to this transfer: (a) The immediate emergency condition has been stabilized; (b) Offsite releases of radioactive material have ceased, and there is little or no potential for further unintentional offsite releases; (c) The offsite radiological conditions have been characterized and the immediate consequences have been assessed; (d) An initial long-range monitoring plan has been developed in conjunction with the affected States and appropriate Federal agencies; and (e) EPA has received adequate assurances from the other Federal agencies that they will commit the required resources, personnel, and funds for the duration of the Federal response. b. Role of the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). (1) Prior to assuming responsibility for the FRMAC, EPA will provide resources, including personnel, equipment, and laboratory support (including mobile laboratories), to assist DOE in monitoring radioactivity levels in the environment. (2) Assume coordination of Federal radiological monitoring and assessment responsibilities from DOE after the transition. (3) Assist in the development and implementation of a long-term monitoring plan. (4) Provide nationwide environmental monitoring data from the Environmental Radiation Ambient Monitoring Systems for assessing the national impact of the accident. c. Role of the Lead Federal Agency (LFA). (1) Approve the release of official Federal offsite monitoring data and assessments to the State. (2) Provide other available radiological monitoring data to the State and to the FRMAC. d. Role of Other Federal Agencies. Agencies carrying out responsibilities related to radiological monitoring and assessment during a Federal response also will coordinate their activities with FRMAC. This coordination will not limit the normal working relationship between a Federal agency and its State counterparts nor restrict the flow of information from that agency to the States. The radiological monitoring and assessment responsibilities of the other Federal agencies include: (1) Department of Agriculture (USDA). (a) Inspect meat and meat products, poultry and poultry products, and egg products identified for interstate and foreign commerce to assure that they are safe for human consumption. (b) Assist, in conjunction with HHS, in monitoring the production, processing, storage, and distribution of food through the wholesale level to eliminate contaminated product or to reduce the contamination in the product to a safe level. (c) Collect agricultural samples within the Ingestion Exposure Pathway Emergency Planning Zone. Assist in the evaluation and assessment of data to determine the impact of the emergency on agriculture. (2) Department of Commerce (DOC). (a) Prepare operational weather forecasts tailored to support emergency response activities. (b) Prepare and disseminate predictions of plume trajectories, dispersion, and deposition. (c) Archive, as a special collection, the meteorological data from national observing systems applicable to the monitoring and assessment of the response.
