FR941206-1-00041 FR941206-1-00007 V. Decision Process for NESHAP Development A. Source of Authority for NESHAP Development B. Criteria for Development of NESHAP VI. Rationale A. Selection of Pollutants and Source Category B. Selection of Emission Points C. Selection of Proposed Emission Limits D. Selection of Format of Proposed Emission Limits E. Selection of Work Practice Standards F. Pollution Prevention Considerations G. Selection of Compliance and Monitoring Requirements H. Selection of Reporting and Recordkeeping Requirements I. Small Business Considerations J. Selection of Definition of Source K. Relationship Between General Provisions and Proposed Rule L. Relationship Between Operating Permit Program and Proposed Rule M. Solicitation of Comments VII. Other Considerations VIII. Administrative Requirements A. Public Hearing B. Docket C. Executive Order 12866 D. Paperwork Reduction Act E. Regulatory Flexibility Act F. Miscellaneous G. Statutory Analysis The proposed regulatory text is not included in this Federal Register notice but is available in Docket No. A&hyph;93&hyph;10 (see ADDRESSES ). The proposed regulatory language is also available on the Technology Transfer Network (TTN), one of EPA's electronic bulletin boards. The TTN provides information and technology exchange in various areas of air pollution control. The service is free, except for the cost of a phone call. Dial (919) 541&hyph;5742 for up to a 14,400 bps modem. If more information on TTN is needed call the HELP line at (919) 541&hyph;5384. I. Background A. Regulatory Background The proposed rule represents the EPA's first comprehensive regulation of the wood furniture (surface coating) category. No Federal rules, such as new source performance standards (NSPS), have previously been promulgated for this industry. In 1990, the Clean Air Act was amended; two titles of the 1990 Amendments affect wood furniture manufacturers, prompting regulation of this industry. Title III of the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990 was enacted to help reduce the increasing levels of nationwide air toxics emissions. Under Title III, section 112 of the Act was amended to give the EPA the authority to establish national standards to reduce air toxics from sources that emit such pollutants. Section 112(b) contains a list of the HAP that are the specific air toxics to be regulated by national emission standards for hazardous air pollutants (NESHAP). Section 112(c) directs the EPA to use this pollutant list to develop and publish a list of source categories (industries) for which NESHAP will be developed. This list of source categories was published in the Federal Register on July 16, 1992 (57 FR 31576) and includes a category for major sources entitled wood furniture (surface coating). Therefore, the proposed standards regulate emissions of HAP from new and existing wood furniture (surface coating) operations located at major sources. A major source of HAP emissions is one that emits or has the potential to emit, considering controls, greater than 9.1 megagrams per year (Mg/yr) (10 tons per year [tons/yr]) of any one HAP or 22.7 Mg/yr (25 tons/yr) of multiple HAP. The control of HAP is to be achieved through promulgation of emission standards under sections 112(d) and 112(f) and design, equipment, work practice, or operational standards under section 112(h) for categories of sources that emit HAP. The EPA began the wood furniture NESHAP development process (described in section V of this preamble) in November 1990. During the information gathering stage, the EPA surveyed more than 850 facilities in the wood furniture industry in order to assess the many differences in operations and potential control techniques across the industry.
