FR940228-1-00162 FR940228-1-00010 •The statutory mandates requiring pro rata refund should be viewed as a limitation and not as an example for the purposes of Title IV refund only. [Kansas City] VI. Student Consumerism Requirements A. Under section 485(a), additional provisions have been added to the list of information an institution must disclose, upon request, to students and prospective students as part of the student consumerism requirements. The institution's refund policy must identify that refunds will be credited in the following order: (a) To outstanding balances on Federal Family Education Loans; (b) To outstanding balances on Federal Direct Loans; (c) To outstanding balances on Federal Perkins Loans; (d) To awards under Federal Pell Grants program; (e) To awards under Federal SEOG program; (f) To awards under Federal Work Study program; (g) To other Title IV assistance; and (h) To the student. Issues that the community was asked to address and the community's views: 1. Should regulations require institutions to publicize how refunds will be processed and what refunds students are entitled to receive in the event that the institution closes? •Regulations should require institutions to publicize how refunds will be processed and what funds students are entitled to receive in the event the institution closes. [Kansas City] •Institutions should not have to publicize how refunds will be processed and what funds students are entitled to receive in the event the institution closes. This is not a consumer information issue. This is information to be disbursed if the institution closes. Information should be available to students upon request. A statement could be put in the catalog that will lead the student to ask relevant questions. The Department should work with State Agencies to develop plans that should be made available to students on request. There is very little probability that certain strong institutions will close. All institutions should not be required to disclose this. [San Francisco, Atlanta] 2. Should consumer information address teachouts or other State or accrediting agency mandated requirements to protect student consumers in the case of school closure? •Consumer information should not address teachouts or other state or accrediting agency mandated requirements to protect student consumers in the case of institution closure. [Kansas City, Atlanta] 3. Should institutional discretion be permitted when determining the order in which loan funds under the FFEL program are returned? •Institutional discretion should be permitted when determining the order in which loan funds under the FFEL program are returned. [Kansas City, San Francisco, Atlanta] 4. Should guarantee and origination fees be included in the refund to totally pay off a FFEL program loan? •Guaranty and origination fees should not be included in the refund to totally payoff an FFEL program loan. [Kansas City] •Guaranty and origination fees should be included in the refund to totally payoff an FFEL program loan. [Atlanta] •The full amount should be included in the refund as a deterrent to default on the small remaining amount. This should be done at the institution's discretion. Institutions should not be required to pay back money they have not received, i.e., guaranty and origination fees. Institution should be permitted to include these fees if they choose. [San Francisco] 5. How should the guaranty agencies monitor students to ensure that multiple FFEL funds are treated as one for the purposes of billing and deferments from one lender? •Guaranty agency monitoring of students to ensure that multiple FFEL funds are treated as one for the purpose of billing and deferments from one lender should be handled under the FFEL program. This is not a consumer information issue. [Kansas City, San Francisco] •Guaranty agency monitoring of students to ensure that multiple FFEL funds are treated as one for the purpose of billing and deferments from one lender should be done through the National Student Loan Data Bank. Agencies should identify all loans obtained through that agency. [Atlanta] VII. Institutional Eligibility and Certification Procedures_Part H, Subpart 3 A. Section 498(a), (b), and (f) of the HEA establish application requirements and procedures for the Secretary to use to determine an institution's legal authority to operate within a State, accreditation, financial responsibility, and administrative capability.
