FR940603-1-00171 FR940603-1-00009 You are requested to amend the Construction Contract between the undersigned Contractor and you, as Owner, dated XXXX for the above Project, so that, notwithstanding any provision of the Construction Contract to the contrary, the Owner shall make payment to the Contractor of ninety (90%) percent of the invoice cost to the Contractor of the following equipment or materials delivered to the site of the Project but not installed: ␣ 1Item of equipment or materials 1No. of items 1Invoice price 2Per item 2Extended price 3Total 390% ␣ l l l l Total Amount of Amendment XXXX A. The Contractor warrants that the above equipment and materials are: 1. Actually on the site of the Project and will remain thereon until installed in the Project. 2. To be incorporated into the Project not sooner than sixty (60) days after the date of this request. 3. In conformance with specifications and not in excess of the quantity required for the Project. 4. Properly stored and protected from weather, theft and other hazards. 5. Capable of being easily inventoried as to the original quantity as well as the quantity remaining each month. B. The Contractor agrees to furnish to the Owner releases of liens properly executed by suppliers for the delivered equipment and materials upon which payment is being made. C. If the Owner accepts and the Administrator approves this Amendment, the Owner agrees to make payment to the Contractor within thirty (30) days after such approval by the Administrator, provided the Contractor shall have theretofore furnished to the Owner the releases of liens required pursuant to Section B of this Amendment. There shall be deducted, on account of such payment, from any amount which may be due the Contractor pursuant to estimates computed in accordance with the provisions of Article III, section 1 (a) of the Construction Contract an amount equal to the invoice cost to the Contractor of equipment and materials paid for pursuant to this Amendment and installed by the Contractor during the period to which the estimate relates. D. Upon the making of payment hereunder, the title to the equipment and materials in respect of which payment is made shall pass to the Owner, but the risk of loss shall be borne by the Contractor until completion of construction as provided in Article IV, Section I of the Construction Contract. Sincerely yours, Contractor: XXXX By: XXXX Agreed to: XXXX (Surety) By: XXXX (Attorney in Fact) Date: XXXX Accepted subject to the approval of the Administrator: Owner: XXXX By: XXXX (President) Date: XXXX [End of clause] §1726.351 Electric system construction contract (labor and materials), REA Form 830. The contract form in this section shall be used when required by this part. This form refers to guide drawings, which do not contain requirements, and, hence, are not included in this part. The guide drawings are included in the printed form available from GPO (See §1726.300.). Electric System Construction Contract (Labor and Materials) Notice And Instructions To Bidders 1. Sealed proposals for the construction, including the supply of necessary labor, materials and equipment, of a rural electric project of XXXX (hereinafter called the ``Owner'') to be known as XXXX Project will be received by the Owner on or before XXXX o'clock XXXX M., XXXX , 19 XXXX , at its office at XXXX at which time and place the proposals will be publicly opened and read. Any proposals received subsequent to the time specified will be promptly returned to the Bidder unopened. 2. Description of Project: The Project will consist of approximately: Overhead Distribution Line Construction XXXX miles of XXXX kV Single Phase Lines
