FR940922-1-00037 FR940922-1-00008 Even though the UAM analyses for purposes of the attainment demonstrations are not yet complete, EPA believes certain conclusions can now be drawn about the outcome with respect to transport. The episodes selected for these UAM analyses were chosen on the basis of high observed ozone concentrations. In other words, the prevailing meteorological conditions on these days were right for ozone formation. These episodes correspond with wind trajectory information that indicates a large impact from emissions transported across the region. These wind trajectories will therefore also be used in the ROM analyses to generate the boundary conditions for feedback into the UAM analyses. These UAM analyses are the basis for the attainment demonstrations for the OTR, and they are therefore likely to indicate that regional controls are critical to demonstrating attainment for the four UAM domains. An additional source of specific information about transport along the urban corridor is the calculation of boundary conditions for Washington/Baltimore, Philadelphia, New York and New England for July 7, 1988. 31 This is the only day subject to modeling in all four UAM domains in the OTR. Estimates of the surface winds for this day are consistently from the south-southwest for all four domains. Both predicted and observed values for the boundary conditions for the UAM domains are above or approaching the level of the NAAQS (120 ppm). And the modeled values show a clear tendency to increase moving northeast along the corridor, thus supporting the conclusion that the emissions accumulate as they are transported up the corridor. 31 Washington D.C. and Baltimore are combined in a single modeling domain. In addition, EPA has analyzed days selected for UAM modeling in any of the four domains for which calculated ROM surface wind trajectories were from the west or northwest. For most of these days, predicted and observed boundary conditions are on the order of 50&hyph;90 ppb with one exception on June 22, 1988 for New York. The data for the day with higher boundary conditions are presented in the following table. The mean values in the table represent the concentrations averaged for several monitors near the boundary of the modeling domain. The maximum (max.) values are the highest observations made in the vicinity of the boundary. Table 1._ Observed Upwind Boundary Conditions for New York on June 22, 1988.1 1Time of day 1Observed ozone, (ppb) ``Mean/Max.'' 1000&hyph;1200 79/94 1600&hyph;1800 111/142 1000&hyph;1800 average 101/124 1The table is derived from information presented in Possiel, N. and R. Wayland, Preliminary Evaluation of ROM for Estimating UAM Boundary Concentrations, (SRAB, TSD, OAQPS Internal Report)(April 1994). Predicted ozone values at the western boundary of the domain for this day are also on the order of 100 ppb. On this day, the ROM trajectories indicate light surface winds prevailed. The data in the table support the conclusion that these high boundary conditions result at least in part from long range transport from the western and northwestern OTR. This, together with all the other information available, further supports the conclusion that controls in the western and northwestern portions of the OTR are necessary for attainment throughout the region. Finally, EPA has compiled back-trajectories calculated from ROM for each of the four UAM domains for all days selected for modeling. The results generally support the conclusion that surface winds from the south through west-southwest and winds aloft from the northwest to south-southwest transport pollutants across the OTR. This, together with all of the other available information, supports EPA's conclusion that large emission reductions in NO X in both the northeast urban corridor and upwind areas located to the far south-through-northwest of the nonattainment areas in the urban corridor are necessary, and that large emissions reductions in VOC at least in and near the urban corridor are necessary. In sum, EPA analyzed ozone monitoring data, wind trajectory data, and information derived from several analytical techniques and modeling studies. All of these analyses in combination lead EPA to conclude that large scale regional transport is a critical component of the ozone nonattainment problem in the OTR. It is clear that to reach attainment in the northeast urban corridor, the nonattainment areas themselves will have to implement very extensive emission control programs for NO X and VOC to counteract their contribution to ozone violations in their immediate areas and further downwind toward the northeast. Also, EPA believes, based on best current information, that large reductions in NO X emissions are necessary throughout areas located from the south through the west and northwest, and that large VOC reductions are necessary for at least the urban portions of the OTR. (c) Analysis of Inventory and Options for Control Measures Having assessed the magnitude of reductions needed throughout the OTR, the next step in EPA's analysis is to assess the options available for achieving the necessary 50% to 75% reductions in NO X across the OTR and in VOC for the urban parts of the OTR. In doing so, EPA first assessed the best available information about the inventory of emissions across the OTR. Then EPA proceeded to consider various potential control measures to reduce these emissions by the necessary amount. As discussed above in section IV.A.1. and in the April 26 notice, EPA considered options that are at least potentially reasonable and practicable in light of the OTC LEV program. Based on this analysis, EPA believes that no combination of potentially reasonable and practicable controls on large and small stationary point sources, area sources, highway vehicles, offroad mobile sources, and fuels will be sufficient to achieve the necessary reductions without more stringent standards for new motor vehicles. And the only option legally available to the states for achieving the necessary further reductions from new motor vehicles is the OTC LEV program. i. Inventory Analysis The table below presents OTR-wide NO X and VOC emission estimates for 2005. This information was derived from the 1990 interim regional inventory EPA is currently using in the ROM analyses discussed above to support UAM modeling for SIP attainment demonstrations. 32,33 These figures reflect the net effect of growth and control programs projected from 1990. As discussed above in section IV.A.2., EPA's conclusions regarding the percent reductions in NO X and VOC emissions are based on modeling which used the 1985 NAPAP emissions inventory. However, as stated above, EPA believes that the amount of reductions necessary from the 1990 baseline are comparable to, or perhaps greater than the reductions from the 1985 inventory. This means that controls must counteract growth in emissions to produce a reduction from the emissions levels in 1990 of at least 50&hyph;75%. Inventories reflecting growth and controls need to be compared to the approximate reduction targets to fully evaluate the need for a LEV program. The table below indicated that light-duty vehicles (and mobile sources in general) represent a substantial portion of the OTR inventory for both NO X and VOCs, even after accounting for implementation of all controls in the year 2005 explicitly required in the Act. 32,33 See E.H. Pechan & Associates, Regional Interim Emission Inventories (1987&hyph;1991), Volume I: Development Methodologies, Prepared under EPA contract 68&hyph;D2&hyph;159, Work Assignment No. 13 (May 1993).
