FR940607-1-00024 FR940607-1-00004 Comment is solicited as to whether it is now desirable for the Commission to adopt rules or exercise definitional authority under the Exchange Act or Trust Indenture Act to increase the number of issuers with debt securities traded in the OTC market that would be subject to periodic reporting. For example, are periodic reports needed for companies that have issued debt securities but subsequently suspended their reporting obligations pursuant to Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act? Comment also is solicited as to whether, even in the absence of a registered offering, an issuer of debt securities should be subject to an Exchange Act reporting obligation, similar to the provisions governing the registration of equity under Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act. If such reporting obligations are needed, should the thresholds be based upon the total dollar amount of debt securities outstanding, the number of record or beneficial holders, and/or other criteria? If the number of holders, comment is solicited as to the appropriate threshold number of holders (i.e., 300, 500, or some greater or lesser number)? Comment is solicited as to how the number of holders should be calculated for these purposes. 46 Comment also is solicited as to whether the total amount of registered debt securities outstanding of an issuer should be viewed as one class in determining whether the threshold is met. 46 Where securities have been issued in book-entry form and held by the Depository Trust Company (``DTC''), the staff has taken the position that DTC participants should be included in the calculation of the total number of record holders. See, CFAC Remic Trust 1989&hyph;A (available March 30, 1990). II. Request for Comment Any interested persons wishing to submit written comments on the proposed rules and amendments, as well as any other matters that might have an impact on the proposals set forth in the release are requested to do so. Comments are requested on the impact of the proposals on issuers, debtholders, broker-dealers, and others. The Commission also requests comment on whether the proposals, if adopted, would have an adverse effect on competition that is neither necessary nor appropriate in furthering the purposes of the Exchange Act. Comments will be considered by the Commission in complying with its responsibilities under Section 23(a) of the Exchange Act. 47 47 15 U.S.C. 78w(a). III. Cost-Benefit Analysis To assist the Commission in its evaluation of the costs and benefits that may result from the proposals, commenters are requested to provide views and data relating to any costs and benefits associated with these proposals. The proposals are expected to decrease the net costs to issuers associated with listing debt securities on a national securities exchange, without materially diminishing the benefits to investors. Among other matters, the proposals would exempt the class of debt securities from the restrictions on borrowing and the proxy rules. The costs to investors associated with these proposed rules and revisions are minimal. Currently, an issuer is not required to register debt securities under the Exchange Act in order for those securities to be traded in the OTC market. By reducing the regulatory costs of listing debt on a national securities exchange, it is expected that more issuers will list such securities and thus register under the Exchange Act. IV. Summary of Initial Regulatory Flexibility Analysis An Initial Regulatory Flexibility Analysis has been prepared in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 603 for the proposed rule and amendments to Rule 12b&hyph;7, 12d1&hyph;2, and Form 8&hyph;A. The analysis notes that the proposals are expected to reduce regulatory costs for small entities. As discussed more fully in the analysis, the proposed changes would affect persons that are small entities, as defined by the Commission's rules. The exemptions provided by Rule 3a12&hyph;11 and revisions to Rules 12b&hyph;7, 12d1&hyph;2, and Form 8&hyph;A are expected to decrease the compliance burdens of small entities. Commenters are encouraged to comment on any aspect of the analysis. Such comments will be considered in the preparation of the Final Regulatory Flexibility Analysis if the proposed rule and amendments are adopted. A copy of the analysis may be obtained by contacting Joseph P. Babits, Office of Disclosure Policy, Division of Corporation Finance, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549.
