FR940404-2-00172 FR940404-2-00092 United States Delegation to the International Tropical Timber Council Fourteenth Session and Permanent Committees Twelfth Session International Tropical Timber Organization (ITTO), Kuala Lumpur, May 11&hyph;19, 1993 Representative Milton Drucker, Deputy Director, Office of International Commodities, Bureau of Economic and Business Affairs, Department of State Alternate Representatives Stephanie Caswell, Office of the Environment, Bureau of Oceans and International Environmental and Scientific Affairs, Department of State Duane E. Sams, Director of Commodity Policy, Office of the United States Trade Representative, Executive Office of the President Advisers David Harcharik, United States Forest Service, Department of Agriculture Michael Hicks, Foreign Agricultural Service, Department of Agriculture Michael Martin, United States Forest Service, Department of Agriculture Kathy McNamara, Office of Machinery, Machinery, and Chemicals, Department of Commerce Private Sector Advisers Mark Dillenbeck, World Conservation Union, Washington, DC Frank Sheridan, International Hardwood Products Association, Mineola, New York United States Delegation to the Working Group on Accounting Standards Committee on International Investment and Multinational Enterprises (CIME) Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) Paris, May 18&hyph;19, 1993 Representative Richard J. Reinhard, Assistant Chief Accountant, Securities and Exchange Commission Private Sector Adviser H. John Dirks, Partner, Price Waterhouse, San Francisco, California United States Delegation to the Maritime Safety Committee (MSC) 62nd Session International Maritime Organization (IMO) London, May 24&hyph;28, 1993 Representative A.E. Henn, Rear Admiral, Chief, Office of Marine Safety, Security and Environmental Protection, United States Coast Guard, Department of Transportation Alternate Representative Joseph J. Angelo, Associate Program Director, Office of Marine Safety, Security and Environmental Protection, United States Coast Guard, Department of Transportation Congressional Staff Adviser David K. Honness, Jr., Professional Staff, Subcommittee on Merchant Marine, Committee on Merchant Marine and Fisheries, United States House of Representatives Advisers Joseph E. Baggett, Captain, Deputy Department of Defense Representative for Ocean Policy Affairs, Office of the Judge Advocate General, Department of the Navy John M. Holmes, Commander, Compliance and Enforcement Branch, United States Coast Guard, Department of Transportation Edward J. LaRue, Chief, Navigational Rules and Information Branch, United States Coast Guard, Department of Transportation John F. McGowan, Captain, Chief, Marine Vessel Personnel Division, United States Coast Guard, Department of Transportation Marjorie Murtagh, Chief, Fire Protection Section, Marine Technical and Hazardous Materials Division, United States Coast Guard, Department of Transportation George Reagle, Office of Surface Transportation Safety, National Transportation Safety Board, Department of Transportation Private Sector Advisers Joseph J. Cox, Vice President, American Institute of Merchant Shipping, Washington, DC Robert Somerville, President, American Bureau of Shipping, New York, New York
