FR941117-0-00072 FR941117-0-00011 (c) Contain all information required by FCC rules or application forms; (d) Propose operation of a facility in compliance with all rules governing the Public Mobile service; (e) Be amended as necessary to remain substantially accurate and complete in all significant respects, in accordance with the provisions of §1.65 of this chapter; and, (f) Be signed in accordance with §1.743 of this chapter. §22.108 Parties to applications. Each application for an authorization, assignment of authorization, or for consent to transfer of control in the Public Mobile Service must disclose fully the real party or parties in interest to the application. Such disclosure must include: (a) A list of the applicant's subsidiaries, if any. For the purposes of this section, a subsidiary is any business for which the applicant or any officer, director, stockholder or key manager of the applicant owns 5% or more of the stock, warrants, options or debt securities. This list must include a description of each subsidiary's principal business and relationship to the applicant. (b) A list of the applicant's affiliates, if any. For the purposes of this section, an affiliate is: (1) Any business that holds a 5% or more interest in the applicant; or, (2) Any business in which a 5% or more interest is held by a business that also holds a 5% or more interest in the applicant. (c) A list of the names, addresses, citizenship and principal business of any person holding 5% or more of each class of stock, warrants, options or debt securities of the applicant, indicating the amount and percentage held, and providing the name, address, citizenship and principal place of business of any person, if other than the holder, for whose benefit such interest is held. If any such persons are related by blood or marriage, the relationship must be disclosed. (d) For initial cellular applications, the name and address of each partner, his or her citizenship and the share or interest participation in the partnership. This information must be provided for all partners, regardless of their respective ownership interests in the partnership. A signed and dated copy of the partnership agreement must be included in the application. See §22.953(a)(5)(v). §22.115 Content of applications. Applications must contain all applicable information requested on the standard form and any additional information required by the rules in this part. (a) The following requirements are common to all Public Mobile Services: (1) Site availability. At the time of filing, applicants must have obtained reasonable assurance that all antenna sites specified in their applications are available for the proposed use. (2) Antenna structure drawing. Applications proposing a new antenna structure or a change in the overall height of an existing antenna structure must contain a vertical profile drawing of the antenna structure. (Applications proposing to use an existing structure, without changing the overall height of the structure, need not contain a drawing.) If appropriate, the standard drawings on Schedule F of FCC Form 401 should be used to satisfy this requirement. Otherwise, the applicant may submit an exhibit containing the required drawing. The drawing must be labeled to show the overall structure height including appurtenances, the height of the tip(s) of the proposed antenna(s), the height of any supporting building (or other man-made structure other than an antenna tower), and the ground elevation. Heights must be given in meters above ground level (AGL) and meters above mean sea level (AMSL). The ground elevation must be given in meters AMSL. (3) FAA notification. Before construction of new antenna structures or increases in the height of existing structures is authorized by the FCC, a Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) determination of No Hazard to Air Navigation may be required. To apply for this determination, applicants must notify the FAA of the planned construction. Criteria used to determine whether FAA notification is required for a particular antenna structure are contained in part 17, subpart B of this chapter. Applications proposing a new antenna structure or an increase in the height of an existing antenna structure must state whether FAA notification is required. If available, a copy of the FAA determination should be included in the application. If FAA notification is required, but the FAA determination is not available at the time the application is filed, the application must include the following information in regard to the FAA notification: the name of the person that submitted the notification, the date the notification was submitted, and the location of the FAA office to which the notification was submitted. (4) Antenna locations. Applications for stations at fixed locations must describe each transmitting antenna site by its geographical coordinates and also by its street address, or by reference to a nearby landmark. Geographical coordinates must be specified in degrees, minutes, and seconds to the nearest second of latitude and longitude. Note to paragraph (a)(4) of §22.115: The FAA has announced that effective October 15, 1992, it will use geographic coordinates based on the 1983 North American Datum (NAD83). Until further notice, however, the FCC will continue to use geographical coordinates based the 1927 North American Datum (NAD27). Applicants may supply geographical coordinates based on NAD83 in addition to those required (NAD27). (5) Environmental concerns. Each applicant is required to indicate at the time its application is filed whether or not an FCC grant of the application may have a significant environmental effect, as defined by §1.1307 of this chapter. If answered affirmatively, an Environmental Assessment, required by §1.1311 of this chapter, must be filed with the application and environmental review by the FCC must be completed prior to construction.
