FR940428-2-00018 FR940428-2-00013 D. The Secretary's Determination The Secretary has carefully reviewed the plan submitted by the SEA. Based upon that review, the Secretary has determined that the conditions under section 459 of GEPA have been met. In particular, with respect to correcting the practices that led to the audit determination, the SEA has demonstrated that its system of internal controls has been greatly strengthened and that recently adopted policies and procedures governing the distribution of grant funds should prevent recurrence of the fraudulent activities that precipitated this case. Arizona has also criminally prosecuted the former Deputy Superintendent as well as the principal vendor involved in the scheme to misappropriate Chapter 2 funds. This determination is based upon the best information available to the Secretary at the present time. If this information is not accurate or complete, the Secretary is not precluded from taking appropriate administrative action. In finding that the conditions of section 459 of GEPA have been met, the Secretary makes no determination concerning any pending audit recommendations or final audit determinations. E. Notice of the Secretary's Intent To Enter Into a Grantback Arrangement Section 459(d) of GEPA requires that, at least 30 days before entering into an arrangement to award funds under a grantback, the Secretary must publish in the Federal Register a notice of intent to do so, and the terms and conditions under which the payment will be made. In accordance with section 459(d) of GEPA, notice is hereby given that the Secretary intends to make funds available to the Arizona SEA under a grantback arrangement. The grantback award would be in the amount of $438,750, which is 75 percent of the Chapter 2 funds recovered by the Department as a result of the audit. F. Terms and Conditions Under Which Payments Under a Grantback Arrangement Would Be Made The SEA agrees to comply with the following terms and conditions under which payment under a grantback arrangement would be made: (1) The funds awarded under the grantback must be spent in accordance with_ (a) All applicable statutory and regulatory requirements; (b) The plan that the SEA submitted and any amendments to the plan that are approved in advance by the Secretary; and (c) The budget that was submitted with the plan and any amendments to the budget that are approved in advance by the Secretary. (2) All funds received under the grantback arrangement must be obligated by September 30, 1996 in accordance with section 459 (c) of GEPA. (3) The SEA will, not later than January 1, 1998, submit a report to the Secretary that_ (a) Indicates that the funds awarded under the grantback have been spent in accordance with the proposed plan and approved budget; and (b) Describes the results and effectiveness of the project for which the funds were spent. (4) Separate accounting records must be maintained documenting the expenditures of funds awarded under the grantback arrangement. (5) Before funds will be repaid pursuant to this notice, the SEA must repay to the Department any debts that become overdue or enter into a repayment agreement for those debts. (Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance Number 84.151, Chapter 2 of Title I of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965) Dated: April 21, 1994. Thomas W. Payzant, Assistant Secretary, Elementary and Secondary Education. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;10135 Filed 4&hyph;26&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4000&hyph;01&hyph;P
