FR940128-1-00058 FR940128-1-00006 Appendix A, section 6.c. advises how processors can ensure that microbiological hazards associated with final product cooling can be controlled. Following the manipulation of the product during postcooking processing, it will be necessary for the processor to cool the product to a temperature that will not support the further growth of mesophilic or psychrotropic pathogens. This result can be achieved by cooling the finished product to an internal temperature of 40 ○F (4.4 ○C) within 4 hours of either placing it in the finished product container or completing pasteurization. Again, the recommendation is based on the minimum growth temperature of such psychrotropic pathogens as L. monocytogenes and on the normal lag phase of such mesophilic pathogens as Salmonella spp . Of specific concern to the pasteurization process is the reduction of the internal temperature of the product to a level that will not support the growth of any surviving spores of C. botulinum , type E. The ability of the firm's processing procedures to consistently achieve its time/temperature parameters can be confirmed by a program of routine time and temperature monitoring designed to address the particulars of the firm's processing system. Real time documentation of this monitoring should be done to facilitate management and regulatory review. Alternately, the firm's ability to consistently meet its parameters can be confirmed through scientifically conducted time/temperature studies that take into consideration the range of processing variations encountered at the firm. Examples of these processing variations include container size, the temperature of the cooling medium, and the amount of product normally placed in the cooling unit. In many instances, in-process time/temperature monitoring may be impractical and expensive for sealed finished product containers. A scientifically conducted study is especially appropriate in such situations, where it can be assured that in all plausible situations the time/temperature constraints will be met. Documentation of the conduct and results of the study is required under proposed §123.8 to facilitate management and regulatory review. Temperature control during refrigerated storage is best achieved through the use of temperature indicating and recording devices and recordkeeping, as stated in Appendix A, section 6.d.2. (Ref. 85). However, FDA recognizes that some processors may desire to manually monitor the temperature of the refrigeration unit, using only a temperature-indicating device and a logbook. When coupled with a high temperature alarm or a maximum-indicating thermometer, the agency feels that this practice represents an acceptable alternative. The guideline advises, in Appendix A, section 3.i., that HACCP plans prepared in accordance with subpart A of part 123 will normally identify distribution as a critical control point. Distribution of perishable products encompasses the same hazards as associated with refrigerated storage. For this reason, in Appendix A, section 6.e., the agency is recommending a critical limit of an internal temperature maximum of 40 ○F (4.4 ○C) and is encouraging the shipper and consignee to arrange for appropriate control measures. The agency recognizes that distribution patterns vary considerably from single shipments to pooled and multiple delivery shipments, from iced shipments to refrigerated shipments, and from shipments on the consignee's truck to shipments on the shipper's truck to common carrier shipments. Each mode presents different opportunities and impediments for control. 4. Temperature Monitoring Equipment Processors must monitor and control the temperature of their refrigeration units in order to ensure that microorganisms of public health concern do not increase in numbers. Likewise, processors must control the times and temperatures of their thermal processes in order to ensure that the minimum thermal process is consistently delivered to the product. The guidelines address the outfitting of cooking, pasteurization, and refrigeration equipment with temperature indicating and recording devices (Appendix A, sections 4. a.2.ii. and b.2.ii., and section 6.d.2., respectively). A temperature-recording device provides a complete history of the temperature throughout the thermal process by continuously recording it on a chart. As has been demonstrated for low acid canned foods, the chart itself provides an excellent HACCP record for the benefit of both processor and regulator. For this record to be meaningful, it is critical that the temperature-recording device sensor be installed so as to accurately represent the temperature of the heating or cooling medium.
