FR940114-1-00009 FR940114-1-00002 (a) Security for operating type purposes. In the case of emergency loans made for subtitle B (operating) purposes, primary security must be available for the loan, except as provided for in ยง1945.169 (e)(2) of this section. If available, the total amount of security required will be at least equal to 150 percent of the loan amount. Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, security in excess of 150 percent of the loan amount will only be taken when it is not practicable to separate the property, i.e., same type of livestock (dairy cows, brood sows). In unusual cases, the loan approval official may require a cosigner as defined in ยง1910.3 (d) of subpart A of part 1910 of this chapter, or a pledge of security from a third party. A pledge of security is preferable to a cosigner. (1) Chattels. The loan must be secured by: (i) A first lien on all property or products acquired, produced, or refinanced with loan funds. (ii) If the security for the loan under paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section is not at least equal to 150 percent of the loan amount, the best lien obtainable will be taken on other chattel security owned by the applicant, up to the point that security for the loan at least equals 150 percent of the loan amount. (A) When there are several alternatives available (cattle, machinery), any one of which will meet the security requirements of this section, the approval official will select the most logical and efficient alternative for obtaining security. (B) When alternatives exist and the applicant has a preference as to the property to be taken for security, the approval official will honor the preference so long as the requirements of paragraphs (a)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section are met. (2) Real estate. The loan approval official will require a lien on all or part of the applicant's real estate as security when chattel security alone is not at least equal to 150 percent of the amount of the loan. Different lien positions on real estate are considered separate and identifiable collateral. (3) Other security. (i) A pledge of real estate or chattels by a third party may be taken as security when the property owned by the applicant is not adequate to secure the loan. (ii) Other property that cannot be converted to cash without jeopardizing the applicant's farm operation or imposing substantial financial penalty on the applicant may be taken as additional security when the property owned by the applicant is not adequate to secure the loan. Examples of such security include but are not limited to cash surrender value of life insurance, securities, patents and copyrights, and membership or stock in cooperatives and associations. (b) Security for real estate type purposes. EM loans made for subtitle A (real estate) purposes will be secured by real estate. Chattels and/or other security also may be taken as security. The total amount of security required will be the lesser of 150 percent of the loan amount, or all real estate owned by the applicant. A loan will be considered adequately secured when the real estate security for the loan is at least equal to the loan amount, except as provided for in ยง1945.169(e)(2) of this section. Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, security in excess of 150 percent of the loan amount will only be taken when it is not practicable to separate the property, i.e., a tract of land. In unusual cases, the loan approval official may require a cosigner as defined in ยง1910.3(d) of subpart A of part 1910 of this chapter, or a pledge of security from someone other than the applicant(s). A pledge of security is preferable to a cosigner. (1) Real estate security. (i) A mortgage will be taken on all real estate repaired or rehabilitated, refinanced, or improved with EM funds, and by any additional real estate security needed to meet the requirements of this section. (ii) Security will also include assignments of leases or leasehold interests which have mortgageable value, water rights, easements, rights of way, mineral rights, and royalties. (iii) A first lien is required on real estate, when available. Loans may be secured by a junior lien on real estate provided:
