FR940325-2-00128 FR940325-2-00057 Final Judgment Plaintiff, United States of America, having filed its Complaint on March 14, 1994, and plaintiff and defendant, by their respective attorneys, having consented to the entry of this Final Judgment without trial or adjudication of any issue of fact or law, and without this Final Judgment constituting any evidence against or an admission by defendant to any such issue; Now, therefore, before the taking of any testimony and without trial or adjudication of any issue of fact or law, and upon consent of the parties, it is hereby Ordered, adjudged and decreed, as follows: I Jurisdiction This Court has jurisdiction of the subject matter of this action and of each of the parties consenting to this Final Judgment. The Complaint states a claim upon which relief may be granted against the defendant under Section 1 of the Sherman Act, 15 U.S.C. 1. II Applicability This Final Judgment applies to the defendant and to each of its officers, directors, agents, employees, successors, and assigns, and to all other persons in active concert or participation with any of them who receive actual notice of this Final Judgment by personal service or otherwise. III Definitions As used in this Final Judgment: (A) ``Actual pay rate'' means the actual pay rate for any employee or class of employees in a specific job being evaluated. (B) ``Average pay rate'' means the rate determined by calculating the average pay of all the employees in a specific job being evaluated. (C) ``Compensation'' means any component of payment for employee services, including, but not limited to, wages, salaries, benefits, shift differentials, hourly and per diem rates, hiring formulas, payroll budget information, and the frequency or timing of changes in any of these components of payment. (D) ``Current compensation'' means compensation that is actually being utilized in paying any employee. (E) ``Defendant'' means Utah Hospital Association. (F) ``Employee'' means any full-time, part-time, hourly or per diem employee or independent contractor. (G) ``Health care facility'' means any entity employing nurses to provide health care services, including but not limited to, any hospital, hospital corporation, HMO facility, ambulatory care center, clinic, first-aid clinic, urgent care center, free standing emergency care center, ambulatory surgery center, nursing home, home health care, and nursing service. (H) ``Historic compensation'' means compensation that was at one time, but that is no longer, utilized in paying any employee. (I) ``Nurse'' means any registered or practical nurse, nurse practitioner, or nurse specialist.
