FR941116-2-00093 FR941116-2-00073 [Release No. 34&hyph;34917; File No. SR&hyph;CBOE&hyph;94&hyph;38] Self-Regulatory Organizations; Notice of Filing of Proposed Rule Change by the Chicago Board Options Exchange, Inc. Relating to the Short Sale of Securities in the Nasdaq National Market. November 7, 1994. Pursuant to Section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act''), 1 notice is hereby given that on October 25, 1994, the Chicago Board Options Exchange, Inc. (``CBOE'' or ``Exchange'') filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``Commission'') the proposed rule change as described in Items I, II, and III below, which Items have been prepared by the self-regulatory organization. The Commission is publishing this notice to solicit comments on the proposed rule change from interested persons. 1 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1). I. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Terms of Substance of the Proposed Rule Change The CBOE proposes to amend the definition of ``designated Nasdaq National Market (``Nasdaq/NM'') security,'' contained in CBOE Rule 15.10, to include all Nasdaq/NM securities underlying options classes for which an Exchange options market-maker holds an appointment pursuant to CBOE Rule 8.7. The Exchange also proposes to add Interpretation and Policies .02 and .03 to CBOE Rule 15.10, which in very limited circumstances expand the Nasdaq/NM securities which may qualify for the exemption provided in paragraph (c)(2) of the Rule; specifically, market-maker options transactions which facilitate an off-floor order, and market-maker transactions for nominees of the same market-maker organization. II. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change In its filing with the Commission, the self-regulatory organization included statements concerning the purpose of and basis for the proposed rule change and discussed any comments it received on the proposed rule change. The text of these statements may be examined at the places specified in Item IV below. The self-regulatory organization has prepared summaries, set forth in Sections (A), (B) and (C) below, of the most significant aspects of such statements. (A) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change The Exchange is amending its Rule 15.10 to expand the definition of ``designated Nasdaq/NM security'' to include all Nasdaq/NM securities which underlie the options classes for which a market-maker holds an appointment. In practice the CBOE has found the current definition, which limits designated Nasdaq/NM securities to no more than three (3) trading stations of a market-maker, to be unnecessarily restrictive. 2 Although not identical, the expansion of the definition to include underlying Nasdaq/NM securities for all appointed options classes of a market-maker is consistent with the application of the exemption for options market-makers in other similar markets. 3 2 See letter from Michael J. Carusillo, General Partner, O'Connor & Associates, to Jeff Schroer, Vice President, Market Surveillance, CBOE, dated September 21, 1994. 3 See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 34632 (September 2, 1994), 59 FR 46999. See also American Stock Exchange, Inc., Floor Members Circular 93&hyph;1255 (December 29, 1993). Currently, CBOE Rule 8.3(c) provides that a market-maker's appointment is limited to the options classes trading at no more than five (5) trading stations absent an exemption by the market Performance Committee. The Exchange intends to expand market-maker appointments in a subsequent rule filing. Proposed Interpretation .02 to CBOE Rule 15.10 would permit an options market-maker, with prior notice to a Floor Official or Order Book Official, to facilitate an off-floor order and contemporaneously hedge the resulting options position with a short sale in applicable Nasdaq/NM securities as if such securities were designated securities under paragraph (c)(2) of the Rule. This treatment is consistent with the NASD's interpretation concerning the hedging of options facilitation transactions. 4 4 See letter from Richard G. Ketchum, Chief Operating Officer and Executive Vice President, NASD, to David A. Dami, First Vice President & Associate General Counsel, Global Derivatives, Paine Webber, Inc., dated September 13, 1994. Proposed Interpretation .03 to CBOE Rule 15.10 would allow a nominee of a market-maker organization to effect short sales as bid test exempt in a Nasdaq/NM security which the market-maker nominee has not designated as qualifying for the exemption contained in paragraph (c)(2), provided that such security is a designated Nasdaq/NM security for another nominee of the market-maker organization and such other nominee is not also present or represented by a Floor Broker in the applicable trading station at the time of the bid test exempt sale. This interpretation will allow the market-maker organization the ability to manage effectively its obligations when nominees are absent from the trading floor due to illness, personal or other business, and is consistent with the intent of the exemption, in that the exemption continues to be limited to those Nasdaq/NM securities which are used to hedge options transactions in the primary classes in which the market-maker organization makes markets. The CBOE believes that its proposal is consistent with and furthers the objectives of Section 6(b)(5) of the Act in that the rule change will promote maintenance of fair and orderly markets on the CBOE and will contribute to the protection of investors and the public interest. (B) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Burden on Competition CBOE Does not believe that the proposed rule change will impose any burden on competition. (C) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received from Members, Participants, or Others Written comments on the proposed rule change were neither solicited nor received. III. Date of Effectiveness of the Proposed Rule Change and Timing for Commission Action Within 35 days of the date of publication of this notice in the Federal Register or within such longer period (i) as the Commission may designate up to 90 days of such date if it finds such longer period to be appropriate and publishes its reasons for so finding or (ii) as to which the self-regulatory organization consents, the Commission will:
