FR941128-2-00010 FR941128-2-00008 International Trade Administration [A&hyph;570&hyph;839] Initiation of Antidumping Duty Investigation: Certain Partial-Extension Steel Drawer Slides With Rollers From the People's Republic of China (PRC) AGENCY: Import Administration, International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce. EFFECTIVE DATE: November 28, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Michelle A. Frederick or John Brinkmann, Office of Antidumping Investigations, Import Administration, International Trade Administration, U.S. Department of Commerce, 14th Street and Constitution Avenue, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20230; telephone: (202) 482&hyph;0186 or (202) 482&hyph;5288, respectively. INITIATION OF INVESTIGATION: The Petition On October 31, 1994, we received a petition filed in proper form from Hardware Designers, Inc. (the petitioner). At the request of the Department of Commerce (the Department), the petitioner filed supplements to support and clarify the petition's data on November 16 and 18, 1994. In accordance with 19 CFR 353.12, the petitioner alleges that certain partial-extension steel drawer slides with rollers (drawer slides) are being, or are likely to be, sold in the United States at less than fair value within the meaning of section 731 of the Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (the Act), and that these imports are materially injuring, or threaten material injury to, a U.S. industry. The petitioner states that it has standing to file the petition because it is an interested party, as defined under section 771(9)(C) of the Act, and because the petition is filed on behalf of the U.S. industry producing the product subject to this investigation. If any interested party, as described under paragraphs (C), (D), (E), or (F) of section 771(9) of the Act, wishes to register support for, or opposition to, this petition, such party should file a written notification with the Assistant Secretary for Import Administration. Scope of Investigation The subject merchandise in this investigation is certain partial-extension steel drawer slides of any length with rollers. A drawer slide is composed of two separate drawer slide rails. Each rail has screw holes and an attached polymer roller. The polymer roller may or may not have ball bearings. The subject drawer slides come in two models: European or Low-Profile and Over-Under or High-Profile. The former model has two opposing rails that provide one channel along which both rollers move and the latter has two opposing rails that provide two channels, one for each roller. For both models of drawer slides, the two opposing rails differ slightly in shape depending on whether the rail is to be affixed to the side of a cabinet or the side of a drawer. A rail may also feature a flange for affixing to or aligning along the bottom of a drawer. Drawer slides may be packaged in an assembly pack with two drawer slides; that is, four rails with their attached rollers, or in an assembly pack with one drawer slide; that is, two rails with their attached rollers; or individually; as a drawer slide rail with its attached roller. An assembly pack may or may not contain a packet of screws. Not included in the scope of this investigation are linear ball bearing steel drawer slides (with ball bearing in a linear plane between the steel elements of the slide), roller bearing drawer slides (with roller bearings in the wheel), metal box drawer slides (slides built into the side of a metal or aluminum drawer), full extension drawer slides (with more than four rails per pair), and industrial slides (customized, high-precision slides without polymer rollers). The subject merchandise is currently classifiable under subheading 8302.42.30 of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (HTSUS). It may also be classified under 9403.90.80. Although the HTSUS subheadings are provided for convenience and customs purposes, our written description of the scope of this proceeding is dispositive. United States Price and Foreign Market Value The petitioner based United States Price (USP) on a January 1994 price quotation obtained for a set of 14-inch drawer slides. The terms of the price quotation were CIF New York. In calculating USP, the petitioner deducted amounts for foreign inland freight, ocean freight, and marine insurance. The petitioner contends that the PRC is a non-market economy (NME) country within the meaning of section 771(18)(A) of the Act. The Department has determined in all previous investigations that the PRC is an NME, and the presumption of NME status continues for purposes of initiation of this investigation. See e.g., Final Determination of Sales at Less than Fair Value: Certain Paper Clips from the PRC, 59 FR 51168 (October 7, 1994). In accordance with section 773(c) of the Act, foreign market value in NME cases is based on NME producers' factors of production, valued in a market economy country. Consistent with Department practice absent evidence that the PRC government determines which of its factories shall produce for export to the United States, we intend, for purposes of this investigation, to base FMV only on those factories that produced drawer slides sold to the United States during the period of investigation (POI). In the course of this investigation, parties will have the opportunity to address this NME designation and provide relevant information and argument related to the issues of the PRC's NME status and granting of separate rates to individual exporters. In addition, parties will have the opportunity in this investigation to submit comments on whether FMV should be based on prices or costs in the PRC consistent with section 773(c)(1)(B) of the Act. See Amendment to Final Determination of Sales at Less Than Fair Value and Amendment to Antidumping Duty Order: Chrome-Plated Lug Nuts from the People's Republic of China, 57 FR 15052 (April 24, 1992). The petitioner calculated FMV on the basis of the valuation of the factors of production. The petitioner, claiming that its production process is similar to the Chinese production process, based the factors of production on its own experience. The factors of production were valued, where possible, on publicly available published information pertaining to India. The petitioner argues that India is a country at a comparable level of economic development to the PRC and that India is a significant producer of comparable merchandise, thus meeting the requirements of section 773(c)(4) of the Act. For purposes of this initiation, we have accepted India as an appropriate surrogate country selection. Where Indian values were not available, the petitioner valued the factors of production using either a ratio based on its own experience or its own costs. In accordance with section 773(c)(1)(B) of the Act, the petitioner's FMV consisted of the sum of values assigned to materials, labor, energy, overhead and selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses. Certain of these factor values were adjusted for inflation. Pursuant to section 773(e)(1) of the Act, the petitioner added to the cost of manufacturing (COM), overhead and SG&A expenses, the statutory minimum of eight percent for profit.
