FR940707-2-00138 FR940707-2-00064 Of the five alternatives considered, only amending the Convention responds to problems created by its current provisions for subsistence harvest. Selection of this alternative, amending the Convention, is based on the following factors: The Convention currently proscribes hunting for migratory birds during the period March 10 to September 1, except under very limited circumstances; there is an existing need for the customary and traditional use of migratory bird resources that must be accommodated; accommodation of this need recognizes existing levels of use and will not significantly increase levels of harvest; migratory birds used for subsistence purposes are generally not available when harvest is allowed under the Convention; regulatory mechanisms now available to management agencies to monitor and control harvest will be enhanced by this action; and that, because the same subsistence harvest problems exist within Canada because of inadequacies in the Convention, amendment is the best alternative for ensuring the future of the North American migratory bird resource. Also, there is a preponderance of public opinion that believes amending the Convention is the most satisfactory way of dealing with the migratory bird subsistence hunting issue. Based upon my review and evaluation of the enclosed environmental assessment and other supporting documentation, I have determined that the action that is anticipated to be taken to regulate migratory bird subsistence hunting in Alaska is not a major Federal action which would significantly affect the quality of the human environment within the meaning of section 102(2)(C) of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969. Accordingly, preparation of an environmental impact statement on the proposed action is not required. The EA presents a menu of action modifiers that allow the Service a range of approaches to regulating subsistence harvest within an amended Convention. Action modifiers selected that specify how the Service would regulate a migratory bird subsistence harvest, as well as associated principles that are intended to guide the process, are as follows: First, the subsistence harvest should be available to Alaska Natives and other qualified residents residing in designated subsistence harvest areas; Second, the Service believes that nothing in this action should grant entitlement, rights or preference of some users over any other users of migratory birds in the U.S. As with sport hunting, promulgation of appropriate regulations will be the vehicle for opening subsistence hunting season(s). A management system would be established that allows coordination among user groups, State and Federal interests, and the Flyway Councils. All the ordinary strategies of bag limits, seasons, species restrictions, quotas, management units, zones, etc., could be used to manage, as appropriate. Windows of harvest opportunity would be set that would vary from area to area, but would, to the maximum extent possible, protect breeding birds; Third, the migratory bird and/or migratory bird egg subsistence harvest should be regionally limited, e.g., Southeast and Southcentral Alaska generally would be excluded because of fall harvest options, and urban areas such as the North Star Borough would be similarly excluded. Communities outside of the proposed inclusion areas should be allowed to petition for consideration of hunting opportunity based on specific criteria including past and ongoing customary and traditional take of migratory birds for food during the closed season; Fourth, birds should be taken for food, for personal and family use and could be shared within the communities. Items crafted from non-edible by-products could be utilized for personal, cultural or ceremonial uses. Birds, parts, eggs and craft items may be bartered or traded in limited quantities but may not be sold; Fifth, variable levels of harvest should be set that fluctuate with population numbers. However, it is the Service's goal that there should be no significant increase in levels of harvest in the future beyond the variable levels referenced above. Harvest of eggs should be considered for all traditional species. However, limited harvest of waterfowl eggs would be considered where it is shown as an established customary use and egg resources from nonwaterfowl species are not available; and Sixth, there should be moderate enforcement in cooperation with subsistence users. That is, enforcement for this activity should be consistent with enforcement during the other part of the year and sufficiently great on an as-needed basis to help ensure compliance. Since international agreement negotiations of the U.S. Department of State are not bound by agency NEPA process results, the foregoing position of the Service represents the desired, but may not be the actual, results of Convention amendment. However, it is the Service's intent to pursue amendment results which incorporate these features. Dated: July 1, 1994. Bruce Blanchard, Acting Director. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;16449 Filed 7&hyph;6&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4310&hyph;55&hyph;M
