FR940928-0-00073 FR940928-0-00021 As with pool heaters, the Commission finds that the EPCA/DOE definition for these products appropriately describes the product to be covered by the labeling requirements. Therefore, the Commission amends the Rule to include the definition of water heaters as they are defined in EPCA and by DOE (in ยง430.2 of Subpart A). The definition is followed by a proviso stating that the Rule's application is limited to those products for which there is a DOE-prescribed test. See section 305.3(d) in ``Text of Amendments,'' below. As with pool heaters, the Commission believes that a proviso of this type is more efficient than repeating, in the Rule's product definition, the further exceptions and limitations in the Appendix E definitions and/or the test procedure. 61 Products not covered by the DOE test because of the limitations in the Appendix E definitions cannot be tested. To comply with the Commission's Rule, a manufacturer must be able to measure a product's energy usage in accordance with the appropriate DOE test procedure. 62 Identifying specific limitations to the general definition in the Commission's Rule based on section 430.2 of DOE's rule is not necessary because manufacturers are on notice that water heaters excluded from DOE test coverage do not have to be labeled under the Commission's Rule. 61 Again, because the definitions that create the further limitations in the test procedures are revised by DOE more often than the ยง430.2 definitions, the Commission definitions may become obsolete and the Commission would have to amend the Rule frequently to comport with any DOE revisions. 62 See 42 U.S.C. 324(c)(1)(A). 3. Energy Usage Descriptor The NPR asked whether the energy usage of instantaneous and heat pump water heaters should be expressed as an estimated annual operating cost, as it was at that time for conventional water heaters, or whether their energy usage should be expressed as an energy factor. The NPR also asked whether it would be technically or economically feasible to disclose estimated annual operating cost, or whether operating cost would not be likely to assist consumers in making purchasing decisions. 63 63 58 FR 7856. Since the NPR was published, the Commission, in a recent proceeding involving comprehensive amendments to the Rule, amended the disclosure requirements for water heaters from a disclosure of estimated annual operating cost and a cost grid to a disclosure of estimated annual energy consumption with an ``operating cost disclosure statement.'' See 58 FR 34014, 34022&hyph;23 (July 1, 1994). Six comments addressed the issue of which energy usage descriptor to require on labels for these two types of water heaters. Paloma, commenting only on instantaneous water heaters, recommended that the Rule require the disclosure of an energy factor for gas instantaneous water heaters. 64 Washington Gas suggested the disclosure of estimated annual operating cost for both types of water heaters, but with special considerations that are not contemplated by the DOE test procedure. 65 64 Paloma, E&hyph;2, 3&hyph;4. Paloma explained that its gas-fired instantaneous water heaters could be operated with a continuously-burning pilot or with the consumer igniting the pilot each time hot water is required. Paloma requested that the Rule allow for disclosure on labels of the product's energy factor when the pilot is left on and when the pilot burns continuously. According to DOE engineering staff, the DOE water heater test is set up to provide only one measurement of energy usage_the energy usage of the product when it is set up to operate. For the test to measure energy usage of a water heater in both of two possible modes of operation, DOE would have to consider an amendment proceeding. The Commission's Rule can only require disclosure of DOE-test-derived information. Therefore, the Commission does not have the discretion to adopt Paloma's suggestion. 65 Washington Gas, EE&hyph;1, 1. Stating that instantaneous water heaters are used with and without a storage tank, Washington Gas recommended requiring disclosure of the estimated annual operating cost for these products for use with and without a storage tank. Because the DOE test for instantaneous water heaters is not conducted with storage tanks, however, the Commission cannot require this type of disclosure. See note 60, above. Washington Gas also suggested that the estimated annual operating cost of heat pump water heaters be adjusted according to the change in the energy consumed in conditioning the space around the product. Again, because the DOE test is conducted in a constant environment and does not allow for this type of measurement, the Commission does not have the discretion to adopt this suggestion. See note 50, above.
