FR940511-2-00169 FR940511-2-00108 b. Netting Subject to the terms and conditions that GSCC agrees to with the locked-in trade source, GSCC may exclude any locked-in trade from its netting system. Each netting member that makes a locked-in trade that is eligible for netting and settlement by GSCC must provide GSCC and the locked-in trade source with authorization for GSCC to receive and the locked-in trade source to transmit data on the locked-in trade. 3. Other Revisions Under GSCC's rules, a forward settling trade is eligible for GSCC's netting system only if the trade settles within less than a certain number of days after comparison by GSCC. For example, only trades that settle fifteen days or less after comparison currently are eligible for GSCC's netting system. The proposed rule change amends GSCC Rule 11, section 2 to permit GSCC to establish the maximum number of business days between comparison and settlement by a separately published schedule. GSCC will file with the Commission, pursuant to section 19(b)(3)(A) of the Act, any proposals to change this time period. 16 GSCC's rules also have been amended to allow GSCC to net fail deliver obligations and fail receive obligations with any other receive obligations and deliver obligations. 16 Memorandum to File from Christine Sibille, Attorney, Commission (April 25, 1994). II. Comments As noted above, in response to the notice published in the Federal Register , the Treasury provided the Commission with comments in support of the proposal. The Treasury believes that including Treasury auction purchases in a multilateral netting system could be beneficial to the efficiency of the government securities market. In addition, the Treasury believes that the proposal would enable GSCC to improve its risk management by providing a more complete picture of its members' positions. III. Discussion The Commission believes the proposed rule change is consistent with section 17A of the Act, and, therefore, is approving the proposal. Specifically, the Commission believes the proposal is consistent with section 17A(b)(3)(F) 17 of the Act in that it promotes the prompt and accurate clearance and settlement of securities transactions, fosters cooperation and coordination with persons engaged in clearance and settlement of securities transactions, and removes impediments to the national system for the prompt and accurate clearance and settlement of securities transactions. 17 15 U.S.C. 78q&hyph;1(b)(3)(F) (1988). In the 1992 Joint Report on the Government Securities Market (``Joint Report''), the Commission, the Treasury, and the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System recommended several enhancements to GSCC's system. 18 One such enhancement was the inclusion of auction take-down activity in GSCC's netting system, since the benefits of netting would increase as more trades are included in the net. The Joint Report concluded that if the auction takedown proposal were implemented, ``additional information on the overall distribution process required to settle Treasury auction purchases and on the true net settlement positions of members during a when-issued period would be available at GSCC. GSCC's proposal is especially significant in light of the risk to the Treasury resulting from the auction settlement process and the use of autocharge agreements. GSCC's proposal would reduce the risk to the Treasury to the extent that GSCC assumes responsibility for auction purchases that are netted against when-issued sales.'' 19 18 U.S. Department of Treasury, Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, and Securities and Exchange Commission, Joint Report on the Government Securities Marketplace (January 1992). The recommendations are (1) automated comparison of repurchase agreements; (2) inclusion of auction take down activity and yield-based trades in GSCC's netting system; (3) increase in categories of GSCC membership; and (4) confirmation systems for non-dealer, institutionalized customers. 19 Joint Report at 30. With this approval, all but two of the recommended enhancements to GSCC's system will have been implemented. Only the first recommendation, automated comparison of repurchase agreements, and the last recommendation, confirmation systems for institutionalized customers, have not been implemented. The proposal provides a more efficient method of clearing and settling auction securities. GSCC members will be able to access information on the securities awarded to them through GSCC's reporting system, and will have the securities delivered and paid for through GSCC's clearance system. The processing required will be reduced since the Federal Reserve Banks will provide information and securities to, and receive payment from, one source, GSCC, for all GSCC members. By channeling the payment and delivery obligations through one source (and reducing those obligations through netting), the clearance process will be made more efficient.
