FR940406-2-00154 FR940406-2-00090 Section 112 of the Reform Act Section 112 of the HUD Reform Act added a new section 13 to the Department of Housing and Urban Development Act (42 U.S.C. 3537b). Section 13 contains two provisions dealing with efforts to influence HUD's decisions with respect to financial assistance. The first imposes disclosure requirements on those who are typically involved in these efforts_those who pay others to influence the award of assistance or the taking of a management action by the Department and those who are paid to provide the influence. The second restricts the payment of fees to those who are paid to influence the award of HUD assistance, if the fees are tied to the number of housing units received or are based on the amount of assistance received, or if they are contingent upon the receipt of assistance. Section 13 was implemented by regulations codified in part 86. If readers are involved in any efforts to influence the Department in these ways, they are urged to read the regulations, particularly the examples contained in Appendix A of part 86. Any questions about the rule should be directed to the Office of Ethics, room 2158, Department of Housing and Urban Development, 451 Seventh Street, SW., Washington, DC 20410&hyph;3000. Telephone: (202) 708&hyph;3815 (voice/TDD). (This is not a toll-free number.) Forms necessary for compliance with the rule may be obtained from the local HUD office. Prohibition Against Lobbying Activities The use of funds awarded under this NOFA is subject to the disclosure requirements and prohibitions of section 319 of the Department of Interior and Related Agencies Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 1990 (31 U.S.C. 1352) (the ``Byrd Amendment'') and the implementing regulations at 24 CFR part 87. These authorities prohibit recipients of Federal contracts, grants, or loans from using appropriated funds for lobbying the Executive or Legislative branches of the Federal Government in connection with a specific contract, grant, or loan. The prohibition also covers the awarding of contracts, grants, cooperative agreements, or loans unless the recipient has made an acceptable certification regarding lobbying. Under 24 CFR part 87, applicants, recipients, and subrecipients of assistance exceeding $100,000 must certify that no Federal funds have been or will be spent on lobbying activities in connection with the assistance. Authority: 42 U.S.C. 4101 et seq.; 42 U.S.C. 3535(d). Dated: March 29, 1994. Jeanne K. Engel, General Deputy Assistant Secretary for Housing_Federal Housing Commissioner. Appendix A: Technical Assistance Applications A. Eligible Applicants (1) General Definition. An eligible applicant must notify residents of all occupied units that it is applying for a grant. That notification shall meet the specifications of paragraph B below. An eligible applicant is one of the entities described in the following paragraphs (a) through (c) that complies with the applicable criteria: (a) Resident Group. Resident Groups are eligible for Resident Capacity grants only. For an applicant to be considered a resident group, the following must be submitted: (i) Evidence that the greater of 5% of the occupied units or 10 units of the subject property have heads of households that are members; (ii) A copy of a notice announcing an organizational meeting to discuss resident participation in decisions affecting the project; (iii) A copy of the agenda of the organizational meeting referred to in item (ii) of this paragraph; and (iv) A list of attendees of the organizational meeting referred to in item (ii) of this paragraph. (b) Resident Council. (RC) For an applicant to be considered an RC, it must meet the definition of ``resident council'' as set out in ยง248.101. Specifically, an RC is any incorporated nonprofit organization or association in which membership is available to all the tenants, and only the tenants, of a particular project and: (i) Is representative of the residents of the project; (ii) Adopts written procedures providing for the election of officers on a regular basis; and (iii) Has a democratically elected governing board, elected by the residents of the project.
