FR940314-0-00019 FR940314-0-00003 (I) A general ledger Account 419, ``Interest and Dividend Income.'' The Borrower will credit this account with the amount of interest earned on the revolving loan fund. (ii) REA telephone Borrowers. (A) A general ledger Account 1130.4, ``Cash_General Fund_Economic Development Grant Funds (Class A Companies)'', or Account 1120.14, ``Cash-General Fund_Economic Development Grant Funds (Class B Companies).'' The Borrower will debit the appropriate account in an amount equal to the amount of the grant received from REA, any additional funds deemed Federal from the Borrower required by paragraph (a)(5)(iii) of this section, and all other funds advanced for the project, regardless of the source, if controlled by the Borrower. The Borrower will credit the appropriate account for all expenditures made with Federal funds on behalf of the rural development project. (B) A general ledger Account 1402.4, ``Other Investments in Nonaffiliated Companies_Federal Economic Development Grant Loans.'' The Borrower will debit this account in the amount of Federal funds the Borrower advances to nonaffiliated organizations for authorized rural economic development projects. For each debit in this account, a corresponding credit will be made in the appropriate account in paragraph (h)(1)(ii)(A) of this section. This account will be credited with repayments of loans made from Federal economic development grant funds. (C) A general ledger Account 1401.1, ``Other Investments in Affiliated Companies_Federal Economic Development Grant Loans.'' The Borrower will debit this account in the amount of Federal funds the Borrower advances to affiliated organizations for authorized rural economic development projects. For each debit in this account, a corresponding credit will be made in the appropriate account in paragraph (h)(1)(ii)(A) of this section. This account will be credited with repayments of loans made from Federal economic development grant funds. (D) Account 7360, ``Other Non-operating Income (Class A Companies)'', or Account 7300, Non-operating Income and Expense (Class B Companies), as appropriate. The Borrower will credit these accounts, as appropriate, in the amount of grant funds disbursed by REA resulting from an approved requisition request in accordance with paragraph (h)(2) of this section. (E) A general ledger Account 1130.5, ``Cash_General Fund_Economic Development Non-Federal Revolving Funds (Class A Companies)'', or Account 1120.15, ``Cash_General Fund_Economic Development Non-Federal Revolving Funds (Class B Companies)'', as appropriate. The Borrower will debit the appropriate account with any additional funds deemed non-Federal from the Borrower as required by paragraph (a)(5) of this section, cash received from the repayment of loans made from accounts in paragraphs (h)(1)(ii)(B), (h)(1)(ii)(C), (h)(1)(ii)(F), and (h)(1)(ii)(G) of this section. The Borrower will credit the appropriate account to reflect loans made for rural economic development projects from non-Federal funds from accounts specified in paragraphs (h)(1)(ii)(F) and (h)(1)(ii)(G) of this section. (F) A general ledger Account 1402.5, ``Other Investments in Nonaffiliated Companies-Non-Federal Economic Development Grant Loans.'' The Borrower will debit this account in the amount of non-Federal funds the Borrower advances to nonaffiliated organizations for authorized rural economic development projects. For each debit in this account, a corresponding credit will be made in the appropriate account in paragraph (h)(1)(ii)(E) of this section. This account will be credited with repayments of loans made from non-Federal economic development funds. (G) A general ledger Account 1401.2, ``Other Investments in Affiliated Companies_Non-Federal Economic Development Grant Loans.'' The Borrower will debit this account in the amount of non-Federal funds the Borrower advances to affiliated organizations for authorized rural economic development projects. For each debit in this account, a corresponding credit will be made in the appropriate account in paragraph (h)(1)(ii)(E) of this section. This account will be credited with repayments of loans made from non-Federal economic development funds. (H) A general ledger Account 1210, ``Interest and Dividends Receivable.'' The Borrower will debit this account with the amount of interest earned on the revolving fund loan. The borrower will credit this account and debit the appropriate cash account when the cash is received. (I) A general ledger Account 7320, ``Interest Income (Class A Companies)'', or Account 7300.2, ``Interest Income (Class B Companies)'', as appropriate. The Borrower will credit this account with the amount of interest earned on the revolving fund loans. (2) Requisition requirements. Grant funds may be requisitioned by REA Borrowers in accordance with disbursement requirements in paragraph (e) of this section. Borrowers will be fully reimbursed for funds expended for approved projects funded. For each completed project, the Borrower will submit the following for reimbursement: (i) Standard Form 270, ``Request for Advance of Reimbursement''; (ii) Copies of cancelled checks and other verifiable source records supporting the transactions; and (iii) Certification and evidence that the project costs to be reimbursed are for a project which has been authorized by REA and are authorized costs for that project. (3) REA review. Requisition requests will be evaluated for compliance with loan purposes previously submitted by the Borrower for project authorization in accordance with paragraphs (c)(1) or (e)(2) of this section, compliance with the Borrower's rural development plan, accounting documentation submitted in paragraph (h)(1) of this section, and the cancelled checks and source records submitted. 8. Paragraph (b) of ยง1703.28 is revised to read as follows: ยง1703.28 Maximum and minimum sizes of a zero-interest loan or grant application. * * * * * (b) Regardless of the projected total amount that will be available, the maximum size may not be lower than $200,000. * * * * * 9. Section 1703.30 is amended by revising the parenthetical containing the OMB control number at the end of the section to read as follows: ยง1703.30 Approval of agreements. * * * * * (Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 0572&hyph;090090)
