FR940706-0-00060 FR940706-0-00014 The TTMA asked whether the term ``tiedown assemblies'' in the current regulations includes trailer anchor points. The answer is technically no, but the anchor points have to meet the same standard. Section 393.102(d) requires that the hook, bolt, weld, or other connections by which a tiedown assembly is attached to a vehicle, and the mounting place and means of mounting the connector, be at least as strong as the tiedown assembly. The final rule does not reference any manufacturing standards or recommended practices for trailer anchor points nor does it require trailer manufacturers to change their current practices regarding anchor points. However, the FHWA encourages trailer manufacturers to provide information to motor carriers and enforcement officials about the strength of anchor points to improve their knowledge of the cargo restraint capabilities of anchor points. Incorporation by Reference and the Table of Working Load Limits Generally, the commenters supported the inclusion of the table of working load limits in ยง393.102 and the incorporation by reference of certain industry standards. Several commenters, however, recommended additions and/or corrections to the table. Commenting in opposition to the incorporation by reference of industry standards, New York stated that ``[a]doption by reference will cause confusion and make conformance by the industry difficult and also require the industry and enforcement personnel to use numerous documents in determining appropriate securement methodologies. The regulations should be self-contained and clear in their wording.'' Some commenters questioned the need for including requirements for steel strapping. Maine, for example, stated: ``While strapping may be used to secure materials to pallets, it is seldom used to hold freight to a vehicle. Since the material is not reused, it has little direct vehicle application.'' However, Connecticut argued that ``[e]nforcement of Section 393.102 would be greatly enhanced if most common dimensions and strengths of steel strapping were added to the tables of working load limits.'' The CVSA stated: The steel strap manufacturers have recently formed an association which is presently developing recommendations on their products. Steel strapping is typically not used as the primary load securement device. Normally the strapping will hold the cargo in bundles or to pallets while other devices are used to secure those bundles and pallets to the transporting vehicle. Because steel strapping is not often used as a direct tiedown device and since the strap manufacturers are now working through their association to develop strength and use guidelines, we recommend that this material not be included in the proposed rule at this time. The new industry standards may well supersede the federal specification referenced in the docket. Delaying action at this time could well reduce future confusion over regulatory requirements for steel strapping. As for the incorporation by reference of rope standards, the Cordage Institute stated that ``[s]isal and nylon ropes are not recommended [for cargo securement applications] and references to their standards [Sisal Rope Specifications (SRS&hyph;1), Nylon Rope Specifications (NRS&hyph;1), and Double Braided Nylon Rope Specifications (C1)] should be deleted.'' The Cordage Institute did not provide any information to support this recommendation and no other commenters addressed this subject. It was recommended that the new standards for polypropylene fiber rope (PPRS&hyph;2, revised August 1992) and polyester fiber rope (PETRS&hyph;2, revised January 1993) be used in place of P/PRS&hyph;1, May 1979 and PRS&hyph;1, May 1979, respectively. The Cordage Institute also provided clarification of its recommendations on calculating working load limit values. Its policy on working load limit values has changed from using a specific design factor for each size of cordage/rope to a design factor range. This approach leaves the selection of a specific value to the particular applications for which the cordage will be used. For cargo securement applications involving polypropylene and polyester fiber ropes, the Cordage Institute recommended a design factor of 6_the working load limit would be equal to 1/6 of the minimum breaking strengths listed in PPRS&hyph;2 and PETRS&hyph;2. The Cordage Institute recommended that the working load limits for manila rope be 1/2 that of the polypropylene fiber rope of the same diameter. Working load limit values were also recommended for ``California Truck Rope''_rope meeting the requirements of Title 13 of the California Code of Regulations, ยง1303(e). The Cordage Institute also suggested that the FHWA include California's ยง1303(e) requirements for synthetic fiber rope (e.g., rope shall be treated for ultraviolet resistance, rope must have an orange surface marker in each rope strand, prohibition on the use of solid orange rope, etc.).
