FR940325-1-00062 FR940325-1-00008 The national requirements proposed in this rule, and all standards and guidelines, whether fallback, State, or regional would be implemented subject to the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4331 et seq. ; NEPA) and applicable land use planning regulations. The national requirements and guiding principles for State and regional standards and guidelines are analyzed in the draft EIS for Rangeland Reform '94. The fallback standards and guidelines are also analyzed in the draft EIS. Any additional NEPA analysis required during development of State or regional standards and guidelines would tier to the analysis of national requirements and standards and guidelines presented in the EIS for Rangeland Reform '94. The BLM planning regulations direct that actions be in conformance with BLM land use plans. It is anticipated that in most instances, established standards and guidelines, and associated implementation actions, would be in conformance with existing land use plans, although in some cases land use plans may require modification. It is the Department's intent to develop State or regional standards and guidelines, complete plan conformance tests, and undertake necessary plan amendments within 18 months of the effective date of the final rule. Development of the State or regional standards and guidelines and any plan amendments that are necessary would occur simultaneously. Thus, State or regional standards and guidelines would be implemented as they are finalized and approved by the Secretary. If this has not occurred within 18 months of the effective date of the final rule, fallback standards and guidelines would be put in place until the State or regional standards and guidelines are completed. The Department envisions that all rangelands administered by the BLM under 43 CFR part 4100 would have enforceable standards and guidelines by the end of the 18-month period. Implementation of the national requirements and the standards and guidelines for grazing administration would be accomplished by directing specific actions to promote or achieve the requirements and standards and guidelines. The specific actions needed to implement the requirements, standards, and guidelines would be incorporated in the terms and conditions of grazing permits and leases, and other grazing authorizations. Actions needed to implement the requirements, standards, and guidelines would also be incorporated in allotment management plans or other activity plans as they are prepared or amended. The proposed rule would require that the authorized officer specify terms and conditions that would ensure conformance with the national requirements, standards, and guidelines in all grazing leases and permits. These terms and conditions would be added at the time of permit or lease issuance, including the transfer or renewal of permits or leases. However, where the authorized officer determines that the national requirements or established standards and guidelines are not being met under existing terms and conditions, the terms and conditions of grazing permits and leases and other grazing authorizations would be modified as soon as practicable, but not later than the start of the next grazing year. Reflecting the national requirements and standards and guidelines in the terms and conditions of grazing permits and leases would provide the management mechanism to help achieve, to the extent practicable, healthy rangeland ecosystems. While grazing administration may not be the only factor affecting the health of rangeland ecosystems, it is the Department's intent to ensure improvement in the context of grazing management through the standards and guidelines for grazing administration. The Department intends that all high priority grazing allotments would be reviewed for the need to modify terms and conditions to ensure conformance with the national requirements, and standards and guidelines within three years of the effective date of this rule. Priority would be based largely on the review of riparian area conditions. This review, in combination with incorporating terms and conditions reflecting the national requirements and standards and guidelines as permits and leases are issued, renewed or transferred, should ensure that a large portion of BLM grazing allotments would be protected by the national requirements and the standards and guidelines. The public is invited to provide comments and suggestions on the structure of the review of grazing allotments and the criteria for determining the priority of allotments to be reviewed. SECTION-BY-SECTION ANALYSIS Part 4 of Title 43_Department Hearings and Appeals Procedures Section 4.477␣Effect of Decision Suspended During Appeal The proposed rule would revise the heading of this section to reflect that grazing decisions would no longer automatically be suspended when an appeal is filed as provided in the proposed revision of 43 CFR subpart 4160. The proposed rule would also remove other references to suspension of the decision of the authorized officer upon appeal. Part 1780_Cooperative Relations Section 1784.0&hyph;5␣Definitions The proposed rule would replace the term ``authorized representative'' with ``designated Federal Officer'' to make the terminology of the rule more consistent with the terminology of the Federal Advisory Committee Act and 41 CFR 101&hyph;6.1019.
