FR940812-2-00257 FR940812-2-00088 •Federal, State, or local government; and •Professional teams assembled for the specific projects. Evaluation Criteria Nominations will be evaluated based on the following criteria: •Quality and innovative nature of the technology developed; •How the technology has enhanced industry competitiveness, both domestically and internationally. •Significance of individual or organization nominated to the success of the development effort: •Entrepreneurial nature of research effort (nature of collaboration); •Potential for positive economic benefits to the U.S. or specific region; and •Applicability to more than one mode of transportation. The qualifying work may be a singular accomplishment or a series of accomplishments that have had a substantial effect over time. Generally, technologies applicable to more than one transportation mode will be more favorably considered. Examples of achievements that may be recognized include but are not limited to: •Safety Improvements_Technology that reduces the likelihood of vehicle accidents or the likelihood of serious injury when a vehicle accident does occur or otherwise improves the chances of post-accident survival/recovery of accident victims. This could include research and development of instrumentation equipment, human factors, or biomechanics. •Energy Savings._Technology that saves energy in the production, operation, or disposition of vehicles through research in materials development, alternative fuels, engine and propulsion modifications, aerodynamic modeling and drag reduction, and combustion research. •Environmental Quality_Technology applicable to transportation that reduces emissions; hazardous, solid or toxic waste; noise. This could include research and development of products, processes, or measurement instrumentation. •International Industrial Competitiveness_Technology that allows the U.S. transportation industry to achieve sustainable world-class capabilities to compete in the global marketplace through the sale of transportation vehicles and equipment in overseas markets or the provision of freight and passenger transportation services to support international trade and travel. •Job Creation_Transportation technology that creates jobs and makes a positive contribution to the U.S. economy. Evaluation Process The DOT Research and Technology Coordinating Council, chaired by the Director of Technology will appoint an Evaluation Committee to evaluate nominations under the prescribed criteria and to recommend awardees. Recommendations of the Evaluation Committee will be reviewed by a Selection Committee made up of members of the Research and Technology Steering Committee. Final selections will be made by the Secretary of Transportation. Nominating Procedures Any person may nominate individuals or organizations from industry, academia, or government. Nomination should be in the form of a letter and must demonstrate that the nominee has provided significant contributions, through technology research and development, to advancing the ability of the U.S. transportation industry to compete globally in an area of transportation systems development, vehicle or facility design, construction, operation, or maintenance. Nominations must include the following: •Name and address of the individual or organization being nominated; •Name, address, and telephone number of the nominator. If the nominator is other than an individual, a point of contact must be identified; •A description of the accomplishments focusing on the evaluation criteria identified above; •Recognition of accomplishments by peers (awards, patents, etc.), and •If the nominee is an organization, documentation that the nominee is a domestic concern, as the term ``domestic'' is defined in 26 U.S.C. section 7710(a)(4). The nomination should be no more than 10 numbered typewritten pages on 8.5 x 11 inch paper with one inch margins all around and font size of not less than 12 point. The nomination must be signed by at least one individual. Nominations must be postmarked by October 30, 1994, and should be sent to: Noah Rifkin, Director of Technology Deployment, Office of the Secretary, U.S. Department of Transportation, 400 7th Street, SW, Washington, DC 20590, Room 10200. Issued this 4th day of August, 1994, in Washington, D.C. by: Noah Rifkin, Director of Technology Deployment. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;19790 Filed 8&hyph;11&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;62&hyph;P
