FR940912-2-00120 FR940912-2-00082 Golden Gate National Recreation Area and Point Reyes National Seashore Advisory Commission; Meeting Notice is hereby given in accordance with the Federal Advisory Committee Act that a meeting of the Golden Gate National Recreation Area and Point Reyes National Seashore Advisory Commission will be held at 7:30 p.m. (PDT) on Thursday, September 22, 1994 at GGNRA Park Headquarters, Building 201, Fort Mason, Bay and Franklin Streets, San Francisco, California, to hear presentations on issues related to management of the Golden Gate National Recreation Area and Point Reyes National Seashore. The Advisory Commission was established by Public Law 92&hyph;589 to provide for the free exchange of ideas between the National Park Service and the public and to facilitate the solicitation of advice or other counsel from members of the public on problems pertinent to the National Park Service systems in Marin, San Francisco and San Mateo Counties. Members of the Commission are as follows: Mr. Richard Bartke, Chairman Ms. Amy Meyer, Vice Chair Mr. Ernest Ayala Dr. Howard Cogswell Brig. Gen. John Crowley, USA (ret) Mr. Margot Patterson Doss Mr. Neil D. Eisenberg Mr. Jerry Friedman Mr. Steve Jeong Ms. Daphne Greene Ms. Gimmy Park Li Mr. Gary Pinkston Mr. Merritt Robinson Mr. R.H. Sciaroni Mr. John J. Spring Dr. Edgar Wayburn Mr. Joseph Williams Mr. Mel Lane The main agenda item at this meeting will be an update report on the Presidio planning process and transfer activities to the National Park Service, including a report on the Presidio General Management Plan Amendment (GMPA) and Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) released August 1994. The Presidio of San Francisco will transfer from the Department of Defense to Department of the Interior on October 1, 1994. Also on the agenda will be a report on work of the Golden Gate National Park Association, a Marin Committee report and possible Commission action on plans for the Bay Area Discovery Museum, a Point Reyes Committee report and possible Commission action on the Tomales Bay Protection Bill, and a report on GGNRA education programs. The meeting will also contain a Superintendent's Report on GGNRA housing issues. This meeting is open to the public. It will be recorded for documentation and transcribed for dissemination. Minutes of the meeting will be available to the public after approval of the full Advisory Commission. A transcript will be available after October 14, 1994. For copies of the minutes contact the Office of the Staff Assistant, Golden Gate National Recreation Area, Building 201, Fort Mason, San Francisco, California 94123. Dated: August 25, 1994. Patricia L. Neubacher, Acting Regional Director, Western Region. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;22375 Filed 9&hyph;9&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4310&hyph;70&hyph;P
