FR940621-2-00118 FR940621-2-00075 Tuesday June 21, 1994 Part IV Environmental Protection Agency Environmental Leadership Program: Request for Pilot Project Proposals; Notice Federal Register ␣/␣Vol. 59, No. 118␣/␣Tuesday, June 21, 1994␣/␣Notices ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY [FRL&hyph;5001&hyph;5] Environmental Leadership Program: Request for Pilot Project Proposals AGENCY: Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). ACTION: Request for Environmental Leadership Program pilot project proposals. SUMMARY: This notice requests proposals for Environmental Leadership Program pilot projects, and outlines the criteria facilities must meet to be considered for participation. These pilot projects will explore ways that EPA and States might encourage facilities to develop innovative auditing and compliance programs and to reduce the risk of non-compliance through pollution prevention practices. In addition, the pilots will help EPA design a full-scale leadership program, and determine if implementing such a program can help improve environmental compliance. Any future full-scale leadership program based in the Office of Compliance will be consistent with the goals of the Administrator's Common Sense Initiative, which focuses on comprehensive environmental protection strategies for entire industry sectors. These voluntary pilot projects will benefit the public by encouraging industry to take greater responsibility for self-monitoring, which will lead to improved compliance, pollution prevention, and environmental protection. The projects will benefit industry by providing an opportunity to receive recognition for outstanding environmental management practices and to address barriers to self-monitoring and compliance efforts. Finally, the projects will benefit government by strengthening Federal-State partnerships and allowing EPA to gather empirical data on environmental compliance methodology and measures. EPA plans to select three to five (3&hyph;5) pilot projects. The pilots will be selected from the pool of proposals received based on how completely they address the seven criteria outlined in this notice, and their potential to demonstrate possible components of a full-scale leadership program. Depending on the level of interest in the projects, the quality of the proposals received, and available resources, the Agency may be willing to expand the pilot project phase to include additional projects. DATES: Proposals for pilot projects will be accepted until August 22, 1994. Proposals will be reviewed on a rolling basis as they are received, with selection of the finalists in the fall of 1994. ADDRESSES: Applicants should mail three (3) copies of their proposal and all required documentation to: U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (1102), Attn: Ira R. Feldman, ELP Pilot Project Director, 401 M Street, SW., Washington, DC 20460. Facilities may submit their proposals directly to EPA after discussions with their State environmental agency, or to their State agency for forwarding to EPA. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Ira R. Feldman, ELP Pilot Project Director, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (1102), Office of Compliance, 401 M Street SW., Washington, DC 20460, phone (202) 260&hyph;7675, fax (202) 260&hyph;8511 or Mike Schiavo, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (1102), 401 M Street, SW., Washington, DC 20460, phone (202) 260&hyph;2824, fax (202) 260&hyph;8511. I. Introduction A. Original ELP Proposal On January 15, 1993, EPA published a Federal Register notice (58 FR 4802) requesting comment on the possible creation of a national voluntary program to encourage and publicly recognize environmental leadership and to promote pollution prevention in the manufacturing sector. The Agency requested responses to 56 specific questions about the structure of such a program, possible goals and measures, the need for incentives, the role of compliance screening, and other related issues. Two basic components were proposed for the ``Environmental Leadership Program'' (ELP)_a ``Corporate Statement of Environmental Principles'' and a ``Model Facility'' Program. The Agency received a wide variety of comments on the original proposal from industry, States, environmental groups, and other non-governmental organizations. In addition, the Agency held a public meeting on May 6, 1993 in Washington, DC and received additional comment from 30 groups. While no true consensus emerged on the best structure or goals for the program, the comments clearly indicated an interest in a voluntary program to recognize environmental excellence. (A summary of public comments is available from EPA upon request.) After extensive review and analysis of the comments by the Office of Enforcement, the Office of Pollution Prevention and Toxics, and the Administrator's Pollution Prevention Policy Staff, the Agency refined the goals and the immediate focus of the project.
