FR940127-2-00062 FR940127-2-00051 INTERNATIONAL TRADE COMMISSION [Investigation No. 337&hyph;TA&hyph;347] Certain Anti-Theft Deactivatable Resonant Tags and Components; Notice of Request for Written Submissions on the Issues of Remedy, the Public Interest, and Bonding AGENCY: U.S. International Trade Commission. ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: Notice is hereby given that the U.S. International Trade Commission has determined to request submissions on the issues of remedy, the public interest, and bonding in the above-captioned investigation. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Andrea C. Casson, Esq., Office of the General Counsel, U.S. International Trade Commission, 500 E Street, SW., Washington, DC 20436, telephone 202&hyph;205&hyph;3105. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: On December 9, 1993, the presiding administrative law judge (ALJ) issued a final initial determination (ID) in this investigation. Ordinarily, final IDs are processed in accordance with the deadlines set forth in Commission interim rules ยง210.53&hyph;.56. In this investigation, however, the Commission determined to waive in part the application of those interim rules and to apply instead a revised procedure, as set forth at 58 FR 63391 (Dec. 1, 1993). Accordingly, the Commission ordered that consideration of the ALJ's final ID in this investigation would be according to a revised procedure. Under the revised schedule, the parties were allowed to file petitions for review of the ID, responses to the petitions for review, and replies to the responses by certain deadlines. The Commission also indicated that it might later issue a notice requesting written submissions from the parties, other federal agencies, and interested members of the public on the issues of remedy, the public interest, and bonding, and/or requiring the parties to file supplemental briefs on violation issues selected by the Commission. In accordance with the schedule previously announced, complainant filed a petition for review, respondents and the Commission investigative attorney filed responses to the petition for review, and all parties filed reply submissions. The Commission has not yet completed its review of the record in this investigation and has made no determinations with respect to the ID or complainant's petition for review. If the Commission finds a violation of section 337 of the Tariff Act of 1930 (19 U.S.C. 1337) in this investigation, it could issue (1) an order that could result in the exclusion of the subject articles from entry into the United States, and/or (2) cease and desist orders that could result in respondents being required to cease and desist from engaging in unfair acts in the importation and sale of such articles. Accordingly, the Commission is interested in receiving written submissions that address the form of remedy, if any, that should be ordered. If the Commission contemplates some form of remedy, it must consider the effects of that remedy upon the public interest. The factors the Commission will consider include the effect that an exclusion order and/or cease and desist orders would have on (1) the public health and welfare, (2) competitive conditions in the U.S. economy, (3) U.S. production of articles that are like or directly competitive with those that are subject to investigation, and (4) U.S. consumers. The Commission is therefore interested in receiving written submissions that address the aforementioned public interest factors in the context of this investigation. If the Commission orders some form of remedy, the President has 60 days to approve or disapprove the Commission's action. During this period, the subject articles would be entitled to enter the United States under a bond in an amount determined by the Commission and prescribed by the Secretary of the Treasury. The Commission is therefore interested in receiving written submissions concerning the amount of the bond that should be imposed, if any. WRITTEN SUBMISSIONS: The parties to the investigation, interested government agencies, and any other interested persons are requested to file written submissions on the issues of remedy, the public interest, and bonding. Comments regarding remedy, the public interest, and bonding are particularly requested with respect to respondent Custom Securities Industries, Inc., which was found in default on October 17, 1993. See 58 FR 52323. Complainant and the Commission investigative attorney are also requested to submit proposed remedial orders for the Commission's consideration. The written submissions and proposed remedial orders must be filed no later than the close of business on January 31, 1994. Reply submissions must be filed no later than the close of business on February 7, 1994. No further submissions will be permitted unless otherwise ordered by the Commission. Persons filing written submissions must file with the Office of the Secretary the original document and 14 true copies thereof on or before the deadlines stated above. Any person desiring to submit a document (or portion thereof) to the Commission in confidence must request confidential treatment unless the information has already been granted such treatment during the proceedings. All such requests should be directed to the Secretary of the Commission and must include a full statement of the reasons why the Commission should grant such treatment. See 19 CFR ยง201.6. Documents for which confidential treatment is granted by the Commission will be treated accordingly. All nonconfidential written submissions will be available for public inspection at the Office of the Secretary. This action is taken under the authority of section 337 of the Tariff Act of 1930 (19 U.S.C. 1337) and ยง210.58 of the Commission's Interim Rules of Practice and Procedure (19 CFR ยง210.58). Copies of the public version of the ID and all other nonconfidential documents filed in connection with this investigation are or will be available for inspection during official business hours (8:45 a.m. to 5:15 p.m.) in the Office of the Secretary, U.S. International Trade Commission, 500 E Street SW., Washington, DC 20436, telephone 202&hyph;205&hyph;3000. Hearing-impaired persons are advised that information on the matter can be obtained by contacting the Commission's TDD terminal on 202&hyph;205&hyph;1810. By order of the Commission. Issued: January 21, 1994. Donna R. Koehnke, Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;1757 Filed 1&hyph;26&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 7020&hyph;02&hyph;P
