FR940511-1-00003 FR940511-1-00001 Intergovernmental Consultation Programs listed in the Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance are as follows: Catalog Nos. 10.405, Farm Labor Housing Loans and Grants; 10.415, Rural Rental Housing Loans; and 10.416, Soil and Water Loans, are subject to the provisions of Executive Order 12372, which require intergovernmental consultation with State and local officials (7 CFR part 3015, subpart V, 48 FR 29112, June 24, 1983), and FmHA Instruction 1940&hyph;J. Catalog Nos. 10.404, Emergency Loans; 10.406, Farm Operating Loans; 10.407, Farm Ownership Loans; 10.410, Low Income Housing Loans, and nonprogram loans are excluded from the scope of Executive Order 12372. Civil Justice Reform This document has been reviewed in accordance with Executive Order (EO) 12778. It is the determination of FmHA that this action does not unduly burden the Federal Court Systems in that it meets all applicable standards provided in Section 2 of the EO. Discussion FmHA recognizes the need to make Real Estate Title Clearance and Loan Closing procedures more consistent with the laws and generally accepted loan closing practices of individual States. Some proposed changes in this rule will allow FmHA State Directors the authority to establish loan closing procedures that are applicable to the laws and customs of that particular State. The significant proposed changes are listed below in general order of appearance in the regulation. Several new definitions are added to help clarify certain issues. They include Closing Protection Letter, General Warranty Deed, Indemnification Agreement, Issuing Agent and Special Warranty Deed. Due to differences in State laws regarding the use of title insurance and in the standard insurance coverage for errors and omission insurance and fidelity bond coverage, this proposed rule will allow FmHA State Directors to decide (with OGC approval) on the loan closing procedures and level of insurance coverage. The requirement that Title Insurance Companies will provide an Indemnification Agreement (Closing Protection Letter) is added because it will greatly increase the insurance protection provided to the United States Government. This is a practice that Title Insurance Companies are familiar with and they understand our needs. An Indemnification Agreement can be provided for approved attorneys so the need for errors and omissions insurance and a fidelity bond can be eliminated. The agreement will provide loss coverage for the entire amount of the transaction with no deductible. The Indemnification Agreement will give FmHA protection from losses resulting from negligence or fraud caused by the closing agent or their employees. Indemnification Agreements give FmHA greater protection against malpractice and fiduciary risks than the insurance policies required by our current regulations. There is no additional cost incurred by requiring an Indemnification Agreement. This instruction suggests the use of Title Insurance for all loan closings. Approved attorneys can provide title insurance coverage as an agent for a Title Insurance Company and therefore not be excluded from being a closing agent. The advantages of Title Insurance are the Indemnification Agreement can be issued by the Title Insurance Company, addressed to FmHA, to protect FmHA against losses caused by the negligence of closing agents or employees. It will eliminate the need for errors and omissions insurance and a fidelity bond. The Indemnification Agreement will protect FmHA for 100 percent of the loan transaction, not a limited insured amount. An attorney's opinion would provide limited coverage because the statute of limitations on an attorney's liability runs from 2 years to 8 years, depending on the State, from the date of the opinion. If the attorney's practice is interrupted, the means for correcting problems or collecting damages may become an issue. List of Subjects for 7 CFR Part 1927 Loan programs_agriculture, Loan programs_housing and community development, Mortgages. Therefore, chapter XVIII, title 7, Code of Federal Regulations is amended as follows:
