FR940603-1-00110 FR940603-1-00009 (c) Automobile liability insurance on all motor vehicles used in connection with the contract, whether owned, nonowned, or hired, shall have limits for bodily injury or death of not less than $1 million per person and $1 million per occurrence, and property damage limits of $1 million for each occurrence. This required insurance may be in a policy or policies of insurance, primary and excess including the umbrella or catastrophe form. The Owner shall have the right at any time to require public liability insurance and property damage liability insurance greater than those required in subsection ``b'' and ``c'' of this Section. In any such event, the additional premium or premiums payable solely as the result of such additional insurance shall be added to the Contract price. The policies of insurance shall be in such form and issued by such insurer as shall be satisfactory to the Owner. The Bidder shall furnish the Owner a certificate evidencing compliance with the foregoing requirements which shall provide not less than (30) days prior written notice to the Owner of any cancellation or material change in the insurance. Section 3. Purchase of Materials: The Bidder will purchase all materials (except owner-furnished materials) and supplies outright and not subject to any conditional sales agreements, bailment lease or other agreement reserving unto the seller any right, title or interest therein. All materials and supplies shall become the property of the Owner when erected in place or at such earlier time as the parties may agree pursuant to Section 1(a) of Article III. Unless otherwise specified, all materials shall be new. Section 4. Assignment of Guarantees: The Bidder will obtain from manufacturers, materialmen, and subcontractors and furnish to the Owner all guarantees and will transfer or assign to the Owner such guarantees as run in favor of the Bidder, prior to the time the Bidder receives final payment. The guarantees shall be in addition to and not limited by any other provisions of the contract documents, guarantee or remedy required by law. Section 5. Royalties and Patent Infringement: The Bidder will pay all royalties and license fees, and will hold harmless and indemnify the Owner from any and all claims, suits, and proceedings for the infringement of any patent or patents covering any equipment, materials, supplies or construction methods used in the work. Section 6. Compliance with Statutes and Regulations: The Bidder will comply with all applicable statutes, ordinances, rules and regulations pertaining to the work. The Bidder acknowledges that it is familiar with The Rural Electrification Act of 1936, as amended, the so-called ``Kick-Back'' Statute (48 Stat. 948), and all regulations issued pursuant thereto, and 18 U.S.C. §§287, 1001 as amended. The Bidder understands that the obligations of the parties hereunder are subject to the applicable regulations and orders of Governmental agencies having jurisdiction in the premises. Section 7. Delivery of Possession and Control to Owner: Upon written request of the Owner, the Bidder shall deliver to the Owner full possession and control of any portion of the Project provided the Bidder shall have been paid at least 90 percent (90%) of the cost of construction of such portion. Upon such delivery of the possession and control of such portion of the Project to the Owner, the risks and obligations of the Bidder as set forth in Section 1(b), Article IV hereof with respect to such portion so delivered to the Owner shall be terminated; provided, however, that nothing herein contained shall relieve the Bidder of any liability with respect to defective workmanship or materials as provided in Section 7, Article II. Section 8. Occupancy Before Completion: Exception as provided in Section 7, the Owner shall not occupy any portion of the Project prior to the time of completion without the written approval of the Bidder. It is agreed that such occupancy of any such portion of the Project will not constitute acceptance of workmanship or materials used in construction of the Project as provided in Section 7, Article II, and that such occupancy will not relieve the Bidder from his obligation to complete any part of the Project in compliance with the contract. The Owner agrees to permit the Bidder to fulfill the requirements of the contract in accordance with instructions issued to the Bidder by the Architect upon occupancy by the Owner. ARTICLE V_REMEDIES Section 1. Liquidated Damages: The time of Completion of Construction of the Project is of the essence of this Contract. Should the Bidder neglect, refuse or fail to complete construction within the time herein agreed upon, after giving effect to extensions of time, if any herein provided for, then, in that event and in view of the difficulty of estimating with exactness damages caused by such delay, the Owner shall have the right to deduct from and retain out of such moneys which may be then due or which may become due and payable to the Bidder, the sum of XXXX Dollars ($ XXXX ) per day of each and every day that such construction is delayed in its completion beyond the specified time, as liquidated damages and not as a penalty. If the amount due and to become due from the Owner to the Bidder is insufficient to pay in full any such liquidated damages, the Bidder shall pay to the Owner the amount necessary to effect such payment in full; provided, however, that the Owner shall promptly notify the Bidder in writing of the manner in which the amount retained, deduced or claimed as liquidated damages was computed.
