FR940208-2-00160 FR940208-2-00092 Part V_Written Proceedings Form and Content of Pleadings 58. (1) Every pleading filed in a panel review shall contain the following information: (a) the title of, and any Secretariat file number assigned for, the panel review; (b) a brief descriptive title of the pleading; (c) the name of the Party, investigating authority or interested person filing the document; (d) the name of counsel of record for the Party, investigating authority or interested person; (e) the service address, as defined in rule 3; and (f) the telephone number of the counsel of record referred to in subrule (d) or, where an interested person is not represented by counsel, the telephone number of the interested person. (2) Every pleading filed in a panel review shall be on paper 81/2 x 11 inches (216 millimetres by 279 millimetres) in size. The text of the pleading shall be printed, typewritten or reproduced legibly on one side only with a margin of approximately 11/2 inches (40 millimetres) on the left-hand side with double spacing between each line of text, except for quotations of more than 50 words, which shall be indented and single-spaced. Footnotes, titles, schedules, tables, graphs and columns of figures shall be presented in a readable form. Briefs shall be securely bound along the left-hand margin. (3) Every pleading filed on behalf of a participant in a panel review shall be signed by counsel for the participant or, where the participant is not represented by counsel, by the participant. 59. (1) Where a participant files a pleading that contains proprietary information, the participant shall file two sets of the pleading in the following manner: (a) one set shall be filed under seal, containing the proprietary information and labelled ``Proprietary'' or ``Confidential'', with the top of each page that contains proprietary information marked with the word ``Proprietary'' or ``Confidential'' and with the proprietary information enclosed in brackets; and (b) no later than one day following the day on which the set of pleadings referred to in subrule (a) is filed, another set not containing proprietary information shall be filed and labelled ``Non-Proprietary'' or ``Non-Confidential'', with each page from which proprietary information has been deleted bearing a legend indicating the location from which the proprietary information was deleted. (2) Where a participant files a pleading that contains privileged information, the participant shall file two sets of the pleading in the following manner: (a) one set of shall be filed under seal, containing the privileged information and labelled ``Privileged'', with the top of each page that contains privileged information marked with the word ``Privileged'' and with the privileged information enclosed in brackets; and (b) no later than one day following the day on which the set of pleadings referred to in subrule (a) is filed, another set not containing privileged information shall be filed and labelled ``Non-Privileged'', with each page from which privileged information has been deleted bearing a legend indicating the location from which the privileged information was deleted. Filing of Briefs 60. (1) Subject to subrule 38(1), every participant who has filed a Complaint under rule 39 or a Notice of Appearance with a statement under subrule 40(1)(c)(i) or (iii) shall file a brief, setting forth grounds and arguments supporting the allegations of the Complaint no later than 60 days after the expiration of the time period fixed, under subrule 41(1), for filing the administrative record. (2) Every participant who has filed a Notice of Appearance with a statement under subrule 40(1)(c)(ii) or (iii) shall file a brief supporting any reviewable portion of the final determination no later than 60 days after the expiration of the time period for filing of briefs referred to in subrule (1).
