FR941004-1-00046 FR941004-1-00015 Joseph Congdon (1904) described Lupinus deflexus from specimen that he collected near Mariposa Creek in Mariposa County in 1903. Willis Jepson (1936) revised the treatment of this species and reduced the plant to the varietal status, Lupinus citrinus var. deflexus. Lupinus citrinus var. deflexus is an erect, diffusely- branched annual herb belonging to the pea family (Fabaceae). The 3 to 5 dm (12 to 20 in) high plants are short-hairy to hairless and have palmately compound leaves that are 15 to 25 mm (.5 to 1.0 in) long. The six to nine leaflets are about one-third as wide as they are long and are linear or spatulate in shape with rounded or obtuse tips. The white with pink or lavender tipped flowers appear in April through May. Lupinus citrinus var. deflexus grows on decomposed granitic sands on ridgetops and hillsides in openings in foothill woodlands from 475 to 580 m (1,400 to 1,900 ft) in elevation. The four populations of this plant occur on private lands in Mariposa County over a 40 sq km (15 sq mi) area. Two of the four populations co- occur with Calyptridium pulchellum. Lupinus citrinus var. deflexus is threatened by urbanization, inadequate State regulatory mechanisms, and potentially by overgrazing. Lawrence Heckard and Rimo Bacigalupi (1986) first described Mimulus shevockii from specimen first collected by James Shevock around the Kelso Creek area near the east base of the Piute Mountains in Kern County. M. shevockii is an erect, desert annual in the snapdragon family (Scrophulariaceae). This plant grows to 1 dm (4 in) in height and has opposite, sessile, somewhat fleshy leaves along reddish stems. Asymmetric flowers appear from late March to May. The corolla is two-lipped. The upper flower lip has two short, entire, lateral maroon-purple lobes. The lower flower lip is similar but larger in size and has an additional large, partially divided yellow lobe with red mottling. Mimulus androsaceus and M . fremontii grow with M . shevockii and have some similar vegetative features but differ in flower color. Mimulus androsaceus has a red-purple flower and M . fremontii has a rose-purple flower. Mimulus shevockii occurs predominately in loamy, coarse sands on alluvial fans and deposits of granitic origin within the Joshua tree ( Yucca brevifolia ) or California juniper ( Juniperus californica ) xeric woodlands in Kern County. M . shevockii is found within an elevational range of 975 to 1,250 m (3,200 to 4,100 ft). Six of the seven populations of M . shevockii are within a 31 sq km (12 sq mi) area, with the remaining population 14 km (9 mi) to the northwest. Two populations are found on private lands and five populations occur partially on BLM land and partially on private land. M . shevockii is threatened by urbanization, off-highway vehicle use, and agricultural land conversion. Frederick Coville (1893) first described Navarretia setiloba from plants he collected from a ridge between Kernville and Havilah in Kern County. Navarretia setiloba is an erect annual herb in the phlox family (Polemoniaceae), and grows to a height of 8 to 20 cm (3 to 8 in). The linear, pinnately-lobed leaves have rigid, spinose lobes. The terminal lobe is broadly lanceolate and often purplish. The 20 to 30 purple-flowered inflorescence appears from April through June and is about 10 mm (0.4 in) long. The flowers are subtended by spiny bracts that are constricted in the middle. Navarretia setiloba is distinguished from sympatric cogeners by the broad terminal lobe on each leaf, and by its purple flowers. The plant grows on heavy, often red-colored clay soils within blue oak, digger pine, or juniper woodlands between 300 to 960 m (1,000 to 3,200 ft) in elevation. Six populations of Navarretia setiloba are known from northern Kern County over a 4,000 sq km (1,560 sq mi) area. One population occurs on land administered by the BLM and five populations are found on private lands. Navarretia setiloba is threatened by urbanization and off-highway vehicle use. Harold A. Moldenke (1942) first described Verbena californica from specimen collected by Robert Hoover from an area north of Keystone in Tuolumne County. Verbena californica is an erect perennial herb in the vervain family (Verbenaceae), and grows to 60 cm (23 in) in height with opposite, bright green, sessile leaves. White-blue to purple blossoms appear from May through September. No closely related species co-occur with Verbena californica . The nine historic and current populations of Verbena californica grow along intermittent and perennial streams underlain by serpentine rocks in the Red Hills of Tuolumne County. The populations have an elevational range from 260 to 335 m (850 to 1,150 ft) and are distributed over a 62 sq km (24 sq mi) area. Fifteen percent of the V . californica plants occur on lands administered by the BLM, and 85 percent of the plants occur on privately owned lands (CDFG 1993). Verbena californica is threatened by urbanization, recreational placer gold mining, and potentially by overgrazing. Previous Federal Action
