FR940513-0-00018 FR940513-0-00003 ยง612.2150 Employees_prohibited conduct. An employee of a System institution shall not: (a) Participate, directly or indirectly, in deliberations on, or the determination of, any matter affecting, directly or indirectly, the financial interest of the employee, any relative of the employee, any person residing in the employee's household, any business partner of the employee, or any entity controlled by the employee or such persons (alone or in concert), except those matters of general applicability that affect all shareholders/borrowers in a nondiscriminating way, e.g. a determination of interest rates. (b) Divulge or make use of, except in the performance of official duties, any fact, information, or document not generally available to the public that is acquired by virtue of employment with a System institution. (c) Use the employee's position to obtain or attempt to obtain special advantage or favoritism for the employee, any relative of the employee, any person residing in the employee's household, any business partner of the employee, any entity controlled by the employee or such persons (alone or in concert), any other System institution, or any person transacting business with the institution, including borrowers and loan applicants. (d) Serve as an officer or director of an entity that transacts business with a System institution in the district or of any commercial bank, savings and loan, or other non-System financial institution, except employee credit unions. For the purposes of this paragraph, ``transacts business'' does not include loans by a System institution to a family-owned entity, service on the board of directors of the Federal Agricultural Mortgage Corporation, or transactions with nonprofit entities or entities in which the System institution has an ownership interest. With the prior approval of the board of the employing institution, an employee of a Farm Credit Bank or association may serve as a director of a cooperative that borrows from a bank for cooperatives. Prior to approving an employee request, the board shall determine whether the employee's proposed service as a director is likely to cause the employee to violate any regulations in this part or the institution's policies, e.g., the requirements relating to devotion of time to official duties. (e) Use the employee's position or information acquired in connection with the employee's position to solicit or obtain any gift, fee, or other present or deferred compensation or for any other personal benefit for the employee, any relative of the employee, any person residing in the employee's household, any business partner of the employee, any entity controlled by the employee or such persons (alone or in concert), any other System institution, or any person transacting business with the institution, including borrowers and loan applicants. (f) Accept, directly or indirectly, any gift, fee, or other present or deferred compensation that is offered or could reasonably be viewed as being offered to influence official action or to obtain information the employee has access to by reason of employment with a System institution. (g) Knowingly acquire, directly or indirectly, except by inheritance, any interest in any real or personal property, including mineral interests, that was owned by the employing, supervising, or any supervised institution within the preceding 12 months and that had been acquired by any such institution as a result of foreclosure or similar action.
