FR940304-2-00093 FR940304-2-00040 d. To any source from which information is requested in the course of an investigation, to the extent necessary to identify the individual, inform the source of the nature and purpose of the investigation, and to identify the type of information requested. e. To Federal agencies as a data source for management information through the production of summary descriptive statistics and analytical studies in support of the functions for which the records are maintained or for related studies. f. To disclose information to officials of the Merit Systems Protection Board, including the Office of the Special Counsel, when requested in connection with appeals, special studies of the civil service and other merit systems, review of office rules and regulations, investigations of alleged or possible prohibited personnel practices, and such other functions, e.g., as promulgated in 5 U.S.C. 1205 and 1206, or as may be authorized by law. g. To disclose information to the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission when requested in connection with investigations into alleged or possible discrimination practices in the Federal sector, examination of Federal affirmative employment programs, compliance by Federal agencies with the Uniform Guidelines on Employee Selection Procedures, or other functions vested in the Commission by the President's Reorganization Plan No. 1 of 1978. h. To disclose information to the Federal Labor Relations Authority or its General Counsel when requested in connection with investigations of allegations of unfair labor practices or matters before the Federal Service Impasses Panel. Policies and practices for storing, retrieving accessing retaining, and disposing of records in the system: Storage: Records are maintained in file folders. Retrievability: Records are received by the name of the individual on whom they are maintained. Safeguards: Folders are maintained in a steel file cabinet. The key to the steel cabinet is locked in other secured file cabinets that are rarely opened. All employees are required to have an appropriate background investigation before they are allowed access to the records. Retention and disposal: a. Log books which show the scheduling or completion of an investigation, and investigative files, if any, are retained for two years, plus the current year from the date of the most recent investigative activity. Other information which show no investigative record other than the completion of a clear National Agency Check or a clear National Agency Check and Inquiry, and where no investigative file folder exists, are retained for two years plus the current year. b. Reports of action after OPM or FBI section 8(d) background investigation are retained for the life of the investigative file. c. Notices of Security Investigations are retained for 20 years. All records are destroyed by shredding. System manager and address: Director, Office of Personnel, Inter-American Foundation, 901 N. Stuart Street, Arlington, VA 22203. Notification procedure: Individuals wishing to inquire whether this system contains information about them should contact the system manager in writing. Individuals must furnish the following information for their records to be located and identified: a. Full name b. Date of birth c. Social Security Number d. Signature e. Any available information regarding the type of record involved f. The category of covered individuals under which the requester believes he or she fits. Record access procedures: Specific materials in this system have been exempted from Privacy Act provisions at 5 U.S.C. 552a(c)(3) and (d), regarding access to records. The section of this notice titled Systems exempted from certain provision of the Act, which appears below, indicates the kinds of material exempted and the reasons for exempting them from access. Individuals wishing to request access to their records should contact the U.S. Office of Personnel Management, FIPC, Boyers, PA 16018&hyph;0618 in writing. Individuals must furnish the following information for their records to be located and identified:
