FR940610-2-00122 FR940610-2-00067 Third, with respect to whether notification of interested persons was adequate and timely, the applicant states that all notices, together with copies of the Proposal as published in the Federal Register on December 29, 1993, were posted and distributed by GMC in all primary business locations on or prior to January 28, 1994. In addition, each of the appropriate unions received copies of the notices and the Proposal. These notices, a copy of which has been submitted to the Department by the applicant, informed interested persons of their right to comment on the Proposal in writing to the Department on or before February 28, 1994. An authorized representative of GMC has provided the Department with a declaration under penalty of perjury attesting to the truth of the information regarding GMC's notice to interested persons as required by the Department's regulations (see 29 CFR 2570.43). Thus, the applicant represents that GMC has complied with the Department's exemption procedures regarding notification of interested persons in the manner agreed to between the applicant and the Department. Fourth, with respect to comments which linked the Proposal to GMC providing an early retirement benefits package to its employees, the applicant states that matters concerning the eligibility of Plan participants to certain benefits are totally unrelated to the Proposal. Since the Proposal only involves investing assets of the Plans in specific oil and gas investments and has nothing to do with any early retirement benefits for GMC employees, the applicant requests that the Department not link the granting of an exemption to any requirement that GMC provide early retirement benefits for its employees. The Department agrees with the applicant that the merits of granting an exemption for the subject oil and gas investments by the Plans should be judged independent of any decisions by GMC regarding the eligibility of participants to certain benefits under the terms of the Plans. In addition, the Department believes that the applicant has adequately addressed all of the issues raised by the commenters and that the subject oil and gas transactions, under the terms and conditions described herein, are in the interests and protective of the Plans and their participants and beneficiaries. Accordingly, after consideration of the entire record, the Department has determined to grant the exemption as modified. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mr. E.F. Williams of the Department at (202) 219&hyph;8194. (This is not a toll-free number.)
