FR940725-1-00015 FR940725-1-00002 (c) The bank establishes and maintains procedures to ensure that the legal characteristics of netting contracts are kept under review in the light of possible changes in relevant law. (d) The bank maintains in its files documentation adequate to support the netting of rate contracts, including a copy of the bilateral netting contract and necessary legal opinions. (2) A contract containing a walkaway clause is not eligible for netting for purposes of calculating the credit equivalent amount. 40 40 For purposes of this section, a walkaway clause means a provision in a netting contract that permits a non-defaulting counterparty to make lower payments than it would make otherwise under the contract, or no payment at all, to a defaulter or to the estate of a defaulter, even if a defaulter or the estate of a defaulter is a net creditor under the contract. (3) By netting individual contracts for the purpose of calculating its credit equivalent amount, a bank represents that it has met the requirements of this appendix A and all the appropriate documents are in the bank's files and available for inspection by the FDIC. Upon determination by the FDIC that a bank's files are inadequate or that a netting contract may not be legally enforceable under any one of the bodies of law described in paragraphs (b)(i) through (iii) of this section, underlying individual contracts may be treated as though they were not subject to the netting contract. (4) The credit equivalent amount of rate contracts that are subject to a qualifying bilateral netting contract is calculated by adding (i) the current exposure of the netting contract and (ii) the sum of the estimates of the potential future credit exposure on all individual contracts subject to the netting contract. (5) The current exposure of the netting contract is determined by summing all positive and negative mark-to-market values of the individual transactions included in the netting contract. If the net sum of the mark-to-market values is positive, then the current exposure of the netting contract is equal to that sum. If the net sum of the mark-to-market values is zero or negative, then the current exposure of the netting contract is zero. (6) For each individual contract included in the netting contract, the potential future credit exposure is estimated in accordance with section II.E.1. of this appendix A. 41 41 For purposes of calculating potential future credit exposure for foreign exchange contracts and other similar contracts in which notional principal is equivalent to cash flows, total notional principal is defined as the net receipts to each party falling due on each value date in each currency. (7) Examples of the calculation of credit equivalent amounts for these types of contracts are contained in Table IV. * * * * * 3. Appendix A to part 325 is amended by revising the last three sentences of the last paragraph under the heading ``Credit Conversion for Interest Rate and Foreign Exchange Rate Related Contracts'' in Table III and adding new Table IV to read as follows: * * * * * III. *␣*␣* Credit Conversion for Interest Rate and Foreign Exchange Rate Related Contracts * * * * * *␣*␣* In the event a netting contract covers transactions that are normally not included in the risk-based ratio calculation_for example, exchange rate contracts with an original maturity of fourteen calendar days or less or instruments traded on exchanges that require daily payment of variation margin_an institution may elect to consistently either include or exclude all mark-to-market values of such transactions when determining a net current exposures. Multiple contracts with the same counterparty may be netted for risk-based capital purposes pursuant to section II.E.3. of this appendix.
