FR940524-2-00043 FR940524-2-00027 Applications for Part II Applications for programs to plan and implement a statewide, population-based cancer registry will be reviewed and evaluated according to the following criteria: (Maximum 110 points) A. Resources and Needs Assessment: (25 Points_Allocated as Noted Below) The extent to which the applicant describes current and proposed activities for, and existing limitations to, the statewide cancer registry and extent to which the applicant addresses the following issues: A description of all potential sources of cancer cases (5 points); a description of all existing computerized cancer reporting systems in the State (2 points); a description of cancer reporting in the State including data items, assessment of completeness, timeliness and quality, staff, data processing and use of data (5 points); a description of cancer data currently collected (5 points); a review of ``enabling'' legislation and regulations (4 points); and, a description of computer hardware and software needs (4 points). B. Collaboration: (20 Points) The extent to which the applicant describes proposed collaboration with relevant organizations and agencies, such as an advisory committee; other organizations within the State; universities, the health care community, hospital associations, and professional associations such as the American Cancer Society; other States or national organizations; and federally-funded health care programs such as the Breast and Cervical Cancer Early Detection Program, Department of Veterans Affairs, Military and Armed Forces Facilities, the National Cancer Institute's Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results Program, and Indian Health Service in States with Native American populations. C. Proposed Objectives: (25 Points) The extent to which objectives are specific, measurable, time-phased, and realistic; provide for outcome and process objectives which meet the requirements of Pub. L. 102&hyph;515; and are derived from needs identified in the resources and needs assessment. D. Proposed Implementation Schedule: (10 Points) The extent to which the major steps required for project implementation are described and the project timetable displays dates for the accomplishment of specific project activities. E. Data Utilization: (10 Points) The extent to which the applicant provides a relevant and realistic plan to use cancer registry data within the State for cancer-control. F. Project Management and Staffing Plan: (10 Points) The extent to which proposed staffing, organizational structure, staff experience and background, identified training needs or plan, job descriptions and résumés for both proposed and current staff indicate ability to carry out the purposes of the program. G. Budget: (Not Scored) The extent to which the applicant provides a detailed budget and justification consistent with the stated objectives and program activities. H. (OPTIONAL) Operational Plan for Building Public Health Information Infrastructure: (10 Points_Scored Separately) The extent to which objectives and plans: 1. Increase the technical capacity in their State cancer registry to link databases; 2. Complete retrospective case ascertainment and data abstraction for diagnosis years 1990, 1991, 1992 and 1993; or 3. Establish a statewide electronic network. (No penalty for NOT undertaking OPTIONAL activities). Funding Priorities Priority will be given to Part I or Part II applications providing evidence for authorization under State law of the statewide cancer registry and regulations providing for cancer reporting, case confidentiality and use of cancer data for research as specified in Pub. L. 102&hyph;515, Sec. 399H(b)(2)(D).
