FR940622-1-00048 FR940622-1-00013 Commentors wishing to submit proprietary information for consideration should clearly distinguish such information from other comments, and clearly label it ``Confidential Business Information''. Submissions containing such proprietary information should be sent directly to the contact person listed above, and not to the public docket, to ensure that proprietary information is not inadvertently placed in the docket. Information covered by such a claim of confidentiality will be disclosed by EPA only to the extent allowed and by the procedures set forth in 40 CFR Part 2. If no claim of confidentiality accompanies the submission when it is received by EPA, it may be made available to the public without further notice to the commentor. B. Public Hearing A public hearing will be held, if requested, to discuss the proposed rulemaking in accordance with section 307(d)(5) of the Act. Persons wishing to make an oral presentation on the proposed rule for deleting acrylic acid from the Early Reductions Program list of high-risk pollutants should contact the EPA (see ADDRESSES ). Oral presentations will be limited to 15 minutes each. Any member of the public may file a written statement before, during, or within 30 days after the hearing. Written statements should be addressed to the Air Docket Section (see ADDRESSES ), and refer to Docket No. A&hyph;94&hyph;29. A verbatim transcript of the hearing and written statements will be available for public inspection and copying, or mailed upon request, during normal working hours at the EPA's Air Docket Section (see ADDRESSES ). C. Docket The docket is an organized and complete file of all the information submitted to or otherwise considered by EPA in the development of this proposed rulemaking. The principal purposes of the docket are: (1) to allow interested parties to readily identify and locate documents so they can intelligently and effectively participate in the rulemaking process and (2) to serve as the record in case of judicial review (except for interagency review materials [section 307(d)(7)(A)]). D. Paperwork Reduction Act There are no information collection requirements associated with this proposed rule. Therefore, an Information Collection Request document has not been prepared. E. Executive Order 12866 Review Under Executive Order 12866 (FR 51735 (October 4, 1993)), EPA must determine whether a regulation is ``significant'' and therefore subject to review by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB), and the requirements of the Executive Order. The order defines ``significant regulatory action'' as one that is likely to result in a rule that may: (1) Have an annual effect on the economy of $100 million or more or adversely affect in a material way the economy, a sector of the economy, productivity, competition, jobs, the environment, public health or safety, or State, local, or tribal governments or communities, (2) Create a serious inconsistency or otherwise interfere with an action taken or planned by another agency, (3) Materially alter the budgetary impact of entitlement, grants, user fees, or loan programs, or the rights and obligations of recipients thereof; or (4) Raise novel legal or policy issues arising out of legal mandates, the President's priorities, or the principles set forth in the Executive Order. Pursuant to the terms of Executive Order 12866, it has been determined that this rule is a ``non significant regulatory action''. Accordingly, a regulatory impact analysis has not been prepared and EPA has not submitted the action to OMB for review. F. Compliance with Regulatory Flexibility Act Under Section 605 of the Regulatory Flexibility Act of 1980, 5 U.S.C. 601 et seq., federal agencies are required to assess the economic impact of federal regulations on small entities. Pursuant to the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 605(b), I hereby certify that this rule, if promulgated, will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small business entities because the impact of the proposed rule is not significant. List of Subjects in 40 CFR Part 63 Air pollution control, Early emission reductions, Hazardous air pollutants, Compliance extensions, Sources. Dated: June 15, 1994. Carol M. Browner, Administrator. For the reasons set out in the preamble, 40 CFR part 63 is amended as follows: PART 63_[AMENDED] 1. The authority citation for part 63 continues to read as follows: Authority: 42 U.S.C. 7401 et seq. ยง63.74 [Amended] 2. In ยง63.74 Table 1 entitled ``List of High Risk Pollutants'', the entry for ``acrylic acid'' (CAS No. 79107) is removed. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;15176 Filed 6&hyph;21&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;P
