FR940511-0-00047 FR940511-0-00015 Comment: NOAA should propose the examination of extending unlimited liability for spills to the shipping companies and the original firms providing the original source materials involved in the polluting activities. Response: The MPRSA only provides NOAA with the authority to collect $100,000 per day for each violation pursuant to 16 U.S.C. 1437(c)(1), and damages to Sanctuary natural resources pursuant to 16 U.S.C. 1443. Issue: Sealion Rock Comment: NOAA should prohibit, or at least condition, the Navy's practice bombing activities over Sealion Rock due to the impact on seabirds, depositing of metal objects in the Sanctuary, and because the military environment does not require such a sensitive area to be used for such purposes. At the very least, NOAA should prohibit the practice bombing during the breeding season. Section 7 consultations with the Department of Commerce and the Department of the Interior should not be construed as sufficient mitigation because these processes do not address impacts to non-endangered species. Response: NOAA agrees that the Navy practice bombing of Sealion Rock is inconsistent with the goals of the Sanctuary program. Because the permit under which the Navy conducted its activities over Sealion Rock was rescinded by the Secretary of the Interior in August, 1993, NOAA may prohibit outright all bombing activities within the Sanctuary and has determined to do so. The regulation adopted by NOAA prohibits all practice bombing and provides that no exemption from the prohibition will be granted. Comment: NOAA does not have the authority to prohibit or condition the Navy's activities. Response: Because the Navy's authorization from the Secretary of Interior was rescinded, NOAA now has the authority to not only condition but also prohibit the Navy's practice bombing activities. Comment: NOAA should place the Navy's bombing activities within the scope of regulation to allow future regulation if necessary. To not list military activities is in conflict with the primary goal of resource protection. Response: NOAA has addressed Navy activities in §925.5(d) of the regulations. Comment: NOAA should investigate the history of the Navy's activities over Sealion Rock to determine if a grandfather clause is warranted. Response: The history of the Navy's activities and the permit that authorized its activities has been outlined in the FEIS/MP. The Navy's authority to conduct practice bombing activities has been rescinded and thus consideration of a grandfather clause is irrelevant. Comment: Clarify how Navy bombing of Sealion Rock at 200 feet is less disruptive than commercial overflights. Response: NOAA does not assert that the Navy's low flying activities are less disruptive than commercial or non-commercial overflights. NOAA's differing regulations in the DEIS/MP applying to Navy and non-military overflights resulted from limitations placed on NOAA by the MPRSA with respect to terminating pre-existing leases and permits. Issue: Protection of Treaty Rights Comment: NOAA's regulations do not formally recognize the Federal Government's trust responsibility to the coastal Tribes. The regulations contain no provision which formally requires the Director to consider and protect tribal interests when ruling on permit applications to conduct development activities within the Sanctuary. To address this issue, the following modifications to the §925.8 should be made: The Director *␣*␣* may issue a permit *␣*␣* to conduct an activity otherwise prohibited by §925.5(a)(2)&hyph;(7), if the Director finds that the activity will: further research related to Sanctuary resources: *␣*␣* or promote the welfare of any Indian Tribe adjacent to the Sanctuary. In deciding whether to issue a permit, the Director shall consider such factors as *␣*␣* the impacts of the activity on adjacent Indian Tribes. Where the issuance or denial of a permit is requested by the governing body of an Indian Tribe, the Director shall consider and protect the interests of the Tribe to the fullest extent practicable in keeping with the purposes of the Sanctuary and his or her fiduciary duties to the Tribe *␣*␣* Response: NOAA agrees that the designation of the Olympic Coast National Marine Sanctuary is subject to the Federal government's general fiduciary responsibility to the coastal tribes. Accordingly, NOAA has modified §925.9(d) of the regulations to incorporate the recommended language. Comment: NOAA's regulation prohibiting the taking of marine mammals and seabirds conflicts with treaty rights to fish and hunt marine mammals in tribal usual and accustomed fishing grounds.
