FR940216-0-00249 FR940216-0-00010 (iii)(A) Samples shall have been collected and stored per the method normally employed at the refinery in order to prevent change in product composition with regard to baseline properties and to minimize loss of volatile fractions of the sample. (B) Properties of the retained samples shall be adjusted for loss of butane by comparing the RVP measured right after blending with the RVP determined at the time that the supplemental properties are measured. (C) The volume of each batch or shipment sampled shall have been noted and the sum of the volumes calculated to the nearest hundred (100) barrels. (D) For each batch or shipment sampled, the ratio of its volume to the total volume determined in paragraph (d)(4)(iii)(C) of this section shall be determined to three (3) decimal places. This shall be the volumetric fraction of the shipment in the mixture. (E) The total minimum volume required to perform duplicate analyses to obtain values of all of the required fuel parameters shall be determined. (F) The volumetric fraction determined in paragraph (d)(4)(iii)(D) of this section for each batch or shipment shall be multiplied by the value determined in paragraph (d)(4)(iii)(E) of this section. (G) The resulting value determined in paragraph (d)(4)(iii)(F) of this section for each batch or shipment shall be the volume of each batch or shipment's sample to be added to the mixture. This volume shall be determined to the nearest milliliter. (H) The appropriate volumes of each shipment's sample shall be thoroughly mixed and the solution analyzed per the methods normally employed at the refinery. (5) Test methods. (i) If the test methods used to obtain fuel parameter values of gasoline and gasoline blendstocks differ or are otherwise not equivalent in precision or accuracy to the corresponding test method specified in §80.46, results obtained under those procedures will only be acceptable, upon petition and approval (per §80.93), if the procedures are or were industry-accepted procedures for measuring the properties of gasoline and gasoline blendstocks at the time the measurement was made. (ii) Oxygen content may have been determined analytically or from oxygenate blending records. (A) The fuel parameter values, other than oxygen content, specified in paragraph (a) of this section, must be established as for any blendstock, per the requirements of this paragraph (d). (B) All oxygen associated with allowable gasoline oxygenates per §80.2(jj) shall be included in the determination of the baseline oxygen content, if oxygen content was determined analytically. (C) Oxygen content shall be assumed to be contributed solely by the oxygenate which is indicated on the blending records, if oxygen content was determined from blending records. (6) Data quality. Data may be excluded from the baseline determination if it is shown to the satisfaction of the Director of the Office of Mobile Sources, or designee, that it is not within the normal range of values expected for the gasoline or blendstock sample, considering unit configuration, operating conditions, etc.; due to: (i) Improper labeling; or (ii) Improper testing; or (iii) Other reasons as verified by the auditor specified in §80.92. (e) Baseline fuel parameter determination_ (1) Closely integrated gasoline producing facilities. Each refinery or blending facility must determine a set of baseline fuel parameter values per this paragraph (e). A single set of baseline fuel parameters may be determined, upon petition and approval, for two or more facilities under either of the following circumstances: (i) Two or more refineries or sets of gasoline blendstock-producing units of a refiner engaged in the production of gasoline per paragraph (b)(1) of this section which are geographically proximate to each other, yet not within a single refinery gate, and whose 1990 operations were significantly interconnected. (ii) A gasoline blending facility operating per paragraph (b)(3) of this section received at least 75 percent of its 1990 blendstock volume from a single refinery, or from one or more refineries which are part of an aggregate baseline per §80.101(h). The blending facility and associated refinery(ies) must be owned by the same refiner. (2) Equations_ (i) Parameter determinations. Average baseline fuel parameters shall be determined separately for summer and winter using summer and winter data (per paragraph (d)(1)(i)(A) of this section), respectively, in the applicable equation listed in paragraphs (e)(2) (ii) through (iv) of this section, except that average baseline winter RVP shall be 8.7 psi. (ii) Product included in parameter determinations. In each of the equations listed in paragraphs (e)(2) (ii) through (iv) of this section, the following shall apply: (A) All gasoline produced to meet EPA's 1990 summertime volatility requirements shall be considered summer gasoline. All other gasoline shall be considered winter gasoline. (B) (1) Baseline total annual 1990 gasoline volume shall be the larger of the total volume of gasoline produced in or shipped from the refinery in 1990.
