FR940426-0-00033 FR940426-0-00009 (2) Office of Special Supervision and Corporate Affairs. The Office of Special Supervision and Corporate Affairs (OSSCA) makes recommendations to the Board regarding corporate restructuring activities, charter changes among System institutions, related activities required by law or regulation, the initiation of enforcement actions against System institutions as provided in part C of title V of the Act, and the termination of enforcement actions. The OSSCA prepares, delivers, and oversees compliance with enforcement documents. It monitors, analyzes, and forecasts the economic, financial, and policy environment in which System institutions operate, including the risk to which those institutions are exposed; provides analytical expertise for policy matters, strategic planning, and regulation development; and oversees receiverships that were appointed prior to January 6, 1993. (3) Office of Resources Management. The Office of Resources Management provides agency administrative management for the agency budget, accounting, human resources, training, procurement, electronic data processing, document processing, property, supply, facilities, records and other administrative services. The Chairman and the Board members have delegated to the Chief of the Human Resources Division the authority to serve as appointing officer, including the authority to classify or place positions in the appropriate pay plan and pay ranges. (4) Office of General Counsel. The Office of General Counsel provides legal advice and services to the Board, the Chairman, and the agency staff. The Office interprets the Farm Credit Act of 1971, as amended, and other applicable laws; participates in the preparation of agency rules and regulations; and represents the agency in litigation, in enforcement proceedings brought by the agency, and in proceedings before other administrative bodies. The Office of General Counsel also has the responsibility to ensure that the agency meets all statutory and regulatory ethics requirements. The Director, Office of General Counsel, is the General Counsel of the Farm Credit Administration. (5) Office of Congressional and Public Affairs. The Office of Congressional and Public Affairs coordinates and disseminates all communication by the agency with the Congress and plans and implements all public communications. The Office is the first source of information to the Farm Credit System and borrowers concerning the Farm Credit Administration and provides other representational services for the Board and the agency to the public. (6) Office of Inspector General. The Office of Inspector General is an independent office established by the Inspector General Act Amendments of 1988 to: (i) Conduct and supervise audits and investigations relating to the programs and operations of the Farm Credit Administration; (ii) Provide leadership and coordination and recommend policies for activities designed to promote economy, efficiency, and effectiveness in the administration of the Farm Credit Administration's programs and operations; (iii) Prevent and detect fraud and abuse in the Farm Credit Administration's programs and operations; and (iv) Provide a means to keep the Chairman and Congress fully and currently informed about problems and deficiencies relating to the Farm Credit Administration's programs and operations and the necessity for, and progress of, corrective actions. (7) Office of Secondary Market Oversight. The Office of Secondary Market Oversight, a separate office within the Farm Credit Administration pursuant to section 8.11 of the Act, provides for: (i) The examination of the Federal Agricultural Mortgage Corporation and its affiliates; and (ii) The general supervision of the safe and sound performance of the powers, functions, and duties vested in the Federal Agricultural Mortgage Corporation and its affiliates. * * * * * Subpart B_Rules and Procedures for Service Upon the Farm Credit Administration ยง600.10 [Amended]
