FR940106-1-00070 FR940106-1-00011 b. Proposed Criteria In its September 3, 1991 letter and subsequent correspondence with the Board, EPA recommended salinity criteria of 0.44 mmhos/cm EC in the lower San Joaquin River in the reach from Jersey Point and Vernalis. After further reviewing the scientific evidence, EPA is proposing the following criteria: The 14-day running average of the mean daily EC shall not be more than 0.44 mmhos/cm for the period April 1 to May 31 in wet, above normal, and below normal years at the following stations: Jersey Point, San Andreas Landing, Prisoners Point, Buckley Cove, Rough and Ready Island, Brandt Bridge, Mossdale, and Vernalis. In dry and critical water years, the criteria are required only in the reach between Jersey Point and Prisoners Point, as measured at Jersey Point, San Andreas Landing, and Prisoners Point. These criteria will fully protect the historic spawning range of striped bass on the lower San Joaquin River, while reflecting the natural variability in salinity levels in different water year types. c. Implementation Under the CWA, the states have a primary role in developing measures implementing water quality criteria. EPA expects that the State Board would implement these criteria by making appropriate revisions to operational requirements included in water rights permits issued by the State Board. 4. Compliance With Endangered Species Act EPA has concluded that its promulgation of water quality criteria for the Bay/Delta may affect certain species protected by the federal ESA. These include the winter-run chinook salmon (listed as threatened and proposed for reclassification as endangered), the Delta smelt (listed as threatened), and the Sacramento splittail and longfin smelt (both the subject of petitions for listing). There are also a number of listed and proposed species resident in Suisun Marsh. Under section 7 of the ESA and accompanying regulations, EPA is required to consult with NMFS (on the winter-run chinook salmon) and USFWS (on the other listed and proposed species) to assure that the water quality criteria promulgated by EPA do not jeopardize the continued existence of these species or adversely affect their critical habitat. 50 CFR 402.14 and §402.10. EPA has worked closely with NMFS and USFWS over the past two years to meet its obligations under the ESA. The federal agencies have recognized the need to take an integrated ecosystem approach to the Bay/Delta rather than a fragmented, species-by-species approach. To that end, the EPA, NMFS, and USFWS issued a joint proposal to the State Board's 1992 hearings on interim measures recommending that the State Board adopt an immediate goal of restoration of habitat conditions to those characteristic of the late 1960's and early 1970's. By targeting this level of protection, the agencies intended to establish habitat conditions that would protect and preserve the entire range of fish and wildlife uses in the Bay/Delta. The criteria proposed in this notice follow this approach to habitat protection within the Bay/Delta watershed. Pursuant to 50 CFR §§402.14, EPA has initiated formal consultations with USFWS and NMFS on the potential effects of its action on endangered and threatened species. The agencies have agreed to finalize these consultations before EPA promulgates water quality standards in the Bay/Delta. BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;P E:FRFMEP06JA94.005 E:FRFMEP06JA94.006 E:FRFMEP06JA94.007 BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;C
