FR940630-2-00122 FR940630-2-00096 Draft Regulatory Guide; Issuance, Availability The Nuclear Regulatory Commission has issued for public comment a draft of a new guide planned for its Regulatory Guide Series. This series has been developed to describe and make available to the public such information as methods acceptable to the NRC staff for implementing specific parts of the Commission's regulations, techniques used by the staff in evaluating specific problems or postulated accidents, and data needed by the staff in its review of applications for permits and licenses. The draft guide is temporarily identified as DG&hyph;8015, ``Release of Patients Administered Radioactive Materials,'' and is intended for Division 8, ``Occupational Health.'' DG&hyph;8015 is being developed to provide guidance on determining the potential doses to an individual likely to receive the highest dose from exposure to a patient and to establish appropriate activities and dose rates for release of a patient. The guide will also provide guideline on instructions for patients on how to maintain doses to other individuals as low as reasonably achievable and will describe recordkeeping requirements. This draft guide is being issued to involve the public in the early stages of the development of a regulatory position in this area. The draft guide has not received complete staff review and does not represent an official NRC staff position. Public comments are being solicited on the guide. Comments should be accompanied by supporting data. Written comments may be submitted to the Rules Review and Directives Branch, Division of Freedom of Information and Publications Services, Office of Administration, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555. Copies of comments received may be examined at the NRC Public Document Room, 2120 L Street NW., Washington, DC. Comments will be most helpful if received by August 29, 1994. Although a time limit is given for comments on this draft guide, comments and suggestions in connection with items for inclusion in guides currently being developed or improvements in all published guides are encouraged at any time. Regulatory guides are available for inspection at the Commission's Public Document Room, 2120 L Street NW., Washington, DC. Requests for single copies of draft guides (which may be reproduced) or for placement on an automatic distribution list for single copies of future draft guides in specific divisions should be made in writing to the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555, Attention: Distribution and Mail Services Section. Telephone requests cannot be accommodated. Regulatory guides are not copyrighted, and Commission approval is not required to reproduce them. (5 U.S.C. 552(a)) Dated at Rockville, Maryland, this 20th day of May 1994. For the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. Bill M. Morris, Director, Division of Regulatory Applications, Office of Nuclear Regulatory Research. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;15938 Filed 6&hyph;29&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 7590&hyph;01&hyph;M
