FR941121-0-00029 FR941121-0-00001 4. Stepped-rate accounts. A single composite annual percentage yield must be disclosed for stepped-rate accounts. (See Appendix A, Part I, Paragraph B.) The dividend rates and the period of time each will be in effect also must be provided. When the initial rate offered for a specified time on a variable-rate account is higher or lower than the rate that would otherwise be paid on the account, the calculation of the annual percentage yield must be made as if for a stepped-rate account. (See Appendix A, Part I, Paragraph C.) 5. Minimum balance accounts. If a credit union sets a minimum balance to earn dividends, the credit union may, but need not, state that the annual percentage yield is 0% for those days the balance in the account drops below the minimum balance level when using the daily balance method. Nor is a disclosure of 0% required for credit unions using the average daily balance method, if the member fails to meet the minimum balance required for the average daily balance period. (b)(1)(ii) Variable Rates (b)(1)(ii)(B) 1. Determining dividend rates. To disclose how the dividend rate is determined, credit unions must: i. Identify the index and specific margin, if the dividend rate is tied to an index. ii. State that rate changes are within the credit union's discretion, if the credit union does not tie changes to an index. (b)(1)(ii)(C) 1. Frequency of rate changes. A credit union reserving the right to change rates at its discretion must state the fact that rates may change at any time. (b)(1)(ii)(D) 1. Limitations. A floor or ceiling on rates or on the amount the rate may decrease or increase during any time period must be disclosed. Credit unions need not disclose the absence of limitations on rate changes. (b)(2) Compounding and Crediting (b)(2)(i) Frequency 1. General. Descriptions such as ``quarterly'' or ``monthly'' are sufficient. Irregular crediting and compounding periods, such as if a cycle is out short at year end for tax reporting purposes, need not be disclosed. 2. Dividend period. For dividend-bearing accounts, the dividend period must be disclosed. (A specific example must also be given, see Appendix B, ยงB&hyph;1(c).) The dividend period for term share accounts generally may be disclosed as the account's term (e.g., two years). (b)(2)(ii) Effect of Closing an Account 1. Deeming an account closed. A credit union may, subject to state or other law, provide in account contracts the actions by members that will be treated as closing the account and that will result in the forfeiture of accrued but uncredited dividends. An example is the withdrawal of all funds from the account prior to the date dividends are credited. Credit unions are cautioned that bylaw requirements may prevent a credit union from deeming a member's account closed until certain time periods are extinguished if funds remain in a member's account. NCUA Standard FCU Bylaws , Art. III, ยง3 (members have at least 6 months to replenish membership share before membership terminates and account is deemed closed). Such bylaw requirements may not be overridden without proper agency approval. (b)(3) Balance Information (b)(3)(i) Minimum Balance Requirements 1. Par value. Credit unions must disclose any minimum balance required to open the account, to avoid the imposition of a fee, or to obtain the annual percentage yield. Since members cannot generally maintain any accounts until the par value of the membership share is paid in full, this section requires that credit unions disclose the par value of a share necessary to become a member and maintain accounts at the credit union. The par value of a share and the minimum balance requirement do not have to be the same amount (e.g., a credit union may have a $5 par value for a membership share, in order for accounts to be opened and maintained, and a $100 minimum balance requirement, in order for the account to earn dividends). 2. Disclosures. The explanation of minimum balance computation methods may be combined with the balance computation method disclosures (ยง707.4(b)(3)(ii)) if they are the same. If a credit union uses different cycles for determining minimum balance requirements for purposes of assessing fees and for paying dividends, the credit union must disclose the specific cycle or time period used for each purpose (e.g., use of a midmonth statement cycle for determining dividends, and use of a calendar month cycle for determining fees). Credit unions may assess fees by using any method. If fees on one account are tied to the balance in another account, such provision must be explained (e.g., if share draft fees are tied to a minimum balance in the regular share account (or a combination of the share draft and regular share accounts), the share draft account must explain that fact and how the balance in the regular share account (or both accounts) is determined). The fee need not be disclosed in the account disclosures if the fee is not imposed on that account.
