FR940802-0-00091 FR940802-0-00019 Tuesday August 2, 1994 Part IV Department of the Interior Fish and Wildlife Service 50 CFR Part 36 Regulations Prohibiting Taking of Free Ranging Wolves and Wolverines on Alaska National Wildlife Refuges on the Same Day the Trapper or Hunter Is Airborne; Rule Federal Register ␣/␣Vol. 59, No. 147␣/␣Tuesday, August 2, 1994␣/␣Rules and Regulations DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR Fish and Wildlife Service 50 CFR Part 36 RIN 1018&hyph;AC16 Regulations Prohibiting Taking of Free Ranging Wolves and Wolverines on Alaska National Wildlife Refuges on the Same Day the Trapper or Hunter Is Airborne AGENCY: Fish and Wildlife Service, Interior. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: This rule prohibits trappers and hunters from shooting free ranging wolves and wolverines in national wildlife refuges (refuges) in Alaska on the same day in which the person is airborne, except that trappers may use firearms to dispatch wolves or wolverines that are legally trapped or snared on the same day in which flying occurred. The prohibition does not apply to trappers and hunters transported on regularly scheduled commercial flights between public airports. Hunting and trapping will continue to be allowed on Alaska refuges pursuant to applicable, non-conflicting State of Alaska (State) and Federal laws and regulations, as specifically authorized by the Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation Act (ANILCA) of 1980. Aircraft access to and within Alaska refuges for sport or subsistence hunting, trapping, fishing and other traditional activities, and for travel to and from villages and homesites will continue to be allowed subject to reasonable regulations to protect refuge resources and ensure that uses are compatible with refuge purposes. EFFECTIVE DATE: September 1, 1994. ADDRESSES: U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, Refuges and Wildlife, 1011 East Tudor Road, Anchorage, AK 99503&hyph;6199. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Refer all questions to Tony Booth at the address listed under the heading ADDRESSES : Telephone 907&hyph;786&hyph;3384. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background The National Wildlife Refuge Administration Act of 1966 (Pub. L. 89&hyph;669; 16 U.S.C. 668dd&hyph;668ee) provides guidelines and directives for the use of the National Wildlife Refuge System and authorizes the Secretary of the Interior to allow uses within any area of the refuge system provided ``such uses are compatible with the major purposes for which such areas were established.'' In 1980, Congress passed the Alaska National Interest Lands Conservation Act (ANILCA; Pub. L. 96&hyph;487) which established new, and added to existing, national wildlife refuges in Alaska. Sections 302 and 303 of ANILCA established purposes for which each refuge shall be managed. Section 304 of ANILCA prohibits the Secretary, subject to valid existing rights, from permitting any use for any purpose unless such use or purpose is compatible with the purposes of the refuge. Section 304 also requires the Secretary to prescribe such regulations and impose such terms and conditions as may be necessary and appropriate to ensure that activities carried out under any use granted under any authority are so compatible. Section 1110 of ANILCA directs the Secretary to permit use of airplanes on Alaska refuges for traditional activities and that such access shall be subject to reasonable regulation to protect the natural and other values of the refuge. The intent of Congress to allow hunting and trapping on Alaska refuges is reflected in the special regulations for Alaska National Wildlife Refuges contained in Title 50, Part 36 of the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR). In 1992, after many years of controversy, the State prohibited the land and shoot method of taking wolves by making it illegal to shoot a wolf until 3:00 a.m. on the day following the day the hunter or trapper was airborne (i.e., ``same-day-airborne'' prohibition). Prohibition of taking wildlife during the same-day-airborne allows adequate access to wildlife resources but prevents abuses that could result from hunters or trappers being able to spot and drive or track wildlife from the air and then land and immediately shoot the animal. However, in July 1993, the Alaska Board of Game (Board) reconsidered the same-day-airborne prohibition and adopted a new regulation that allows trappers to shoot wolves and certain other furbearers the same-day-airborne. The new State trapping regulation is more restrictive than the pre-1992 land and shoot allowances in that it requires the trapper to be at least 300 feet from the airplane before shooting the furbearer. As of October 1, 1993, any person who purchases a trapping license can shoot free ranging wolves same-day-airborne if at least 300 feet from the airplane. State hunting regulations continue to prohibit hunters from shooting wolves and wolverines until 3:00 a.m. on the day after the hunter flew. In response to the State's regulation, the Service published a proposed rule in the Federal Register on December 22, 1993, which is intended to accomplish the following: 1. Prohibit same-day-airborne taking of wolves and wolverines with firearms except that trappers could use firearms to dispatch legally caught wolves or wolverines in a trap or snare on the same-day-airborne, and this prohibition would not apply to people transported on regularly scheduled commercial airlines between public airports; 2. Satisfy legal mandates to provide for hunting and trapping on Alaska refuges and adequately provide for aircraft access to refuge resources; 3. Maintain compatibility between hunting and trapping and legislative purposes, the mission of the National Wildlife Refuge System, and established Service policies; and 4. Provide more effective enforcement of hunting and trapping laws and regulations.
