FR940525-1-00010 FR940525-1-00006 INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMMISSION 49 CFR Part 1023 [Ex Parte No. MC&hyph;100 (Sub-No. 6)] Single State Insurance Registration [Petition of Lee's Permit Service, et al.] AGENCY: Interstate Commerce Commission. ACTION: Notice of proposed rulemaking. SUMMARY: The Commission is proposing to revise its regulations pertaining to registration by motor carriers with States. The Commission has learned that delays inherent in the registration process are diminishing or negating the usefulness of emergency temporary and temporary motor carrier operating authorities. The proposed regulations provide expedited registration procedures for carriers operating under such temporary authorities and establish concomitant enforcement mechanisms for the participating States. DATES: Comments must be submitted by June 14, 1994. ADDRESSES: The original and 10 copies of comments identified as such and referring to Ex Parte No. MC&hyph;100 (Sub-No. 6) must be sent to: Interstate Commerce Commission, Office of the Secretary, Case Control Branch, Washington, DC 20423. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Kenneth H. Schwartz (202) 927&hyph;5316 or Joseph H. Dettmar (202) 927&hyph;5660. (TDD for hearing impaired: (202) 927&hyph;5721.) SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: In response to a petition jointly filed by motor carrier consulting companies Lee's Permit Service and Little Debby's Tag Service (petitioners), the Commission is proposing to amend the Single State Registration System (SSRS) rules it promulgated in Single State Insurance Registration, 9 I.C.C.2d 610 (1993). Petitioners have found that some States participating in the SSRS take 2 to 3 weeks to process applications. Under the SSRS rules, carriers may not operate lawfully in participating States without carrying copies of registration receipts in their vehicles. Petitioners argue that the delay diminishes the usefulness of their temporary authorites. To address the situation, the Commission is proposing regulations providing expedited registration procedures for carriers operating under temporary authorities. The Commission invites interested parties to submit comments on the proposed rules. In addition, parties may address the necessity and feasibility of modifying the current registration application form, appearing as appendix A to 49 CFR part 1023, in lieu of or in addition to adopting new rules. In this connection, parties may address the feasibility of a carrier's maintaining in its vehicles a copy of a filed application and/or a filed notice. The Commission encourages parties that are in agreement to submit joint filings. Parties adopting by reference the comments submitted by others need not submit copies of the referenced material. Additional information is contained in the Commission's decision. To obtain a copy of the full decision, write to, call, or pick up in person from: Office of the Secretary, room 2215, Interstate Commerce Commission, Washington, DC 20423. Telephone: (202) 927&hyph;7428. (Assistance for the hearing impaired is available through TDD service (202) 927&hyph;5721.) Initial Regulatory Flexibility Certification Pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 605(b), we preliminarily conclude that our proposed action in this proceeding will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. The purpose of our action is to enable motor carriers that gain temporary operating authorities to be able immediately to use their authorities without fear of incurring State fines. Compliance by carriers with a simple, expedited filing and copying requirement would result in relief from the threat of State regulatory enforcement. The economic impact on small entities, if any, should be positive but is not likely to be significant within the meaning of the Regulatory Flexibility Act. We invite parties to comment on the issue of economic impact on small entities in order to assist us in making findings in this area. Environmental and Energy Considerations
