FR940304-1-00095 FR940304-1-00014 In its comment concerning subcoolers, Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers asserted that subcoolers are not used unless it is impossible to achieve the needed subcooling without them. The Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers also stated that when a subcooler is needed, the available room in the chassis dictates the allowable length of the subcooler. (Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers, No. 61A at 12, 13). Whirlpool Corporation stated that a subcooler type that transfers heat from the refrigerant in the liquid line to the superheat exiting the evaporator is not practical in room air conditioners due to limited space within the cabinet. (Whirlpool Corporation, No. 31 at 10). The Department understands the conventional practice used by manufacturers for incorporating subcoolers into room air conditioners. But the Department does not believe that this should prevent the design option from being considered. As long as the chassis of the particular unit is large enough to accommodate it, a subcooler will be considered as a way to improve a unit's performance. Engineering data supplied by manufacturers provided information on the maximum length of subcoolers which could be incorporated into a particular unit. The data were used to establish subcooler length for prospective room air conditioners. Enhanced fin surfaces, such as wavy or slit patterns, improve the heat transfer capability of a coil by increasing the air-side heat transfer coefficient. In its comments regarding enhanced fin designs, the Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers stated that most manufacturers now use a wavy or ``waffle'' fin (Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers, No. 61A at 12). Additional improvement can be achieved through the use of ``lanced'' or ``louvered'' fins. The Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers expressed a concern that data based on work performed by manufacturers should be more heavily relied upon than data based on published research papers available in the public domain. The publicly available data seems to be either based upon theoretical analysis or research-type testing of simulated coil configurations. The Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers stated that the correlation between the data and actual performance results in room air conditioners is difficult to determine. (Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers, No. 61A at 13, 14). Whirlpool Corporation stated that air flow is reduced and air-side pressure drop across the coil is increased due to incorporating enhanced fin surfaces into coils. But Whirlpool Corporation added that enhanced fin designs provide significant improvement without substantial additional cost. (Whirlpool Corporation, No. 31 at 9). The Department generally agrees with the comments made by Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers concerning enhanced fin design. Test data received from room air conditioner manufacturers and heat exchanger manufacturers are given more weight than theoretical analyses when deciding how much of an improvement should be given to the air-side heat transfer coefficients due to enhanced fin surfaces. The Department does not believe that the theoretical or research data available in the public domain should be dismissed entirely, and is using it as a check on the data received from manufacturers to determine if their information is reasonable. Improvements to the air-side heat transfer coefficients are input to the computer simulation model. With this information on improvements, the model is able to determine what effect enhanced fin surfaces have on the entire room air conditioner system. Augmenting the smooth inside surface of refrigerant tubing with grooves increases the tube's refrigerant-side heat transfer coefficient. Grooved (rifled) tubing can therefore improve the heat transfer capability of a coil. The Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers' comments concerning grooved tubing are similar to the comments it gave regarding enhanced fin surfaces. The Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers stated that data based on work performed by manufacturers should be more heavily relied upon than data provided by refrigerant tubing manufacturers. The Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers asserted that the data made available by tubing manufacturers are generally obtained under optimized conditions rather than under conditions representing actual application in room air conditioners. (Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers, No. 61A at 15). Whirlpool Corporation states that grooved tubing costs significantly more than smooth tubing but has a beneficial effect on system performance. (Whirlpool Corporation, No. 31 at 9). As with enhanced fin surface data, the Department is giving more weight to data received from room air conditioner manufacturers when deciding how much improvement should be given to the refrigerant-side heat coefficients due to grooved tubing. The Department is using data made available by refrigerant tubing manufacturers as well as data provided by research papers in the public domain to compliment the data received from room air conditioner manufacturers. (See Technical Support Document, Volume H). Improvements to the refrigerant-side heat transfer coefficients are input as multipliers to the computer simulation model. With the multipliers, the model is able to determine what effect grooved tubing has on the entire room air conditioner system.
