FR940927-0-00006 FR940927-0-00001 Crop Insurance; Cotton. Final Rule Accordingly, pursuant to the authority contained in the Federal Crop Insurance Act, as amended (7 U.S.C. 1501 et seq.), the Federal Crop Insurance Corporation hereby amends the Common Crop Insurance Regulations (7 CFR part 457), effective for the 1995 and succeeding crop years, in the following instances: PART 457_COMMON CROP INSURANCE REGULATIONS; REGULATIONS FOR THE 1994 AND SUBSEQUENT CONTRACT YEARS 1. The authority citation for 7 CFR part 457 continues to read as follows: Authority: 7 U.S.C. 1506, 1516. 2. 7 CFR part 457 is amended by revising the heading as set forth above and by adding §457.104 Cotton Crop Provisions to read as follows: §457.104 Cotton Crop Insurance Provisions. The Cotton Crop Insurance Provisions for the 1995 and succeeding crop years are as follows: UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE Federal Crop Insurance Corporation Cotton Crop Provisions If a conflict exists among the Common Crop Insurance Policy (§457.8), these crop provisions, and the Special Provisions, the Special Provisions will control these crop provisions and the common policy and these crop provisions will control the common policy. 1. Definitions (a) Cotton _Varieties identified as American Upland Cotton. (b) Days _Calendar days. (c) Final planting date _The date contained in the Special Provisions for the insured crop by which the crop must initially be planted in order to be insured for the full production guarantee. (d) Good farming practices _The cultural practices generally in use in the county for the insured crop to make normal progress toward maturity and produce at least the yield used to determine the production guarantee and are those recognized by Cooperative Extension Service as compatible with agronomic and weather conditions in the area. (e) Growth area _A geographic area designated by the Secretary of Agriculture for the purpose of reporting cotton prices. (f) Harvest _The removal of the seed cotton from the open cotton boll, or the severance of the open cotton boll from the stalk by either manual or mechanical means. (g) Interplanted _Acreage on which two or more crops are planted in a manner that does not permit separate agronomic maintenance or harvest of the insured crop. (h) Irrigated practice _A method of producing a crop by which water is artificially applied during the growing season by appropriate systems, and at the proper times, with the intention of providing the quantity of water needed to produce at least the yield used to establish the irrigated production guarantee on the irrigated acreage planted to the insured crop. (i) Late planted _Acreage planted to cotton during the late planting period. (j) Late planting period _The period that begins the day after the final planting date for the insured crop and ends twenty-five (25) days after the final planting date. (k) Mature cotton _Cotton that can be harvested either manually or mechanically. (l) Planted acreage _Land in which seed has been placed by a machine appropriate for the insured crop and planting method, at the correct depth, into a seedbed which has been properly prepared for the planting method and production practice. Cotton must be planted in rows to be considered planted. Planting in any other manner will be considered as a failure to follow recognized good farming practices and any loss of production will not be insured unless otherwise provided by the special provisions or by written agreement to insure such crop. The yield conversion factor normally applied to non-irrigated skip-row cotton acreage will not be used if the land between the rows of cotton is planted to any crop. (m) Practical to replant _In lieu of subsection 1.(ff) of the Common Crop Insurance Policy (§457.8) practical to replant is defined as our determination, after loss or damage to the insured crop, based on factors including, but not limited to moisture availability, condition of the field, and time to crop maturity, that replanting to the insured crop will allow the crop to attain maturity prior to the calendar date for the end of the insurance period. It will not be considered practical to replant after the end of the late planting period unless replanting is generally occurring in the area. (n) Prevented planting _Inability to plant the insured crop with proper equipment by: (1) The final planting date designated in the Special Provisions for the insured crop in the county; or (2) The end of the late planting period. You must have been unable to plant the insured crop due to an insured cause of loss that has prevented most producers in the surrounding area from planting due to similar insurable causes. The insured cause of prevented planting must occur between the sales closing date and the final planting date for the insured crop in the county or within the late planting period. (o) Production guarantee _The number of pounds determined by multiplying the approved yield per acre by any applicable yield conversion factor for non-irrigated skip-row planting patterns, and multiplying the result by the coverage level percentage you elect. (p) Replanting _Performing the cultural practices necessary to replace the cotton seed, and replacing the seed in the insured acreage with the expectation of growing a successful crop. (q) Skip-row _A planting pattern that: (1) Consists of alternating rows of cotton and fallow land or land planted to another crop the previous fall; and (2) Qualifies as a skip-row planting pattern as defined by the ASCS or successor agency. (r) Timely planted _Planted on or before the final planting date designated in the Special Provisions for the insured crop in the county. (s) Written agreement _Designated terms of this policy may be altered by written agreement. Each agreement must be applied for by the insured in writing no later than the sales closing date and is valid for one year only. If not specifically renewed the following year, continuous insurance will be in accordance with the printed policy. All variable terms including, but not limited to, crop variety, guarantee, premium rate and price election must be set out in the written agreement. In specific instances a written agreement may be applied for after the sales closing date and approved if, after a physical inspection of the acreage, there is a determination that the crop has the expectancy of making at least the guaranteed yield. However, no prevented planting liability will be established as a result of any request submitted after the sales closing date. All applications for written agreements as submitted by the insured must contain all variable terms of the contract between the company and the insured that will be in effect if the written agreement is disapproved. 2. Unit Division Unless limited by the Special Provisions, a unit as defined in subsection 1.(tt) of the Common Crop Insurance Policy (§457.8), may be divided into optional units if, for each optional unit you meet all the conditions of this section or if a written agreement to such division exists. All optional units must be reflected on the acreage report for each crop year.
