FR940516-1-00123 FR940516-1-00006 EPA's cost estimate assumes that catalytic converters will not be needed to comply with proposed standards. However, as discussed previously, engine manufacturers may voluntarily decide to use catalysts on a percentage of engines at risk of only marginally complying. Should catalysts actually be used, EPA estimates that the additional variable hardware costs for nonhandheld engines will be $1.09 per engine and for handheld engine will be $0.10 per engine, with an additional $0.24 per engine for equipment modifications and $0.20 per potential heat shielding. The Agency requests additional comment on these cost estimates for application of catalyst technology and equipment impacts. VIII. Economic Effects The total national average annual cost of this rule is estimated to be $55 million. If catalysts become necessary, the average annual cost estimate becomes $73 million. EPA's economic analysis of the proposed rule's likely impact on consumers and industry indicates that reducing pollution from these engines will result in offsetting costs to consumers. Consumers will find small increases in retail prices for most equipment powered by these engines. The initial purchase price to the consumer will, however, be partially offset by savings in fuel and maintenance costs. Thus, over time, environmentally friendly, alternatively powered equipment such as electric powered trimmers, chain saws, and lawnmowers will become less costly to consumers. Industry will bear pollution control costs that are moderate (roughly six percent for handheld and two percent for nonhandheld equipment) relative to current production costs. (The level of pollution control costs is largely due to the high levels of pollution emitted by these engines, especially 2-stroke engines, and the relatively outdated state of the technology compared to on-highway engines.) However, the costs are small in absolute terms, and it is anticipated that these costs will be passed through to consumers in higher product prices. The complete economic analysis can be found in Chapter 3 of the draft RSD. A. Consumer Cost EPA estimated the increase in consumer cost of the equipment powered by these engines. In assessing consumer cost, three areas were analyzed: change to the retail cost of the engine, cost of fuel, and cost of maintenance. 1. Retail Cost The increase in retail price of the equipment to the consumer is estimated using a percentage increase over the average amortized and discounted per engine manufacturers' cost, weighted by the sales mix. As such, the estimated sales-weighted average increase in retail cost to the consumer due to the proposed rule in 1996 is $4.04 for handheld equipment and $2.35 for nonhandheld equipment. If catalysts are necessary, the estimated sales-weighted average increase in retail cost to the consumer due to the proposed rule in 1996 is $4.30 for handheld equipment and $3.68 for nonhandheld equipment.
