FR940826-1-00073 FR940826-1-00009 4. Definition of an Affiliate 55. In the Second Report and Order, we referenced the SBA's affiliation rules for purposes of defining generally whether an entity qualifies as a small business and gave examples of how the affiliation rules would be applied. In the Fifth Report and Order, we expanded on the SBA's affiliation rules in establishing detailed affiliation standards for narrowband PCS to be used when designated entities must include ``affiliates'' to determine their eligibility for special designated entity provisions. In the Second Memorandum Opinion and Order 45 that we adopted in this docket, we incorporate into our generic auction rules the affiliation standards that we established for narrowband PCS in the Fifth Report and Order. We propose to apply these affiliation standards to narrowband PCS for purposes of determining any of the above described, size-based eligibility criteria for designated entities seeking special treatment under the provisions adopted herein. These standards would give applicants clear guidance regarding the relationships that we will attribute for purposes of applying any of our sized-based eligibility criteria. 45 Second Memorandum Opinion and Order at ¶46, in PP Docket No. 93&hyph;253, FCC No. 94&hyph;215, released Aug. 15, 1994, ( Second Memorandum Opinion and Order ). I. Limit on Licenses Awarded in Entrepreneurs' Blocks 56. The special provisions which we propose for designated entities are based, in part, on our mandate to fulfill the congressional goal that we disseminate licenses among a wide variety of applicants. 47 U.S.C. §309(j)(3)(B). Therefore, in proposing the financial assistance measures set forth in this Further Notice, we are concerned about the possibility, even if remote, that a few bidders will win a very large number of the licenses in the entrepreneurs' blocks. As a consequence, the benefits that Congress intended for designated entities would be enjoyed, in disproportionate measure, by only a few individuals or entities. Congress, in our view, did not intend that result. We therefore propose steps to ensure that the financial assistance provided through our rules is dispersed to a reasonable number of applicants who win licenses in these blocks. 57. To achieve a fair distribution of the benefits intended by Congress, we propose a limit on the total number of licenses within the entrepreneurs' blocks that a single entity could win at auction. In setting this limit, we would avoid imposing a restriction that would prevent applicants from obtaining a sufficient number of licenses to create large and efficient nationwide or regional services. Specifically, we propose a limitation that no single entity may win more than 10 percent of the licenses available in the entrepreneurs' blocks. These licenses could be in any combination of frequency blocks. Such a limit would ensure that at least 10 winning bidders enjoy the benefits of the entrepreneurs' blocks. At the same time, it would allow bidders to effectuate aggregation strategies that include large numbers of licenses and extensive geographic coverage. 58. Further, this limitation would apply only to the total number of licenses that may be won at auctions in these proposed entrepreneurs' blocks; it would not be an ownership cap that applies to licenses that might be obtained after the auctions. For purposes of implementing this restriction, we would consider licenses to be won by the same entity if an applicant (or other entity) that controls, or has the power to control licenses won at the auction, controls or has the power to control another license won at the auction. J. Redesignation of Certain Narrowband PCS Spectrum Blocks
