FR940513-0-00111 FR940513-0-00029 45. Further, Congress clearly intended that businesses owned by minorities and women must be given the opportunity to participate in the provision of spectrum-based services independent of their status as small businesses. The plain language of section 309(j)(4)(D) states that the Commission ``shall .␣.␣. ensure'' the opportunity for participation by ``small businesses .␣.␣. and businesses owned by members of minority groups and women .␣.␣.'' (emphasis added). If Congress had intended to limit the directive of Section 309(j)(4)(D) only to small businesses, no need would have existed to mention separately minorities and women. Moreover, Section 309(j)(4)(D) was added to Conference, and the Conference Report does not offer any suggestion that, to come within the section's purview, businesses owned by minorities or women must be small businesses. In contrast, and as we discussed more fully in the Second Report and Order, the legislative history of Section 309(j)(4)(A), relating to installment payments, expressly indicates that the provision was intended only to promote financial assistance for small businesses. 76 Accordingly, we shall interpret Section 309(j)(4)(D) in accordance with its plain language and will not limit its application to small businesses. 77 76 See Second Report and Order at ¶¶234&hyph;236. 77 Even though small businesses are also mentioned in Section 309(j)(4)(D), we do not believe bidding preferences for small businesses are appropriate for IVDS auctions. We believe the installment payments preference, as outlined below, will be sufficient to ensure their participation. 46. In determining the appropriate amount of the bidding credit we considered several factors. First, we agree with those commenters that support a bidding credit of 25 percent or more 78 because we think that a substantial credit is necessary to ensure meaningful participation by minority and women-owned businesses. In the broadcast context, we have noted that licensees can transfer their stations to minorities in distress sales provided that the price is no more than 75 percent of market value. 79 This policy is based upon our finding that 25 percent is an appropriate discount to eliminate financial entry barriers for minority-owned companies seeking to become broadcast licensees. Likewise, we believe that a bidding credit of 25 percent will adequately ensure participation by a wide variety of minority and women-owned firms in IVDS auctions and service provision. The amount is not so substantial, however, as to foster participation by firms that are not otherwise financially capable of building-out an IVDS system. We will monitor carefully the effectiveness of the 25 percent bidding credit in the IVDS context and continually assess whether it is achieving the goal of ensuring that minority and women-owned firms participate successfully in auctions for this services. 78 See comments of AIDE at 7, Devsha at 5, NABOB at 10&hyph;11, and ex parte filing of Personal Communications Network Services of New York at 2&hyph;3, each suggesting a bidding credit of 25 percent. Rocky Mountain Telephone proposes of 50 percent bidding credit. Comments of Rocky Mountain Telephone at 16. And Richard Vega proposes a 100 percent bidding credit for certain designated entities. Comments of Richard Vega at 7. 79 See Lee Broadcasting Corp., 76 FCC 2d 462 (1980). 47. To prevent any unjust enrichment by minorities or women trafficking in licenses acquired through the use of bidding credits, we will impose a forfeiture requirement on transfers or assignments of such licenses to entities that are not owned by minorities or women. 80 Minority and women-owned businesses seeking to transfer or assign a license to an entity that is not owned by minorities or women will be required to reimburse the government for the amount of the bidding credit, plus interest at the rate imposed for installment financing at the time the license was awarded, before transfer or assignment will be permitted. The amount of the penalty will be reduced over time: a transfer or assignment in the first two years of the license term will result in a forfeiture of 100 percent of the value of the bidding credit; during year three, of 75 percent of the bidding credit; in year four, of 50 percent; in year five, of 25 percent; and thereafter, no penalty. 81 Furthermore, as noted earlier, we will use the eligibility criteria from the Second Report and Order to ensure that only legitimate minority and women-owned firms are able to take advantage of bidding credits. In addition, to further ensure that our rules are as narrowly tailored as possible, while still fulfilling the statutory goal, we are prohibiting publicly-traded companies from taking advantage of the bidding credits and we are providing bidding credits for only one license in each market for businesses owned by minorities or women. 80 See Second Report and Order at ¶264. 81 Interest will also be charged according to the total number of years the license was held. C. Tax Certificates 48. Congress instructed the Commission to consider the use of tax certificates to ensure designated entity participation in a spectrum-based services. See 47 U.S.C. 309(j)(4)(D). In the Second Report and Order we observed that tax certificates could be useful as a means of attracting investors to designated entity enterprises and to encourage licensees to assign or transfer control of licenses to designated entities in post-auction transactions. We stated further that we would examine the feasibility of using this measure in subsequent service-specific auction rules. 82 After further consideration of this matter, we believe that tax certificates would be an appropriate tool to assist minority and women-owned businesses to attract start-up capital from non-controlling investors. In addition, we believe that tax certificates will give licensees the incentive to assign or transfer their authorizations to such entities in post-auction sales, thereby providing added assurance that minority and women-owned entities will have the opportunity to participate in the provision of IVDS offerings. Accordingly, we will issue tax certificates to initial investors in minority and women-owned IVDS applicants upon the sale of their non-controlling interests. We will also issue tax certificates to IVDS licensees who assign or transfer control of their licenses to minority and/or women-owned entities. 82 Second Report and Order at ¶251. 49. As stated previously, the record reveals that women and minorities face barriers to entry not encountered by other designated entities. 83 In particular, they have an especially difficult time accessing capital and, as a result, are severely under-represented in the telecommunications industry. Together with the other preferences we adopt today, tax certificates should help to ensure the participation of minority and women-owned businesses in this service. This measure will make it easier for these designated entities to attract start-up capital because investors will know that they can defer taxes on any gains made when their interests are sold. In addition, tax certificates will provide incentives to licensees to seek out minority and female buyers in after-market sales because the licensees will be able to defer taxes on profits made in the sale. 83 See ¶¶42&hyph;44, supra. 50. We have used tax certificates over the years to encourage broadcast licensees and cable television operators to transfer their stations and systems to minority buyers.84 We also have granted tax certificates to shareholders in minority-controlled broadcast or cable entities who sell their shares, when such interests were acquired to assist in the financing of the acquisition of the facility. 85 These broadcast and cable tax certificates are issued pursuant to the Internal Revenue Code, 26 U.S.C. 1071. While Congress' goal in authorizing tax certificates under Section 309(j)(4)(D) of the Act is somewhat different, and focuses on ensuring the opportunity for designated entities to participate in auctions and spectrum-based services, we think that it will be an equally valuable program. Issuance of tax certificates to investors and licensees that sell to minorities and women will augment the bidding credits preference, and together the measures should increase the ability of these entities to access financing, thus ensuring their opportunity to participate in IVDS auctions and services. 84 See Commission Policy Regarding the Advancement of Minority Ownership in Broadcasting, 92 FCC 2d 849 (1982) (``1982 Policy Statement''); See also Statement of Policy on Minority Ownership of Broadcasting Facilities, 68 FCC 2d 979 (1978). 85 1982 Policy Statement, 92 FCC 2d at 855&hyph;58.
