FR940303-2-00195 FR940303-2-00096 5. Room rental: Generally should not exceed $250 per day. 6. Materials Development: Proposals may contain costs to purchase, develop and translate material for participants. USIA reserves the rights to these materials for future use. 7. One working meal per project: Per capita cost may not exceed $5&hyph;8 per lunch and $14&hyph;20 per dinner, excluding room rental. The number of invited guests may not exceed the number of participants by a factor of more than two to one. 8. Return travel allowance: $70 for each participant which is to be used for incidental expenditures incurred during international travel. 9. Other costs necessary for the effective administration of the program, including salaries for grant organization employees, benefits, and other direct and indirect costs per detailed instructions in the application package. E/P encourages cost-sharing, which may be in the form of allowable direct or indirect costs. The Recipient must maintain written records to support all allowable costs which are claimed as being its contribution to cost participation, as well as costs to be paid by the Federal government. Such records are subject to audit. The basis for determining the value of cash and in-kind contributions must be in accordance with OMB Circular A&hyph;110, Attachment E, ``Cost-sharing and Matching,'' and should be described in the proposal. In the event the Recipient does not meet the minimum amount of cost-sharing as stipulated in the Recipient's budget, the Agency's contribution will be reduced in proportion to the Recipient's contribution. Please Note All delegates will be covered under the terms of a USIA-sponsored health insurance policy. The premium is paid by USIA directly to the insurance company. Application Requirements Proposals must be structured in accordance with the instructions contained in the application package. Confirmation letters from U.S. and foreign co-sponsors noting their intention to participate in the program will enhance a proposal. Review Process USIA will acknowledge receipt of all proposals and will review them for technical eligibility. Proposals will be deemed ineligible if they do not fully adhere to the guidelines established herein and in the application package.
