FR940302-0-00023 FR940302-0-00010 40 CFR Part 180 [PP 0F3851/R2042; FRL&hyph;4759&hyph;7] RIN 2070&hyph;AB78 Exemption From the Requirement of a Pesticide Tolerance for the Insect Pheromone Codlure AGENCY: Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: EPA is establishing an exemption from the requirement of a pesticide tolerance on all raw agricultural commodities for the insect pheromone codlure, [(E,E)-8,10-dodecadien-1-ol], in accordance with certain prescribed conditions. Consep Membranes, Inc., requested this tolerance exemption regulation. EFFECTIVE DATE: Effective on March 2, 1994. ADDRESSES: Written objections and hearing requests, identified by the document control number, [PP 0F3851/R2042], may be submitted to: Hearing Clerk, Environmental Protection Agency, Rm. 3708, 401 M St., SW., Washington, DC 20460. A copy of any objections and hearing requests filed with the Hearing Clerk should also be submitted to: Public Response and Program Resources Branch, Field Operations Division (7506C), Office of Pesticide Programs, Environmental Protection Agency, 401 M St., SW., Washington, DC 20460. In person, deliver objections and hearing requests filed with the Hearing Clerk to: Rm. 1128, Crystal Mall #2, 1921 Jefferson Davis Hwy., Arlington, VA 22202. Fees accompanying objections shall be labeled ``Tolerance Petition Fees'' and forwarded to: Environmental Protection Agency, Headquarters Accounting Operations Branch, Office of Pesticide Programs (Tolerance Fees), P.O. Box 360277M, Pittsburgh, PA 15251. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Philip O. Hutton, Product Manager (PM) 18, Registration Division (7505C), Office of Pesticide Programs, Environmental Protection Agency, Rm. 213, CM #2, 1921 Jefferson Davis Hwy., Arlington, VA 22202, (703)-305-7690. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: In the Federal Register of June 29, 1990 (55 FR 26752), EPA issued a notice which announced that Consep Membranes, Inc., of Bend, OR, had submitted a pesticide petition (PP OF3851) to EPA proposing to amend 40 CFR part 180 by establishing a regulation for exemption from the requirement of a tolerance (under section 408 of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, 21 U.S.C. 346(a)), for codlure, [(E,E)-8,10-dodecadien-1-ol], in or on all raw agricultural commodities. There were no comments or requests for referral to an advisory committee received in response to the notice of filing. The scientific data submitted in the petition and other relevant material have been evaluated. The mammalian toxicological data considered in support of the exemption from the requirement of a tolerance include an acute oral toxicity study in rats, an acute dermal toxicity study in rats, an acute intratracheal toxicity study in rats, a primary eye irritation study in rabbits, a primary dermal irritation study in rabbits, a dermal sensitization study in guinea pigs, and an Ames mutagenicity assay. The results of these studies showed no significant toxic effects. When male and female rats were dosed orally at 5,050 mg/kg, minor effects including piloerection, diarrhea, salivation, nasal discharge, epistaxis, and polyuria occurring immediately following dosing were observed. All symptoms disappeared within 3 days after dosing. (Toxicity Category IV). When male and female rats were dosed dermally at 2,020 mg/kg in a single application, one of the females showed decreased defecation and diarrhea, whereas males showed no effects. No deaths occurred and no gross pathological findings were reported for any animals (Toxicity Category III). Male and female rats exposed to 2.5 mL/kg codlure via the intratracheal route gained weight during the course of the study. Only minor clinical signs of toxicity were observed, i.e., decreased activity, chromodacryorrhea, constricted pupils, epistaxis, nasal discharge, salivation, and respiratory gurgle. No deaths were reported and upon necropsy, no compound-related findings were observed (Toxicity Category III). The primary eye irritation study demonstrated resolution of conjunctival redness by day 7 and resolution of chemosis and conjunctival discharge by 72 hours in rabbits (Toxicity Category III). The primary dermal irritation study in rabbits resulted in primary dermal irritation scores of 2.5 (mildly irritating) and 3.3 (moderately irritating) at 72 and 96 hours, respectively (Toxicity Category III). The dermal sensitization study (Buehler) indicated that the codlure pheromone is not a dermal sensitizer. The Ames mutagenicity assay indicated up to cytotoxic levels that in the presence or absence of S9 activation, codlure showed no evidence of mutagenic activity in Salmonella typhimurium . Reference Dose (RfD) and maximum permissible intake (MPI) considerations are not relevant to this petition because the data submitted demonstrate that this insect pheromone showed no significant adverse effect to laboratory animals in any test. Because no tolerance level is set for this insect pheromone, the requirement for an analytical method for enforcement purposes is not applicable to this exemption from the requirement of a tolerance. Based on the information cited above, the Agency has determined that the establishment of a tolerance is not necessary to protect the public health. Therefore, the permanent exemption from the requirement of a tolerance is established with the following conditions: a. Application shall be limited solely to codlure dispensers that conform to the following specifications: 1. Commodity exposure must be limited to inadvertent physical contact. The design of the dispenser must be such as to preclude any exposure of its components to the raw agricultural commodity (RAC) or processed foods/feeds derived from the commodity due to its proximity to the RAC or as a result of its physical size. Dispensers must be of such size and construction that they are readily recognized post-application. 2. The dispensers must be applied discretely, i.e., placed in the field in easily perceived distinct locations in a manner that does not prevent later retrieval. This exemption does not apply to codlure applied in a broadcast manner either to a crop field plot or to individual plants. b. A codlure dispenser is a single-enclosed or semi-enclosed unit that releases codlure into the surrounding atmosphere via volatilization and is applied in a manner to provide discrete application, i.e., in easily perceived distinct locations in a manner that does not prevent later retrieval of the codlure into the environment. Any person adversely affected by this regulation may, within 30 days after the date of publication of this document in the Federal Register , file written objections and/or a request for a hearing with the Hearing Clerk at the address given above. 40 CFR 178.20. A copy of the objections and hearing requests filed withthe Hearing Clerk should also be submitted to: Public Response and Program Resources Branch, Field Operations Division (7506C), Office of Pesticide Programs, Environmental Protection Agency, 401 M St., SW., Washington, DC 20460. The objections submitted must specify the provisions of the regulation deemed objectionable and the grounds for the objections. 40 CFR 178.25. Each objection must be accompanied by the fee prescribed by 40 CFR 180.33(i). If a hearing is requested, the objections must include a statement of the factual issue(s) on which a hearing is requested, the requestor's contentions on each such issue, and a summary of any evidence relied upon by the objector. 40 CFR 178.27. A request for a hearing will be granted if the Administrator determines that the material submitted shows the following: there is a genuine and substantial issue of fact; there is a reasonable possibility that available evidence identified by the requestor would, if established, resolve one or more of such issues in favor of the requestor, taking into account uncontested claims or facts to the contrary; and resolution of the factual issue(s) in the manner sought by the requestor would be adequate to justify the action requested. 40 CFR 178.32. Under Executive Order 12866 (58 FR 51735, Oct. 4, 1993), the Agency must determine whether the regulatory action is ``significant'' and therefore subject to all the requirements of the Executive Order (i.e., Regulatory Impact Analysis, review by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB)). Under section 3(f), the order defines ``significant'' as those actions likely to lead to a rule (1) having an annual effect on the economy of $100 million or more, or adversely and materially affecting a sector of the economy, productivity, competition, jobs, the environment, public health or safety, or State, local or tribal governments or communities (also known as ``economically significant''); (2) creating serious inconsistency or otherwise interfering with an action taken or planned by another agency; (3) materially altering the budgetary impacts of entitlement, grants, user fees, or loan programs; or (4) raising novel legal or policy issues arising out of legal mandates, the President's priorities, or the principles set forth in this Executive Order. Pursuant to the terms of the Executive Order, EPA has determined that this rule is not ``significant'' and is therefore not subject to OMB review. Pursuant to the requirements of the Regulatory Flexibility Act (Pub. L. 96-354, 94 Stat. 1164, 5 U.S.C. 601-612), the Administrator has determined that regulations establishing new tolerances or raising tolerance levels or establishing exemptions from tolerance requirements do not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. A certification statement to this effect was published in the Federal Register of May 4, 1981 (46 FR 24950). List of Subjects in 40 CFR Part 180 Environmental protection, Administrative practice and procedure, Agricultural commodities, Pesticides and pests, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. Dated: February 17, 1994. Douglas D. Campt, Director, Office of Pesticide Programs. Therefore, 40 CFR part 180 is amended as follows: PART 180_[AMENDED] 1. The authority citation for part 180 continues to read as follows: Authority: 21 U.S.C. 346a and 371. 2. By adding new ยง180.1126 to subpart D, to read as follows: ยง180.1126 Codlure, (E,E)-8,10-Dodecadien-1-ol; exemption from the requirement of a tolerance. An exemption from the requirement of a tolerance is established for the insect pheromone codlure, (E,E)-8,10-dodecadien-1-ol, on all raw agricultural commodities in accordance with the following prescribed conditions: (a) Application shall be limited solely to codlure dispensers that conform to the following specifications: (1) Commodity exposure must be limited to inadvertent physical contact. The design of the dispenser must be such as to preclude any exposure of its components to the raw agricultural commodity (RAC) or processed foods/feeds derived from the commodity due to its proximity to the RAC or as a result of its physical size. Dispensers must be of such size and construction that they are readily recognized post-application. (2) The dispensers must be applied discretely, i.e., placed in the field in easily perceived distinct locations in a manner that does not prevent later retrieval. This exemption does not apply to codlure applied in a broadcast manner either to a crop field plot or to individual plants. (b) A codlure dispenser is a single enclosed or semi-enclosed unit that releases codlure into the surrounding atmosphere via volatilization and is applied in a manner to provide discrete application (i.e., in easily perceived distinct locations in a manner that does not prevent later retrieval) of the codlure into the environment. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;4645 Filed 3&hyph;1&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;F
