FR941110-0-00068 FR941110-0-00016 Comment: A large number of commenters opposed the provision at proposed 488.155(b) and suggested we delete it. This section states that the State survey agency's failure to follow HCFA survey procedures will not invalidate otherwise legitimate determinations that a facility's deficiencies exist. Because the provision does not appear in the Act, a few commenters questioned whether the Congress sanctioned this policy, and certain commenters asked that facilities be allowed to appeal surveyor noncompliance with the survey protocol. Many commenters felt that this provision would encourage disregard of established survey guidelines, and for this reason one commenter believed this provision would cause the standard survey to violate the Fourth Amendment. Response: We believe the provision accurately reflects the intent of the Act and are retaining it in ยง488.305(b). To invalidate legitimate determinations of noncompliance and leave them unaddressed would be in opposition to the mandate of OBRA '87 that all requirements be met and enforced, and would lead to inconsistent application of the law. Sections 1819(g)(2)(C) and 1919(g)(2)(C) of the Act reveal the intent of the Act very clearly. These sections state that standard surveys must be conducted based upon a protocol, but add that the failure of the Secretary to develop, test or validate such a protocol will not relieve any State or the Secretary of the responsibility to conduct surveys. Because the Congress intended for survey results to be binding even when surveys were conducted in the absence of a formal protocol, it is clear that the Congress views the substance of survey findings to be of greater importance than the process used to identify them. An appeal of a deficiency based on surveyor noncompliance with the established protocol would be inconsistent with this position, and as a result, we will not offer facilities an appeal on these grounds. In particular, we wish to avoid situations where otherwise well documented deficiencies are subject to challenge, and potentially invalidated, simply because a surveyor did not follow every last detail of the survey protocol. We believe this would be surrendering all substance to form and would clearly thwart Congressional will. Moreover, since the source of binding requirements on facilities is not in the survey protocol, but in the Act and regulations, the ultimate, and proper, test of facility noncompliance will not rest on whether the survey protocol was rigorously followed, but on whether a requirement of the Act or the regulations has been violated. The foregoing does not imply that HCFA encourages or condones disregard of its established survey policy; on the contrary, HCFA trains surveyors in survey policies and procedures and is responsible for assessing State survey agency performance and applying sanctions when there has been a failure to use Federal standards and protocols. The guidance we provide to surveyors, and the expectation we have that they adhere to our directives, contradict the claim that surveyors are given unbridled discretion which would render the standard survey an unreasonable administrative search in violation of the Fourth Amendment. Once a facility seeks participation in the Medicare or Medicaid programs, it must accept the responsibility of demonstrating its compliance with Federal certification requirements which the Congress has directed must be done through the survey process. A facility cannot seek such participation, and accept program funds, and then argue that Federal or State efforts to monitor compliance with essential health or safety requirements constitute a violation of the Fourth Amendment as an unreasonable search and seizure. In any event, surveys that nursing homes experience in the Medicare and Medicaid programs are reasonable. They advance the government's interest in protecting the health and safety of individual residents, and because of the various requirements for surveys in both the Act the Federal regulations, no facility can be said to be unaware of its obligations to permit onsite visits by State or Federal surveyors as a condition of its participation in these programs. Commercial enterprises, such as nursing homes, do not have the same expectation to be free of warrantless searches as individuals in their homes do. Indeed, the United States Supreme Court has ruled that warrantless searches of closely regulated businesses do not pose a violation of constitutional Fourth Amendment protections that commercial enterprises have.
