FR940317-1-00067 FR940317-1-00013 (e) Evidence to be submitted by claimant . The claimant should submit the evidence necessary to substantiate his or her claim. It is essential that independent evidence be submitted that will substantiate the correctness of the amount claimed. (f) Statute of limitations_ (1) General. Each statute available to the DA for the administrative settlement of claims, except the Maritime Claims Settlement Act (10 U.S.C. 4802), specifies the time during which the right to file a claim must be exercised. These statutes of limitations, which are jurisdictional in nature, are not subject to waiver unless the statute expressly provides for waiver. Specific information concerning the period for filing under each statute is contained in the appropriate implementing chapter of this regulation. (2) When a claim accrues . A claim accrues on the date on which the alleged wrongful act or omission results in an actionable injury or damage to the claimant or his or her decedent. Exceptions to this general rule may exist where the claimant does not know of the injury or damage, or does not know the cause of injury or damage. In those cases, the claim accrues when the injured party, or someone acting on his or her behalf, knows or should know about both the existence and cause of the injury. However, this exception does not apply when, at a later time, he or she discovers that the acts inflicting the injury may constitute medical malpractice. (See United States v. Kubrick, 444 U.S. 111, 100 S. Ct. 352 (1979).) The discovery rule is not limited to medical malpractice claims; it has been applied to diverse situations involving violent death, chemical and atomic testing, and erosion and hazardous work environment. In claims for indemnity or contribution against the United States, the accrual date is the time of payment for which indemnity is sought or on which contribution is based. (3) Effect of infancy, incompetency, or the filing of suit. The statute of limitations for administrative claims is not tolled by infancy or incompetency. Likewise, the statute of limitations is not tolled for purposes of filing an administrative claim by filing of a suit based upon the same incident in a Federal, State, or local court against the United States or other parties. (For the effect of filing an administrative claim with an agency other than the Army, see §536.53(b), §536.77 (b) and (c) and §536.102) (4) Amendment of claims. A claim may be amended by the claimant at any time prior to final agency action or prior to the exercise of the claimant's option under 28 U.S.C. 2675(a). A claim may be amended by changing the amount, the bases of liability, or elements of damages concerning the same incident. Parties may be added only if the additional party could have filed a joint claim initially as in paragraph (a)(1) of this section. If the additional party had a separate cause of action, his or her claim may not be treated as an amendment but only as a separate claim and is thus barred if the statute of limitations has run. For example, if a claim is timely filed on behalf of a minor for personal injuries, a subsequent claim by a parent for loss of services is considered a separate claim and is barred if it is not filed prior to the running of the statute of limitations. Another example is where a separate claim is filed for loss of services or consortium by a spouse arising out of injuries to the husband or wife of the claimant. On the other hand, if a claim is timely filed by an insured for the deductible portion of his or her property damage, a subsequent claim by the insurer based on payment of property damage to its insured may be filed as an amendment even though the statute of limitations has run, unless final action has been taken on the insured's claim. (5) Date of receipt stops the running of the statute. In computing the time to determine whether the period of limitation has expired, exclude the first day and include the last day, except when it falls on a nonworkday such as Saturday, Sunday, or a legal holiday, in which case it is to be extended to the next workday. §536.21 Disposition of claims. (a) General . When a claim is received, the date and the designation of the receiving command or office will be stamped or otherwise noted on all copies. If the receiving command or office is not responsible for the investigation, the claim will be transmitted to the claims office of the command or installation concerned. (b) By the command concerned . Following completion of the claims investigation, the command claims service or claims office responsible for the claim may take the following actions on all claims other than those on for which USARCS has exclusive jurisdiction (see §536.21(c)).
