FR940926-0-00031 FR940926-0-00009 Note 5: Paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section will not be applied to cases involving television stations that are ``satellite'' operations. Such cases will be considered in accordance with the analysis set forth in the Report and Order in MM Docket No. 87&hyph;8, FCC 91&hyph;182( released July 8, 1991), in order to determine whether common ownership, operation, or control of the stations in question would be in the public interest. An authorized and operating ``satellite'' television station, the Grade B contour of which overlaps that of a commonly owned, operated, or controlled ``non-satellite'' parent television broadcast station, or the Grade A contour of which completely encompasses the community of publication of a commonly owned, operated, or controlled daily newspaper, or the community of license of a commonly owned, operated, or controlled AM or FM broadcast station, or the community of license of which is completely encompassed by the 2 mV/m contour of such AM broadcast station or the 1 mV/m contour of such FM broadcast station, may subsequently become a ``non-satellite'' station under the circumstances described in the aforementioned Report and Order in MM Docket No. 87&hyph;8. However, such commonly owned, operated, or controlled ``non-satellite'' television stations and AM or FM stations with the aforementioned community encompassment, may not be transferred or assigned to a single person, group, or entity except as provided in Note 4 of this section. Nor shall any application for assignment or transfer concerning such ``non-satellite'' stations be granted if the assignment or transfer would be to the same person, group or entity to which the commonly owned, operated, or controlled newspaper is proposed to be transferred, except as provided in Note 4 of this section. Note 6: For the purposes of this section a daily newspaper is one which is published four or more days per week, which is in the English language and which is circulated generally in the community of publication. A college newspaper is not considered as being circulated generally. Note 7: The Commission will entertain requests to waive the restrictions of paragraph (c) of this section on a case-by-case basis. The Commission will look favorably upon waiver applications that meet either of the following two standards: (1) Those involving radio and television station combinations in the top 25 television markets where there will be at least 30 separately owned, operated and controlled broadcast licensees after the proposed combination, as determined by counting television licensees in the relevant ADI television market and radio licensees in the relevant television metropolitan market; (2) Those involving ``failed'' broadcast stations that have not been operated for a substantial period of time, e.g., four months, or that are involved in bankruptcy proceedings. For the purposes of determining the top 25 ADI television markets, the relevant ADI television market, and the relevant television metropolitan market for each prospective combination, we will use the most recent Arbitron Ratings Television ADI Market Guide. We will determine that number of radio stations in the relevant television metropolitan market and the number of television licensees within the relevant ADI television market based on the most recent Commission ownership records. Other waiver requests will be evaluated on a more rigorous case-by-case basis, as set forth in the Second Report and Order in MM Docket No. 87&hyph;7, FCC 88&hyph;407, released February 23, 1989, and Memorandum Opinion and Order in MM Docket No. 87&hyph;7, FCC 89&hyph;256, released August 4, 1989. Note 8: Paragraph (a)(1) of this section will not apply to an application for an AM station license in the 535&hyph;1605 kHz band where grant of such application will result in the overlap of 5 mV/m groundwave contours of the proposed station and that of another AM station in the 535&hyph;1605 kHz band that is commonly owned, operated or controlled if the applicant shows that a significant reduction in interference to adjacent or co-channel stations would accompany such common ownership. Such AM overlap cases will be considered on a case-by-case basis to determine whether common ownership, operation or control of the stations in question would be in the public interest. Applicants in such cases must submit a contingent application of the major or minor facilities change needed to achieve the interference reduction along with the application which seeks to create the 5 mV/m overlap situation. Note 9: Paragraph (a)(1) of this section will not apply to an application for an AM station license in the 1605&hyph;1705 kHz band where grant of such application will result in the overlap of the 5 mV/m groundwave contours of the proposed station and that of another AM station in the 535&hyph;1605 kHz band that is commonly owned, operated or controlled. Paragraphs (d)(1)(i) and (d)(1)(ii) of this section will not apply to an application for an AM station license in the 1605&hyph;1705 kHz band by an entity that owns, operates, controls or has a cognizable interest in AM radio stations in the 535&hyph;1605 kHz band. Note 10: Authority for joint ownership granted pursuant to Note 9 will expire at 3 a.m. local time on the fifth anniversary for the date of issuance of a construction permit for an AM radio station in the 1605&hyph;1705 kHz band. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;23659 Filed 9&hyph;23&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6712&hyph;01&hyph;M
