FR940413-2-00061 FR940413-2-00031 1. Finance and Management (a) Whether the financial and managerial capacity exists to provide competitive services and generate sufficient earnings so the new enterprise can continue on a sustainable basis. (b) The degree to which it is evident that the proposal could adversely affect the cost of funds to either the specific institutions involved or the System as a whole. (c) Whether the proposal will adversely affect the institutions involved, thus creating potential liability for the Farm Credit System Insurance Fund and/or subsequently for banks under joint and several liability. 2. Market Conditions (a) Whether there is significant information that the market involved is being inadequately served by a System institution. (b) The extent to which the market involved is being served by other credit sources. 3. Participant Opinion (a) The views and concerns of the affected System institutions, including, as appropriate, the views of customer-shareholders, recognizing that significant disagreement between members of a cooperative system has the potential for adverse consequences regarding matters for which they are mutually responsible. Depending upon the situation, other factors, such as the degree to which the FCA's discretion is affected by statutory or judicial considerations or the opinions of outside oversight parties, might also affect the FCA's decision. The FCA intends to apply this analysis, on a case-by-case basis, to requests that involve charters where two institutions would be serving all or part of the same territory. Similarly, the FCA will apply the same analysis should future efforts occur to promulgate regulations that would expand or change the authorities of institutions to engage in out-of-territory activities. In the case of charter requests, to ensure that it obtains all of the necessary information, the FCA will develop procedures, including a checklist, regarding the submission of materials. The procedures will include mechanisms that will enable the FCA to solicit and consider the views of System institutions affected by a proposed request. Consistent with the procedures provided, the requesting institution will be expected to make its case that the standard outlined in this policy will be met. The FCA recognizes that, by their nature, some of the factors listed would be addressed by the agency rather than the requesting institution. While this policy is designed to address the broader issues of the potential for intra-System competition, several years ago the FCA determined that it would temporarily avoid acting on requests for competitive charters until it completed its review of the matter and issued a policy. This policy is designed to achieve that objective. Therefore, following the development of these procedures, the FCA Board will be in a position to entertain charter requests involving the potential for competition in accordance with the principles contained in this statement.
