FR940317-2-00090 FR940317-2-00058 Evaluation Process All proposals received as a result of this announcement will be evaluated by an NRC review panel. Evaluation Criteria The award of NRC grants is discretionary. Generally, projects are supported in order of merit to the extent permitted by available funds. Evaluation of proposals for research projects will employ the following criteria. No level of importance is implied by the order in which these criteria are listed. 1. Adequacy of the research design, 2. Scientific significance of proposal. 3. Technical adequacy of the investigators and their institutional base. 4. Relevance to a research area(s) described above. 5. Reasonableness of estimated cost in relation to the work to be performed and anticipated result. 6. Potential benefit of the project to the overall benefit of the institution's graduate research program. Evaluation of proposals for professional meetings, conferences, symposia, etc., will employ the following criteria: 1. Potential usefulness of the proposed project for the advancement of scientific knowledge. 2. Clarity of statement of objectives, methods, and anticipated results. 3. Range of issues covered by the meeting agenda. 4. Qualifications and experience of project speakers. 5. Reasonableness of estimated cost in relation to anticipated results. Disposition of Proposals Notification of award will be made by the Grants Officer, and organizations whose proposals are unsuccessful will be so advised. Proposal Instructions and Forms Questions concerning the preceding information, copies of application forms, and applicable regulations shall be obtained from or submitted to (Grant application packages, Standard Form 424, must be requested in writing): U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, ATTN: Grants Officer, Division of Contracts and Property Management, Mail Stop P&hyph;841, Office of Administration, Washington, DC 20555. The address for hand-carried applications is: U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, ATTN: Grants Officer, Division of Contracts and Property Management, Office of Administration, Mail Stop P&hyph;841, 7920 Norfolk Avenue, Bethesda, MD 20814. Note: Upon delivery of the application to the NRC guard desk (at the above address), the guard should be requested to telephone the Division of Contracts and Property Management (Extension 27054) for pick-up of the application. Nothing in this solicitation should be construed as committing the NRC to dividing available funds among all qualified applicants. Dated at Bethesda, MD this 11th day of March, 1994. For the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission. Dennis Tarner, Grants Officer, Division of Contracts and Property Management, Office of Administration. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;6267 Filed 3&hyph;16&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 7590&hyph;01&hyph;M
