FR940124-1-00100 FR940124-1-00009 Enrolled Federal Pell Grant Program Federal Perkins Loan Program Federal PLUS Program Federal Stafford Loan Program Federal Supplemental Educational Opportunity Grant (FSEOG) Program Federal Supplemental Loans for Students (SLS) Program Federal Work-Study (FWS) Program National Early Intervention Scholarship and Partnership (NEISP) Program State State Student Incentive Grant (SSIG) Program (c) The following definitions apply to terms used in this part: Classification of Instructional Programs (CIP): A manual published by the U.S. Department of Education, National Center for Education Statistics, that lists the codes, titles, and descriptions of instructional programs used by institutions and States for reporting and analyzing education data at the national level. Education and general expenditures: The total amount expended by an institution for instruction, research, public service, academic support (including library expenditures), student services, institutional support, scholarships and fellowships, operation and maintenance expenditures for the physical plant, and any mandatory transfers which the institution is required to pay by law. National Occupational Information Coordinating Committee (NOICC): An agency jointly sponsored by the Departments of Education and Labor to facilitate comparisons between educational programs and related occupations and to provide information to State employment counseling services. Professional program: An undergraduate or graduate educational program that prepares individuals for an occupation, if that occupation_ (i) Is listed in SOC or CIP; (ii) Requires at least an associate degree to qualify for entry; (iii) Involves the independent practice or application of a defined or organized body of competencies that is unique to the occupation; and (iv) Is formally recognized and regulated under a national or State licensure, accreditation, or permit system. Referred institution: An institution that a SPRE reviews as a result of_ (i) A referral by the Secretary under ยง667.5; or (ii) State selection under ยง667.6. Standard Occupational Classification (SOC) Manual: A manual published by the U.S. Department of Commerce, used for reporting national statistics on occupations and employment projections, compiled from data collected through the census and other Federal surveys. State Postsecondary Review Entity (SPRE): The entity described in ยง667.4. Title IV, HEA program: One of the programs identified in 34 CFR 668.1. Vocational program: An educational program below the baccalaureate degree level, that is not classified as a professional program, that prepares students for gainful employment in a recognized occupation. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1099a&hyph;1099a&hyph;3) ยง667.3 State agreement. (a) To participate in the State Postsecondary Review Program, a State must enter into an agreement with the Secretary. (b) In the agreement, the State_ (1) Designates a SPRE; (2) Describes the organizational structure of the SPRE; (3) Assures that_ (i) The SPRE has the legal authority under State law to carry out the functions required of it under this part; (ii) The SPRE will perform the functions required of it under this part; (iii) The SPRE will keep records or have access to records and provide information to the Secretary as may be requested for financial and compliance audits, and program evaluations; (iv) The SPRE will review referred institutions on a schedule that coincides with the Secretary's schedule for recertifying those institutions to participate in the Title IV, HEA programs;
