FR940504-0-00035 FR940504-0-00010 41. We believe that it is unnecessary and undesirable to impose performance requirements on all auctionable services in excess of those set forth in service rules for most existing services. We do not believe that additional, general requirements are needed to address concerns over ``warehousing'' of spectrum. With respect to those services where no performance requirements currently exist, however, we will prescribe such performance rules as are necessary at the same time we promulgate competitive bidding rules for each of those services. Designated Entities 42. Definitions. We are adopting a menu of preferences from which we will choose in service-specific auction rules. These preferences are designed to ensure that small businesses, rural telephone companies, and businesses owned by members of minority groups and women (collectively ``designated entities'') are given the opportunity to participate in both the competitive bidding process and in the provision of spectrum-based services. To qualify as a ``small business'' for the purposes of competitive bidding, an entity must be an independently-owned business with a net worth not exceeding $6 million dollars and an average net income after Federal income taxes for two preceding years not in excess of $2 million. In order to be eligible for preferences, businesses owned by women or minorities will be required to have at least 50.1 percent equity ownership and a 50.1 percent controlling interest owned by women or minorities. Rural telephone companies will be eligible for preferences if they are independently owned, have 50,000 access lines or fewer and serve communities with no more than 10,000 inhabitants. 43. Installment payments. We may allow small businesses (including rural telephone companies and businesses owned by women and minorities and rural telephone companies) that are winning bidders for certain blocks of spectrum to pay in installments over the term of their licenses. As a general matter, we will only allow installment payments for licenses in those smaller spectrum blocks that are most likely to match the business objectives of bona fide small businesses. The down payment for such designated entities will be 10 percent of the winning bid instead of 20 percent. Once the license is granted we will require that the remaining 10 percent of the down payment be made within five business days of grant, thereby commencing the eligible entity's installment payment plan, which will extend over the period of the license. 44. We will impose interest of installment payments equal to the rate for U.S. Treasury obligations of maturity equal to the license term. The schedule of installment payments will begin with interest-only payments for the first two years. After that, principal and interest will be amortized over the remaining term of the license. An eligible designated entity that elects installment payments will have its license conditioned upon the full and timely performance of its payment obligations under the installment plan. However, we will consider (on a case-by-case basis) a grace period before a delinquent payor's license cancels. 45. Bidding credits. Bidding credits (payment discounts) may be available to designated entities on certain frequency blocks. Competitive bidding rules applicable to individual services will specify the designated entities eligible for bidding credits, the licenses for which bidding credits are available, the amounts of bidding credits and other procedures. We reserve the option to determine, on a service-specific basis, whether certain auctionable services should allow other bidding credits to a consortium of companies organized to bid for auctionable services. 46. To further promote the investment and rapid deployment of new technologies and services in rural areas, we will also institute a system of bidding credits for rural telephone companies for licenses in their rural service areas. The amount of the bidding credit for rural telephone companies will be tied to their commitments to achieve certain telecommunications infrastructure build-out milestones in their rural service areas. The amount of the bidding credit will be proportionately linked to the amount by which the rural telephone company agrees to expand its built-out commitment. Failure to meet a build-out commitment will result in liability for a penalty in the amount of the bidding credit, plus interest. Grant of licenses to rural telephone companies utilizing bidding credits will be conditioned upon payment of this penalty, if and when it becomes applicable. 47. Set-aside spectrum. We may establish set-aside spectrum in certain services in which eligibility to bid may be limited to some or all designated entities. For any auctions of set-aside spectrum, we anticipate that we will establish lower upfront payments. This lower payment would serve to encourage participation by all eligible designated entities in the auction. 48. Tax certificates, distress sales and royalties. We will not at this time adopt a general tax certificate program for services subject to competitive bidding because other available measures will generally provide sufficient incentive to attract investors in designated entity enterprises. We will examine the feasibility of utilizing tax certificates in subsequent competitive bidding rules for particular services, especially where the record demonstrates a need to further stimulate designated entity participation in spectrum auctions and in the after-market for auctioned services. Before we determine whether distress sales to designated entities should be authorized, we will evaluate the success of our other measures. We do not adopt royalties as an alternative payment method for designated entities. Such a procedure would prove extremely intrusive and difficult to implement. 49. Preventing unjust enrichment. If we employ set-asides to benefit some or all of the designated entities, we will impose a recapture provision, applicable in the event of a sale to a non-designated entity, that would be designed to recoup for the government a portion of the value of the benefit received by the designated entity in the bidding. Such a recapture provision would require that licensees seeking to transfer their licenses for profit must within a specified time remit to the government a penalty equal to a portion of the total value of the benefit conferred by the government. We will generally reduce the penalty as time passes or construction benchmarks are met. 50. Any specific recapture provisions will be set forth in competitive bidding rules applicable to any services in which we decide to set aside licenses. In no event will recapture provisions apply to the transfer or assignment of a license that has been held for more than five years. If the transfer is made to another eligible designated entity, there would be no penalty. 51. If a small business making installment payments sells its license to an entity that does not qualify under the standards we have set for small businesses, we will require payment of the full amount of the remaining principal balance as a condition of the license transfer. Also, where bidding credits are used, transfer of a license to a non-designated entity or any action relating to ownership or control that will result in loss of status as an eligible designated entity, will require the designated entity to reimburse the government for the amount of the bidding credit, plus interest. Final Regulatory Flexibility Analysis Need for and purpose of this action: 52. This rulemaking proceeding was initiated to implement Section 309(j) of the Communications Act, as amended. The rules adopted herein will carry out Congress's intent to establish a system of competitive bidding for choosing from among mutually exclusive applications for initial licenses to use the electromagnetic spectrum principally for the transmission or reception of communications signals to or from subscribers for compensation. The rules adopted herein also will carry out Congress's intent to ensure that small businesses, rural telephone companies, and businesses owned by women and minorities are afforded an opportunity to participate in the provision of spectrum-based services. Issues raised in response to the Initial Regulatory Flexibility Analysis: 53. The IRFA noted that the proposals under consideration in the NPRM included the possibility of new reporting and recordkeeping requirements for a number of small business entities. No commenters responded specifically to the issues raised to the IFRA. We have made some modifications to the proposed requirements as appropriate.
