FR940506-1-00019 FR940506-1-00010 (e) Certificate of Origin The Secretary is required to include information assisting law enforcement officials in VIS (46 U.S.C. 12501(b)(6)). A Certificate of Origin (COO) is a document issued by a product's manufacturer certifying to the truth of certain facts. Many States require vessel owners to provide a COO before they will issue a title or register and number a vessel. Thus, a COO is usually the first document in the paper trail identifying a vessel and establishing proof of ownership. Unfortunately, many vessel manufacturers do not issue COOs for vessels they manufacture or they issue COOs which many States consider unacceptable. A purchaser's possession of a standardized COO for a vessel would ensure that documentation of the vessel's chain of ownership is established. This would aid law enforcement investigations by providing a means to demonstrate vessel ownership as well as providing a means to certify vessel information that could be used in the development of VIS. Under the proposed amendments the Coast Guard would add a new Subpart D_``Certificates of Origin for Boats.'' The proposed amendments would require manufactures and U.S. importers of foreign-built vessels to provide a completed COO with each vessel manufactured or imported. The issuing authorities in the States would be given the option of issuing COOs to individuals building their own vessels or exempting them from the requirement altogether. Discussion of Proposed Form The Coast Guard is considering the development of a standardized COO form. For the reader's convenience, a prototype of a proposed form is reproduced in appendix A. This form should be considered in conjunction with the proposed regulations. Comments or suggestions pertaining to the format or content will be welcomed. Also, the Coast Guard specifically seeks comments on the most cost efficient manner to create and distribute the forms. Any proposed form will be submitted to the Office of Management and Budget for approval prior to publication of the final rule. Discussion of Requirement for Certificate of Origin A COO furnished with a recreational vessel in accordance with ยง181.43 would: (a) Be signed by or on behalf of the vessel manufacturer; and (b) Recite the following: (1) The vessel's 19 character hull identification number assigned in accordance with ยง181.25; (2) The date on which the COO is issued; (3) The model name or numerical designation for the vessel; (4) The length of the vessel in feet and inches; (5) The beam of the vessel in feet and inches; (6) Whether the vessel is for commercial or recreational use; (7) The name and address of the dealer or individual to whom the vessel is first transferred; and (8) The place the vessel is constructed (plant location). Solicitation of Views The Coast Guard is particularly interested in receiving comments on the following issues: (a) The majority of the recreational vessel manufacturers are small volume builders who lack computers and cannot use a computer program developed by the Coast Guard. These manufacturers may have a difficult time determining the check digit in the proposed 19 character Hull Identification Number. When using simple arithmetic, those calculations may take as long as 15 minutes per vessel. Is 15 minutes a reasonable estimate for performing the calculation? (b) Should the Coast Guard consider expecting certain classes of low cost vessels from the 19 character HIN, or do States which number all watercraft insist on universal application of this requirement? (c) Are there other methods for calculation of the check digit which are not as time consuming and will still assure the integrity of the other characters in an HIN? (d) The proposed regulations will require a COO for each new vessel manufactured or imported. Since a COO is unique to the vessel to which it is assigned, there may be some additional requirements associated with ensuring that the proper COO accompanies each vessel, particularly for importers of inflatables and similar, high volume, low cost vessels which are shipped in bulk containers. As a result, the COO requirement in the proposed regulations may require change in the manner in which small, high volume vessels are packaged for shipment. Should the Coast Guard consider excepting from the COO requirement certain classes of low cost vessels, or vessels involving special problems associated with the manner in which they are shipped? (e) Do the States which number all watercraft insist on universal application of the COO requirement?
