FR940506-2-00007 FR940506-2-00004 4. We used the date of the start of the Dutch sales verification for all missing payment dates. Foreign Market Value As stated in our preliminary determination, we determined that the home market was not viable for any of the three such or similar categories. We selected Germany as the third country market for sales of yarn and staple fiber, and Japan as the third country market for sales of pulp. We calculated FMV as noted in the ``Price-to-Price'' and ``Price to Constructed Value (CV)'' sections of this notice. Cost of Production Petitioner alleged that Akzo's third country sales were made at prices below the cost of production (COP). On the basis of petitioners' allegations, we gathered and verified data on production costs. We compared Akzo's third country prices to the COP as explained in our preliminary determination. In order to determine whether third country prices were above the COP, we calculated the COP based on the sum of Arami's (i.e., the actual producer and seller of subject merchandise) submitted costs of materials, fabrication, general expenses, and packing, except in the following instances where the costs were not appropriately quantified or valued: 1. We recalculated interest expense based solely on Arami's financial statements (see DOC position for comment 12); 2. We included certain non-operating expenses in general and administrative (G&A) expenses (see DOC position for comment 17); and 3. We disallowed Arami's claimed reduction in fixed overhead for certain intercompany charges (see DOC position for comments 14 and 15). Accordingly, we increased its submitted cost of manufacturing. Price-to-Price Comparisons For those products for which we had an adequate number of sales at prices equal to or greater than the COP, we based FMV on third country prices. We calculated FMV using the methodology described in our notice of preliminary determination, with the following exceptions: 1. We recalculated inventory carrying costs incurred in the Netherlands on German and Japanese sales and German credit expenses to reflect the short-term borrowing rate of Arami (see comment 7 below). 2. We used the average credit days of all transactions with a reported shipment and payment date for sales missing both a shipment and payment date. We have inserted the date of the start of the Dutch sales verification for those sales with missing payment dates only. 3. We corrected a clerical error in the calculation of third country indirect selling expenses. Price to CV Comparisons For those products without an adequate number of sales at prices above the COP, we based FMV on CV. We calculated CV based on the sum of the cost of materials, fabrication, general expenses, and U.S. packing cost. In accordance with section 773(e)(1)(B) (i) and (ii) of the Act we: (1) Included the greater of Arami's reported general expenses or the statutory minimum of ten percent of the cost of manufacture (COM), as appropriate and; (2) for profit, we used the higher of the statutory minimum of eight percent of the sum of COM and general expenses or the actual profit incurred as calculated on a market specific basis (see Comment 18). As a result, for the German market we used actual profit and for the Japanese market we used the statutory minimum of eight percent. We calculated CV based on the methodology described in the calculation of COP above, with the following exceptions: 1. In the financing calculation, we included additional interest expense based on market value (See Comment 13). 2. We corrected a clerical error in the calculation of third country profit. In instances where we compared Akzo's U.S. prices to CV, we made deductions, where appropriate, for the weighted-average third country direct selling expenses. We also deducted the weighted-average third country indirect selling expenses. We limited this adjustment by the amount of indirect selling expenses incurred on U.S. sales, in accordance with 19 CFR 353.56(b)(2). Final Determination of Critical Circumstances Petitioner alleged that ``critical circumstances'' exist with respect to imports of PPD-T aramid fiber from the Netherlands. Pursuant to section 733(e)(1) of the Act and 19 CFR 353.16, we have analyzed the allegations using the Department's standard methodology as discussed in our preliminary determination, except that for purposes of determining whether there have been massive imports we compared imports in five-month periods rather than four-month periods (see DOC position for comment 4). Accordingly, we find that critical circumstances do not exist. Currency Conversion We made currency conversions based on the official exchange rates in effect on the dates of the U.S. sales as certified by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. Verification As provided in section 776(b) of the Act, we verified information provided by Akzo by using standard verification procedures, including the examination of relevant sales and financial records, and selection of original source documentation containing relevant information.
