FR940217-1-00128 FR940217-1-00015 Based on hourly cost data of those required to comply with Regulation 26, it is estimated to cost $4,320.00 to prepare a Shipboard Oil Pollution Emergency Plan. It is estimated to cost $855.00 to prepare the additional requirements of a VRP that complies with MARPOL Regulation 26. The total annualized cost to respondents for initial plan preparation between 1993 and 1995 is estimated to be $5,642,820. The Coast Guard will review submitted Shipboard Oil Pollution Emergency Plans to ensure compliance with Regulation 26. Total government annualized costs associated with review of the Shipboard Oil Pollution Emergency Plans are estimated to be $78,663 between 1993 and 1995. The net present value of the costs of the proposed regulation, discounted at 7 percent, is $4,675,060. The dollar value of direct societal benefits derived from the proposed rule are not quantifiable, but may be substantial. Historical data is insufficient to quantify benefits. However, this program should improve response capabilities and minimize the environmental impact of oil discharges from ships. If efficiencies in the cleanup of spilled oil go up by only a small percentage, the savings that would accrue to the maritime industry and to the public would exceed the costs. Small Entities Under the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. 601 et seq. ), the Coast Guard must consider whether this proposal, if adopted, will have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. ``Small entities'' include independently owned and operated small businesses that are not dominant in their field and that otherwise qualify as ``small business concerns'' under section 3 of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 632). The Coast Guard expects that few new cost will be associated with this rule because few small entities own ships of the gross tonnage to which this proposed regulation would apply. Because it expects the impact of this proposal to be minimal, the Coast Guard certifies under 5 U.S.C. 605(b) that this proposal, if adopted, will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. Collection of Information Under the Paperwork Reduction Act (44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq. ), the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) reviews each proposed rule that contains a collection of information requirement to determine whether the practical value of the information is worth the burden imposed by its collection. Collection of information requirements include reporting, recordkeeping, notification, and other, similar requirements. This proposal contains collection of information requirements in the following sections: 151.26, 151.27, and 151.28. The following particulars apply: DOT No.: 2115. OMB Control No. : 2115&hyph;XXXX. Administration: U.S. Coast Guard. Title: Shipboard Oil Pollution Emergency Plans. Need for Information: This proposed regulation would direct shipowners to prepare, submit, and maintain shipboard oil pollution emergency plans. Proposed Use of Information: The Coast Guard will review submitted plans to ensure compliance with Regulation 26 of Annex I of MARPOL 73/78. The information contained in the plans will improve the capabilities of individual vessel operators to respond to oil spills and will enhance cooperative response efforts of the vessel operators and the government agencies. Also, Coast Guard issuance of a vessel's International Oil Pollution Prevention (IOPP) Certificate evidencing compliance with Regulation 26 will facilitate the oceangoing trade of U.S. vessels with foreign countries that are parties to MARPOL 73/78. Frequency of Response: Plans must be resubmitted every 5 years for review and approval. However, if there are any revisions or amendments requiring approval, the plan must be resubmitted as appropriate. In addition, a letter certifying that the annual review has been completed must be submitted annually.
