FR940720-0-00127 FR940720-0-00010 Issue 11: Few data exist on the abundance of the species on Pueblo lands or whether it can survive in the mud and sand when the river bed is dry. Response: The Service used all available biological information in making the determination to list the Rio Grande silvery minnow as an endangered species. Recent census data from Pueblo lands are reported by Bestgen and Platania (1991), Platania and Bestgen (1988), Platania and Clemmer (1984), and the U.S. Bureau of Reclamation (1992). As additional information becomes available, including information from Pueblo waters, the Service will use that information in the recovery planning process. The Service hopes that, through initiation of recovery efforts for the species, and in cooperation with the Pueblos, additional information can be obtained on the status of the species on Pueblo lands. The Service has no scientific data indicating that the species survives in the mud and sand during periods when the river is dry. Issue 12: Competition between H. amarus and its congener H. placitus could have also contributed to extirpation of the species from the Pecos River. Studies should be conducted to determine if predation or competition by non-native fishes impacts the species. The studies should not just determine if it is a problem, they should also determine where and to what extent it is a problem. Response: The Service has no data to substantiate any reasons for extirpation of the Rio Grande silvery minnow from the Pecos River and replacement by its congener H. placitus. Competition may have been a factor in its extirpation; however, it is more likely that hybridization between the two species was the primary factor. Studies designed to determine if predation or competition by non-native fishes impacts the survival of the Rio Grande silvery minnow will be conducted as part of recovery efforts for the species. Issue 13: Recent biological studies have been conducted during a period of high flow; therefore, the results of those studies do not accurately reflect the distribution of the species under normal conditions. Response: It is true that, other than 1989, recent data have been collected during a period of higher than normal flow. However, even these data show that the species is not as abundant as it was during other periods of above-normal flow. This leads to a conclusion that factors other than flow may be impacting the species and its habitat. Issue 14: It seems a fair conclusion that the Cochiti downstream reach is no longer favorable habitat because of lowered water temperatures and degradation of favored H. amarus substrate. This further limits the area in which the species has to survive. Response: Although the reach immediately downstream of Cochiti Dam may not be favorable habitat for the Rio Grande silvery minnow, it is not known how far downstream these conditions persist. As part of recovery efforts for the species, studies will be conducted on this question, and attempts may be made to correct the unfavorable conditions. Issue 15: Since little is known of feeding habits or reproduction, the claim that channel modification would adversely affect the Rio Grande silvery minnow is not supported by the best scientific evidence. Changes in food supply, not water supply, may be a factor affecting the species in the Rio Grande. Also, the effects of non-native plants upon the habitat need to be investigated. Response: Recent data have shown that spawning activity occurs during peak spring and early-summer flows. The fertilized eggs drift with the current for about 24 hours and then hatch. The larval fish continue to drift downstream until they are swept into calm backwater and edge areas where food is abundant and they can continue to grow. Because of this spawning behavior, any modifications to the channel that result in changes that sweep the eggs and larval fish into less favorable habitats would adversely affect the species. There are no data presently available to support the contention that a reason for decline of the species was a decrease in the species' food supply or the invasion of non-native plants. As part of recovery efforts, the impacts of all habitat modifications will be investigated to determine if and how they impact the species. Issue 16: Very little information was presented at the public hearing or in the Federal Register to show a cause-and-effect relationship between water quality and decline of the species.
