FR941003-2-00062 FR941003-2-00034 •The SBA Program Policy Directive permits the payment of a reasonable fee or profit under the SBIR program. B. Reports The grantee organization will be required to submit short quarterly progress reports, a complete draft final report, and a final report. Additionally, a financial status report (SF&hyph;269A) must be submitted to the HCFA Grants Officer annually. The award will specify the schedule for these reports and place of delivery. C. Payment Schedule Once an SBIR grant is awarded, the grantee organization will receive information and forms regarding requests for cash, manner of payment, and associated reporting requirements. Payment may be made on a cost-reimbursement or advance basis. Cost reimbursements may be requested monthly, quarterly, or at other periodic intervals. Advance payments may be requested on a monthly basis only. D. Limited Rights Information and Data 1. Proprietary Information Information contained in an unfunded grant application will remain the property of the applicant. HCFA may, however, retain copies of all applications. If proprietary information is provided by a proposer in a proposal that constitutes a trade secret, proprietary, commercial or financial information, confidential personal information or data affecting the national security, it will be treated in confidence, to the extent permitted by law, provided this information is clearly marked by the proposer with the term ``confidential proprietary information'' and provided the following legend appears on the title page of the proposal: For any purpose other than to evaluate the proposal, this data shall not be disclosed outside the government and shall not be duplicated, used, or disclosed in whole or in part, provided that if a funding agreement is awarded to this proposer as a result of or in connection with the submission of this data, the government shall have the right to duplicate, use, or disclose the data to the extent provided in the funding agreement. This restriction does not limit the government's right to use information contained in the data if it is obtained from another source without restriction. The data subject to this restriction are contained in pages XXX of this proposal. Any other legend may be unacceptable to the Federal government and may constitute grounds for removing the proposal from further consideration and without assuming any liability for inadvertent disclosure. The government will limit dissemination of the information to official channels only. 2. Title to Property Title to real property, equipment, and supplies acquired by a for-profit recipient under a financial assistance award or subaward will vest, upon acquisition, in the Federal government. However, the title may be transferred to the awardee upon termination of the project if the transfer would be more cost-effective than our recovery of the property. It is recommended that applicants consider leasing arrangements whenever possible. HCFA will generally not fund projects that require the acquisition of real property, equipment, or supplies. 3. Rights in Data Developed Under the SBIR Grant Rights in data, including software developed under the terms of any grant resulting from an application submitted in response to this notice will remain with the grantee, except that the Federal government will have the limited right to use the data for internal Federal government purposes. These data will not be released outside the Federal government without permission of the grantee for a period of 4 years from completion of the project from which the data were generated. However, at the end of this 4-year period a royalty-free license will exist for HCFA to use, and to authorize others to use on its behalf, these data for Federal government purposes. At this time, HCFA is also relieved of all disclosure prohibitions and assumes no liability for unauthorized use of these data by third parties. This notice will be affixed to any reproductions of these data, in whole or in part. 4. Copyrights With prior written permission of the Grants Officer, the awardee may normally copyright and publish (consistent with appropriate national security considerations, if any) material developed with HCFA's support. HCFA receives a royalty-free license for the Federal government and requires that each publication contain an appropriate acknowledgment of agency support and a disclaimer statement. 5. Patents Small business concerns may normally retain the principal worldwide patent rights to any invention developed with HCFA support. The Federal government receives a royalty-free license for Federal government use, reserves the right to require the patentholder to license others in certain circumstances, and requires that anyone exclusively licensed to sell the invention in the U.S. must normally manufacture it substantially in the U.S. To the extent authorized by 35 U.S.C. 205, the government will not make public any information disclosing a government-supported invention for a 4-year period to allow the awardee a reasonable time to pursue a patent. E. Profit or Fee Absent a statutory prohibition, payment of a reasonable fee or profit will be made under the SBIR program (58 FR 6144). Because the regulations set forth at 45 CFR 74.705, which provide that no profit or fee will be furnished to for-profit organizations through grants, do not invoke a statutory prohibition on paying a fee or profit, the SBA's policy directive applies to these SBIR grants.
