FR940404-2-00018 FR940404-2-00015 Department of the Navy Record of Decision for Final Programmatic Environmental Impact Statement (FPEIS) for Dredged Material Disposal in San Diego Bay, San Diego, CA Pursuant to section 102(2) of the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) of 1969 and the Council on Environmental Quality Regulations Implementing NEPA Procedures (40 CFR 1500&hyph;1508), the Department of the Navy announces its decision to implement the final programmatic environmental impact statement (FPEIS) for dredged material disposal in San Diego Bay, San Diego, California. This decision establishes the framework to guide the Navy in the San Diego Bay region in making future decisions regarding project-specific dredged material disposal actions. The Navy has acknowledged that additional project-specific tiered environmental documentation will be undertaken in the future. Complete details of mitigation applicable for a particular dredged material disposal alternative must await completion of those future documents. Examination of disposal alternatives began with a review of locations where historical disposal of dredged material has taken place in the San Diego Bay region. All reasonable alternatives practicable. They are: beach nourishment, ocean disposal, upland disposal (existing landfills), habitat enhancement, and fastland creation. The most practicable candidate disposal site within each alternative (except for upland disposal which has two siting options) were used as the basis for impact description. Although evaluated, the no action alternative (no dredged material disposal) and an alternative of limited disposal have been eliminated as prohibitively detrimental to continued Navy mission in San Diego Bay. In addition to evaluating the existing environments and the consequences of disposing dredged material for each of the alternatives, the key issues of limiting criteria, schedule, capacity, and unit cost factors were examined. These issues will influence the choice of which alternative to select for disposing dredged material from a particular future project. The Draft PEIS was prepared by the Navy and distributed to agencies and officials of federal, state and local governments, citizen groups and associates, public libraries, and other interested parties for review and comment. Over 100 copies were distributed and a public hearing was held in San Diego on February 18, 1993. No public oral statements were made and no written comments were received at the public hearing. Copies of all comments received were included in the Final PEIS. Copies of all comments received were included in the Final PEIS. All submissions except two were complimentary of the Navy being willing to undertake the significant effort required to prepare the PEIS. Some comments encouraged Navy to use dredged material for specific purposes including beach nourishment and habitat enhancement to gain positive benefits associated with such disposal. The vast majority of comments addressed specific details. Some questioned cited data and others asked for clarification of interpretations. All errors or omissions pointed out were corrected by revisions or clarifications presented in the FPEIS. The most often stated concern addressed the Fastland Creation disposal alternative. This alternative would construct an aquatic contained disposal facility for contaminated sediment along the San Diego Bay waterfront and would cause loss of existing bay-bottom habitat. Some commenters suggested the Navy should investigate the potential for disposing of contaminated sediment in a capped facility somewhere within the Bay, but none identified locations or suggested where such a facility might be placed. The key issues still to be resolved are identification of specific dredged material handling methodology and selection of the final disposal sites for contaminated sediment. While disposal alternatives for contaminated sediment have been identified in principle, there are many details left unaddressed. For example, disposal at landfill is feasible, but such disposal requires dewatering and specialized transportation. No mechanisms for such handling are addressed in the FPEIS, nor can they be addressed until specific disposal needs become known. The Navy will continue to explore these issues through tiered project-specific environmental documentation. Questions regarding the Draft and Final Programmatic Environmental Impact Statement prepared for this action may be directed to: U.S. Department of the Navy, Southwest Division, Naval Facilities Engineering Command, 1220 Pacific Highway, rm 231, San Diego, California 92132&hyph;5178 (ATTN: Mr. Lowell Martin, Code 232.LM), telephone (619) 532&hyph;2991 (FAX (619) 532&hyph;3824). Dated: March 29, 1994. Elsie L. Munsell, Deputy Assistant Secretary of the Navy (Environment and Safety). Dated: March 30, 1994. Michael P. Rummel, LCDR, JACG, USN, Federal Register Liaison Officer. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;7952 Filed 4&hyph;1&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3810&hyph;01&hyph;M
