FR940921-2-00026 FR940921-2-00023 On August 13, 1993, EPA Region I received Massachusetts's final MSWLF Permit Program application for adequacy determination. Region I reviewed the final application and submitted comments to Massachusetts. Massachusetts addressed EPA's comments and submitted a revised final application for adequacy determination on August 30, 1993. Region I received additional clarifying information on the Massachusetts MSWLF Permit Program on November 2, 1993 and March 23, 1994. Region I has reviewed Massachusetts's revised application and has tentatively determined that all portions of Massachusetts's MSWLF program meet all the requirements necessary to qualify for full program approval and ensures compliance with the revised Federal Criteria. The public may submit written comments on EPA's tentative determination until October 21, 1994. Copies of Massachusetts's application are available for inspection and copying at the location indicated in the ADDRESSES section of this notice. In the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, the jurisdiction for siting and permitting of solid waste management facilities lies with local boards of health and the Department of Environmental Protection (DEP), an agency falling under the Executive Office of Environmental Affairs (EOEA). The Department of Public Health (DPH) is also given an advisory role in the siting process. Authority for respective roles of the boards of health, DEP and DPH is granted by Chapter 111, section 150A of the Massachusetts General Laws. Region I based its decision of tentative full approval on the current approach for approving the construction and operation of MSWLFs in Massachusetts. This approach includes: (1) a review pursuant to the Massachusetts Environmental Policy Act (MEPA), a public information process that generally involves the submission of an Environmental Impact Report, which must be approved by the Secretary of the Office of Environmental Affairs; (2) a Site Assignment Process, which focuses on determining whether a specific location is suitable for a specific type of solid waste facility (the local board of health is responsible for granting a site assignment in accordance with the procedures and criteria at 310 CMR 16.00); and (3) a Solid Waste Management Facility Permit, a permit that must be obtained from DEP's Division of Solid Waste Management after completing the MEPA process and obtaining a site assignment. The permitting process regulates the design, operation and maintenance, closure, post-closure and financial assurance aspects of a facility. The Massachusetts regulations require, at 310 CMR 19.021, the repermitting of all landfills existing as of the effective date of July 1, 1990, unless they choose to close prior to July 1, 1992. Furthermore, the regulations at 310 CMR 19.022(1) require the completion of closure of all unlined areas of landfills by July 1, 1995. A recent amendment of MGL c. 111, s. 150A makes the 1995 closure date applicable only to privately owned landfills. The design standard for new and lateral expansions of landfills currently in effect in Massachusetts includes a composite liner system which features: a subgrade layer which must ensure a minimum of four foot separation between the top of bedrock or the maximum high groundwater table and the bottom of the lowermost low permeability layer; a two foot, low permeability, soil/admixture layer having a maximum in-place saturated hydraulic conductivity of 1x10&hyph;7 cm/sec; a minimum 30-mil flexible membrane liner (60-mil minimum for high density polyethylene) in direct contact with the underlying soil/admixture; a drainage/protection layer; and a leachate collection system. Alternative liner designs must meet the performance standard for ground water protection systems found at 310 CMR 19.110 and do so in a manner which meets or exceeds the design standard of that section. The current siting criteria carefully restrict new or expanding landfills from being located in settings that may conflict with the Location Criteria specified in 40 CFR Sections 258.10, 258.11, 258.12, 258.13, 258.14 and 258.16. By currently restricting landfills to such settings, Massachusetts has protected all state drinking water resources, whether surface water or groundwater, from the potential impact of leachate -an approach which EPA has determined to be an alternate to the 40 CFR Part 258 requirements, but still as protective as the federal requirements at 40 CFR Part 258. In addition, the Commonwealth's requirements are no less stringent than the requirements set forth at 40 CFR Part 258. The Massachusetts MSWLF Permitting Program features an unique approach to landfill assessment which includes four parts. The first part is an Initial Site Assessment (ISA), which examines the general history of the site, the types and amounts of waste landfilled, the size of the site and other historical information concerning the site. The second part is a Comprehensive Site Assessment (CSA) to characterize the nature and extent of any contamination that may exist. The CSA, which is used to develop a suitable closure strategy, involves, in its final step, a two-phased risk assessment approach to determine whether corrective action is warranted. The first phase of the risk assessment is called a qualitative risk assessment. The following three pieces of information are analyzed in this phase: the existence of contamination above standards or approved levels; the existence of potential public health or environmental receptors; and the existence of pathways which would serve to link contamination to receptors. If all three are determined to exist in any media (air, surface water, ground water or soil), the second phase in the risk assessment process, the quantitative risk assessment, is invoked as is a round of sampling for all the 40 CFR Part 258, Appendix II constituents. The third part of the landfill assessment is a Corrective Actions Alternatives Analysis (CAAA), which is conducted to determine the type of cap and any additional remediation measures which will be needed to properly close the sanitary landfill. The fourth and final part of the landfill assessment process is a Corrective Action Design (CAD), in which the landfill cap and any additional remediation measures are designed. Massachusetts covers the landfill assessment requirements in more detail in its Guidance on Conducting Qualitative Risk Assessments at Solid Waste Landfills and Guidance for Disposal Site Risk Characterization and Related Phase II Activities. The revised Landfill Assessment and Closure Guidance Manual (LAC Manual) is applicable to all existing MSWLFs and to all MSWLF permit applications effective July 1, 1993. Massachusetts will implement its MSWLF permit program through enforceable permit conditions. To ensure compliance with the federal criteria, Massachusetts has revised its current permit requirements through the existing Supplement to Landfill Assessment and Closure Manual. These revisions occur in the following areas: 1. The adoption of the EPA approved method 8260 to test ground water. 2. Addition of the provision on the minimum distance of a ground water monitoring well from the landfill boundary. 3. Compliance with the protocols for testing and analyzing ground water for constituents listed in Appendix II to Part 258. 4. Compliance with the procedures for notifying the DEP about explosive levels of landfill gas. 5. Compliance with the protocols for conducting inspections to detect presence of hazardous waste and procedures for reporting results of such inspections. 6. Compliance with the minimum design standard for alternative landfill cover. The Massachusetts Department of Environmental Protection will update the permits of existing municipal solid waste landfills scheduled to remain open after the effective date of 40 CFR Part 258, to assure compliance with current state requirements. The Commonwealth of Massachusetts is not asserting jurisdiction over Tribal land recognized by the United States government for the purpose of this notice. Tribes recognized by the United States government are also required to comply with the terms and conditions found at 40 CFR Part 258. The Commonwealth of Massachusetts is committed to implementing its MSWLF program in accordance with the principles of environmental equity. The Commonwealth has expressed this commitment in an addendum to the narrative portion of its application. EPA will consider all public comments on its tentative determination received during the public comment period. Issues raised by those comments may be the basis for a determination of inadequacy for Massachusetts's program. EPA will make a final decision on approval of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts's program and will give notice of the final determination in the Federal Register . The notice shall include a summary of the reasons for the final determination and a response to all significant comments. Section 4005(a) of RCRA, 42 USC §6945(a) provides that citizens may use the citizen suit provisions of Section 7002 of RCRA, 42 USC §6972 to enforce the Federal MSWLF criteria set forth in 40 CFR Part 258 independent of any State/Tribal enforcement program. As EPA explained in the preamble to the final MSWLF criteria, EPA expects that any owner or operator complying with provisions in a State/Tribal program approved by EPA should be considered to be in compliance with the Federal Criteria. See 56 FR 50978, 50995 (October 9, 1991). Compliance With Executive Order 12866 The Office of Management and Budget has exempted this notice from the requirements of Section 6 of Executive Order 12866. Certification Under the Regulatory Flexibility Act Pursuant to the provisions of 5 USC §605(b), I hereby certify that this approval will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. It does not impose any new burdens on small entities. This notice, therefore, does not require a regulatory flexibility analysis. Authority: This notice is issued under the authority of Sections 2002, 4005 and 4010(c) of the Solid Waste Disposal Act as amended, 42 USC §§6912, 6945 and 6949a(c&hyph;c). Dated: September 8, 1994. John P. DeVillars, Regional Administrator. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;23150 Filed 9&hyph;20&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;P
