FR940404-0-00094 FR940404-0-00023 Separate provisions continue to exist for inmates to make unmonitored legal calls and these provisions remain unchanged by the revised telephone regulations, although the Bureau has redesignated them from 28 CFR 540.101 and 540.102 to 28 CFR 540.102 and 540.103. Further, as provided in redesignated §540.103, the Warden may not apply frequency limitations on unmonitored inmate telephone calls to attorneys when the inmate demonstrates that communication with attorneys by correspondence, visiting, or normal telephone use is not adequate. We also note that an inmate may choose to place an attorney on his or her telephone list, with the understanding that calls placed on the ITS are subject to monitoring. For the above reasons, the amended telephone regulations do not change inmate access to unmonitored attorney telephone calls and therefore do not interfere with an inmate's right to counsel. 4. Conditioning Use of the ITS Upon Participation in the IFRP Several commenters objected to conditioning inmate telephone use upon the inmate's participation in the Bureau's Inmate Financial Responsibility Program (IFRP). These objections were based upon a variety of concerns, and are addressed below. As a general matter, and as noted in the proposed rule, the IFRP offers inmates the opportunity to develop a plan to meet certain legitimate financial obligations and to make payments toward fulfilling that plan. Examples of these obligations include court-ordered restitution, fines, or other government obligations. The effects of non-participation are set forth in the Bureau's existing rule on inmate financial responsibility. See §545.11(d) of 28 CFR part 545, subpart B. In the proposed rule, the Bureau added a new provision to §545.11(d) which would ordinarily limit the inmate's telephone use to one call every three months. For the reasons discussed above in the section entitled ``PURPOSE OF THE AMENDED REGULATIONS,'' the Bureau believes that it is appropriate to restrict the telephone access of inmates who refuse to participate in the IFRP. However, the Bureau is modifying this rule to provide no more than one inmate-paid call every month for inmates in IFRP-refuse status, unless the Warden allows additional inmate-paid calls for compelling circumstances. See 28 CFR §545.11(d)(10). Inmates in IFRP-refuse status may also make unmonitored attorney calls pursuant to the procedures specified in redesignated §§540.102 and 540.103. As modified, the rule will enable inmates in IFRP-refuse status to have access to the telephone, while still contributing significantly to an important correctional management goal of the Bureau: the inmate's increased acceptance of personal responsibility. One inmate commenter seems to acknowledge this, in part, by stating, ``[i]f you got (fine, asse[ss]ment) *␣*␣* you cannot call home or use phone period if you don't pay *␣*␣*. This system of (phone bills) *␣*␣* affect[s] me [by] *␣*␣* forc[ing] me to pay $300.00 fine.'' As noted in the above section entitled `` PURPOSE OF THE AMENDED REGULATIONS '' and illustrated by the above comment, the Bureau believes that the ITS is an additional incentive for inmates to participate in the IFRP and pay their debts to society. Comments objected to the operation of the IFRP itself, claiming that it punishes inmates without due process, or that it was administered in an unfair manner. The IFRP is not intended to be, nor is it, a disciplinary sanction; rather, it is a voluntary program used as a factor to assess inmate progress in accepting financial responsibility. The IFRP has been duly promulgated through the rulemaking process and upheld by the courts. See U.S. v. Williams, 996 F.2d 231 (10th Cir., 1993); Dorman v. Thornburgh, 955 F.2d 57 (D.C. Cir., 1992); Johnpoll v. Thornburgh, 898 F.2d 849 (2d Cir., 1990), cert. denied, 498 U.S. 819; James v. Quinlan, 886 F.2d 627 (3rd Cir., 1989), cert denied, 493 U.S. 870. Objections to its operation other than as relevant to telephones lie outside the scope of this rulemaking. The Bureau does note, however, that the Administrative Remedy Program (see 28 CFR part 542) provides a means for inmates who wish to challenge IFRP payment schedules. Some commenters objected to the operation of the IFRP with respect to telephones, stating that inmate family or friends are afraid or unwilling to send money to an inmate for telephone calls because the sender has no control over how that money would be spent. These commenters expressed concern that money sent to inmates for use in payment of long distance telephone calls will be used to recalculate the inmate's resources in determining an IFRP payment schedule. Consequently, they feel that some of this money will be used to make payments toward the inmate's fines rather than to pay for telephone calls. In response to this concern, the Bureau is amending its rule to provide that $50.00 of the money deposited into an inmate's trust fund account each month will not be considered in determining the IFRP payment schedule. See revised 28 CFR 545.11(b). For purposes of this calculation, the inmate trust fund account deposits include both institution wages and funds sent to the inmate from members of the community. The only limitation on the $50.00 monthly exemption is the minimum requirement for IFRP contributions from UNICOR and non-UNICOR work assignments, as set forth in existing 28 CFR 545.11(b)(1) and (b)(2). The $50.00 monthly amount was chosen because it is high enough to enable the inmates to make a significant number of telephone calls. At the same time, however, the Bureau believes that there should be a specific limit on the amount of funds that will be excluded from calculation in determining the inmate's financial plan. The $50.00 exclusion provides a clear rule that is easier to administer than one which states that any funds designated for telephone calls will be excluded from the calculation of an inmate's financial plan. Also, the Bureau believes that inmates should be encouraged to fulfill their financial obligations, e.g. pay court-imposed fines. The provisions of new §545.11(d)(10), along with existing 28 CFR 545.11(b), help achieve the objectives of both the commenters and the Bureau. Concerns were expressed that the proposed regulations place unfair telephone restrictions on inmates who cannot participate in the IFRP because they do not have the funds to pay their fines. Such complaints are based upon inaccurate assumptions that inmates, by not participating in the IFRP, are prevented from having full telephone access.
