FR941130-0-00041 FR941130-0-00003 3. Consideration of CRA-Related Protests During Application Review The proposal did not address whether the OTS would consider CRA-related protests during agency review of conversion and MHC stock offering applications. Some commenters objected to OTS consideration of CRA protests during the public comment period. These commenters emphasized that the timing of a conversion, in particular, is critical to stock pricing and appraisal considerations. The mere prospect of a delay due to a CRA protest may unfairly subject an institution to pressure to make concessions to protestants, according to these commenters. They suggested limiting public comments on applications subject to the rule to issues relating to eligibility of purchasers and fairness of the appraisal. The OTS realizes that conversions and MHC stock offerings are time-sensitive transactions and that protests may affect their success. Nevertheless, the OTS does not believe it is appropriate to preclude the public from commenting on a savings association's performance in meeting a community's convenience and needs. Accordingly, the OTS will consider these types of comments filed as part of a public comment period on conversion and MHC stock offering applications. The OTS emphasizes that it will address these comments as promptly as possible. The CRA protest and oral argument procedures at 12 CFR 543.2 will not apply, however. 35 The OTS believes the public comment period will provide a full and fair opportunity for interested persons to express their views regarding an applicant's performance in meeting the convenience and needs of the community. 35 As a matter of policy the OTS has applied these procedures to certain conversion transactions and other applications, although neither the HOLA nor the CRA require the OTS to follow any specific procedures. 4. Allocation of Transaction Proceeds to Specific Lending Programs or Services The preamble to the proposal specifically solicited comment on whether the proceeds from conversions or MHC stock offerings should be directed to specific types of activities, and, if so, what portion should be used for what types of activities. 36 36 See 59 FR 22764, 22766 (May 3, 1994). A few commenters objected to any regulation or policy that would impose an allocation scheme on transaction proceeds. They argued that the OTS has no statutory authority for such action; that a regulatory allocation scheme would place artificial limits on capital planning and business strategy; and that specific allocations should be within the discretion of the management of the applicant, consistent with safety and soundness. The OTS agrees with many of the comments on this issue. In proposing the amendments, the OTS did not intend to impose any specific allocation scheme on proceeds from conversions or MHC stock offerings. The OTS agrees that the allocation of transaction proceeds is largely a matter within the discretion of the converting association, consistent with the safety and soundness of the savings association. Nevertheless, as suggested in the proposal, the OTS will require applicants to submit business plans that demonstrate how transaction proceeds will be used to further the convenience and needs of the community. Business plans should describe specifically the lending and credit programs to which transaction proceeds will be directed. OTS policies encourage savings associations to consider traditional lending programs as well as more innovative methods to meet the credit needs of the communities they serve. 37 37 See, e.g., ``Community Development Investment Authority'' (OTS guide to the federal laws and regulations governing community development activities of savings associations).
