FR940627-0-00126 FR940627-0-00019 In establishing the F/FA categories (and the groups within them), EPA has sought to avoid overly narrow definitions which would result in unnecessary and duplicative testing by manufacturers, as well as overly broad definitions which would cause potentially important toxicologic differences between F/FAs to be obscured. A basic guideline EPA has used to find the proper balance between these two unsatisfactory scenarios is to ask whether the emissions of a single group representative (i.e., test substance) can reasonably be expected to reflect the chemical and toxicologic properties of the emissions of the F/FAs proposed to be classified together. In applying this guideline, EPA has kept in mind both the homogenizing effect of combustion processes, as well as the need in some cases to examine the effects of evaporative emissions, which generally retain the characteristics of the raw F/FA to a greater degree. These considerations have led EPA to depend on the chemical elements in F/FA formulations as a primary criterion for categorization and grouping. Another key criterion is the presence of significant amounts (by volume, weight, or potential potency) of F/FA constituents that are likely to change the characteristics of the combustion or evaporative emissions in substantive ways. Accordingly, the baseline category in each fuel family is generally comprised of F/FAs containing no elements in addition to carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, nitrogen, and/or sulfur. 18 These elements are the fundamental chemical building blocks of all of the fuel families defined in this rule. Omitting any of these elements from the list of permissible baseline elements would eliminate all or most F/FAs from the baseline categories. On the other hand, allowing additional elements in the baseline definition would introduce substances not characteristic of most F/FA products in the fuel family. If a group representative (test substance) did not contain the additional element, it could not reasonably be assumed to reflect the presence and activity of F/FAs that do contain the element. Conversely, if the group representative did contain the additional element, then the results of the testing would be influenced by the presence and activity of this element, and would therefore not be valid for the large majority of the baseline F/FAs. Thus, allowing F/FAs with additional elements to be included in the baseline categories (and groups) would violate the principles of the grouping system and the objectives of the testing program. 18 The exceptions to this generalization (discussed in later sections) are small amounts of chlorine permitted in baseline methanol F/FAs, and small amounts of chlorine and copper permitted in baseline ethanol F/FAs. Also, trace contamination with elements other than carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, nitrogen, and sulfur do not cause F/FAs to be eliminated from baseline categories or groups. F/FA formulations containing elements in addition to those allowed in the baseline category of a fuel family are classified in the atypical category for that family. As described further below, such F/FAs are then subdivided into groups based primarily on which atypical element(s) they contain. Moreover, the rules for choosing representatives of these atypical groups emphasize the atypical constituent(s). This approach assures separate testing of F/FA products with unique compositional characteristics that can reasonably be expected to appear in the emissions and may thus have distinct emissions-based toxicologic effects. EPA believes that this approach best effectuates CAA section 211(e) by avoiding duplicative testing of similar F/FA products while requiring ``each'' F/FA to be tested. Between the baseline category and the atypical category in each fuel family is the non-baseline category. Broad generalizations about the non-baseline F/FA categories are somewhat more difficult to make, since they are distinguished from the respective baseline categories by various attributes other than elemental composition. In the case of gasoline and diesel F/FAs, the distinction is based primarily on the presence of significant concentrations of oxygenating compounds. As discussed further below, the presence of such compounds may have a large impact on F/FA emission profiles. Classification of the oxygenated F/FAs into separate categories from the baseline F/FAs (and further subdivision into separate groups) is necessary to assure testing of representatives that can reasonably reflect the differences in these emission mixtures and, possibly, their health effects. Similar principles apply to the non-baseline categories in the alternative fuel families. In the case of alcohol fuels, non-baseline F/FAs are those which have a substantial non-alcohol and non-gasoline component in the formulation. Non-baseline propane and methane formulations are those containing significant amounts of substances other than propane and methane, respectively. In all of these cases, the non-baseline definitions serve to ensure that F/FAs with properties that are likely to result in significantly different emission profiles, with possibly different toxicologic effects, are not subsumed in the baseline category.
