FR940622-0-00056 FR940622-0-00011 Comment: One commenter requested that a hospital be given an opportunity to meet informally with the State agency, HCFA and possibly a third party (such as a PRO) before HCFA makes a determination that there is a violation. Problems could be resolved without resorting to a termination. Response: With regard to possible civil monetary penalties or physician exclusion, OBRA 90 responds to the commenter's suggestion. Under section 1154(a)(16) of the Act, as added by section 4027(a)(1)(B) of OBRA 90, PRO must provide reasonable notice of the review to the physician and hospital involved and a reasonable opportunity for discussion and submission of additional information prior to providing their report to HCFA. Thus, we believe that the commenter's concerns are mitigated by this new statutory language. With regard to termination, HCFA regional office staff may meet with the hospital's representatives before determining compliance or noncompliance if they decide they need additional information to make a compliance determination. If, after reviewing the State agency finding and medical review findings (if requested), the regional office staff has sufficient information to make a determination, they may decide not to meet informally with the hospital's representatives. Options for resolving the deficiencies do not affect the compliance determination. Comment: One commenter stated that mandatory termination is not consistent with the statute. Seven commenters recommended that the regulations not state that any violation will result in termination; termination should be imposed only for particularly egregious violations or a pattern of repeated violations. Several commenters questioned the basis for considering a violation to pose an immediate and serious threat, especially when there is only one violation. Five of these commenters thought single violations should be sanctioned with civil monetary penalties. Response: Section 1866(b)(2) of the Act permits HCFA to terminate but does not require HCFA to do so. There are cases in which a violation has occurred but in which HCFA has not chosen to terminate. For example, if a routine recertification survey shows that a hospital's internal quality assurance identified a violation that occurred 6 months ago, and since then the hospital has been functioning effectively under a corrective action plan, and the hospital is in compliance with all other conditions of participation, HCFA may determine that although the hospital did violate the statute 6 months earlier, a termination is not warranted at the time of the survey.
