FR940727-0-00159 FR940727-0-00028 (iii) In connection with this contract, the contractor shall, to the greatest extent feasible, give preference in the award of any subcontracts to Indian organizations and Indian-owned economic enterprises, and preferences and opportunities for training and employment to Indians and Alaskan natives. (iv) The contractor shall include this Section 7(b) clause in every subcontract in connection with the project, and shall, at the direction of the grantee, take appropriate action pursuant to the subcontract upon a finding by the grantee or HUD that the subcontractor has violated the Section 7(b) clause of the Indian Act. (e) Additional Indian preference requirements. A grantee may, with prior HUD approval, provide for additional Indian preference requirements as conditions for the award of, or in the terms of, any contract in connection with a project funded under this part. The additional Indian preference requirements shall be consistent with the objectives of the Section 7(b) clause of the Indian Act and shall not result in a significantly higher cost or greater risk of non-performance or longer period of performance. The additional Indian preference requirements permitted by this part do not include the imposition of geographic preferences or restrictions to the procurement process. §953.504 Grant closeout procedure. Within 90 days of the date that HUD determines the grant has met the criteria for closeout, the grantee shall submit to HUD a completed Financial Status Report (SF&hyph;269). In addition, the requirements of §570.509 of this title, Grant closeout procedures, apply to the ICDBG program where applicable. (Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under OMB Control No. 2506&hyph;0043.) §953.505 Program Income. (a) Disposition of program income received by recipients. (1) Program income received before grant closeout may be retained by the recipient if the income is treated as additional CDBG funds subject to all applicable requirements governing the use of CDBG funds. (2) If the recipient chooses to retain program income, that income shall affect withdrawals of grant funds from the U.S. Treasury as follows: (i) Program income in the form of repayments to, or interest earned on, a revolving fund shall be substantially disbursed from the fund before additional cash withdrawals are made from the U.S. Treasury for the same activity. (This rule does not prevent a lump sum disbursement to finance the rehabilitation of privately owned properties as provided for in §570.513 of this title.) (ii) Substantially all other program income shall be disbursed for eligible activities before additional cash withdrawals are made from the U.S. Treasury. (3) Program income on hand at the time of closeout shall continue to be subject to the eligibility requirements in subpart C of this part and all other applicable provisions of this part until it is expended. (4) Unless otherwise provided in any grant closeout agreement, and subject to the requirements of paragraph (a)(5) of this section, income received after closeout shall not be governed by the provisions of this part, except that, if at the time of closeout the recipient has another ongoing CDBG grant received directly from HUD, funds received after closeout shall be treated as program income of the ongoing grant program. (5) If the recipient does not have another ongoing grant received directly from HUD at the time of closeout, income received after closeout from the disposition of real property or from loans outstanding at the time of closeout shall not be governed by the provisions of this part, except that such income shall be used for activities that meet one of the national objectives in 24 CFR 570.208 and the eligibility requirements described in section 105 of the Act. (b) All other program income received after closeout will not be governed by the provisions of this part. Subpart G_Other Program Requirements §953.600 General. The following requirements of 24 CFR part 570, subpart K_Other Program Requirements_apply to grants under this part. (a) 24 CFR 570.605, ``National Flood Insurance Program.'' (b) 24 CFR 570.608, ``Lead-based paint.'' (c) 24 CFR 570.609, ``Use of debarred, suspended, or ineligible contractors or subrecipients.'' (d) 24 CFR 570.610, ``Uniform administrative requirements and cost principles.'' Non-federally recognized tribes shall follow the requirements of 24 CFR part 85 and OMB Circulars A&hyph;87 and A&hyph;128. Copies of OMB Circulars may be obtained from E.O.P. Publications, room 2200, New Executive Office Building, Washington, DC 20503, telephone (202) 395&hyph;7332. (This is not a toll-free number.) There is a limit of two free copies. §953.601 Nondiscrimination. (a) Under the authority of section 107(e)(2) of the Act, the Secretary waives the requirement that recipients comply with section 109 of the Act except with respect to the prohibition of discrimination based on age, sex, or against an otherwise qualified disabled individual. (b) A recipient shall comply with the provisions of title II of Pub. L. 90&hyph;284 (24 U.S.C. 1301_the Indian Civil Rights Act) in the administration of a program or activity funded in whole or in part with funds made available under this part. For purposes of this section, ``program or activity'' is defined as any function conducted by an identifiable administrative unit of the recipient; and ``funded in whole or in part with funds made available under this part'' means that community development funds in any amount have been transferred by the recipient to an identifiable administrative unit and disbursed in a program or activity. §953.602 Relocation and real property acquisition. (a) Minimize displacement. Consistent with the other goals and objectives of this part, grantees shall assure that they have taken all reasonable steps to minimize the displacement of persons (households, businesses, nonprofit organizations, and farms) as a result of a project assisted under this part. (b) Temporary relocation. The following policies cover residential tenants who will not be required to move permanently but who must relocate temporarily for the project. Such tenants must be provided: (1) Reimbursement for all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred in connection with the temporary relocation, including the cost of moving to and from the temporarily occupied housing and any increase in monthly housing costs (e.g., rent/utility costs). (2) Appropriate advisory services, including reasonable advance written notice of: (i) The date and approximate duration of the temporary relocation; (ii) The location of the suitable, safe and habitable dwelling to be made available for the temporary period; (iii) The terms and conditions under which the tenant may occupy a suitable, decent, safe, and sanitary dwelling in the building/complex following completion of the repairs; and
