FR941205-0-00128 FR941205-0-00027 EPA notes that the ``amenable'' spectrophotometric methods, ASTM D2036&hyph;91B and SM 4500&hyph;CN&hyph;G, also require distillation prior to either free or total cyanide measurements. To further clarify EPA's intent to require manual distillation for all spectrophotometric determinations of cyanide, these methods will be listed at 40 CFR 141.23(k) in today's rule under the phrase ``Manual distillation followed by''. Immediately following this phrase, the rules specify use of SM 4500&hyph;CN&hyph;C to conduct this distillation. Microbiological Methods The vast majority of comments on the eighteenth edition version of microbiology methods concerned the maximum time between sample collection and analysis (transit time) of drinking water samples. Commenters opposed reducing this time from 30 hours (16th edition of Standard Methods) to 24 hours (18th edition of Standard Methods). The Standard Methods committee reduced the transit time because of its concern about coliform die-off in the sample over time. Commenters opposed reducing the time because it would (1) be logistically impractical if not impossible to do, (2) increase costs for sample transport and resampling, (3) cause hardships in sample collection, and (4) complicate and decrease laboratory flexibility. A few commenters claimed that the reduced transit time is not supported by data. Coliforms usually die off over time, especially when water temperatures are warm, but EPA recognizes that there is debate among investigators over the rate of that decline. EPA is currently conducting additional studies on this question, using fecal coliforms and E. coli , and results are anticipated by the end of 1994. Given the logistical and other problems that might result by decreasing the transit time to 24 hours, EPA is deferring a decision on whether to reduce the transit time until more data become available. For the time being, the Agency has added a footnote to the Table in §141.21(f)(3), allowing a maximum transit time of 30 hours. If EPA decides that a reduction from 30 hours is warranted, the Agency will work with the States to minimize the hardships identified in the public comments. Meanwhile, EPA strongly encourages States and systems to review their procedures and identify practical alternatives for providing samples to laboratories more quickly. Other commenters objected to the requirement in the 18th edition of Standard Methods to hold samples at less than 10 ○C during transit. The Standard Methods committee specified this value because of its concern about coliform die-off in the sample at higher temperatures, where the bacterial metabolism of coliforms and non-coliforms alike is normally greater. Commenters objected to any EPA requirement that would require them to keep samples cool during sample transit. They asserted that this requirement would (1) be unnecessary and would complicate sample transport logistics, (2) increase sampling costs and shipping costs for both systems and laboratories, because coolers and ice packs cost money and samples are heavier and thus more expensive to ship, and (3) lead to problems with frozen samples or a significantly increased number of invalid samples. Commenters also stated that under the presence-absence concept, sample cooling was less important than under the earlier rule based on coliform density. EPA is deferring a decision on sample transit temperature until the Agency initiates a review, and possible revision, of the Total Coliform Rule. For the time being, the Agency has added a footnote to the Table in §141.21(f)(3) encouraging, but not requiring, systems to hold samples at less than 10 ○C during transit. Nevertheless, the Agency strongly encourages systems to cool their samples during transit, especially during warm summer months, to minimize coliform die-off. The Agency is currently conducting additional studies on this question, using fecal coliforms and E. coli , and results are anticipated by the end of 1994. If EPA decides that a reduction is warranted, the Agency will work with the States to minimize the hardships identified in the public comments.
