FR940511-0-00060 FR940511-0-00015 Response: The level of funding for the first year after Sanctuary designation will depend upon the Sanctuary Program's funding which is authorized and appropriated by Act of Congress. However, the reality of the program's funding situation will require the manager and SAC to identify alternative sources of funding for Sanctuary programs. Comment: A volunteer program, coordinated by a full-time volunteer coordinator, should be established to assist in implementation of the management plan. Response: NOAA agrees that the establishment of a volunteer program can assist in implementation of the management plan. The SAC will be influential in determining the priority of hiring a volunteer coordinator. Comment: The management alternatives should more accurately describe NOAA's comprehensive planning as implemented through a combination of legal management authority over certain specific Sanctuary activities and advisory coordination with other entities managing the remaining essential components. Response: NOAA agrees. The FEIS/MP outlines the regulations which NOAA is promulgating. The FEIS/MP also outlines the role of the SAC, whose composition is aimed at enhancing the coordination with other entities with management jurisdiction in the Sanctuary. Comment: The Sanctuary manager should have a great deal of responsibility for setting the Sanctuary budget, as well as assigning funds to local governments for assistance in implementing management plans. Response: The Sanctuary manager will have primary responsibility for recommending the Sanctuary budget to headquarters. The Sanctuaries and Reserves Division has responsibility for the entire National Marine Sanctuary Program budget, and will work with the site manager to develop the annual program budget. The manager has the discretion to earmark funds to local governments or groups to implement Sanctuary programs. Comment: Zoning plans should be implemented which accommodate the varying resource management needs within the Sanctuary. Some zoning examples include allowing for the needs of ports to the south, designating areas which would be closed to all consumptive uses on a rotating basis, and zoning specific areas within the sanctuary for the sole purposes of research, recreational use, commercial use and no use. Response: Zoning is not anticipated as part of the FEIS/MP for the Sanctuary. If NOAA, in consultation with the SAC, believes that zoning would better meet the needs of the program, the management plan and regulations can be amended in accordance with the requirements of the MPRSA, the NEPA and the APA.
