FR940325-0-00090 FR940325-0-00016 Comment: One commenter expressed concern that proposed ยง11.82(b)(1) could be read to require trustee officials to examine restoration, rehabilitation, replacement, and/or acquisition alternatives on a resource-by-resource basis. Response: The Department did not intend to require trustee officials to examine restoration, rehabilitation, replacement, and/or acquisition alternatives on a resource-by-resource basis. To avoid any confusion, the Department has revised the language of the proposed rule to refer to ``resources'' rather than ``resource.'' K. Costs of Restoration, Rehabilitation, Replacement, and/or Acquisition of Equivalent Resources Comment: A number of commenters objected to the inclusion of indirect costs as recoverable restoration, rehabilitation, replacement, and/or acquisition costs. These commenters stated that indirect costs are not recoverable in natural resource damage cases as a matter of law. The commenters acknowledged that courts have awarded indirect costs in response actions; however, the commenters stated that those courts relied on the broad language of section 107(a)(4)(A) of CERCLA, which authorizes recovery of ``all costs of removal or remedial action.'' Some commenters cited case law for the proposition that indirect costs are generally not recoverable. United States v. Rohm and Haas Company , 2 F.3d 1265 (3d Cir. 1993) ( U.S. v. Rohm and Haas ). A few commenters stated that recoverable indirect costs should be limited to those actually caused by the release and objected to the reference in proposed ยง11.83(b)(1)(ii) to recovery of costs of activities that ``support'' the selected restoration, rehabilitation, replacement, and/or acquisition alternative. These commenters also stated that the Department should clarify that the cost of policy formulation is not recoverable. Response: The Department believes that inclusion of indirect costs in an assessment is consistent with both Ohio v. Interior and the language and legislative history of CERCLA, which emphasize development of a damage figure that will make the public whole. 880 F.2d at 445. Section 107(f)(1) of CERCLA contains the broad language that ``[t]he measure of damages shall not be limited by the sums which can be used to restore or replace'' the injured resources. The Department agrees that PRPs are only liable for those indirect costs that are connected to a specific release or discharge. However, the Department does not believe that revisions to the language of the proposed rule are necessary. Furthermore, although the Department does not think that the cost of policy formulation would generally be recoverable, there may be some cases in which certain policy formulation activities would not take place but for the occurrence of a specific release or discharge. In those cases, and only in those cases, the costs of policy formulation could be recoverable.
