FR940228-0-00026 FR940228-0-00002 Unless we agree in writing, prior to the sales closing date, to approve acreage exceeding this limit. (ii) Acreage intended to be planted under an irrigated practice will be limited to the number of acres properly prepared to carry out an irrigated practice. (iii) A prevented planting production guarantee will not be provided for: (A) Any acreage that does not constitute at least 20 acres or 20 percent (20%) of the acres in the unit, whichever is less; (B) Land for which the actuarial table does not designate a premium rate unless you submit a written request for coverage for such acreage prior to the sales closing date for the insured crop in the county and we provide a written insurance offer for such acreage; (C) Land used for conservation purposes or intended to be or considered to have been left unplanted under any program administered by the United States Department of Agriculture; (D) Land on which any crop, other than the insured crop, has been planted and is intended for harvest, or has been harvested in the same crop year; or (E) Land which planting history or conservation plans indicate would remain fallow for crop rotation purposes. (iv) For the purpose of determining eligible acreage for prevented planting coverage, acreage for all units will be combined and reduced by the number of acres of the insured crop that are timely planted and late planted. For example, assume you have 100 acres eligible for prevented planting coverage in which you have a 100 percent (100%) share. The acreage is located in a single ASCS Farm Serial Number which you insure as two separate optional units consisting of 50 acres each. If you planted 60 acres of the insured crop on one optional unit and 40 acres of the insured crop on the second optional unit, your prevented planting eligible acreage would be reduced to zero (i.e., 100 acres eligible for prevented planting coverage minus 100 acres planted equals zero). If you report more acreage of the insured crop under this contract than is eligible for prevented planting coverage, we will allocate the eligible acreage to insured units based on the number of prevented planting acres and share you report for each unit. (4) When the ASCS Farm Serial Number covers more than one unit, or a unit consists of more than one ASCS Farm Serial Number, the covered acres will be pro-rated based on the number of acres in each unit or ASCS Farm Serial Number that could have been planted to the insured crop in the current crop year. (5) In accordance with the provisions of section 6 (Report of Acreage) of the Common Crop Insurance Policy (ยง457.8), you must report any insurable acreage you were prevented from planting. This report must be submitted on or before the acreage reporting date for spring-planted acreage of the insured crop in counties for which the Special Provisions designates a spring final planting date, or the acreage reporting date for fall-planted acreage of the insured crop in counties for which the Special Provisions designates a fall final planting date only, even though you may elect to plant the acreage after the late planting period. Any acreage you report as eligible for prevented planting coverage which is not eligible will be deleted from prevented planting coverage. ยง457.102 Wheat crop insurance winter coverage endorsement. United States Department of Agriculture Federal Crop Insurance Corporation Wheat Crop Insurance Winter Coverage Endorsement (This is a Continuous Endorsement) (a) In return for payment of the additional premium designated in the Actuarial Table, this endorsement is attached to and made part of your Small Grains Crop Provisions subject to the terms and conditions described herein. (b) This endorsement is available only in counties for which the Special Provisions designate both a fall final planting date and a spring final planting date. (c) This endorsement modifies the provisions of sections 7 and 11 of the Small Grains Crop Insurance policy (ยง457.101).
