FR941216-2-00008 FR941216-2-00005 1. Absence of De Jure Control The respondents in this investigation have submitted a number of documents to demonstrate absence of de jure control. These are the ``Law of the People's Republic of China on Industrial Enterprises Owned by the Whole People,'' adopted on April 13, 1988 ( 1988 Law ) and ``Regulations for Transformation of Operational Mechanism of State-Owned Industrial Enterprises,'' approved on August 23, 1992 ( 1992 Regulations ), both of which indicate that the responsibility for managing enterprises ``owned by all of the people'' is with the enterprises themselves and not with the government. They have also submitted the ``Temporary Provisions for Administration of Export Commodities,'' approved on December 21, 1992 ( Export Provisions ). The 1988 Law and 1992 Regulations shifted control from the government to the enterprises themselves. The 1988 Law provides that enterprises owned ``by the whole people'' shall make their own management decisions, be responsible for their own profits and losses, choose their own suppliers, and purchase their own goods and materials. The 1988 Law also has other provisions which support a finding that enterprises have management independence from the government. The 1992 Regulations provide that these same enterprises can, for example, set their own prices (Article IX); make their own production decisions (Article XI); use their own retained foreign exchange (Article XII); allocate profits (Article II); sell their own products without government interference (Article X); make their own investment decisions (Article XIII); dispose of their own assets (Article XV); and hire and fire their employees without government approval (Article XVII). The Export Provisions list those products subject to direct government control. While furfuryl alcohol is included on the list of commodities that are subject to export quotas, the quotas are confined to exports to the countries of the European Community and Japan and are not applicable to PRC exports to the United States. There is no indication that the export prices to the United States of furfuryl alcohol are subject to governmental control. The existence of these enactments indicates that Qingdao I&E and Sinochem Shandong I&E are not de jure subject to governmental control. However, there is some evidence that the provisions of the above-cited laws and regulations have not been implemented uniformly among different sectors and/or jurisdictions in the PRC (see ``PRC Government Findings on Enterprise Autonomy,'' in Foreign Broadcast Information Service-China-93&hyph;133 (July 14, 1993)). Therefore, the Department has determined that an analysis of de facto control is critical to determining whether the respondents are, in fact, subject to governmental control. 2. Absence of De Facto Control The Department typically considers four factors in evaluating whether each respondent is subject to de facto governmental control of its export functions: (1) whether the export prices are set by or subject to the approval of a governmental authority; (2) whether the respondent has authority to negotiate and sign contracts and other agreements; (3) whether the respondent has autonomy from the government in making decisions regarding the selection of management; and (4) whether the respondent retains the proceeds of its export sales and makes independent decisions regarding disposition of profits or financing of losses ( see Silicon Carbide ). Qingdao I&E and Sinochem Shandong I&E each has asserted that (1) it establishes its own export prices; (2) it negotiates contracts without guidance from any governmental entities or organizations; (3) its management operates with a high degree of autonomy and there is no information on the record that suggests central government control over selection of management; and (4) it retains the proceeds of its export sales, and has the authority to sell its assets and to obtain loans. In addition, questionnaire responses indicating that company-specific pricing during the POI does not suggest any coordination among exporters ( i.e. , the prices for comparable products differ among companies). This information supports a preliminary finding that there is a de facto absence of governmental control of export functions. Consequently, Qingdao I&E and Sinochem Shandong I&E have preliminarily met the criteria for the application of separate rates. We will examine this issue in detail at verification and determine whether the questionnaire responses are supported by verifiable documentation.
