FR941205-2-00135 FR941205-2-00073 3. Eligible Activities and National Objectives Eligible activities under the Small Cities CDBG Program are those identified in subpart C of 24 CFR part 570. Each activity must meet one of the national objectives (i.e. benefit to low- and moderate-income persons, elimination of slums or blighting conditions, or meeting imminent threats to the health and safety of the community), and each grant must meet the requirements for compliance with the primary objective of principally benefitting low- and moderate-income persons, as required under the provisions of ยง570.200(a) (2) and (3) and ยง570.208, which supersede ยง570.420(h)(2). As described in Section I.A.3.a. of this NOFA, the principal benefit requirement was increased by NAHA from 60 to 70 percent. The method of calculating the use of these funds for compliance with the 70 percent overall benefit requirement is set forth in ยง570.200(a)(3) (i) through (v). 4. Environmental Review Requirement The HUD environmental review procedures contained in 24 CFR part 58 apply to this program. Under part 58, grantees assume all of the responsibilities for environmental review, decision-making and action pursuant to the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 and the other provisions of law specified by the Secretary in 24 CFR part 58 that would apply to the Secretary were he to undertake such projects as Federal projects. D. Types of Grants 1. Comprehensive Grants a. General. Comprehensive grants are available to fund projects which meet the following criteria: (1) Address a substantial portion of the identified community development needs within a defined area or areas; (2) Involve two or more activities related to each other that will be carried out in a coordinated manner; (3) Have a beneficial impact within a reasonable period of time. HUD may make an exception to the requirement that all activities must be carried out in a defined area or areas if the applicant can demonstrate that the comprehensive strategy is a reasonable means of addressing identified needs. If an application for a Comprehensive grant does not meet the requirements of the Comprehensive Grant Program, HUD will rate the proposal as a Single Purpose grant. b. Grant Limits and Funding Requirements. The maximum grant for a Comprehensive grant is $900,000. Up to 25% of the FY 1995 allocation may be made available for Comprehensive grants. Grant funds requested must be sufficient, either by themselves or in combination with funds from other sources, to complete the project within a reasonable amount of time. If other sources of funds are to be used with respect to a project, the source of those funds must be identified and the level of commitment indicated. 2. Single Purpose Grants a. General. Single Purpose grants are designed to address and resolve a specific community development need. A Single Purpose grant may consist of more than one project. A project may consist of one activity or a set of activities. Each project must address community development needs in one of the following problem areas: _Housing _Public Facilities _Economic Development. Each project will be rated against all other projects addressing the same problem area, according to the criteria outlined below. It should be noted that each project within an application will be given a separate impact rating, if each one is clearly designated by the applicant as a separate and distinct project (i.e. separate Needs Description, Community Development Activities, Impact Description and Program Schedule forms have been filled out, indicating project names). In some cases, it may be to the applicant's advantage to designate separate projects for activities that can ``stand on their own'' in terms of meeting the described need, especially where a particular project would tend to weaken the impact rating of the other activities, if they were rated as a whole, as has been the case with some economic development and housing projects. If, however, the projects tend to meet impact criteria to the same extent, or the weaker element is only a small portion of the overall project, there is no discernable benefit in designating separate projects. b. Grant Limits and Funding Requirements. The maximum annual grant for a Single Purpose grant is $400,000, except that counties may apply for up to $600,000 in Single Purpose funds. At least 75 percent of the FY 1995 allocation will be made available for Single Purpose Grants. The maximum amount for Single Purpose grant applications made jointly by units of general local government will be $600,000. If other sources of funds are to be used with respect to a project, the source of those funds must be identified and the level of commitment indicated. 3. Applications With Multiple Projects If an application contains more than one project, each project will be rated separately for program impact. Applicants should note that regardless of the number of projects, the total grant amount cannot exceed the limits identified in Section I.D.1.b and I.D.2.b. of this NOFA. 4. Multiyear Plans a. General. Multiyear plan grants are available to fund projects that will have a substantial and comprehensive effect on meeting the grantees identified community development needs. It is envisioned that the large majority of multiyear plan projects will address a defined area or areas, but grantees may apply for grants for activities that will affect the grantees entire jurisdiction.
