FR940725-0-00065 FR940725-0-00008 b. A Section 6 School Arrangement CSC may place a preschool child or child with a disability in a non-Section 6 School Arrangement or facility only if required by an IEP. An IEP for a student placed in a non-Section 6 School is not valid until signed by the Section 6 School Arrangement Superintendent, or designee, who must have participated in the IEP meeting. The IEP shall include determinations that: (1) The Section 6 School Arrangement does not currently have, and cannot reasonably create, an educational program appropriate to meet the needs of the student with a disability. (2) The non-Section 6 School Arrangement or facility and its educational program conform to this part. 3. A Section 6 School Arrangement is not responsible for the cost of a non-Section 6 School Arrangement placement when placement is made unilaterally, without the approval of the cognizant CSC and the Superintendent, unless it is directed by a hearing officer under appendix C of this part or a court of competent jurisdiction. F. Procedural Safeguards 1. Parents shall be given written notice before the Section 6 School Arrangement CSC proposes to initiate or change, or refuses to initiate or change, either the identification, evaluation, or educational placement of a preschool child or child receiving, or entitled to receive, special education and related services from a Section 6 School Arrangement, or the provision of a free appropriate public education by the Section 6 School Arrangement to the child. The notice shall fully inform a parent of the procedural rights conferred by this part and shall be given in the parent's native language, unless it clearly is not feasible to do so. 2. The consent of a parent of a preschool child or child with a disability or suspected of having a disability shall be obtained before any: a. Initiation of formal evaluation procedures; b. Initial special educational placement; or c. Change in educational placement. 3. If a parent refuses consent to any formal evaluation or initial placement in a special education program, the Section 6 School Arrangement Superintendent may initiate an impartial due process hearing, as provided in appendix C of this part to show why an evaluation or placement in a special education program should occur without such consent. If the hearing officer sustains the Section 6 School Arrangement CSC position in the impartial due process hearing, the appropriate CSC may evaluate or provide special education and related services to the preschool child or child without the consent of a parent, subject to the parent's due process rights. 4. A parent is entitled to an independent evaluation of his or her preschool child or child at the Section 6 School Arrangement's expense, if the parent disagrees with the findings of an evaluation of the student conducted by the school and the parent successfully challenges the evaluation in an impartial due process hearing. a. If an independent evaluation is provided at the expense of a Section 6 School Arrangement, it must meet the following criteria: (1) Conform to the requirements of this part. (2) Be conducted, when possible, within the area where the preschool child or child resides. (3) Meet applicable DoD standards governing persons qualified to conduct an evaluation.
