FR940720-2-00034 FR940720-2-00024 [OPP&hyph;42074A; FRL&hyph;4874&hyph;8] State of Nebraska Plan for Certification of Pesticide Applicators AGENCY: Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). ACTION: Notice of approval, on a contingent basis, a certification plan. SUMMARY: In the Federal Register of April 21, 1994, notice was published of the intent of the Regional Administrator, EPA Region VII, to approve, on a contingency basis, the State of Nebraska's ``A Plan for the Certification of Pesticide Applicators.'' Copies of the plan were made available to the public. Comments were received on the State of Nebraska plan during the allowed comment period. This notice announces the contingent approval of the Plan. A notice will be published at a later date announcing the full approval of the plan. DATES: Contingent approval is effective July 20, 1994, and will expire on January 1, 1995, if the outlined terms and conditions are not satisfied. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Richard O. Jacobson, Lincoln Field Office, Environmental Protection Agency, 100 Centennial Mall North, Rm. 289, Lincoln, NE 65808, Telephone: 402&hyph;437&hyph;5080. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: In accordance with the provisions of section 4(a)(2) of the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act (FIFRA), as amended, and 40 CFR part 171, the Governor of the State of Nebraska, E. Benjamin Nelson, has submitted the State of Nebraska's ``A Plan for Certification of Pesticide Applicators'' to EPA for approval. In the Federal Register of April 21, 1994 (59 FR 19010), notice was published of the intent of the Regional Administrator, EPA Region VII, to approve, on a contingency basis, the State of Nebraska's ``A Plan for the Certification of Pesticide Applicators.'' Approval was requested by the State of Nebraska. Contingent approval is being established by EPA pending the promulgation of appropriate regulations, the development of agreements by the State Lead Agency with the Cooperating State Agencies which are involved in the certification process, and the development of certain specific standards of competency for commercial applicators required at 40 CFR 171.4(c)(7). Copies of the State of Nebraska Plan were made available for public inspection at the Nebraska Department of Agriculture office in Lincoln, Nebraska, the USEPA Region VII Lincoln, Nebraska field office, and the Office of Pesticide Programs, EPA Headquarters, Arlington, Virginia. Comments were received from the University of Nebraska-Lincoln Cooperative Extension concerning the State of Nebraska Plan during the allowed comment period. The commenter expressed three concerns. Each of those has been discussed between the cooperating parties and the responses indicated here are consistent with those discussed. The commenter's first concern is that the two new categories (01A_Fumigation of Soil and 12_Aerial Pest Control) will require the development of new training materials for the Nebraska certification and training program. As part of the contingency approval, a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) is being established with the Nebraska Department of Aeronautics to train applicators in aerial pest control which will alleviate the need for additional resources. States have been identified that have developed training materials for applicators who fumigate soil. The training materials developed by those States will be used with little or no modification. The resources required for this minimal modification will be addressed in the MOU between the University of Nebraska Cooperative Extension and the Nebraska Department of Agriculture. The commenter also was concerned that reconstructed categories will require resources to accomplish substantial revisions to the training program. This concern will be addressed in the MOU that is being developed between the University of Nebraska Cooperative Extension and the Nebraska Department of Agriculture. Lastly, the commenter was concerned that the restriction allowing a noncertified applicator to work under the direct supervision of a certified applicator for only 60 days before needing to become certified would require additional resources for training to be provided on an ongoing basis. The commenter suggested that self-study be available prior to the certification examination during periods when formal training is not accessible. This suggestion is a present option that will continue to be available to applicators and will not require additional resources. Therefore, it has been determined that the State of Nebraska Plan will satisfy the requirements of FIFRA and of 40 CFR part 171, if the proposed State of Nebraska pesticide regulations are promulgated, and agreements by the State Lead Agency with the Cooperating State Agencies, and certain specific standards of competency for commercial applicators required at 40 CFR 171.4 are developed. This contingent approval shall expire January 1, 1995, if these terms and conditions are not satisfied by that time. If the terms and conditions are satisfied, EPA will publish a notice in the Federal Register announcing full approval of the plan. Pursuant to section 4(d) of the Administrative Procedure Act, 5 U.S.C. 553(d), the Agency finds that there is good cause for providing that the contingent approval granted herein to the State of Nebraska Plan shall be effective immediately. Neither the State of Nebraska Plan nor this Agency's contingent approval of the Plan create any new obligations on pesticide applicators or other persons in the State of Nebraska. Delays in starting the work necessary to implement the Plan, such as may be occasioned by providing some later effective date for this contingent approval, are inconsistent with the public interest. Accordingly, this contingent approval is effective July 20, 1994. Dated: July 7, 1994. Dennis Grams, Regional Administrator, Region VII. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;17563 Filed 7&hyph;19&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;F
