FR941110-1-00061 FR941110-1-00010 (1) No marketing promotion, including paid advertising, shall refer to any private brand, private trademark, or private trade name; (2) No promotion or advertising shall disparage the quality, use, value, or sale of like or any other agricultural commodity or product, and no false or unwarranted claims shall be made in connection with the product; and (3) No promotion or advertising shall be undertaken without reason to believe that returns to producers will be improved by such activity. Regulation §956.61 Recommendation for regulations. The committee shall recommend regulations to the Secretary whenever it deems it advisable, as provided in §956.62. The committee also may recommend modification, suspension, or termination of any regulation, or amendments thereto, in order to facilitate the handling of Walla Walla Sweet Onions for the purposes authorized in §956.63. The committee may also recommend amendment, modification, termination, or suspension of any regulation issued under this part. §956.62 Container markings. The committee may, with the approval of the Secretary, provide a method, through rules and regulations issued pursuant to this part, for fixing the marking of containers which may be used in the packaging or handling of Walla Walla Sweet Onions, including appropriate logo or other container markings to identify the contents thereof. Further, the committee may, with the approval of the Secretary, establish through rules and regulations such safeguards as may be necessary to ensure that such container marking requirements are complied with. §956.63 Handling for specified purposes. Upon the basis of recommendations and information submitted by the committee, or other available information, the Secretary may issue special regulations, or modify, suspend, or terminate requirements in effect pursuant to §§956.42 and 956.62 or any combination thereof, in order to facilitate the handling of onions for the following purposes: (a) Shipments of Walla Walla Sweet Onions for relief or to charitable institutions; (b) Shipments of Walla Walla Sweet Onions for livestock feed; (c) Shipments of Walla Walla Sweet Onions for planting and for plants; (d) Shipments of Walla Walla Sweet Onions as salad onions; (e) Shipments of Walla Walla Sweet Onions for all processing uses including, pickling, peeling, dehydration, juicing, or other processing; (f) Shipments of Walla Walla Sweet Onions for disposal; (g) Shipments of Walla Walla Sweet Onions for seed; (h) Shipments of Walla Walla Sweet Onions for packing or storing within the production area or outside the production area, but within specified locations in the States of Oregon and Washington; and (i) Shipments of Walla Walla Sweet Onions for other purposes which may be specified. §956.64 Minimum quantities. The committee, with the approval of the Secretary, may establish minimum quantities below which Walla Walla Sweet Onion shipments will be free from the requirements in, or pursuant to, §§956.42, 956.62, and 956.63, or any combination thereof. §956.65 Notification of regulations. The Secretary shall notify the committee of each regulation issued and of each amendment, modification, suspension, or termination thereof. The committee shall give reasonable notice thereof to handlers. §956.66 Safeguards. (a) The committee, with the approval of the Secretary, may prescribe adequate safeguards to prevent Walla Walla Sweet Onions shipped, pursuant to §§956.63 and 956.64, from entering channels of trade for other than the purpose authorized therefor.
