FR940217-1-00075 FR940217-1-00014 These provisions would expand the factors of financial responsibility of an institution to take into consideration substantial control over both other existing institutions (as opposed to only defunct institutions) and third-party servicers. Section 498(e) of the HEA clearly contemplates this expansion. Furthermore, these requirements are needed for the same reasons that similar requirements recently were adopted for persons with substantial control over defunct institutions. A person might be responsible for incurring liabilities for Title IV, HEA program violations because of his or her substantial control over third-party servicers or other institutions. The person could, nevertheless, have the same level of control over a participating institution while avoiding responsibility for repayment of those liabilities. These requirements are intended to prevent those persons from continuing to participate either directly or indirectly in the Title IV, HEA programs without assuming responsibility for their prior actions. The Secretary also proposes technical changes to this section to remove as factors of financial responsibility the consideration of matters that would instead be included in §668.12 as conditions for participation in the Title IV, HEA programs, for the reasons given in the discussion of that section. Section 668.23␣Audits, records, and examination. The Secretary proposes to specify that in addition to current requirements, an institution would be required to cooperate with a guaranty agency in whose program the institution participates and the State postsecondary review entity designated under subpart 1 of part H of Title IV of the HEA, in the conduct of audits, investigations, and program reviews. These requirements would clarify existing responsibilities to be accountable to authorized persons or organizations for the institution's activities with respect to the sound management of the Title IV, HEA programs. The Secretary further proposes to apply these requirements to a third-party servicer that contracts with an institution to administer any aspect of that institution's participation in a Title IV, HEA program. This change would merely clarify existing responsibilities of a third-party servicer, as an agent of an institution, to be accountable and provide access to authorized persons for the servicer's activities on behalf of the institution's participation in a Title IV, HEA program. The Secretary proposes to add a requirement that a third-party servicer that administers funds or determines student eligibility under contract with an institution would be required to have prepared, at least annually, a compliance audit of all aspects of the servicer's administration of the participation in the Title IV, HEA programs of each institution with which the servicer contracts. (This requirement would be satisfied by an audit report submitted in accordance with the Single Audit Act or Office of Management and Budget Circular A&hyph;133.) This requirement is necessitated by section 487(c)(1)(C) of the HEA. The Secretary, however, believes that the contractual obligations of some third-party servicers do not necessitate audits of the servicers' activities. Accordingly, the Secretary proposes to require annual audits to be performed only by those servicers that administer funds or determine student eligibility on behalf of institutions. The consequences of the activities of those servicers to the integrity of the Title IV, HEA programs justify stricter accountability to the Secretary. In addition, the Secretary proposes certain additional exceptions to the annual audit requirement in the discussion that follows. A third-party servicer that is required to have an audit performed would be excused from the annual audit requirement if that servicer contracts with only one participating institution and if that servicer's administration of a Title IV, HEA program would still be covered fully in that institution's compliance audit. (In proposed regulations to be published shortly after these, the Secretary intends to propose to excuse certain institutions from having an annual audit performed. If an institution were to be excused from an audit requirement, the activities of that institution's third-party servicer would not be fully covered, and thus the servicer would be required to have an audit performed to meet the requirements of this section). This provision would not harm the integrity of the Title IV, HEA programs as the servicer's activities still would be covered fully by the submission of an institution's compliance audit. A third-party servicer that is required to have an audit performed and that contracts with more than one participating institution could have performed, to meet the requirements of this section, a single comprehensive compliance audit that covers all of the servicer's activities for all of the institutions that the servicer contracts with for Title IV, HEA program purposes, if the audit is conducted in such a way as to satisfy each individual audit requirement and if the audit covers all aspects of the servicer's administration of the participation in the Title IV, HEA programs of all institutions with which the servicer contracts. The Secretary believes that, by allowing third-party servicers to have one inclusive audit performed, instead of many individual audits, the burden associated with these regulations would be reduced (regulatory burden reduction is an objective under Executive Order (E.O.) 12866). Furthermore, the Secretary does not believe that this provision would in any way affect the soundness of the information required by these regulations.
