FR940920-2-00049 FR940920-2-00025 In addition to research, the Center has a training and technology transfer program that is designed to complement Center research. Activities include publication of synergos, a periodical research report; production of educational videotapes; organization of conferences and seminars; and providing assistance to communities affected by hazardous waste sites. South/Southwest Hazardous Substance Research Center The South and Southwest Hazardous Substance Research Center is a consortium led by Louisiana State University and includes Georgia Institute of Technology and Rice University. The overall research mission of the Center is to provide short and long-term investigations into the management of hazardous substance problems associated with the Center's focus area&hyph;contaminated sediments and dredged materials&hyph;as well as problems unique to EPA Regions 4 and 6. The Center is also responsible for training and technology transfer activities including: community outreach programs; one-day regulatory update conferences; a quarterly newsletter and technical briefs; an annual symposium and report; and demonstration and transfer of technologies developed from Center activities. Most of the Center research activities are focused on problems with contaminated sediment (CS) and dredged material (DM). The CS and DM of concern contain organics, metals and conventional pollutants as environmental contaminants both in the water column and on the bottom of rivers, bayous, lakes, harbors, estuaries, freshwater wetlands and adjoining regions of the continental shelf. Projects in the CS/DM focus examine source characterization, contaminant transport and transformation processes, ecological effects and human exposure to chemicals in contaminated sediments and dredged materials. Specific research projects are currently supported in the areas of: •Mobility of radium sediments; •Contaminant migration from sediment disposal facilities; •Contaminant exchange between sediments and the overlying water via biological and physicochemical processes; •Biotransformation of contaminated sediments; •Plant enzyme mediated remediation of TNT contaminated soils; •In-situ monitoring of volatile hydrocarbons; and •Dynamics of pollutant-sediment reactions. Great Plains/Rocky Mountain Center Kansas State University leads the twelve institution consortium representing EPA Regions 7 and 8. Participating universities are Montana State University, South Dakota State University, Utah State University, Haskell Indian Nations University, Lincoln University and the Universities of Iowa, Missouri, Montana, Nebraska, Utah and Wyoming. The Center was established in 1989 to conduct research in identification, treatment and reduction of hazardous substances resulting from agriculture, forestry, mineral and mining processing and other concerns of regional interest. The two regions have diverse interests resulting from the grouping of mineral-rich states with those whose principal industries are agricultural, both crop land and animal husbandry. The Center's mission is focused on contaminated soils and mining wastes. The diversity of interests and the large geographic area are further reflected in the Center's training and technology program. Much of the Center's efforts support activities which reach large audiences with minimum resources. The Center provides a repository for printed, visual, audial and photographic materials related to hazardous substance research. The quarterly newsletter, HazTech Transfer, is disseminated nationally to more than 5000 addresses. The Community Technical Outreach program serves clients across the region pair where hazardous substances have become a special concern. A special program to provide public environmental information and education related hazardous substances is also underway. The Center is developing a special environmental seminar program to serve the consortium campuses and the general public in the ten states of EPA Regions 7 and 8. Current projects include: •Soil and water contamination by heavy metals associated with mining wastes and other industrial activities; •Soil and groundwater contamination by organic chemicals from various industrial sources; •Improved technologies and methods for characterization and analysis of contaminated soil; •Innovative treatment technologies for remediation of contaminated soil and groundwater; and •Waste minimization and pollution prevention methods and technologies. Western Region Center The Western Region Hazardous Substance Research Center is a cooperative activity between Stanford University and Oregon State University to address critical hazardous substance problems in EPA Regions 9 and 10. The objective of the Center is to promote_through fundamental and applied research_the development of alternative and advanced physical, chemical and biological processes for treatment of hazardous substances in the surface and subsurface environments. Groundwater cleanup and site remediation, with a strong emphasis on biological approaches, represent the major focus of Center activities. The Center's personnel collectively represent an integrated research team representing four different schools (engineering, earth sciences, medicine and veterinary medicine) and various disciplines (microbiology, chemistry, hydrogeology, hydrology, chemical engineering, civil engineering and medicine). The technology transfer program is focused upon field remediation of innovative technology. Training in field sampling and instrumentation are available. A program of providing technical assistance to communities affected by hazardous waste sites is being conducted. Topics of interest include: •Bioremediation. _Co-metabolism of chlorinated aliphatic compounds _Anaerobic degradation of aromatic compounds _Aerobic degradation of anaerobic metabolic products •Fate and Transport. _Sorption _Physical movement _Volatilization _Abiotic transformation •Treatment Technologies. _In-situ bioremediation _In-situ recirculation _Air sparging •Site Characterization and Transport Modeling. _Geological sampling _Hydrogeology _Geostatistics •Heavy Metal Remediation. _Lead _Chromium _In-situ leaching
