FR940525-2-00208 FR940525-2-00119 [CFDA No.: 84.199J] Cooperative Demonstration Program (Manufacturing Technologies); Notice Inviting Applications for New Awards for Fiscal Year (FY) 1994 Note to Applicants This notice is a complete application package. Together with the statute authorizing the program and applicable regulations governing the program, including the Education Department General Administrative Regulations (EDGAR), the notice contains all of the information, application forms, and instructions needed to apply for a grant under this competition. Purpose of Program The Cooperative Demonstration Program (Manufacturing Technologies) provides financial assistance to applicants that propose to develop and demonstrate a national training model to overcome skill shortages in the application of new technologies to the manufacturing process within the American machine tool industry. The Secretary wishes to highlight for potential applicants that this program can help to further the National Education Goals. Specifically, the manufacturing technologies priority announced by this notice directly supports the National Education Goal, that by the year 2000, every adult American will be literate and will possess the knowledge and skills necessary to compete in a global economy and exercise the rights and responsibilities of citizenship. Eligible Applicants State educational agencies, local educational agencies, postsecondary educational institutions, institutions of higher education, and other public and private agencies, organizations, and institutions. Deadline for Transmittal of Applications: Deadline for Intergovernmental Review: Available Funds: $3,455,280 for 24 months. Estimated Range of Awards: $1,500,000_2,000,000. Estimated Average Size of Awards: $1,728,000. Estimated Number of Awards: 2. Note: The Department is not bound by any estimates in this notice. Project Period: Up to 24 months. Applicable Regulations: (a) The Education Department General Administrative Regulations (EDGAR) as follows: (1) 34 CFR Part 74 (Administration of Grants to Institutions of Higher Education, Hospitals and Nonprofit Organizations). (2) 34 CFR Part 75 (Direct Grant Programs). (3) 34 CFR Part 77 (Definitions that Apply to Department Regulations). (4) 34 CFR Part 79 (Intergovernmental Review of Department of Education Programs and Activities). (5) 34 CFR Part 80 (Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and Cooperative Agreements to State and Local Governments). (6) 34 CFR Part 81 (General Education Provisions Act_ Enforcement). (7) 34 CFR Part 82 (New Restrictions on Lobbying). (8) 34 CFR Part 85 (Governmentwide Debarment and Suspension (Nonprocurement) and Governmentwide Requirements for Drug-Free Workplace (Grants)). (9) 34 CFR Part 86 (Drug-Free Schools and Campuses). (b) The regulations for this program in 34 CFR Parts 400 and 426. Priority The priority in the notice of final priority for this program, as published elsewhere in this issue of the Federal Register , applies to this competition. Selection Criteria: The Secretary uses the following selection criteria to evaluate applications for new grants under this competition. The maximum score for all of these criteria is 100 points. The maximum score for each criterion is indicated in parentheses. For this competition, the Secretary assigns the fifteen points, reserved in 34 CFR 426.20(b), as follows: Program factors (34 CFR 426.21(a)). Ten points are added to this criterion for a possible total of 20 points. Demonstration and Dissemination (34 CFR 426.21(b)). Five points are added to this criterion for a possible total of 15 points. (a) Program factors. (20 points) The Secretary reviews the application to assess the quality of the proposed project, including the extent to which the project will provide_ (1) Vocational education to meet current and projected occupational needs; and (2) For adequate and appropriate involvement and cooperation of the public and private sectors in the project, including_ (i) A clear identification of the public and private sector entities involved in the project; (ii) A description of public and private sector involvement in the planning of the project; and (iii) A description of public and private sector involvement in the operation of the project. (b) Educational significance. (10 points) The Secretary reviews each application to determine the extent to which the applicant_ (1) Bases the proposed project on successfully designed, established, and operated model vocational education programs that include components similar to the components required by this program, as evidenced by empirical data from those programs in such factors as_ (i) Student performance and achievement; (ii) High school graduation; (iii) Placement of students in jobs, including military service; and (iv) Successful transfer of students to a variety of postsecondary education programs; (2) Proposes project objectives that contribute to the improvement of education; and (3) Proposes to use unique and innovative techniques to produce benefits that address educational problems and needs that are of national significance. (c) Plan of operation. (15 points) The Secretary reviews each application to determine the quality of the plan of operation for the project, including_ (1) The quality of the project design, especially the establishment of measurable objectives for the project that are based on the project's overall goals; (2) The extent to which the plan of management is effective and ensures proper and efficient administration of the project over the award period; (3) How well the objectives of the project relate to the purpose of the program; (4) The quality of the applicant's plan to use its resources and personnel to achieve each objective; and (5) How the applicant will ensure that project participants who are otherwise eligible to participate are selected without regard to race, color, national origin, gender, age, or disability. (d) Evaluation plan. (15 points) The Secretary reviews each application to determine the quality of the project's evaluation plan, including the extent to which the plan_
