FR940621-2-00059 FR940621-2-00039 Non-Profit To Non-Profit Uniform Biological Material Transfer Agreement (Date)_Treaty Version Developed In Cooperation With The National Institutes Of Health Definitions: Provider: Institution providing the Original Material. (Name and address to be specified in an implementing letter) Provider's Scientist: (Name and address to be specified in an implementing letter) Recipient: Institution receiving the Original Material. (Name and address to be specified in an implementing letter) Recipient's Scientist: (Name and address to be specified in an implementing letter) Original Material: (Description to be specified in an implementing letter) Material: Original Material plus Progeny and Unmodified Derivatives. The Material shall not include: (i) Modifications or (ii) other substances created by the Recipient through the use of the Material which are not Progeny or Unmodified Derivatives. Progeny: Unmodified descendant from the Material, such as virus from virus, cell from cell, or organism from organism. Unmodified Derivatives: Substances created by Recipient which constitute an unmodified functional sub-unit or an expression product of the Original Material. Some examples include: subclones of unmodified cell lines, purified or fractionated sub-sets of the Original Material, proteins expressed by DNA/RNA supplied by Provider, monoclonal antibodies secreted by a hybridoma cell line, sub-sets of the Original Material such as novel plasmids or vectors. Modifications: Substances created by Recipient which contain/incorporate the Material (Original Material, Progeny or Unmodified Derivatives). Terms and Conditions of this Agreement 1. The Material is the property of Provider and is to be used by Recipient solely for research purposes at Recipient's institution and only under the direction of the Recipient's Scientist. The Material will not be used in human subjects or in clinical trials involving human subjects without the written permission of Provider. Patent applications claiming the Material or uses thereof to be specified in an implementing letter. 2. The Recipient's Scientist agrees not to transfer the Material to anyone who does not work under his or her direct supervision at Recipient's institution without the prior written consent of Provider. Recipient's Scientist shall refer any request for the Material to Provider. To the extent supplies are available, Provider or Provider's Scientist agrees to make the Material available under a UBMTA to other scientists (at least those at non-profit or governmental institutions) who wish to replicate Recipient's Scientist's research. 3. (a) Recipient shall have the right, without restriction to distribute substances created by Recipient through the use of the Material only if those substances are not Progeny, Unmodified Derivatives, or Modifications. (b) Upon notice to Provider and under a UBMTA (or an agreement at least as protective of Provider's rights), Recipient may distribute Modifications to non-profit or governmental organizations for research purposes only. (c) Upon written permission from Provider, Recipient may distribute Modifications for commercial use. It is recognized by Recipient that such commercial use may require a commercial license from Provider and Provider has no obligation to grant such a commercial license. Nothing in this paragraph, however, shall prevent Recipient from granting commercial licenses under Recipient's patent rights claiming such Modifications.
