FR940603-1-00163 FR940603-1-00009 A pole unit consists of the installation of one pole. The first two digits indicate the length of the pole; the third digit shows the classification per A.S.A. (Example: 25&hyph;6 means a pole 25 feet long, class 6.) ␣ 1Unit No. 1Unit labor price ␣ l POLE TOP ASSEMBLY UNITS A pole top assembly unit consists of the installation of the hardware, crossarms and their appurtenances, insulators, etc., except tie wire, required to support the primary conductors. SECTION A_1 PHASE ␣ 1Unit No. 1Unit labor price ␣ l SECTION B_V PHASE ␣ 1Unit No. 1Unit labor price ␣ l SECTION C_3 PHASE ␣ 1Unit No. 1Unit labor price ␣ l SECTION D_CONDUCTOR A conductor assembly unit consists of the installation of 1,000 feet of conductor or cable for primaries, secondaries or services. Tree trimming necessary for installing services and secondaries on poles not carrying primary line is included with the conductor assembly unit and shall be performed in accordance with the directions of the Owner. The service shall be connected to the secondary or transformer and 2 feet of conductor or cable shall be left for connecting to the consumer's service entrance. In computing the compensation to the Contractor for conductor assembly units only the horizontal distance between conductor supports or pole stales shall be used. The conductor or cable sizes and types listed are the manufacturer's designation. ␣ 1Unit No. 1Unit labor price ␣ l SECTION E_GUY ASSEMBLY UNITS A guy assembly unit consists of the installation of the hardware and wire, and guy insulator where necessary. An overhead guy assembly unit does not include the associated pole and down guy, each of which is listed separately. Guy guards are designated separately. ␣ 1Unit No. 1Unit labor price ␣ l SECTION F_ANCHOR ASSEMBLY UNITS An anchor assembly unit consists of the installation of an anchor with rod complete, ready for attaching the guy wire. ␣ 1Unit No. 1Unit labor price ␣ l SECTION G_TRANSFORMER ASSEMBLY UNITS
