FR940203-1-00042 FR940203-1-00008 Moreover, the word ``additions'' would be removed from the definition of substantial rehabilitation. The placement of ``additions'' in ยง232.902(b) of the existing regulations has caused confusion because it incorrectly suggests that the cost of an addition to an existing building can be used in calculating the 15 percent of value criterion. The term ``additions,'' as used in ยง232.902(b) was intended to mean an addition of a new project element in a residential care facility, such as a whirlpool bath, safety railing, etc. The Department wants to emphasize that these revisions to the definition of substantial rehabilitation do not reflect a policy change, but are technical changes which reflect the Department's long standing administrative policy. Finally, this proposed rule would increase the loan-to-value ratio for private nonprofit mortgagors from 85 percent to 90 percent for the purchase or refinance of a residential care facility which does not involve substantial rehabilitation. II. Other Matters A. Executive Order 12866 This proposed rule was reviewed by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) under Executive Order 12866, Regulatory Planning and Review. Any changes made to the proposed rule as a result of that review are clearly identified in the docket file, which is available for public inspection in the office of the Department's Rules Docket Clerk, room 10276, 451 Seventh Street SW., Washington DC. B. Regulatory Flexibility Act The Secretary in accordance with the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. 605(b)), has reviewed and approved this proposed rule, and in so doing certifies that this proposed rule does not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. Specifically, the proposed rule expands eligible projects for FHA mortgage insurance to include assisted living facilities, and additions to existing projects, neither of which are expected to have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. C. Environmental Impact A Finding of No Significant Impact with respect to the environment has been made in accordance with HUD regulations at 24 CFR part 50, which implement section 102(2)(C) of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969. The finding is available for public inspection during regular business hours in the Office of General Counsel, the Rules Docket Clerk, room 10276, 451 Seventh Street SW., Washington, DC 20410. D. Executive Order 12612, Federalism The General Counsel, as the Designated Official under section 6(a) of Executive order 12612, Federalism, has determined that the policies contained in this proposed rule will not have substantial direct effects on states or their political subdivisions, or the relationship between the Federal government and the states, or on the distribution of power and responsibilities among the various levels of government. Specifically, the proposed rule is directed to owners of residential care facilities, and will not impinge upon the relationship between the Federal Government and State and local governments. As a result, the proposed rule is not subject to review under the order. E. Executive Order 12606, The Family
