FR940429-0-00294 FR940429-0-00016 Change: None. Section 682.402(d)(5)(i) 24. Comment: Some commenters opposed the requirement that a borrower must assign to and relinquish in favor of the Secretary any right to a loan refund (up to the amount discharged) from any private or public fund. The commenters were particularly concerned with the effect they believed this requirement would have upon state tuition recovery funds. The commenters also believed that the Secretary has no statutory right to any claim against a state tuition recovery fund because the HEA fails to specifically provide the secretary with that right. The commenters noted that section 437(c)(2) of the HEA limits the assignment to the Secretary of a borrower's right to a loan refund only to the borrower's rights ``*␣*␣* against the institution and its affiliates and principals.'' The commenters contended that there is no indication that Congress intended the Secretary to have access to state funds or to require states to participate economically in closed school loan discharges. The commenters believed that the HEA's omission of state tuition recovery funds (or any other private or public fund) reflects the principal of statutory construction `` expressio unius est exclusio alterius '' (the expression of one thing is the exclusion of another). Discussion: The Secretary believes that the statutory authority permitting the assignment to the Secretary of a borrower's right to recover a loan refund from the school, its affiliates, or principals clearly contemplates the recovery of refunds from private funds. A private fund is funded by parties who are directly or indirectly associated with the school, and the HEA intends that the Secretary shall have a legal claim to a private tuition recovery fund in the event of a school closure. Although they may be categorized as ``public funds,'' it is the Secretary's understanding that many state tuition recovery funds rely in whole, or in part, on private funding provided by a school, its owners, or affiliates. Therefore, the Secretary believes that a borrower's assignment of recovery rights against a public fund is applicable only to the extent that a state tuition recovery fund or any other such public fund contains private money. The public money in those funds should not be considered. Change: The final regulations have been revised to exclude the portion of a public fund that represents public money. 25. Comment: Some commenters questioned why a borrower must assign to and relinquish in favor of the Secretary any right to a loan refund (up to the amount discharged) with respect to the enrollment agreement for the program for which the loan was received. The commenters believed that the assignment of a borrower's rights pursuant to the enrollment agreement would not gain anything for the Secretary. They were concerned that the borrower would be forced to surrender some rights (unspecified) unnecessarily, despite the statement in §682.402(d)(5)(iii) that permits the borrower (or student) to pursue legal and equitable relief regarding disputes arising from matters otherwise unrelated to the loan discharged. Discussion: The requirement that the borrower must assign to and relinquish in favor of the Secretary any right to a loan refund (up to the amount discharged) does not preclude the borrower from pursuing legal action against the school or any related party with respect to the terms of the student's enrollment agreement with the school, or with respect to any other grievance the student may have against the school or those parties. Change: None. Section 682.402(d)(6)(i) and (ii) 26. Comment: Some commenters believed it was confusing to link guaranty agency requirements to a date other than the actual date that a school closed. Discussion: In some cases, a guaranty agency may not become aware of a school's closure until significantly after the date the school actually closed. Therefore, the only workable way to create timeframes for guaranty agencies to perform certain actions, such as notifying lenders to suspend collection efforts, would be to tie those timeframes to the date that the agency first became aware, or was notified by the Secretary, that a school had closed.
