FR940930-0-00125 FR940930-0-00025 The Service has carefully assessed the best scientific and commercial information available regarding the past, present, and future threats faced by this species in this final rule. Based on this evaluation, the preferred action is to list Tetramolopium capillare as endangered. This species numbers no more than about 12 individuals in two populations and is threatened by habitat degradation, competition from alien plants, fire, and lack of legal protection. Small population size and limited distribution make this species particularly vulnerable to reduced reproductive vigor and/or extinction from stochastic events. Because this species is in danger of extinction throughout all or a significant portion of its range, it fits the definition of endangered as defined in the Act. Critical habitat is not being proposed for Tetramolopium capillare for reasons discussed in the ``Critical Habitat'' section of this final rule. Critical Habitat Section 4(a)(3) of the Act, as amended, requires that, to the maximum extent prudent and determinable, the Secretary designate critical habitat at the time the species is listed endangered or threatened. The Service finds that designation of critical habitat is not presently prudent for Tetramolopium capillare. The publication of a map and precise description of critical habitat in the Federal Register and local newspapers as required in a designation of critical habitat would increase the degree of threat to this species from take or vandalism and, therefore, could contribute to its decline and increase enforcement problems. The listing of this species as endangered publicizes the rarity of the plants and, thus, can make the species attractive to researchers, curiosity seekers, or collectors of rare plants. The species is found exclusively on State land. Interested parties and the State landowner have been notified of the importance of protecting the habitat of Tetramolopium capillare. Therefore, the Service finds that designation of critical habitat for this species is not prudent at this time, because such designation would increase the degree of threat from vandalism, collecting, or other human activities, and is unlikely to aid in conservation of the species. Available Conservation Measures Conservation measures provided to taxa listed as endangered under the Act include recognition, recovery actions, requirements for Federal protection, and prohibitions against certain activities. Recognition through listing encourages and results in conservation actions by Federal, State, private organizations, and individuals. The Act provides for possible land acquisition and cooperation with the State and requires that recovery actions be carried out for all listed species. The protection required of Federal agencies and the prohibitions against certain activities involving listed plants are discussed, in part, below. Section 7(a) of the Act, as amended, requires Federal agencies to evaluate their actions with respect to any taxon that is proposed or listed as endangered or threatened and with respect to its critical habitat, if any is being designated. Regulations implementing this interagency cooperation provision of the Act are codified at 50 CFR part 402. Section 7(a)(2) requires Federal agencies to insure that activities they authorize, fund, or carry out are not likely to jeopardize the continued existence of a listed species or to destroy or adversely modify its critical habitat. If a Federal action may affect a listed species or its critical habitat, the responsible Federal agency must enter into formal consultation with the Service. No known Federal activities occur within the habitat of Tetramolopium capillare , which is found only on State land.
