FR941206-1-00104 FR941206-1-00008 C. Handling, Transfer, and Storage of Volatile Organic HAP Containing Materials Volatile organic emissions (including HAP) result from storage, handling, and transfer of solvents and paint wastes that contain VOHAP. These solvents, typically stored in 55-gallon drums, are frequently transferred by pump or spigot into small buckets or 1 gallon containers for transport to the painting site. Waste solvent and HAP also evaporate from solvent-laden rags and spent solvent used in cleaning activities and coating operations. These HAP emissions may be minimized with appropriate work practices including managed chemical (paint and solvent) distribution systems designed to curb the volume of material exposed to the atmosphere and the length of the exposure. For example, solvent-soaked cleaning rags should be kept in impervious bags or containers that are normally closed when not in use. VII. Selection Rationale A. Selection of Emission Points to be Covered The proposed standards would limit VOHAP emissions from surface coating operations at shipbuilding facilities that are major sources in accordance with the EPA's list of source categories published in the Federal Register on July 16, 1992 (57 FR 31576). Standards are being proposed to limit the VOHAP content of 23 categories of coatings used in shipyards. In addition, the proposed standards would require work practice measures for handling, transfer, and storage of solvent and paint wastes. Welding, gas freeing (tank degassing), metal fabrication, fuel combustion, flame cutting, cooling towers, asbestos removal, and cleaning would not be regulated under the proposed rule, although their emissions must be included in determining if a facility qualifies as a major source. Asbestos removal is covered in 40 CFR part 61, subpart M; cooling towers are treated in the industrial process cooling tower rule proposed on August 12, 1993; and chromium emissions by the rule for hard and decorative electroplating and anodizing operations proposed on November 30, 1993. Methodology for determining and managing emissions from cleaning solvents is detailed in the ACT document_Industrial Cleaning Solvents, EPA&hyph;453/R&hyph;94&hyph;015. B. Selection of the Basis for the Proposed Standards The general methodology for selecting the basis for MACT standards was discussed in section V. A more detailed discussion specific to this industry is presented below. 1. Coating Operations No emission control measures are known to have previously been implemented specifically to reduce HAP emissions from this industry. Regulations that reduce VOC emissions will limit HAP emissions since almost all organic HAP are VOC. At shipyards, the only VOC control measure that has been fully demonstrated for outdoor coating operations is the use of coatings with inherently lower emissions. Such coatings have and are being developed by an enlightened industry to reduce its environmental impact. The new products are used for compliance with VOC regulations in Louisiana and some California jurisdictions. There are as yet no known cases where add-on pollution control systems have been used to control VOC emissions from outdoor coating operations at shipyards. The California and Louisiana regulations limit the allowable quantity of VOC in each of several categories of coatings, as applied. Because VOHAP are VOC (with the exception noted above), such regulations also reduce, or at a minimum, put a ceiling on the allowable HAP content of these coatings. The California regulations (VOC limits) are more stringent than those in Louisiana. Thus, the major sources subject to those California rules represent the ``best controlled sources.'' Because three major source facilities are located in California, the single best controlled facility and the median facility of the best performing five sources are both subject to the stringent California regulations. Therefore, the Agency has determined that the MACT floor for both new and existing sources is identical to the current California VOC limits on marine coatings, except for one additional paint category [weld-through (shop) primer].
