FR940617-0-00132 FR940617-0-00026 EPA believes that using fuel specifications of commercially available fuel for certification testing is an important demonstration of emission performance of in-use nonroad engines. EPA acknowledges that, in this case, the sulfur content of the test fuel will not impact either NO X or smoke emissions. However, EPA has agreed to adopt PM standards for the purposes of harmonization with California and Europe. It is generally accepted that fuel sulfur has a noticeable impact on PM emissions. The impact of fuel sulfur on PM, NO X and smoke emissions is discussed further in the Response to Comments document. Since fuel sulfur does have an impact on PM emissions, PM emissions in the federal fleet will be higher in actual use than in the California fleet where the only available fuel will have low sulfur content. While this rationale would argue against allowing use of low sulfur certification fuel, at the same time, it is likely that the engines certified on low sulfur fuel will have no higher PM emission in actual use than would have resulted had EPA promulgated only NO X and smoke emission standards. Because harmonization, rather than emission benefits, is the driving factor behind EPA's decision to impose the PM standard, EPA sees no need to increase the testing burden by requiring a different certification fuel specification to demonstrate compliance with the PM standard. For these reasons, EPA will, at this time, allow engine manufacturers the option to use low sulfur test fuel as specified in the regulatory language and consistent with California regulations. EPA may not continue to allow this option in future regulations where emission benefits for PM reduction are claimed, unless EPA is satisfied that the low sulfur test fuel is the fuel generally used by the regulated engines. Manufacturers using the higher sulfur test fuel may normalize the PM emission results with the equation discussed in section V.D.3. J. Certification Test Engine Selection EPA proposed that the test engine selected to represent an engine family be a ``worst case emitter.'' This proposal allowed each manufacturer to use its best technical judgment based on unique understanding of the specific engine design it is certifying. The flexibility of such a methodology could result in the most cost effective and most accurate selections, because the selection would be tailored to the specific engine family being considered. Engine manufacturers were not comfortable taking on the uncertainty of choosing their own ``worst case'' test engine, pointing out that ``worst case'' is ambiguous. For example, what is worst case for NO X may not be worst case for smoke. EPA is aware of this tendency for ``worst case'' to be emission specific. For that reason, in the past, the federal on-highway rules and CARB's rule have specified that the engine selected for certification testing must be the one that injects the most fuel per stroke of an injector at maximum power. This approach generally results in the selection of the least efficient design within the engine family. While this approach is more prescriptive than the proposal, it generally results in more consistency and is more likely to assure the selection of worst case for at least some of the emittants. It gives manufacturers a more defined program and creates less administrative burden than the proposed method which required manufacturers and EPA to make determinations and evaluations for each engine family. For the reasons discussed above, EPA is adopting this more traditional engine selection criteria_most fuel per stroke of an injector at maximum power_in the final rule. K. Miscellaneous Certification Issues 1. Engine Labeling Comments were received requesting that EPA modify some of the proposed engine labeling requirements to be consistent with California regulations. Some of the modifications requested were wording changes. Others involved deleting or changing labeling requirements. EPA's response to these requests is included in the Response to Comments document. One request for a modification had the potential for a more significant impact on industry. This request was to add a provision requiring ``supplemental labels'' to be installed by the equipment manufacturer should the original engine label be obscured after engine installation. EPA believes this provision would impose an additional burden on the equipment manufacturers (in the form of label costs and recordkeeping to ensure the correct label was placed on the equipment) and that no significant benefit would be gained. Thus, EPA is not requiring the use of supplemental labels, but will not prohibit equipment manufacturers from using such labels, provided the labels meet the labeling requirements set forth in the regulation. 2. Requiring Yearly Certification, Accepting California and European Certificates Comments were received requesting that EPA not require yearly certification in cases where no changes to the engine family were made. EPA is retaining this requirement. It believes that the burden imposed on manufacturers in cases where no changes are made is minimal (no additional testing required and only the resubmission of paperwork from the previous year), and that yearly certification ensures continuity and equitable treatment among manufacturers.
