FR940428-2-00091 FR940428-2-00052 Specifically, the amendments would add: ``(4) DPC&hyph;NE&hyph;1004A, Nuclear Design Methodology Using CASMO&hyph;3/SIMULATE&hyph;3P, November 1992,'' to TS 6.9.2. Basis for Proposed No Significant Hazards Consideration Determination: The NRC staff reviewed Topical Report DPC&hyph;NE&hyph;1004A and concluded in a Safety Evaluation Report dated November 23, 1992, that the described nuclear design methodology is acceptable for performing reload analyses for the DPC B&W 177-assembly cores in the Oconee units. The addition of this approved nuclear design methodology to those referenced in TS 6.9.2 provides an alternative method for determining core operating limits such that all applicable limits (e.g., fuel thermal mechanical limits, core thermal hydraulic limits, ECCS limits, nuclear limits such as shutdown margin, and transient and accident analysis limits) of the safety analysis are met. Therefore, the proposed change to the TS (1) does not involve a significant increase in the probability or consequences of an accident previously evaluated, (2) does not create the possibility of a new or different kind of accident than previously evaluated, and (3) does not involve a significant reduction in the margin of safety. As required by 10 CFR 50.91(a), the licensee has provided its analysis of the issue of no significant hazards consideration, which is presented below: Duke Power Company (Duke) has made the determination that this amendment request involves a No Significant Hazards Consideration by applying the standards established in 10 CFR 50.92. This ensures that operation of the facility in accordance with the proposed amendment would not: (1) Involve a significant increase in the probability or consequences of an accident previously evaluated: Each accident analysis addressed within the Oconee Final Safety Analysis Report (FSAR) has been examined with respect to this amendment request. The Technical Specifications will continue to require operation within the bounds of the cycle-specific parameter limits. The cycle-specific parameter limits will be calculated using NRC approved methodology. The proposed amendment is simply an administrative change to update the list of NRC approved methods in Technical Specification 6.9.2. Therefore, the probability of any Design Basis Accident (DBA) is not affected by this change, nor are the consequences of a DBA affected by this change. This is because the addition of an NRC approved reference to Technical Specification 6.9.2 is not considered to be an initiator or contributor to any accident analysis addressed in the Oconee FSAR. (2) Create the possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any kind previously evaluated: Operation of ONS [Oconee Nuclear Station] in accordance with these Technical Specifications will not create any failure modes not bounded by previously evaluated accidents. Consequently, this change will not create the possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any kind of accident previously evaluated. (3) Involve a significant reduction in a margin of safety: The Technical Specifications will continue to require operation within the bounds of the cycle-specific parameter limits. Duke will continue to calculate the cycle-specific parameter limits using NRC approved methodology. In addition, each future reload will require a 10 CFR 50.59 safety review to ensure that operation of the unit within the cycle-specific limits will not involve a reduction in a margin of safety. Therefore, no margins of safety are affected by the addition of an NRC approved methodology to Technical Specification 6.9.2. Based on the staff's analysis and its review of the licensee's analysis, it appears that the three standards of 10 CFR 50.92(c) are satisfied. Therefore, the NRC staff proposes to determine that the amendment request involves no significant hazards consideration. Local Public Document Room Location: Oconee County Library, 501 West South Broad Street, Walhalla, South Carolina 29691. Attorney for Licensee: J. Michael McGarry, III, Winston and Strawn, 1200 17th Street, NW., Washington, DC 20036. NRC Project Director: David B. Matthews. Georgia Power Company, Oglethorpe Power Corporation, Municipal Electric Authority of Georgia, City of Dalton, Georgia, Docket Nos. 50&hyph;424 and 50&hyph;425, Vogtle Electric Generating Plant, Units 1 and 2, Burke County, Georgia Date of Amendment Request: March 18, 1994. Description of Amendment Request: The proposed amendments would revise Technical Specification (TS) 3/4.3.3.6, Accident Monitoring Instrumentation, TS 3/4.6.4.1, Hydrogen Monitors, and their associated bases to incorporate the technical substance of Specification 3.3.3 from NUREG&hyph;1431, Revision O (Standard Technical Specifications) for the Westinghouse Owners Group. Basis for Proposed No Significant Hazards Consideration Determination: As required by 10 CFR 50.91(a), the licensee has provided its analysis of the issue of no significant hazards consideration, which is presented below: 1.The proposed changes do not involve a significant increase in the probability or consequences of an accident previously evaluated. The proposed changes affect instrumentation that would be used to assess the condition of the plant during and following an accident. As such, the changes can have no effect on the probability of any accident previously evaluated since this instrumentation has no bearing on initiating events. The proposed changes will continue to ensure the capability to monitor plant conditions during and following an accident by requiring redundancy or diversity and timely corrective action in the event of inoperable instrumentation. Therefore, the proposed changes will not significantly increase the consequences of any accident previously evaluated. 2. The proposed changes do not create the possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any accident previously evaluated. The proposed changes affect the operability and action requirements for the post accident monitoring instrumentation system. Accordingly, the proposed changes do not involve any change to the configuration or method of operation of any plant equipment, and no new failure modes have been defined for any plant system or component nor has any new limiting failure been identified as a result of the proposed changes. Therefore, the proposed changes do not create the possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any previously evaluated.
