FR940825-1-00107 FR940825-1-00009 Accordingly, in light of the statutory language and the overall statutory scheme 8 , EPA proposes to exercise the rulemaking authority entrusted to it by Congress to conclude that the CAA grants approved Tribes authority over all air resources within the exterior boundaries of a reservation. See generally Chevron U.S.A., Inc. v. NRDC, 467 U.S. 837, 842&hyph;45 (1984). 9 8 This proposed interpretation of the CAA as generally delegating jurisdictional authority to approved Tribes is also supported by the legislative history, which provides some additional evidence of Congressional attention to this issue: ``the Act constitutes an express delegation of power to Indian tribes to administer and enforce the Clean Air Act in Indian lands'' (citation to Brendale omitted). S. Rep. No. 228, 101st Cong., 1st Sess. 79 (1989). 9 Further, it is a well-established principle of statutory construction that statutes should be construed liberally in favor of Indians, with ambiguous provisions interpreted in ways that benefit tribes. See County of Yakima v. Confederated Tribes and Bands of the Yakima Indian Nation, 112 S.Ct. 683, 693 (1992). In addition, statutes should be interpreted so as to comport with tribal sovereignty and the federal policy of encouraging tribal independence. See Ramah Navajo School Board, Inc. v. Bureau of Revenue of New Mexico, 458 U.S. 832, 846 (1982). Based on recent Supreme Court case law, EPA has construed the term ``reservation'' to incorporate trust land that has been validly set apart for use by a Tribe, even though that land has not been formally designated as a ``reservation.'' See 56 FR at 64,881 (Dec. 12, 1991); see also Oklahoma Tax Commission v. Citizen Band Potawatomi Indian Tribe of Oklahoma, 111 S.Ct. 905, 910 (1991). EPA will be guided by relevant case law in interpreting the scope of ``reservation'' under the CAA. Section 301(d)(2)(B) of the CAA also provides that a Tribe may be treated in the same manner as a State for functions regarding air resources ``within the exterior boundaries of the reservation or other areas within the tribe's jurisdiction'' (emphasis added). The emphasized language envisions potential Tribal jurisdiction under the CAA over areas that lie outside the exterior boundaries of a reservation, upon a fact-based showing of a Tribe's inherent authority over sources located on such lands. Thus, this provision authorizes an eligible Tribe to develop and implement Tribal air quality programs on off-reservation lands that are determined to be within the Tribe's inherent jurisdiction. Accordingly, for purposes of this rule, EPA proposes to conclude that an eligible Tribe may be able to implement its air quality programs on off-reservation lands up to the limits of ``Indian country,'' as defined in 18 U.S.C. section 1151, provided the Tribe can adequately demonstrate authority to regulate air quality on the off-reservation lands in question under general principles of Indian law. In sum, EPA is proposing to interpret the CAA as granting approved Tribes regulatory authority over all air resources within the exterior boundaries of their reservations. Thus, no independent fact-based showing of inherent Tribal jurisdiction will be required for air resources located within such reservation boundaries. EPA recognizes that ``other'' off-reservation areas may fall within Tribal jurisdiction. EPA is proposing to interpret the CAA as providing no blanket grant of Federal authority for such areas. Thus, for off-reservation areas, a Tribe must demonstrate that it has inherent authority over sources it seeks to regulate under general principles of Indian law. B. Federal Authority and Protection of Tribal Air Resources The CAA authorizes EPA to protect air quality throughout Indian country. EPA intends to use this authority to remedy and prevent gaps in CAA protection for Tribal air resources. EPA's authority to provide this CAA protection is based in part on the general purpose of the Act, which is national in scope. As stated in section 101(b)(1) of the Act, Congress intended to ``protect and enhance the quality of the Nation's air resources so as to promote the public health and welfare and the productive capacity of its population '' (emphasis added). It seems clear that Congress intended for the CAA to be a ``general statute applying to all persons to include Indians and their property interests.'' Phillips Petroleum Co. v. United States E.P.A., 803 F.2d 545, 556 (10th Cir. 1986) (holding that the Safe Drinking Water Act applied to Indian Tribes and lands by virtue of being a nationally applicable statute; see generally id. at 553&hyph;58). Section 301(a) of the Act delegates to EPA broad authority to issue such regulations as are necessary to carry out the functions of the Act. Further, several provisions of the Act call for Federal issuance of a program where, for example, a State fails to adopt a program, adopts an inadequate program or fails to adequately implement a required program. E.g., sections 110(c) and 502 (d), (e), (i) of the Act. It follows that Congress intended that EPA would similarly have broad legal authority in instances when Tribes choose not to develop a program, fail to adopt an adequate program or fail to adequately implement an air program authorized under section 301(d). In addition, section 301(d)(4) of the CAA empowers the Administrator to directly administer CAA requirements so as to achieve the appropriate purpose, where Tribal implementation of CAA requirements is inappropriate or administratively infeasible. These provisions evince Congressional intent to authorize EPA to directly implement CAA programs where Tribes fail to submit approvable programs or lack authority to do so. In fact, EPA is currently providing Federal support for CAA protection within reservations. For example, EPA administers the permit program governing review of proposed new and modified major stationary sources of air pollution (``new source review'' or ``NSR'') on Reservations and other areas in Indian country (hereafter ``Tribal lands''). There are several reasons for this emphasis in the exercise of EPA's authority. Many Tribal lands have air quality that presently meets the national ambient air quality standards (``NAAQS''), and the central concern is to prevent the relatively clean air from significantly deteriorating. Thus, EPA has ensured that major sources seeking to locate on Tribal lands obtain the Prevention of Significant Deterioration (``PSD'') permit required under the CAA's NSR program. In broad overview, this program imposes limitations on the ambient air quality impact of new or modified major stationary sources and requires the application of best available control technology on such sources. See section 165 of the Act. Similarly, in those circumstances where the air quality on Tribal lands currently is worse than the NAAQS, EPA's administration of the nonattainment NSR program prevents the air quality from further deteriorating by ensuring that a proposed major source implements the most stringent control technology (the ``lowest achievable emission rate'' as defined in section 171(3)) and offsets its emissions by obtaining emissions reductions from nearby sources. Section 173 of the Act. Owners and operators that construct air pollution sources on Tribal lands without first obtaining the proper permit from EPA expose themselves to Federal enforcement action and citizen suits. For example, section 165 of the Act, 42 U.S.C. 7475, prohibits the construction of a major emitting facility that does not have a PSD permit. Section 173, 42 U.S.C. 7503, contains a similar requirement for new and modified major stationary sources in nonattainment areas. Sections 113 and 167, 42 U.S.C. 7413 & 7467, authorize EPA to take enforcement action (including, in certain instances, criminal action) against an owner or operator that is in violation of the requirement to obtain a preconstruction permit that meets the requirements of the Act. Furthermore, section 304 of the Act, 42 U.S.C. 7604, authorizes any person to bring a ``citizen suit'' in U.S. district court against an owner or operator who constructs any new or modified major stationary source without a PSD permit or nonattainment NSR permit that meets the Act's requirements.
