FR940407-2-00109 FR940407-2-00059 [Release No. 34&hyph;33844; File No. SR&hyph;NYSE&hyph;94&hyph;11] Self-Regulatory Organizations; Filing and Order Granting Accelerated Approval to Proposed Rule Change by New York Stock Exchange, Inc., Relating to Resolutions of the Exchange Board of Directors Authorizing the Exchange To Provide Information Concerning Pending Formal Exchange Disciplinary Proceedings to the Central Registration Depository for Disclosure to the Public March 31, 1994. Pursuant to section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act''), 1 and Rule 19b&hyph;4 thereunder, 2 notice is hereby given that on March 17, 1994, the New York Stock Exchange, Inc. (``NYSE'' or ``Exchange'') filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``Commission'' or ``SEC'') the proposed rule change as described in Items I and II below, which Items have been prepared by the self-regulatory organization. The NYSE has requested accelerated approval of the proposal. The Commission is publishing this notice to solicit comments on the proposed rule change from interested persons. 1 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1) (1988). 2 17 CFR 240.19b&hyph;4 (1991). I. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Terms of Substance of the Proposed Rule Change The Exchange Board of Directors (``Board'') has adopted the two resolutions shown below: Resolved That each pending formal disciplinary proceeding initiated by the Division of Enforcement of the Exchange shall be reported to the Central Registration Depository system (``CRD'') operated by the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. (``NASD''); and it is Further resolved That significant changes in the status of a pending formal disciplinary proceeding shall also be reported to the CRD during the pendency of such a proceeding including the issuance of a decision by an Exchange hearing panel, the filing of an appeal to the Exchange Board of Directors, and the issuance of a decision by the Exchange Board of Directors. II. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change In its filing with the Commission, the self-regulatory organization included statements concerning the purpose of and basis for the proposed rule change and discussed any comments it received on the proposed rule change. The text of these statements may be examined at the places specified in Item III below. The self-regulatory organization has prepared summaries, set forth in sections A, B, and C below, of the most significant aspects of such statements. A. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change 1. Purpose The proposed rule change authorizes the Exchange to provide information to the CRD 3 concerning pending formal NYSE disciplinary proceedings, for disclosure to the public. A formal disciplinary proceeding is considered to be pending from the time an executed stipulation is filed 4 or charges are issued 5 until the proceeding is completed. Currently, the NYSE discloses information only on final NYSE disciplinary actions to the CRD. 3 The CRD is an automated industry database containing employment and disciplinary history of members and associated persons registered with self-regulatory organizations (``SROs'') and state securities agencies. The CRD is operated by the NASD with input on policy and other matters from federal and state agencies and other SROs, including the NYSE. 4 See NYSE Rule 476(g). 5 See NYSE Rule 476(d). Information concerning final disciplinary actions taken by the NYSE, NASD and other self-regulatory and regulatory organizations, as well as information concerning certain criminal convictions contained in the CRD, has been disclosed to the public pursuant to the NASD's 800 number service since October 1991. 6 6 The Commission subsequently approved the NASD's procedures for operating its 800 number service in Securities Exchange Act Release No. 30629 (April 23, 1992), 57 FR 18535 (April 30, 1992) (File No. SR&hyph;NASD&hyph;91&hyph;39) (``800 Number Service Plan Approval Order''). On July 1, 1993, the SEC approved an NASD rule change to make more information available to the general public regarding pending disciplinary proceedings or actions taken by federal or state securities agencies and SROs that relate to securities or commodities transactions, and regarding criminal indictments and information. 7 7 See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 32568 (July 1, 1993), 58 FR 36723 (July 8, 1993) (File No. SR&hyph;NASD&hyph;93&hyph;26) (``Pending Event Disclosure Approval Order''). Information on pending formal SRO disciplinary proceedings, among other events, is currently in the CRD, to the extent that reports are made by members, member organizations and associated persons pursuant to their reporting obligations on the Uniform Application for Securities Industry Registration or Transfer (Form U&hyph;4) and Form BD, the uniform application form for broker-dealer registration. However, the NYSE does not currently report such pending events to the CRD. The submission of information concerning pending formal disciplinary proceedings directly by the NYSE would enhance the CRD database, since the CRD would not have to rely solely on reports from members, member organizations and associated persons. 2. Statutory Basis The Exchange believes that the proposed rule change is consistent with section 6(b)(5) in that it will protect investors and the public interest as the increased disclosure will enhance the access of members of the public to information regarding NYSE members, member organizations or any associated persons thereof. B. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Burden on Competition The Exchange believes that the proposed rule change will impose no burden on competition that is not necessary or appropriate in furtherance of the purposes of the Act. C. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received From Members, Participants, or Others The Exchange has not solicited, and does not intend to solicit, comments regarding the proposed rule change. The Exchange has not received any unsolicited written comments from members or other interested parties.
