FR940202-0-00102 FR940202-0-00011 Table 15.812(e)(1)._ Quick Reference Table for Federal Pilotage Requirements for Inspected, Self-Propelled Vessels 1␣ 1␣ 1␣ ␣ Navigable waters of the U.S. designated as first class pilotage waters (routes for which First Class Pilot's licenses are issued)1 Navigable waters of the U.S. not designated as first class pilotage waters (between the three mile line and the start of traditional pilotage routes). Inspected self-propelled vessels greater than 1,600 GT, authorized by their Certificate of Inspection (COI) to proceed beyond the Boundary Line, or operating on the Great Lakes First Class Pilot Master or Mate may serve as pilot if the individual: 1. Is at least 21 years old. 2. Has an annual physical exam. 3. Maintains current knowledge of the waters to be navigated. Inspected self-propelled vessels not more than 1,600 GT, authorized by their Certificate of Inspection to proceed beyond the Boundary Line, or operating on the Great Lakes First Class Pilot, or Master or Mate may serve as pilot if the individual: 1.Is a least 21 years old. 2. Maintains current knowledge of the waters to be navigated. 3. Has 4 round trips over the route Master or Mate may serve as pilot if the individual: 1. Is at least 21 years old. 2. Maintains current knowledge of the waters to be navigated. Inspected self-propelled vessels greater than 1,600 GT, not authorized by their COI to proceed beyond the Boundary Line (Inland route vessels); other than vessels operating on the Great Lakes First Class Pilot Master or Mate may serve as pilot if the individual: 1. Is at least 21 years old. 2. Has an annual physical exam. 3. Maintains current knowledge of the waters to be navigated. Inspected self-propelled vessels not more than 1,600 GT, not authorized by their COI to proceed beyond the Boundary Line (Inland route vessels); other than vessels operating on the Great Lakes No pilotage requirement No pilotage requirement. 1Navigable waters of the U.S. for pilotage purposes include all inland waters and offshore waters to a distance of 3 nautical miles from the baseline from which the Territorial Sea is measured.
