FR940613-1-00028 FR940613-1-00003 Two law firms suggested that the FDIC's review time on conversion notices be reduced from 60 days to 45 days because of the potential that financial information might become ``stale'' under rules issued by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the converting institution would have to go through the expense of producing updated financial statements. Request for Public Comment The FDIC is hereby requesting comment during a 30-day comment period on all aspects of this proposed rule. List of Subjects in 12 CFR Part 333 Banks, banking, Corporate powers. The Board of Directors of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation hereby proposes to amend part 333 of title 12 of the Code of Federal Regulations as follows: PART 333_EXTENSION OF CORPORATE POWERS 1. The authority citation for part 333 is revised to read as follows: Authority: 12 U.S.C. 1816, 1818, 1819 (``Seventh'', ``Eighth'' and ``Tenth''), 1828, 1828(m), 1831p-1(c). 2. Section 333.4 is added to read as follows: ยง333.4 Conversions from mutual to stock form. (a) Scope. This section applies to the conversion of insured mutual state savings banks to the stock form of ownership. It supplements the procedural and other requirements for such conversions in ยง303.15 of this chapter. This section also applies, to the extent appropriate, to the reorganization of insured mutual state savings banks to the mutual holding company form of ownership. As determined by the Board of Directors of the FDIC on a case-by-case basis, this section does not apply to mutual-to-stock conversions of insured mutual state savings banks whose capital category under ยง325.103 of this chapter is ``undercapitalized,'' ``significantly undercapitalized'' or ``critically undercapitalized.'' The Board of Directors of the FDIC may grant a waiver in writing from any requirement of this section for good cause shown. (b) Conflicts with state law. In the event that an insured mutual state savings bank that proposes to convert to the stock form of ownership finds that compliance with any provision of this section would be inconsistent or in conflict with applicable state law, the bank may file a written request for waiver of compliance with such provision by the FDIC. In making such request, the bank shall demonstrate that the requested waiver, if granted, would not result in any effects that would be detrimental to the safety and soundness of the bank, entail a breach of fiduciary duty on part of the bank's management or otherwise be detrimental or inequitable to the bank, its depositors, any other insured depository institution(s), the federal deposit insurance funds or to the public interest. (c) Definitions. For purposes of this section: (1) Local community includes all counties in which the converting bank has its home office or a branch office, each county's standard metropolitan statistical area or the general metropolitan area of each of these counties and such other area(s) as provided for in the plan of conversion, acceptable to the FDIC; and (2) Eligible depositors are depositors holding qualifying deposits at the bank as of a date designated in the bank's plan of conversion that is not less than one year prior to the date of adoption of the plan of conversion by the converting bank's board of trustees.
