FR940603-1-00214 FR940603-1-00009 Section 8. Nonassignment of Contract. The Bidder shall perform directly and without subcontracting not less than twenty-five per centum (25%) of the construction of the Project, to be calculated on the basis of the total Contract price. The Bidder shall not assign the Contract effected by an acceptance of this Proposal or any interest in any funds that may be due or become due hereunder or enter into any contract with any person, firm or corporation for the performance of the Bidder's obligations hereunder or any part thereof, without the approval in writing of the Owner and of the Surety or Sureties, if any, on any bond furnished by the Bidder for the faithful performance of the Bidder's obligations hereunder. If the Bidder, with the consent of the Owner and any Surety or Sureties on the Contractor's Bond or Bonds, shall enter into a subcontract with any subcontractor for the performance of any part of this Contract, the Bidder shall be as fully responsible to the Owner and the Government for the acts and omissions of such subcontractor and of persons employed by such subcontractor as the Bidder would be for its own acts and omissions and those of persons directly employed by it. Section 9. Extension to Successors and Assigns. Each and all of the covenants and agreements herein contained shall extend to and be binding upon the successors and assigns of the parties hereto. Section 10. Contractor. Upon acceptance of this Proposal, the successful Bidder shall be the Contractor and all references in the Proposal to the Bidder shall apply to the Contractor. Section 11. Approval by the Administrator. No acceptance of this Proposal shall become effective until approval in writing of the Administrator: Provided, however, that no obligations shall arise hereunder unless such approval is given within forty-five (45) days from the date of acceptance by the Owner. XXXX (Bidder) By XXXX (President) XXXX (Address) Attest: XXXX (Secretary) Date XXXX The Proposal must be signed with the full name of the Bidder. If the Bidder is a partnership, the Proposal must be signed in the partnership name by a partner. If the Bidder is a corporation, the Proposal must be signed in the corporate name by a duly authorized officer and the corporate seal affixed and attested by the Secretary of the Corporation. Transmission Construction Units Section 1_Pole Units A pole unit consists of one pole in place. It does not include pole-top assembly unit or other parts attached to the pole. The first two digits indicate the length of the pole; the third digit shows the classification per A.S.A. (Example: 45&hyph;3 means a pole 45 feet long, class 3.) Species of Timber: XXXX Kind of Preservative: (Check one) 1. Creosote XX ; 2. Pentachlorophenol XX ; 3. Copper Naphthenate XX ; 4. Waterborne preservative_CCA XX ACZA XX Method of Treatment: (Check one) 1. Pressure XX ; 2. Thermal process: XX Pole Plan Under Which the Poles are to be Furnished: (Check one) 1. Insured Warranted XX ; 2. Independently Inspected XX ; 3. Quality Assured XX ; 4. Either Insured Warranted, Independently Inspected, or Quality Assured XX (Engineer to complete above) ␣ 1Unit No. 1Number of units 1Unit price 2Labor 2Materials 1Labor and materials 1Extended price_ labor and materials ␣ Total, Section 1_ XXXX Section 2_Pole-Top Assembly Units A pole-top assembly unit consists of the hardware, crossarms and their appurtenances, insulators, etc., except tie wire, required to support the power conductors and overhead ground wire. It does not include the pole, the downlead, and butt coil, which are separate units.
