FR941020-2-00130 FR941020-2-00079 [Release No. 34&hyph;34843; File No. SR&hyph;Phlx&hyph;94&hyph;50] Self-Regulatory Organizations; Philadelphia Stock Exchange, Inc.; Notice of Filing of a Proposed Rule Change Relating to Revisions to the General Securities Registered Representative (Series 7) Examination, and the Corresponding Specifications and Content Outline October 14, 1994. Pursuant to Section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act''), 1 notice is hereby given that on October 3, 1994, the Philadelphia Stock Exchange, Inc. (``Phlx'' or ``Exchange'') filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``Commission'') the proposed rule change as described in Items I, II, and III below, which Items have been prepared primarily by the Phlx. The Commission is publishing this notice to solicit comments on the proposed rule change from interested persons. 1 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1) (1988). I. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Terms of Substance or the Proposed Rule Change The Phlx proposes, in conjunction with the other self-regulatory organizations (``SROs''), to use a revised version of the General Securities Registered Representative (``Series 7'') Examination, the corresponding specifications and content outline. 2 The Phlx would adopt the amended Series 7, as well as the corresponding specifications and content outline. 2 For a detailed description of the revised Series 7 examination, see Securities Exchange Act Release Nos. 34340 (July 8, 1994), 59 FR 35959 [File No. SR&hyph;NYSE&hyph;94&hyph;27] (notice of filing of proposed rule change relating to the revision of the content outline for the Series 7 Examination); 34341 (July 8, 1994), 59 FR 35960 [File No. SR&hyph;NYSE&hyph;94&hyph;26] (notice of proposed rule change relating to the revision of examination specifications for the Series 7 Examination). II. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change In its filing with the Commission, the Phlx included statements concerning the purpose of and basis for the proposed rule change. The text of these statements may be examined at the places specified in Item IV below. The Phlx has prepared summaries, set forth in sections A, B, and C below, of the most significant aspects of such statements. A. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change The Phlx proposes to use the Series 7 as amended, as the appropriate qualification examination for persons seeking registration as general securities representatives. The Series 7 examination is generally required under rules of the self-regulatory organizations (``SROs'') for persons who are engaged in the solicitation, purchase and/or sale of securities for the accounts of customers. The purpose of the Series 7 examination is to ensure that registered representatives have the basic knowledge necessary to preform their functions and responsibilities. The Series 7 examination specifications detail the areas covered by the examination and break down the number of examination questions culled from each area. Revision of the Series 7 examination, specifications and content outline was initiated in April 1993 by an industry committee of SROs and representatives from broker-dealers in order to update the examination in view of changes in the securities industry, including changes in relevant rules and regulations, the development of new securities products, and changes in the job of registered representatives as firms offer an increasingly wide range of financial services. 3 The examination specifications for the Series 7 have not been revised since 1986. 3 SROs on the committee include the New York Stock Exchange, American Stock Exchange, Chicago Board Options Exchange, Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board, National Association of Securities Dealers and Philadelphia Stock Exchange. Broker-dealer representatives include branch office managers, compliance officers, training personnel and registered representatives. The industry committee updated the existing statements of the critical functions of registered representatives to ensure current relevance and appropriateness and drafted statements of tasks expected to be performed by entry-level registered representatives, and conformed the existing content outline to the task statements. Under the proposed rule change, the total number of questions in the Series 7 examination will remain 250, and the revised examination will cover all financial product areas covered on the present Series 7 examination as well as several new products, including collateralized mortgage obligations (``CMOs''), long term equity anticipation securities (``LEAPS'') and CAPS, with reduced emphasis on direct participation programs.
