FR940805-1-00055 FR940805-1-00013 10.51␣Administration and management. 10.52␣Physical plant. 10.53␣Institutional operations. 10.54␣Inmate programs and services. Authority: 5 U.S.C. 301; 25 U.S.C. 2, 9, 13, 2417, 2453, and 2802. Subpart A_General Information §10.1 Background Information. (a) Purpose. These standards provide criteria for the construction and operation of various types of adult and juvenile law enforcement facilities and programs operated on Indian land. Through the implementation of these standards, Indian detention programs can address current problems, reduce liability, plan for improvements, and maintain sound and professional operations. (b) Types of standards. The standards have been divided into five sets, based on facility type, to make their use clearer. There are standards for adult detention facilities, juvenile detention facilities, adult community residential facilities, juvenile community residential facilities, and adult holding facilities. Standards for juvenile holding facilities are not necessary at this time. (c) Using more than one set of standards. Users may determine which type program they wish to operate and select the set of standards which apply to that type. Users may elect to operate more than one program type on a single site or within a single structure, provided that the requirements for programs located on the same site are met. This approach provides maximum flexibility to each locality in determining the type of detention program(s) it wishes to operate. §10.2 Definitions. Addition means new construction which is physically attached or connected to an existing building structure. Administrative segregation means a special management classification which separates a detainee from the general population because he or she presents a serious threat to life, property, self, staff or other detainees, or to the secure and orderly running of the facility. Administrator means the official who has the ultimate responsibility for managing and operating the detention facility, such as the Captain of Police or the Chief of Police. Adult community residential program means a program for sentenced adults which is housed in a structure without security fences, security hardware or other major restraining construction typically associated with detention facilities. The major focus of these programs is to provide a structured environment conducive to positive behavior in the community. Adult detention facility means a local confinement facility for which the custodial authority is 48 hours or more. Assessment means an evaluation of an arrestee or a detainee by a health, mental health or substance abuse professional to determine treatment and/or management needs. Booking means both a law enforcement and a detention facility procedure. As a police administrative action, it is an official recording of an arrest and the identification of the person, place, time, arresting authority, and reason for the arrest. In a detention facility, it is a procedure for the admission of a person charged with or convicted of an offense, and includes searching, fingerprinting, photographing, health screening, collecting personal history data and completing an inventory of the individual's personal property. Building code means federal, state or local regulations that dictate the criteria for construction of a facility. Chemical agent means an active substance, such as tear gas, used to deter activities which might cause personal injury or property damage. Child abuse register means a central listing of persons reported for child abuse and neglect as required in the Indian Child Welfare Act. Classification means a process for determining the needs and requirements of those for whom confinement has been ordered and for assigning them to living areas and programs according to their needs and existing resources. Community resources means those social and welfare agencies, service clubs, citizen interest groups, self-help groups, and citizen volunteers who have the potential to assist juveniles/inmates in meeting defined needs. Contact visiting means a program inside and/or outside the facility that permits detainees to visit with designated person(s). The area is free of obstacles or barriers that prohibit physical contact. Contractor means a person, agency, or organization which agrees to furnish materials or perform services for the facility at a specified price or service. Contractors operating in the facility are subject to all applicable rules and regulations of the facility. Cooling off period means a brief period of time, typically under 60 minutes, during which juveniles are confined in their rooms to allow them to gain control over their behavior. Custody record means information concerning the individual's personal, criminal and brief medical history, behavior and activities while in custody. Daily report means a written record, compiled each day, which indicates the names of detainees in custody, the names of detainees booked and released, the legal status of each detainee, and the number of days each detainee has been in custody. Dayroom means space for activities that is situated immediately adjacent to the detainee sleeping areas and separated from them by a wall. Delinquent act means an act that if committed by an adult would be a crime. Delinquent juvenile means a juvenile who has been adjudicated for conduct which, under the law of the jurisdiction in which the offense was committed, would be a crime if committed by an adult. Dependent child means the local tribal definition. However, in the absence of a local definition, it means a child who is adjudicated to be: (1) In need of proper and effective parental care and control and who has no parent or guardian: or (2) Destitute or who is not provided with the necessities of life, or who is not provided with a home or suitable place of abode, or whose home is unfit for him by reason of abuse, neglect, cruelty or depravity by either of his parents, his guardian, or other person having his custody or care. Disciplinary hearing means a nonjudicial administrative procedure to determine if substantial evidence exists to find a detainee guilty of a rule violation. Disciplinary report means a written report, prepared by a person with appropriate authority, describing an alleged violation of a facility's rules or regulations.
