FR940513-1-00103 FR940513-1-00021 (5) Operating noncommercial dishwashers. In effect, the revised WECEP regulations would contain a limited exception to the Reg. 3 occupations restrictions for WECEP participants engaged in the specified activities. Further, in order to preserve the Department's discretion to modify the Reg. 3 restrictions in special circumstances where a WECEP program applicant can demonstrate that the program will provide safe and suitable employment, the WECEP regulation will continue to contain a provision for obtaining variances from occupational restrictions similar to variance procedures under other programs administered by the Department's Wage and Hour Division, e.g., see ยง5.14 of 29 CFR part 5 (Davis-Bacon and Related Acts) and ยง4.123 of 29 CFR part 4 (McNamara-O'Hara Service Contract Act). In addition, the Department is proposing to delete the exception contained in ยง570.35(b) for enrollees in work training programs conducted under the Economic Opportunity Act of 1964. This Act has been repealed and the exception is no longer appropriate. Executive Order 12866 The Department believes that this proposed rule is not a ``significant regulatory action'' within the meaning of Executive Order 12866. It proposes to change the permissible hours and time standards to permit greater flexibility in the employment of 14- and 15-year-olds as professional sports attendants. While the changes proposed are expected to enhance opportunities for employment, the impact on overall employment levels of 14- and 15-year-olds is modest. Other proposed changes are technical in nature and are expected to have only a minor impact on the employment of 14- and 15-year-olds. Accordingly, these changes are not expected to result in a rule that may: (1) Have an annual effect on the economy of $100 million or more or adversely affect in a material way the economy, a sector of the economy, productivity, competition, jobs, the environment, public health or safety, or State, local, or tribal governments or communities; (2) Create a serious inconsistency or otherwise interfere with an action taken or planned by another agency; (3) Materially alter the budgetary impact of entitlements, grants, user fees, or loan programs or the rights and obligations of recipients thereof; or (4) Raise novel legal or policy issues arising out of legal mandates, the President's priorities, or the principles set forth in Executive Order 12866. Therefore, no regulatory impact analysis has been prepared. Regulatory Flexibility Analysis The Department has determined that the proposed rule will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. The proposed change to provide an exception from the permissible hours and time standards for minors 14 and 15 years of age when employed as attendants in professional sports has narrow application and will affect only a limited number of employers of which some may be considered small entities. Although the other technical changes may affect small entities, the impact is believed to be insignificant. For these reasons, the Department believes that the proposed rule will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. The Secretary of Labor has certified to this effect to the Chief Counsel for Advocacy of the Small Business Administration. Therefore, no regulatory flexibility analysis is required. Document Preparation This document was prepared under the direction and control of Maria Echaveste, Administrator, Wage and Hour Division, Employment Standards Administration, U.S. Department of Labor. List of Subjects in 29 CFR Part 570 Child labor, Child labor occupations, Employment, Government, Intergovernmental relations, Investigations, Labor, Law enforcement, Minimum age. Accordingly, 29 CFR part 570 of the Code of Federal Regulations is proposed to be amended as set forth below. Signed at Washington, DC., on this 4th day of May 1994. Robert B. Reich, Secretary of Labor. Bernard E. Anderson, Assistant Secretary for Employment Standards. Maria Echaveste, Administrator, Wage and Hour Division.
