FR940317-1-00114 FR940317-1-00013 (b) Claims based on the negligent or wrongful acts of the following categories of employees will be paid under this subpart only if the act was within the scope of their employment_ (1) Civilian employees who are not U.S. citizens, who were recruited in the country in which they are employed, and where the incident occurred. Claims arising from the operation of U.S. Armed Forces vehicles or other equipment by the employees described in the preceding sentence, however, may be paid, even though the employees are not acting within the scope of their employment, provided the employer or owner of the vehicle or other equipment would be liable under local law in the circumstances involved. (2) Officers or civilian employees of the American Battle Monuments Commission, acting within the scope of employment. Claims generated by such personnel will be paid from American Battle Monuments Commission appropriations. (3) Certain Red Cross volunteers meeting the criteria set forth in AR 40&hyph;3, paragraph 2&hyph;42. (c) A claim may be settled under this subpart if it arises from non-combat activities (see glossary). Activities incident to combat, whether in time of war or not, are excluded. (d) Property for the loss or damage of which claims may be settled under this subpart includes_ (1) Real property used and occupied in connection with training, field exercises, or maneuvers. An allowance may be made for the use and occupancy of real property arising out of trespass or other tort, even though claimed as rent. Real estate claims founded upon contracts are processed under the provisions of AR 405&hyph;15. (2) Personal property bailed to the Government under an agreement, express or implied, unless the owner has expressly assumed the risk of damage or loss. ยง536.153 Claims not payable. A claim may not be allowed under this subpart that_ (a) Results from action by an enemy or results directly or indirectly from an act of the armed forces of the United States in combat, except if it arises from an accident or malfunction incident to the operation of an aircraft of the armed forces of the United States including its airborne ordnance, indirectly related to combat, and occurring while preparing for, going to, or returning from a combat mission. (b) Is purely contractual in nature. (c) Is one for which a foreign country is responsible under Article VIII NATO_SOFA, or other similar treaty or agreement. (See ยง536.148). However, if a foreign country refuses to recognize legal responsibility for the claim, or to consider it under applicable treaty provisions, the senior Army JA in country or, where the estimated value of the claim is within USARCS authority, the Commander, USARCS, may authorize a foreign claims commission to consider the claim. (d) Arises from private or domestic obligations as distinguished from Government transactions. (e) Is based solely on compassionate grounds. (See DA Pam 27&hyph;162, paragraph 8&hyph;4.)
