FR940810-0-00249 FR940810-0-00021 (9) Count bundles of fibers as one fiber unless individual fibers can be clearly identified and each individual fiber is clearly not connected to another counted fiber. See Figure 2 for counting conventions. (10) Record the number of fibers in each field in a consistent way such that filter non-uniformity can be assessed. (11) Regularly check phase ring alignment. (12) When an agglomerate (mass of material) covers more than 25% of the field of view, reject the field and select another. Do not include it in the number of fields counted. (13) Perform a ``blind recount'' of 1 in every 10 filter wedges (slides). Re-label the slides using a person other than the original counter. 6.7. Fiber Identification As previously mentioned in Section 1.3., PCM does not provide positive confirmation of asbestos fibers. Alternate differential counting techniques should be used if discrimination is desirable. Differential counting may include primary discrimination based on morphology, polarized light analysis of fibers, or modification of PCM data by Scanning Electron or Transmission Electron Microscopy. A great deal of experience is required to routinely and correctly perform differential counting. It is discouraged unless it is legally necessary. Then, only if a fiber is obviously not asbestos should it be excluded from the count. Further discussion of this technique can be found in reference 8.10. If there is a question whether a fiber is asbestos or not, follow the rule: ``WHEN IN DOUBT, COUNT.'' 6.8. Analytical Recommendations_Quality Control System 6.8.1. All individuals performing asbestos analysis must have taken the NIOSH course for sampling and evaluating airborne asbestos or an equivalent course. 6.8.2. Each laboratory engaged in asbestos counting shall set up a slide trading arrangement with at least two other laboratories in order to compare performance and eliminate inbreeding of error. The slide exchange occurs at least semiannually. The round robin results shall be posted where all analysts can view individual analyst's results. 6.8.3. Each laboratory engaged in asbestos counting shall participate in the Proficiency Analytical Testing Program, the Asbestos Analyst Registry or equivalent. 6.8.4. Each analyst shall select and count prepared slides from a ``slide bank''. These are quality assurance counts. The slide bank shall be prepared using uniformly distributed samples taken from the workload. Fiber densities should cover the entire range routinely analyzed by the laboratory. These slides are counted blind by all counters to establish an original standard deviation. This historical distribution is compared with the quality assurance counts. A counter must have 95% of all quality control samples counted within three standard deviations of the historical mean. This count is then integrated into a new historical mean and standard deviation for the slide. The analyses done by the counters to establish the slide bank may be used for an interim quality control program if the data are treated in a proper statistical fashion. 7. Calculations 7.1. Calculate the estimated airborne asbestos fiber concentration on the filter sample using the following formula: E:GRAPHICSER10AU94.027 Where: AC = Airborne fiber concentration FB = Total number of fibers greater than 5 μm counted FL = Total number of fields counted on the filter BFB = Total number of fibers greater than 5 μm counted in the blank BFL = Total number of fields counted on the blank ECA = Effective collecting area of filter (385 mm2 nominal for a 25-mm filter.) FR = Pump flow rate (L/min) MFA = Microscope count field area (mm2). This is 0.00785 mm2 for a Walton-Beckett Graticule. T = Sample collection time (min) 1,000 = Conversion of L to cc Note: The collection area of a filter is seldom equal to 385 mm2. It is appropriate for laboratories to routinely monitor the exact diameter using an inside micrometer. The collection area is calculated according to the formula: Area = (d/2)2 7.2. Short-cut Calculation Since a given analyst always has the same interpupillary distance, the number of fields per filter for a particular analyst will remain constant for a given size filter. The field size for that analyst is constant (i.e. the analyst is using an assigned microscope and is not changing the reticle). For example, if the exposed area of the filter is always 385 mm2 and the size of the field is always 0.00785 mm2, the number of fields per filter will always be 49,000. In addition it is necessary to convert liters of air to cc. These three constants can then be combined such that ECA/(1,000 X MFA) = 49. The previous equation simplifies to: E:GRAPHICSER10AU94.028
