FR940511-0-00076 FR940511-0-00015 (b) Applications for such permits should be addressed to the Director of the Office of Ocean and Coastal Resource Management; Attn: Sanctuaries and Reserves Division, Office of Ocean and Coastal Resource Management, National Ocean Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, 1305 East-West Highway, Building 4, Silver Spring, MD 20910. An application must include a detailed description of the proposed activity including a timetable for completion of the activity and the equipment, personnel and methodology to be employed. The qualifications and experience of all personnel must be set forth in the application. The application must set forth the potential effects of the activity on Sanctuary resources and qualities. Copies of all other required licenses, permits, approvals or other authorizations must be attached. (c) Upon receipt of an application, the Director or designee may request such additional information from the applicant as he or she deems necessary to act on the application and may seek the views of any persons. (d) The Director or designee, at his or her discretion, may issue a permit, subject to such terms and conditions as he or she deems appropriate, to conduct an activity prohibited by paragraphs (a) (2) through (8) of ยง925.5, if the Director or designee finds that the activity will not substantially injure Sanctuary resources and qualities and will: further research related to Sanctuary resources and qualities; further the educational, natural or historical resource value of the Sanctuary; further salvage or recovery operations in or near the Sanctuary in connection with a recent air or marine casualty; assist in managing the Sanctuary; further salvage or recovery operations in connection with an abandoned shipwreck in the Sanctuary title to which is held by the State of Washington; or promote the welfare of any Indian tribe adjacent to the Sanctuary. In deciding whether to issue a permit, the Director or designee may consider such factors as: the professional qualifications and financial ability of the applicant as related to the proposed activity; the duration of the activity and the duration of its effects; the appropriateness of the methods and procedures proposed by the applicant for the conduct of the activity; the extent to which the conduct of the activity may diminish or enhance Sanctuary resources and qualities; the cumulative effects of the activity; the end value of the activity; and the impacts of the activity on adjacent Indian tribes. Where the issuance or denial of a permit is requested by the governing body of an Indian tribe, the Director shall consider and protect the interests of the tribe to the fullest extent practicable in keeping with the purposes of the Sanctuary and his or her fiduciary duties to the tribe. The Director or designee may also deny a permit application pursuant to this ยง925.9, in whole or in part, if it is determined that the permittee or applicant has acted in violation of the terms or conditions of a permit or of these regulations. (Procedures governing permit denials for enforcement reasons are set forth in subpart D of 15 CFR part 904). In addition, the Director or designee may consider such other factors as he or she deems appropriate. (e) A permit issued pursuant to this ยง925.9 is nontransferable. (f) The Director or designee may amend, suspend or revoke a permit issued pursuant to this section for good cause. Any such action shall be communicated in writing to the permittee or applicant by certified mail and shall set forth the reason(s) for the action taken. Procedures governing permit sanctions for enforcement reasons are set forth in subpart D of 15 CFR part 904. (g) It shall be a condition of any permit issued that the permit or a copy thereof be displayed on board all vessels or aircraft used in the conduct of the activity. (h) The Director or designee may, inter alia , make it a condition of any permit issued that any data or information obtained under the permit be made available to the public. (i) The Director or designee may, inter alia , make it a condition of any permit issued that a NOAA official be allowed to observe any activity conducted under the permit and/or that the permit holder submit one or more reports on the status, progress or results of any activity authorized by the permit. (j) The Director or designee shall obtain the express written consent of the governing body of an Indian tribe prior to issuing a permit, if the proposed activity involves or affects resources of cultural or historical significance to the tribe. (k) Removal, or attempted removal of any Indian cultural resource or artifact may only occur with the express written consent of the governing body of the tribe or tribes to which such resource or artifact pertains, and certification by the Director that such activities occur in a manner that minimizes damage to the biological and archeological resources. Prior to permitting entry onto a significant cultural site designated by a tribal governing body, the Director shall acquire the express written consent of the governing body of the tribe or tribes to which such cultural site pertains. (l) The applicant for or holder of a National Marine Sanctuary permit may appeal the denial, conditioning, amendment, suspension or revocation of the permit in accordance with the procedures set forth in ยง925.12.
