FR940627-0-00170 FR940627-0-00019 A. Basic Registration Data The basic information already required for F/FA registration includes product and manufacturer identification, concentration and purpose-in-use, and specific compositional data. Today's rule adds the following items to the basic registration data requirements: total annual production volume data, marketing distribution data, notification about group participation, and notification on the use of special provisions (i.e., relabeled products, aerosols, and small business, as discussed in Section X). Manufacturers of F/FAs registered as of the effective date of this rule must submit the additional basic registration data items to EPA within six months of that date. Other manufacturers are strongly encouraged to submit the basic registration data prior to starting the evaluation tiers (i.e., Tier 1, Tier 2, and/or Tier 3). The production volume information is to be reported in units of gallons per year for F/FA products that are generally sold in liquid form and kilograms per year for F/FA products that are generally sold in solid form. For F/FAs already in production, the submitted figure must reflect the most recent annual period as well as the volume projected to be produced in the third subsequent year. For products not yet in production, the best estimate of expected total production volume during the third year of production must be provided. Market distribution data for each product must also be provided. For fuels and bulk additives, the distribution data must be reported as the percent of total annual sales volume marketed in each Petroleum Administration for Defense District (PADD), as defined in ยง79.59(b)(3) of this rule. For aftermarket additives, the distribution data must be reported as the percent of total annual sales volume marketed in each state. For products not yet in production, the manufacturer must report projected distribution data by PADD or state, as applicable. Manufacturers of F/FAs registered as of the effective date of this rule who intend to comply with registration requirements as part of a group must identify the person or entity which is organizing the testing for the applicable group. Similarly, if an applicant is relying on another manufacturer's (or group's) previous registration materials in compliance with the testing requirements for an unregistered product, then the other manufacturer or group must be identified. In addition, the manufacturer of the unregistered product must provide evidence that the original submitter has been notified and that reimbursement will occur. The basic registration data must be submitted (or resubmitted) individually for each product being registered, using EPA forms which are in effect at the time of the submittal. This requirement pertains to all F/FA products registered as of the effective date of this rule, including relabeled products, as well as those for which first-time registration is sought after promulgation of this rule. If the basic registration data previously submitted for a currently registered fuel or additive is accurate and complete, then a statement asserting that this is so will suffice in lieu of the submittal of duplicate information. A finding by EPA that this information is not, in fact, accurate and complete as claimed will result in the report being considered inadequate. A fuel manufacturer may at any time modify an existing fuel registration by submitting a request to EPA to add or delete a bulk additive to the existing registration information for such fuel product, provided that any additional additive must be registered by EPA for use in the specific fuel family to which the fuel product belongs. The addition or deletion of a bulk additive to a fuel registration does not necessarily cause the fuel to be considered ``new''. However, if the change affects the grouping of such registered fuel, it may affect the testing responsibilities of the fuel manufacturer. B. Summary Report This report will provide a summary of the evaluation procedures, results, and conclusions, pertaining to Tier 1 and/or Tier 2 requirements. 62 References used to support Tier 1 and/or Tier 2 conclusions must be cited in the report. A cover page must be included, identifying the test substance, the manufacturer's name and address, a designated contact person and phone number, and grouping information (if applicable). The grouping information must identify the group name or grouping criteria, all products and manufacturers to which the report pertains, and the name and address of the responsible organization or entity reporting for the group. The body of the summary report must be divided into the following sections. 62 These reporting requirements may pertain to separate submittals for Tier 1 and Tier 2 or a single submittal for both tiers, depending on the relative timing of these compliance activities.
