FR941130-0-00083 FR941130-0-00015 Section 674.52␣Cancellation Procedures In accordance with amendments to the HEA made by the National and Community Service Act of 1990 (Pub.L. 101&hyph;610), the Secretary is revising the final regulations to include the provision that a borrower may not receive a benefit under subtitle D of title I of the National and Community Service Act of 1990 and a cancellation benefit under the Federal Perkins Loan program. Federal Work-Study Program Section 675.2␣Definitions Statutory provisions for community service under the Amendments provide that community service is designed to improve the quality of life for community residents, particularly low-income individuals. In the June 22, 1994 NPRM, the Secretary proposed to add a new definition of ``low-income individual'' for purposes of community service. In response to public comment and as part of the Secretary's efforts to reduce regulatory burden, the Secretary is not defining ``low-income individual'' in these regulations. Work-Colleges Program Sections 675.41&hyph;675.50 Section 448(f) of the HEA contains a separate authorization of appropriations for the Work-Colleges program. Therefore, a new §675.42_ Allocation and Reallocation, has been added to the regulations and all other sections of the Work-Colleges program regulations have been redesignated. Sections 675.46 and 675.47 contain paperwork requirements, and have been redesignated as §675.47 and §675.48. Analysis of Comments and Changes In response to the Secretary's invitation in the NPRM, 58 parties submitted comments on the proposed regulations. An analysis of the comments and of the changes in the regulations since publication of the NPRM follows. Substantive issues are discussed under the section of the regulations to which they pertain. Technical and other minor changes_and suggested changes the Secretary is not legally authorized to make under applicable statutory authority_are not addressed. Comments and Responses Sections 674.4, 675.4, and 676.4␣Allocation and Reallocation Comments: Three commenters suggested that the Secretary permit an institution, under certain circumstances, to appeal an allocation reduction because it returned more than 10 percent of its previous year's allocation. These commenters suggested that the Secretary allow an appeal during occurrences of natural disasters or situations in which enrollments are reduced because students are called to service in areas of hostility, such as the military mobilizations for ``Operation Desert Storm.'' Discussion: The Secretary believes that this provision of the proposed regulations adequately addresses situations in which these provisions may be waived. As stated in the preamble to the NPRM, the Secretary may waive these provisions in such circumstances as a natural disaster. Additionally, to assist institutions in their recovery from the effects of disasters, or to provide relief to students who have been called to military service in areas of hostility, the Secretary provides enforcement relief from regulatory requirements and provides guidance through ``Dear Colleague'' letters issued at the time of the natural disaster or the declaration of an area of hostility. Changes: None. Comments: One commenter stated that a literal interpretation of a reduction in an institution's allocation for the next fiscal year would require reductions in two award years. This commenter suggested that the term ``fiscal year'' be replaced by ``award year'' to make the provision easier to understand while still being in line with congressional intent. Discussion: The Secretary agrees with the commenter that the use of the term ``fiscal year'' in this context is confusing. Changes: The language of this provision is changed to incorporate the concept of an ``award year'' allocation rather than ``fiscal year.'' Section 674.10, 675.10, and 676.10␣Selection of Students Comments: Several commenters noted that while sections 413C(d), 443(b)(3), and 464(b)(2) of the HEA require most institutions to ``make available'' to less-than-full-time and independent students at least 5 percent of the FWS allotment, 5 percent of the FSEOG allotment, and 5 percent of the dollar amount of the loans made under the Federal Perkins Loan program, the NPRM did not define the term ``make available.'' These commenters were concerned that while most students would accept FSEOG as part of their award packages because it is grant money, institutions have no control over whether students will accept Federal Perkins loans or work to earn FWS funds. They believe that it would be very difficult for some institutions to meet this requirement if independent and part-time students have to accept, or even earn, 5 percent of the FWS allocation. One commenter stated that most students attending less-than-full-time are doing so because they are already working and therefore those students are not interested in FWS. The majority of the commenters suggested that the Secretary should interpret the statute in its use of the term ``make available'' to mean ``offer'' FWS, FSEOG, and Federal Perkins loans to students rather than ``disburse'' these funds. One commenter noted that the wording between the FWS section and the FSEOG section is slightly different and recommended that it be consistent. Discussion: The Secretary agrees that in some circumstances it may be difficult for an institution to actually disburse to less-than-full-time and independent students at least 5 percent of its FWS allotment, 5 percent of its FSEOG allotment, or 5 percent of the dollar amount of the loans made under the Federal Perkins Loan program. Therefore, to accommodate these circumstances and prevent a burden on institutions to be responsible for what financial aid a student accepts, in interpreting amended sections 413C(d), 443(b)(3), and 464(b)(2) of the HEA, the Secretary considers the words ``make available'' to mean that the institutions must ``offer'' to less-than-full-time and independent students at least 5 percent of its FWS allotment, 5 percent of its FSEOG allotment, or 5 percent of the dollar amount of the loans made under the Federal Perkins Loan program if the need of all of these students exceeds 5 percent of the total need of all students at an institution. Changes: The wording of this provision in the campus-based sections is changed to reflect that institutions must ``offer'' these campus-based funds to less-than-full-time and independent students. Also, the wording was revised for consistency among the campus-based programs.
