FR941103-1-00016 FR941103-1-00008 DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR Fish and Wildlife Service 50 CFR Part 32 RIN 1018&hyph;AC93 Opening of Humboldt Bay National Wildlife Refuge to Sport Fishing AGENCY: Fish and Wildlife Service, Interior. ACTION: Proposed rule. SUMMARY: The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (Service) proposes to open Humboldt Bay National Wildlife Refuge in California to sport fishing and proposes pertinent refuge-specific regulations for such activity. The Service has determined that such use will be compatible with the purposes for which the refuge was established. The Service has further determined that this action is in accordance with the provisions of all applicable laws, is consistent with principles of sound wildlife management, and is otherwise in the public interest by providing additional recreational opportunities of a renewable natural resource. DATES: Comments may be submitted on or before December 5, 1994. ADDRESSES: Assistant Director_Refuges and Wildlife, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, 1849 C Street, NW, MS 670 ARLSQ, Washington, DC 20240. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Duncan L. Brown, Esq., at the address above; Telephone: 703&hyph;358&hyph;1744. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: National wildlife refuges are generally closed to hunting and sport fishing until opened by rulemaking. The Secretary of the Interior (Secretary) may open refuge areas to hunting and/or fishing upon a determination that such uses are compatible with the purpose(s) for which the refuge was established, and that funds are available for development, operation, and maintenance of a hunting or fishing program. The action must also be in accordance with provisions of all laws applicable to the areas, must be consistent with the principles of sound wildlife management, and must otherwise be in the public interest. This rulemaking proposes to open Humboldt Bay National Wildlife Refuge in Loleta, California, to sport fishing. Request for Comments Department of the Interior policy is, whenever practicable, to afford the public a meaningful opportunity to participate in the rulemaking process. A 30-day comment period is specified in order to facilitate public input. Accordingly, interested persons may submit written comments concerning this proposed rule to the person listed above under the heading ADDRESSES . All substantive comments will be reviewed and considered.
