FR941027-2-00040 FR941027-2-00027 2 U.S.C. 437d(a)(7) and 437f. routine uses of records maintained in the system, including categories of users and the purposes of such uses: Documents maintained for historical purposes and for use as precedent in subsequent requests for advisory opinions. Commissioners and staff use this system to respond to requests for opinions. These documents are available to the public for information and so that interested parties may submit comments to the Commission. Routine use for disclosure to the Department of Justice for use in litigation: It shall be a routine use of the records in this system of records to disclose them to the Department of Justice when: (a) The agency, or any component thereof; or (b) Any employee of the agency in his or her official capacity; or (c) Any employee of the agency in his or her individual capacity where the Department of Justice has agreed to represent the employee; or (d) The United States, where the agency determines that litigation is likely to affect the agency or any of its components, is a party to litigation or has an interest in such litigation, and the use of such reports by the Department of Justice is deemed by the Federal Election Commission to be relevant and necessary to the litigation provided, however, that in each case the agency determines that disclosure of the records to the Department of Justice is a use of the information contained in the records that is compatible with the purpose for which the records were collected. routine use of records maintained in the system, including categories of users and the purposes of such uses: Routine use for Agency disclosure in litigation: It shall be a routine use of records maintained by this agency to disclose them in a proceeding before a court or adjudicative body before which the agency is authorized to appear when: (a) The agency, or any component thereof; or (b) Any employee of the agency in his or her official capacity; or (c) Any employee of the agency in his or her individual capacity where the agency has agreed to represent the employee; or (d) The United States, where the agency determines that litigation is likely to affect the agency, or any of its components, is a party to litigation or has an interest in such litigation, and the Federal Election Commission determines that, on a case-by-case basis, use of such records is relevant and necessary to the litigation, provided, however, that the agency determines that disclosure of the records is compatible with the purpose for which the records were collected. policies and practices for storing, retrieving, accessing, retaining, and disposing of records in the system: storage: Paper records and/or microfilm, on-line disk storage, and electronic data processing system. retrievability: Indexed and retrievable by name of requestor, date of opinion, request number, and, as applicable, by microfilm roll and frame number. safeguards: Originals are kept in locked filing cabinets in limited access areas under personal surveillance during working hours and in locked rooms at other times. Copies are freely available. retention and disposal: Retained for at least four years from date of receipt and subject to disposal thereafter. Current disposal process generally results in retention of records until seven years after receipt. system manager(s) and address:
