FR940930-0-00149 FR940930-0-00028 In the NPRM, EPA proposed a level of 3.5 g/Bhp-hr NMHC+NO X based on concerns about technology, cost, leadtime, and durability for diesel engines as prescribed in section 245 (b) of the CAA. Based on the comments submitted to EPA and further analysis by the Agency, EPA believes that achieving HDDE emission levels below about 3.5 g/Bhp-hr NMHC+NO X would be technically difficult and costly to manufacturers and would not be achievable for an adequate number of light and medium heavy-duty diesel engine families by 1998. In their comments, engine manufacturers argued that the 3.15 g/Bhp-hr level, as well as the proposed 3.5 g/Bhp-hr level, would not be technologically and economically feasible for diesel-fueled engines. The Natural Gas Vehicle Coalition (NGVC) argued that the 3.15 g/Bhp-hr level would be feasible for diesel-fueled engines, based largely on a final report by Acurex under contract with CARB, entitled ``Technical Feasibility Reducing NO X and Particulate Emissions from Heavy-Duty Engines.'' 20 As the analysis summarized below demonstrates, EPA agrees in part with each set of comments, but reaches a conclusion different from both. 20 Acurex Environmental Project Under Contract with California Air Resources Board, Final Report, ``Technical Feasibility of Reducing NO X and Particulate Emissions From Heavy-Duty Engines,'' Acurex Environmental Project 8450, Contract No. A132&hyph;085, April 30, 1993 (found in the docket for this rulemaking). As a part of its assessment of the potential HDDE emission control technology, EPA studied the Acurex report in depth. Like the Regulatory Support Document associated with this rule, 21 this report concludes that to achieve a NO X -emission level of 2.5 g/Bhp-hr by 2000 (NO X levels needed to meet a 3.15 g/Bhp-hr NMHC+NO X standard), 22 diesel-fueled engines would need to be equipped with advanced catalytic trap or EGR (exhaust gas recirculation) technologies. In addition, the 2.5 g/Bhp-hr level would also require the use of a combination of some or all of the following emission control approaches for diesel-fueled engines: very high pressure fuel injection, variable geometry turbocharging, air-to-air aftercooling, optimized combustion, electronic unit injections with minimized sac volumes, optimized fuel injection nozzles, rate shaping, exhaust gas recirculation and sophisticated electronic control of all engine systems. Most of the devices described in the Acurex report are in relatively early stages of development and would require extensive changes in heavy-duty diesel-powered engines compared to today's designs. Acurex projects that achieving this level would be possible, but it would result in a 5 percent fuel economy penalty and a doubling of the engine price of a 1994 diesel-fueled engine. Based on reasons discussed throughout this section, EPA is very doubtful that this standard could be met in a cost-effective manner in time for the production of an adequate number of 1998 model year engine families. However, Acurex has projected that a 3.0 g/Bhp-hr NO X -emission level (approximately equivalent to a 3.5 g/Bhp-hr NMHC+NO X level) is achievable for diesel-fueled engines by 1999 with the addition of EGR and oxidation catalyst technology without major new costs or fuel economy penalties. 21 U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Office of Mobile Sources, ``Regulatory Support Document: Emissions Standards for Heavy-Duty Fleets,'' June 1994 (found in the docket for this rulemaking). 22 Current certification data indicate that generally all diesel engine families have HC certification levels less than 0.5 g/Bhp-hr, so most reductions would have to be achieved in NO X emissions. Thus, achieving a 3.15 g/Bhp-hr NMHC+NO X standard would essentially require NO X -certification levels on the order of 2.5 to 2.7 g/Bhp-hr. Also, the NGVC argued that no technological breakthroughs are required to meet the 3.15 standard since each one of these technologies is already in use in one or more commercial diesel engine families to meet the 1994 and 1998 standards. They also state that all that would be required to meet the 3.15 standard would be the addition of EGR and possibly a particulate trap. Although it is true that some versions of the necessary technologies are in use today, EPA believes, as stated above, that the additional development effort needed to reach very low emission levels would be very costly and would likely limit or eliminate the availability of heavy-duty diesel engines for the program.
