FR940228-1-00091 FR940228-1-00010 Second, the Technical Amendments of 1993 provide that an institution that is not financially responsible under the general standards of financial responsibility (except the cash reserve requirement) is financially responsible if it establishes to the satisfaction of the Secretary, with the support of a financial statement audited by an independent certified accountant with generally accepted accounting standards, that the institution has sufficient resources to ensure against the precipitous closure of the institution, including the ability to meet all of its financial obligations, including refunds of institutional charges and repayments to the Secretary for liabilities and debts incurred in programs administered by the Secretary. The Secretary proposes to restate the statute, modifying it only to propose to require that the financial statement be submitted in accordance with the proposed requirements for documentation of financial responsibility that will be discussed later. The Technical Amendments of 1993 further provide that an institution is not required to meet the general standards of financial responsibility (except for the cash reserve requirement) if the institution is an institution that provides a 2-year or 4-year educational program for which the institution awards an associate or baccalaureate degree that demonstrates to the satisfaction of the Secretary that there is not reasonable doubt as to its continued solvency and ability to deliver quality educational services, it is current in its payment of all current liabilities, including student refunds, repayments to the Secretary, payroll, and payment of trade creditors and withholding taxes, and it has substantial equity in school-occupied facilities, the acquisition of which was the direct cause of its failure to meet the current operating ratio requirement. The Secretary proposes to restate the statute without modification. Documentation of Financial Responsibility Section 498(c)(4) of the HEA provides that the determination of an institution's financial responsibility be based on an audited and certified financial statement of the institution or, where appropriate, its parent corporation, conducted by a qualified independent organization or person in accordance with standards established by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants. The statement must be submitted to the Secretary when the institution is applying to begin or continue participation in the Title IV, HEA programs. The statute further provides that the Secretary may require the submission of additional audits if the first submission does not establish compliance with the general standards of financial responsibility. Although audited financial statements should be rendered in a uniform manner, there is some leeway with regards to contents of the statements. The Secretary proposes to require institutions to submit financial statements on an annual basis within four months after the end of the institution's fiscal year. The Secretary believes that four months from the end of an institution's fiscal year is a sufficient period of time for an institution to submit a financial statement. The Secretary also clarifies that, upon request, the institution must provide or otherwise make available the accountant's work papers in order to ensure that all information relevant to preparing an audited financial statement is readily available. Institutions are already required to provide access to such information pursuant to current ยง668.23, and the Secretary proposes to reference that access to records in this proposed section. The Secretary proposes that an institution may be granted a filing extension to an institution upon a showing of good cause. The Secretary intends that this extension would be granted on an infrequent basis, as the Secretary believes it is imperative to have the financial information from the institution that most accurately reflects the current financial situation of the institution.
