FR940505-1-00392 FR940505-1-00012 (A) A minimum of 55 percent of all livestock waste shall be collected and processed in the recovery system. If a minimum of 55 percent as described above can not be achieved, subject facilities shall identify alternative methods which will achieve an equivalent level of reduction. Facilities shall be subject to the 55 percent requirement until such time as the alternative methods are submitted and approved in writing by the USEPA. (B) The recovery system shall achieve a minimum 80% control efficiency. Demonstration of control efficiency shall be performed in accordance with the methods specified in paragraph (h)(6) of this section. (C) The recovery system shall be maintained and operated in a manner which is consistent with manufacturer specifications and which consistently achieves the control efficiency stated in paragraph (h)(3)(i)(B) of this section. (ii) Manured areas shall be managed to minimize the pooling or accumulation of liquids and shall be sloped 2 to 4 percent to allow drainage of excess moisture. Any facility wastewater and precipitation on or drainage through manure areas shall meet the requirements specified in the California Code of Regulations, Title 23, Division 3, Chapter (Discharges of Waste to Land), ``Article 6. Confined Animal Facilities.'' (iii) Livestock waste not processed under paragraph (h)(3)(i) of this section and which is placed in a manure storage area or stockpile shall be maintained in long, narrow windrows, no higher than 6 feet. The windrows shall be turned every 5 days during the first 30 days of storage and shall be removed from the dairy cattle facility at least 3 times per year or applied to a disposal field or crop lands at least 3 times per year. (4) Reporting. (i) Each owner or operator of a facility that is subject to the provisions of paragraph (h)(3) of this section shall submit for approval to the EPA by January 1, 1998 information necessary to demonstrate compliance with the provisions of paragraph (h)(3) of this section by January 1, 1999. This information shall include, at a minimum: (A) The type of recovery system to be used at the facility; (B) The type and capacity of the end use technology; (C) The type of instrumentation and/or techniques to be used for measuring the following parameters: (1 ) Volume flow rate of gas produced by the recovery system measured in cubic feet per minute; ( 2 ) Hours of operation of the recovery system; ( 3 ) Hours of operation of the end use technology; ( 4 ) Productivity of the end use technology measured in British Thermal Units (BTU), kilowatt-hours (kWh), etc.; and ( 5 ) Determination of control efficiency. (ii) Beginning in 2000, each owner or operator of a facility that is subject to the provisions of paragraph (h)(3) of this section shall submit to the EPA on or before January 1 of each calendar year, a certification of compliance with paragraph (h)(3) of this section for the previous calendar year. The certification shall include, at a minimum, the following information: (A) The maximum number of cows and calves managed on the facility during the preceding calendar year; (B) Certification of compliance with the provisions of paragraph (h)(3) of this section. (5) Recordkeeping. (i) Each owner or operator of a dairy cattle operation shall keep records that demonstrate compliance with paragraph (h)(3) of this section, and shall make these records available to the EPA upon request. At a minimum, these records shall provide the following information: (A) Date of removal of stockpiled manure as specified by paragraph (h)(3)(iii) of this section; (B) Values recorded for each parameter specified in paragraph (h)(4)(i)(C) of this section. (6) Test Methods. (i) Measurements of destruction or removal efficiency shall be determined in accordance with EPA Method 25 (40 CFR part 60, appendix A) or by an alternative method approved in writing by EPA.
