FR940817-2-00078 FR940817-2-00043 Based on the available data and on decisions and assumptions involved in analyses of these data, the leading candidate estimates for an alternative Mn RfC appear to fall in a range of approximately 0.09 to 0.2 m g/m3. (Ethyl Corporation (1994) has proposed an alternative RfC estimate based on a BMDL 10 value of 87 m g/m3. Treating this value as essentially a NOAEL (thereby eliminating an uncertainty factor for use of a LOAEL), Ethyl Corporation divided the adjusted NOAEL(HEC) by a single uncertainty factor of 10 for sensitive subpopulations to derive a Mn RfC estimate of 3 m g/m 3 .) 60 60 The RfC listed here is not simply the BMDL 10 of 87 μg/m3 reduced by the uncertainty factor of 10 because the BMDL 10 must first be adjusted to produce an adjusted NOAEL(HEC) (i.e., to go from an occupational exposure scenario to a scenario for the general public) prior to reduction by the uncertainty factor. C. Exposure Assessment 1. Background Very limited data have been available by which to estimate potential Mn personal exposure levels likely to be associated with the use of MMT as an additive in unleaded gasoline. For example, after the completion of ORD's 1990 exposure assessment for Mn (U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, 1990), Ethyl Corporation provided EPA a brief report of a personal monitoring study as part of Ethyl Corporation's resubmittal of a waiver application for MMT. The study focused on 6 taxi drivers and 17 office workers in Toronto, ON, where the allowable MMT concentration in gasoline is 1/16 (0.062) g Mn/gal. (In the Toronto study, the actual concentration was reported as 1/26 (0.039) g Mn/gal, which is only slightly greater than the 1/32 (0.031) g Mn/gal concentration proposed for the United States. As confirmed by Kirshenblatt (1993), MMT concentrations in Canadian gasoline average well below the allowable limit there.) In comments on Ethyl's resubmittal, ORD considered the Toronto data in conjunction with results from independent field studies of personal exposures to carbon monoxide to develop a revised Mn exposure assessment (Preuss, 1991). A key element of the 1991 ORD assessment was the assumption that taxi drivers (six of whom were monitored in Toronto within a 2-week period) were members of a high-exposure cluster reflecting the upper 4% of the population in a model based on the carbon monoxide field studies. The result of the 1991 assessment was an estimate that 4% of the general public might be exposed to Mn at approximately 0.09 m g/m3, although this estimate had an undetermined amount of uncertainty due to the inadequacies of the available data. 2. Additional Canadian Studies Since the 1991 ORD assessment, additional personal exposure studies have been completed in Montreal and Toronto (described in Appendix B, ``Reevaluation of Inhalation Health Risks Associated with Methyl cyclopentadienyl Manganese Tricarbonyl (MMT) in Gasoline'' as referenced in the reference section below, hereafter referred to as Appendix B.) As shown in Figure B&hyph;10 of Appendix B, the average concentrations reported in the Canadian studies vary by as much as an order of magnitude for small groups (5 to 19 persons each) of garage mechanics, taxi drivers, and office workers. The highest average Mn personal exposure level was 0.25 m g/m3 for Montreal garage mechanics while at work; the other averages ranged from 0.002 to 0.035 m g/m3 for various particle size fractions. Although it is impossible to extrapolate the results of these studies to the distribution of Mn exposure levels for the general population, it does appear that there is a general relationship between personal exposure levels of Mn and proximity to vehicular emissions of combusted MMT. Thus, populations living near high traffic-volume areas such as inner cities and expressways would probably tend to experience higher Mn exposure levels in relation to MMT usage. Some of the limitations of the Canadian studies with respect to development of a quantitative exposure assessment are reviewed in detail in Appendix B and may be summarized briefly as follows. •The studies did not have adequate sample sizes and did not sample according to a probabilistic statistical design that would help ensure the representativeness of the sampled individuals. •The sampling periods were relatively short, 1 to 2 weeks at most. Meteorological and other factors that would be expected to influence ambient measurements over relatively short periods of time were not characterized. •Because the studies did not use ambient monitors collocated with reference monitors (such as the dichotomous samplers used by Canadian agencies), it is difficult to relate data from the studies to larger databases from the government monitoring networks. •Because the studies did not use identical monitors to measure personal exposure levels and outdoor ambient levels, it is difficult to distinguish between personal exposures and ambient levels or to relate one to the other. •Quality assurance and certain other important methodological details are not fully provided in the available reports. Because of the substantial limitations of the above exposure studies, no quantitative assessment of personal exposures to Mn in a Canadian population is possible at present.
