FR941107-1-00050 FR941107-1-00010 Notice of Preliminary Determination On August 29, 1994, NHTSA published a notice in the Federal Register (59 FR 44397) preliminarily denying Florida's petition. NHTSA determined that an odometer disclosure statement that does not include the addresses of transferors and transferees threatens the integrity of the current system, and that Florida's proposed alternative does not properly accommodate the purposes which these addresses serve. NHTSA rejected the procedures Florida would impose on transactions in which at least one party is a dealer as inconsistent with the purposes of the Federal requirements. Noting that the DHS would be unable to provide the required address information from its records if an out-of-state dealer were involved in the chain of transfer on a Florida title, NHTSA determined that Florida's approach failed to accommodate interstate motor vehicle transfers. NHTSA further noted that it would be extremely difficult to ascertain the location of an out-of-state dealer without any identifying information beyond a license number from an unknown State. NHTSA concluded that Florida's proposed procedures would hinder enforcement efforts, which rely on readily available address information for all transferors and transferees in order to trace the sales histories of motor vehicles. The agency also noted that title blocks lacking a common information element accepted by most States as the norm for compliance with odometer disclosure requirements are more likely to be questioned or rejected in interstate transactions, thereby hindering the flow of commerce in motor vehicles. With respect to motor vehicle transfers in which no party is a dealer, NHTSA agreed that Florida's odometer disclosure procedures satisfy Federal odometer disclosure requirements. However, NHTSA recommended that the purchaser's address appear in the transfer block on the front of the title for improved clarity. Comments In response to the Notice of Preliminary Determination, The agency received only one comment, which was submitted by the California Department of Motor Vehicles after the close of the comment period. Despite its lateness, NHTSA has considered the comment. According to California, national title standards developed by the American Association of Motor Vehicle Administrators and accepted by the States set forth requirements for title document size and contents. California asserts that these standards and State statutes often preclude the inclusion of additional information on the title document. Due to these title size limitations, California is concerned that mandating the address information might reduce the space available for dealer reassignment blocks and therefore lead to increased paperwork in title transfers. As a preliminary matter, NHTSA would point out that neither State statutes nor association standards may act to preclude the disclosure of information required by Federal law. Moreover, California fails to acknowledge that all other States (except Florida) have properly accommodated the requirement for including address information in the odometer disclosure statement, and many of these States' titles include multiple dealer reassignment blocks. Hence, California's concern is not reflected in real world problems. California has only recently begun to conform its titling procedures with Federal odometer requirements, and should consult other States for guidance in this matter. Final Determination The agency is in possession of no information that would suggest that a change in the preliminary determination is appropriate. Accordingly, NHTSA reaffirms its preliminary determination and denies Florida's petition for approval of alternate odometer disclosure requirements. Florida must conform its procedures to the odometer disclosure requirements of 49 CFR Part 580. Additionally, the agency urges Florida to include a block for the purchaser's address on the front of the title, for improved clarity. Issued on: November 2, 1994. Philip R. Recht, Chief Counsel. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;27523 Filed 11&hyph;4&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;59&hyph;P
