FR940621-0-00016 FR940621-0-00007 Comment. Even though the contractor purchases the insurance and names the HA as an additional insured, the HA should also be required to purchase primary insurance to cover any exposure to liability for claims not directly related to work being done by the contractor. Response. While such an exposure may exist, the Department believes that the exposure is more limited than the exposure that already exists prior to any abatement work, and liability insurance to protect against claims for the mere existence of lead-based paint has never been required. Although not a requirement, there is no prohibition against the HA purchasing this insurance if it feels it is necessary and can afford to do so. Comment. The rule should allow defense costs to be included within the policy limit, since some of the insurance companies providing this insurance are now issuing policies on this basis. Response. To make coverage more readily available, the Department is willing to allow a limit being placed on the cost of defense prior to being deducted from the limit of liability, as long as the defense limit is not less than $250,000 per claim. The rule has been amended to that effect. Comment. The rule should encourage insurers to underwrite the risk by requiring them to analyze the risk of each abatement project and assure that there is proper guidance and technical assistance throughout the abatement process. Response. The Underwriting Department of each insurance company is charged with the responsibility of approving and accepting each risk they insure. Most insurance companies also have Loss Control Departments that work with their insureds in an effort to promote safe work habits and procedures and reduce losses. It would be inappropriate for HUD to attempt to dictate to the insurance company how they should underwrite and service the accounts they insure. Comment. Since the statutory requirement found in the 1992 Appropriations Act that coverage be purchased through a competitive process expires with the promulgation of this regulation, HAs should be entitled to purchase this coverage from a HA-owned insurance entity without competitive bidding. Response. We agree. Since issuance of the Final Rule setting Financial Standards for Housing Authority-Owned Insurance Entities which became effective on November 4, 1993, HAs are now authorized to obtain any line of insurance from a non-profit insurance entity that is owned and controlled by HAs and approved by HUD. Since this is now permitted by 24 CFR 905.190 and 965.201, no additional clarification in this rule is necessary. Comment. Paragraph (e) should be eliminated from the rule since it is gratuitous.
