FR940505-1-00037 FR940505-1-00012 EPA began its selection process for mobile source control strategies with those measures that were required in all states by the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990, and those measures being implemented by the State of California and local agencies. EPA considered the impact of these measures as well as the expected benefit of national mobile source rules in process. For example, the California Low Emissions Vehicle program (LEV) relies on advanced emission control technologies, clean gasoline, and an on-board diagnostics system which achieve substantial reductions beyond those which will result from federal cars. As described above, EPA then developed mobile source control strategies such that generally equal, proportional reductions would be achieved in all stationary, area and mobile source categories. EPA developed strategies which, if implemented, would result in cleaner vehicles and engines via further improvements in technology or mobile source users selecting alternatives with lower polluting characteristics. EPA also developed strategies which rely on declining emission limits for other remaining mobile source categories, both to provide sufficient reductions for attainment and to assure that each category of emission source was contributing to the solution. In 1990, passenger cars, other highway vehicles, nonroad engines and equipment, and the transportation facilities used in interstate commerce produced from 53 to 63 percent of the total inventory of volatile organic compounds (VOCs) and from 70 to 94 percent of the total inventory of oxides of nitrogen (NO X ) in the FIP areas covered by this proposal. In order to demonstrate attainment of the ozone standard in these areas, EPA is proposing regulations which assure significant reductions in mobile source emissions_beyond those already expected from the continued turnover to newer, cleaner vehicles and engines. The mobile source category covers a very broad range of sizes of equipment, types of fuels, uses and operating modes, and extent of current pollution control. Therefore, there is no one measure or even one uniform type of measure which is proposed across the category to achieve the reductions needed for the attainment plans (see section III.D.1.). The ozone attainment responsibility also falls on mobile sources that may operate on a national (or even an international) scale. Many of these mobile sources have not previously been controlled and must now undertake for the first time challenging pollution abatement assignments. For example, EPA is proposing that locomotives and large ships work to reduce NO X and VOC emissions from their respective activities in the FIP areas (see sections III.D.4.e.(3). and (4).). Airline operators, though to some extent previously regulated for air quality purposes, will also be asked to make further emissions reductions from aircraft and other airport activities (see section III.D.4.e.(2).). In addition, high quality inspection and maintenance (I/M) programs for vehicles remain the single most cost effective and important measure for achieving mobile source emissions reductions. In the FIPs, EPA is proposing a program which follows closely the model for meeting the performance standards for all I/M programs nationwide, and which EPA could effectively implement. EPA and the State of California are continuing to hold discussions on a different enhanced program design which would meet the national enhanced I/M performance standard if implemented by the state. If an agreement is reached, appropriate legislation and regulations are adopted, and an approvable SIP revision is submitted, EPA will withdraw or rescind the FIP I/M program (section III.D.2.c). One reason that vehicle emissions continue to be such a large portion of total VOC and NO X emissions_despite increasingly stringent emission standards for vehicles_is because of high growth in vehicle miles traveled (VMT). This VMT increase reflects the simple facts that more cars are on the road today than ever before, and more people are driving more miles than ever before. In order to encourage a reduction in VMT, and in the number of cars on the road, EPA is proposing two programs designed to decrease growth in VMT by targeting single occupant vehicle use. The proposed measures will require increases in average occupancy in personal vehicles in Sacramento and encourage shifts to carpooling and public modes of transportation in all the FIP areas (sections III.F.2 and III.D.2.g). Various other strategies could be used to achieve decreases in VMT. As discussed below and elsewhere in today's NPRM, EPA resources, and statutory authority have constrained our ability to propose these possibly more effective strategies. In designing these FIPs, EPA has attempted, wherever possible, to structure the proposed FIP rules so that responsible state and local agencies can adopt the rules as part of their SIPs or accept EPA delegation to implement the federal rules (section III.J.). For example, the proposed New Source Review (NSR) regulations for the Sacramento FIP area tracks the existing rule format and terminology shared by the 5 Sacramento area air pollution control districts, rather than following the design of EPA's existing federal NSR regulations (section III.F.4.). While the emission reduction targets in Sacramento and Ventura are formidable, the overwhelming reductions needed for ozone attainment in the South Coast appear to require that each individual pollution source within the FIP area eventually abate its emissions almost completely. For practically every controllable source category, this ultimate degree of control is beyond a level now foreseeable with existing technology and control techniques. Congress recognized that this unique South Coast attainment challenge required sustained commitment to seek and apply new technological solutions. EPA's proposed FIP employs the special provision in the 1990 Clean Air Act Amendments, which allows for commitments (rather than fully adopted regulations) as part of the South Coast ozone attainment demonstration. The South Coast FIP includes these commitments and outlines some of the federal activities currently underway to support the development and commercialization of new control technologies or pollution prevention techniques (see section III.B.5.d.).
