FR940323-0-00067 FR940323-0-00020 (iv) The sustainability of the program, based on evidence such as the existence of strong and broad-based community support for the program and of multiple funding sources or private funding. (2) Organizational capacity. The Corporation will also consider an organization's capacity to carry out the program based on_ (i) The quality of the leadership of the AmeriCorps program; (ii) The past performance of the organization or program; and (iii) The extent to which the program builds on existing programs. (c) Need criteria. In selecting programs, the Corporation will take into consideration the extent to which projects address State-identified issue priorities (if the program will be funded out of formula funds) or national priorities (if the program will be funded out of competitive funds), and whether projects would be conducted in areas of need. (1) Issue priorities. In order to concentrate national efforts on meeting certain educational, public safety, human, or environmental needs, and to achieve the other purposes of this Act, the Corporation will establish, and after review of the strategic plan approved by the Board, periodically alter priorities regarding the AmeriCorps programs that will receive assistance (funding or approved AmeriCorps positions) and the purposes for which such assistance may be used. These priorities will be applied to assistance provided on a competitive basis as described in ยง2521.30 of this chapter, and to any assistance provided through a subgrant of such funds. (i) States must establish, and through the national service plan process described in part 2513 of this chapter, periodically alter priorities regarding the programs that will receive assistance (funding or approved AmeriCorps positions) provided on a formula basis as described in ยง2521.30(a)(2) of this chapter. The State priorities will be subject to Corporation review as part of the application process under part 2521 of this chapter. (ii) The Corporation will provide advance notice to potential applicants of any AmeriCorps priorities to be in effect for a fiscal year. The notice will describe any alternation made in the priorities since the previous notice. If a program receives multi-year funding based on conformance to national or state priorities and such priorities are altered after the first year of funding, the program will not be adversely affected due to the change in priorities until the term of the grant is ended. (2) Areas of need. Areas of need are: (i) Communities designated by the Federal government or States as empowerment zones or redevelopment areas, targeted for special economic incentives, or otherwise identifiable as having high concentrations of low-income people; (ii) Areas that are environmentally distressed; (iii) Areas adversely affected by Federal actions related to the management of Federal lands that result in significant regional job losses and economic dislocation; (iv) Areas adversely affected by reductions in defense spending or the closure or realignment of military installations; and (v) Areas that have an unemployment rate greater than the national average unemployment rate for the most recent 12 months for which satisfactory data are available. (d) Contribution to overall diversity of programs funded by the Corporation. The Corporation will select programs that will help to achieve participant, program type, and geographic diversity across programs. (e) Additional considerations. The Corporation may publish in any notice of availability of funding additional factors that it may take into consideration in selecting programs, including any additional priorities applicable to any or all funds. ยง2522.420 Can a State's application for formula funds be rejected? Yes. Formula funds are not an entitlement. (a) Notification. If the Corporation rejects an application submitted by a State Commission under part 2550 of this chapter for funds described in ยง2521.30 of this chapter, the Corporation will promptly notify the State Commission of the reasons for the rejection of the application.
