FR940228-2-00141 FR940228-2-00082 E. Section 102 HUD Reform Act: Documentation and Public Access Requirements HUD will ensure that documentation and other information regarding each application submitted pursuant to this NOFA are sufficient to indicate the basis upon which assistance was provided or denied. This material, including any letters of support, will be made available for public inspection for a five-year period beginning not less than 30 days after the award of the assistance. Material will be made available in accordance with the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552) and HUD's implementing regulations at 24 CFR part 15. In addition, HUD will include the recipients of assistance pursuant to this NOFA in its quarterly Federal Register notice of all recipients of HUD assistance awarded on a competitive basis. (See 24 CFR 12.14(a) and 12.16(b), and the notice published in the Federal Register on January 16, 1992 (57 FR 1942), for further information on these requirements.) F. Section 103 of the HUD Reform Act HUD's regulation implementing section 103 of the Department of Housing and Urban Development Reform Act of 1989 (42 U.S.C. 3537a) became effective on June 12, 1991. That regulation, codified as 24 CFR part 4, applies to the funding competition announced today. The requirements of the rule continue to apply until the announcement of the selection of successful applicants. HUD employees involved in the review of applications and in the making of funding decisions are restrained by part 4 from providing advance information to any person (other than an authorized employee of HUD) concerning funding decisions, or from otherwise giving any applicant an unfair competitive advantage. Persons who apply for assistance in this competition should confine their inquiries to the subject areas permitted under 24 CFR part 4. Applicants who have questions should contact the HUD Office of Ethics (202) 708&hyph;3815 (voice/TDD). (This is not a toll-free number.) The Office of Ethics can provide information of a general nature to HUD employees, as well. However, a HUD employee who has specific program questions, such as whether particular subject matter can be discussed with persons outside the Department, should contact his or her Regional or Field Office Counsel, or Headquarters counsel for the program to which the question pertains. G. Section 112 of the Reform Act Section 13 of the Department of Housing and Urban Development Act (42 U.S.C. 3537b) contains two provisions dealing with efforts to influence HUD's decisions with respect to financial assistance. The first imposes disclosure requirements on those who are typically involved in these efforts_those who pay others to influence the award of assistance or the taking of a management action by the Department and those who are paid to provide the influence. The second restricts the payment of fees to those who are paid to influence the award of HUD assistance, if the fees are tied to the number of housing units received or are based on the amount of assistance received, or if they are contingent upon the receipt of assistance. Section 13 was implemented by final rule published in the Federal Register on May 17, 1991 (56 FR 22912). If readers are involved in any efforts to influence the Department in these ways, they are urged to read the final rule, particularly the examples contained in Appendix A of the rule. Any questions about the rule should be directed to the Office of Ethics, room 2158, Department of Housing and Urban Development, 451 Seventh Street SW., Washington, DC 20410&hyph;3000. Telephone: (202) 708&hyph;3815 (voice/TDD) (This is not a toll-free number.) Forms necessary for compliance with the rule may be obtained from the local HUD office. H. Freedom of Information Act Applications submitted in response to this NOFA are subject to disclosure under the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA). To assist the Department in determining whether to release information contained in an application in the event a FOIA request is received, and applicant may, through clear earmarking, or otherwise, indicate those portions of its application that it believes should not be disclosed. The applicants's views will be used solely to aid the Department in preparing its response to a FOIA request; however, the Department is required by the FOIA to make an independent evaluation of the information. HUD suggests that an applicant provide a basis, when possible, for its belief that confidential treatment is appropriate; general assertions or blanket requests for confidentiality, without more information, are of limited value to the Department in making determinations concerning the release of information under FOIA. The Department is required to segregate disclosable information from nondisclosable items, so an applicant should be careful to identify each portion of the application for which confidential treatment is requested. The Department emphasizes that the presence or absence of comments or earmarking regarding confidential information will have no bearing on the evaluation of applications submitted in response to this solicitation. I. Prohibition Against Lobbying Activities The use of funds awarded under this NOFA is subject to the disclosure requirements and prohibitions of section 319 of the Department of Interior and Related Agencies Appropriations Act of Fiscal Year 1990 (31 U.S.C. 1352) (the ``Byrd Amendment'') and the implementing regulations at 24 CFR part 87. These authorities prohibit recipients of federal contracts, grants or loans from using appropriated funds for lobbying the Executive or Legislative branches of the Federal government in connection with a specific contract, grant, or loan. The prohibition also covers the awarding of contracts, grants, cooperative agreements, or loans unless the recipient has made an acceptable certification regarding lobbying. Under 24 CFR part 87, applicants, recipients, and subrecipients of assistance exceeding $100,000 must certify that no federal funds have been or will be spent on lobbying activities in connection with the assistance. The Department has determined that an IHA established by an Indian Tribe as a result of the exercise of its sovereign power is not subject to the Byrd Amendment, but an IHA established under State law is subject to those requirements and prohibitions. Authority: 42 U.S.C. 1437t and 3535(d). Dated: February 7, 1994. Joseph Shuldiner, Assistant Secretary for Public and Indian Housing. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;4413 Filed 2&hyph;25&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4210&hyph;33&hyph;P
