FR941121-0-00073 FR941121-0-00008 (l) Appeal of permits. (1) Within 30 days after a final permit decision has been issued, any person who filed comments on the draft permit or participated in the public hearing may petition the Environmental Appeals Board to review any condition of the permit decision. Any person who failed to file comments or failed to participate in the public hearing on the draft permit may petition for administrative review only to the extent of the changes from the draft to the final permit decision. The 30-day period within which a person may request review under this subsection begins with the service of notice of the Administrator's action unless a later date is specified in that notice. The petition shall include a statement of the reasons supporting that review, including a demonstration that any issues raised were raised during the public comment period (including any public hearing) to the extent required by these regulations unless the petitioner demonstrates that it was impracticable to raise such objections within such period or unless the grounds for such objection arose after such period, and, when appropriate, a showing that the condition in question is based on: (i) A finding of fact or conclusion of law which is clearly erroneous; or (ii) An exercise of discretion or an important policy consideration which the Environmental Appeals Board should, in its discretion, review. (2) The Board may also decide on its initiative to review any condition of any permit issued under this subpart. The Board must act under this paragraph within 30 days of the service date of notice of the Administrator's action. (3) Within a reasonable time following the filing of the petition for review, the Board shall issue an order either granting or denying the petition for review. To the extent review is denied, the conditions of the final permit decision become final agency action. Public notice of any grant of review by the Board under paragraph (l) (1) or (2) of this section shall be given as provided in paragraph (d) of this section. Public notice shall set forth a briefing schedule for the appeal and shall state that any interested person may file an amicus brief. Notice of denial of review shall be sent only to applicant and to the person(s) requesting review. (4) A petition to the Board under paragraph (l)(1) of this section is, under 42 U.S.C. 307(b), a prerequisite to the seeking of judicial review of the final agency action. (5) For purposes of judicial review, final agency action occurs when a final permit is issued or denied by EPA and agency review procedures are exhausted. A final permit decision shall be issued by the Administrator: (i) When the Board issues notice to the parties that review has been denied; (ii) When the Board issues a decision on the merits of the appeal and the decision does not include a remand of the proceedings; or (iii) Upon the completion of remand proceedings if the proceedings are remanded, unless the Board's remand order specifically provides that appeal of the remand decision will be required to exhaust administrative remedies. (6) Neither the filing of a petition for review of any condition of the permit or permit decision nor the granting of an appeal by the Environmental Appeals Board shall stay the effect of any contested permit or permit condition. (m) Computation of time. (1) Any time period scheduled to begin on the occurrence of an act or event shall begin on the day after the act or event. (2) Any time period scheduled to begin before the occurrence of an act or event shall be computed so that the period ends on the day before the act or event, except as otherwise provided. (3) If the final day of any time period falls on a weekend or legal holiday, the time period shall be extended to the next working day. (4) Whenever a party or interested person has the right or is required to act within a prescribed period after the service of notice or other paper upon him or her by mail, 3 days shall be added to the prescribed time. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;28292 Filed 11&hyph;18&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;P
