FR940607-0-00088 FR940607-0-00018 §291.400 Purpose and scope. * * * * * (c) Property available for lease with option to purchase. (1) HUD will make available up to 10 percent of its total inventory of properties as of October 1, 1993. Thereafter, on October 1 of each year, the 10 percent figure will be adjusted upward or downward to reflect increases or decreases in the total inventory. Property will be available for lease under the terms and conditions described in §291.415, in accordance with the following criteria: (i) The property has been listed for sale for at least 30 days, except as provided in paragraph (c)(2) of this section; (ii) The property is vacant; and (iii) A sales contract has not been accepted for the property, or the property has not been committed to another program. (2) Where a Field Office has 200, or fewer, total properties in inventory on October 1 of each year, and where applicants have requested to lease properties in certain designated areas, such properties will be offered first to applicants for lease before being listed for sale to the general public until 10 percent of the total inventory of the Field Office has been leased. HUD will also take into consideration the number of properties that the Department anticipates acquiring over the next 12-month period and the speed with which acquired properties are selling in the area. HUD will consult, on an annual basis, with units of general local government in the area on parts of the area where there is a need for housing for homeless persons. (d) Property available under a McKinney Act Supportive Housing program lease-option agreement. Eligible properties will be available under a lease-option to purchase agreement, under the terms and conditions described in §291.420, to Supportive Housing program applicants for acquisition grants under 24 CFR part 583. (e) Properties available for sale. Eligible properties will be available for competitive sale or direct sale for fair market value, less a discount determined appropriate by the Secretary but not less than 10 percent, under the terms and conditions described in §291.425. * * * * * §291.405 [Amended] 3. In §291.405, the definition of ``Applicant'' is amended by removing the word ``Demonstration'', and by removing the words ``24 CFR 577.5 or 578.5'' and replacing them with ``24 CFR part 583'' in the last sentence; the definition of ``Eligible properties'' is amended by adding the word ``vacant'' before ``single family properties''; and the definition of ``Supportive Housing Demonstration'' is removed. 4. Section 291.410 is amended by revising paragraph (c) introductory text, adding paragraph (c)(6), and revising paragraph (d), to read as follows: §291.410 Applicant preapproval; notification of eligible properties. * * * * * (c) Applicant data and certification . To obtain preapproval, applicants must provide the appropriate HUD Field Office with the following data and certification: (1) *␣*␣* (2) *␣*␣* (3) *␣*␣* (4) *␣*␣* (5) *␣*␣* (6) A certification of the applicant's intent to comply with the requirements of the nondiscrimination and equal opportunity requirements set forth in §291.435. (d) Notification of eligible properties available for lease. (1) Applicants, preapproved by HUD as described in paragraph (a) of this section, must designate geographic areas of interest by ZIP Code to the appropriate HUD Field Office(s), and must indicate their intention to lease properties in those areas. (2)(i) Upon request, and after properties have been listed for sale to the general public for at least 30 days, except as provided in paragraph (d)(2)(ii) of this section, Field Offices will notify applicants, in writing, of available eligible properties in the ZIP Code areas previously designated by the applicant. Specific properties selected by the applicant will be held off the market for a 10-day consideration and inspection period beginning to run upon notification by the applicant to the Field Office. (Where notification is by mail, the 10-day period will begin to run five days after mailing.) Only those properties in which the applicant has expressed an interest will be held off the market. If a signed lease is not received from the applicant by the end of the 10-day consideration and inspection period, the Field Office will resume offering the properties for sale. (Facsimile (FAX) transmissions are acceptable.) (ii) Where properties are made available to applicants before being listed for sale to the public, as described in §291.400(c)(2), upon request, Field Offices will notify applicants, in writing, when eligible properties become available in the ZIP Code areas previously designated by the applicant. Those properties will remain available for a 10-day consideration and inspection period before being listed for sale to the public. The 10-day period will begin to run upon notification of the applicant by the Field Office. (Where notification is by mail, the consideration period will begin to run five days after mailing.) Applicants must submit a signed lease to the Field Office by the end of the 10-day period. (Facsimile (FAX) transmissions are acceptable.) If a signed lease is not received by the end of the 10-day period, the Field Office will offer the properties for sale to the general public. After the initial 10-day consideration and inspection period, a property will not be available to applicants for lease again until it has been offered to the public for 30 days. If an applicant expresses an interest in leasing a property during or after the 30-day public sale period, the Field Office will offer the property to the applicant for 10 days after the public sale period, provided the property is unsold, no offer from the public has been accepted, and the property is not in a public bid-offering period or committed to another purpose or program. (iii) In notifying applicants of available properties, Field Offices will coordinate the dissemination of the information to ensure that where more than one applicant designates a specific area, those applicants receive the list of properties at the same time, based on intervals agreed upon between HUD and the applicants. Properties will be leased or sold to applicants on a first come-first served basis. (iv) HUD may limit the number of properties held off the market for an applicant at any one time, based upon the applicant's financial capacity and past performance as determined by HUD from information provided in the preapproval process and observations made during monitoring of a program in progress. 5. Section 291.415 is amended by redesignating paragraph (d)(1) as paragraph (d)(1)(i), by adding paragraph (d)(1)(ii), and by revising the first sentence of paragraph (f)(1), to read as follows:
