FR940628-1-00053 FR940628-1-00010 Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) Program means the extramural research program for small business that is established by the Awarding Components of the Public Health Service and certain other Federal agencies under Public Law 97&hyph;219, the Small Business Innovation Development Act, as amended. For purposes of this subpart, the term SBIR Program includes the Small Business Technology Transfer (SBTT) Program, which was established by Public Law 102&hyph;564. §50.604 Institutional responsibility regarding Significant Financial Interests of Investigators. (a) Each Institution must: (1) Inform each Investigator of the Institution's policy for identifying and managing Significant Financial Interests, the Investigator's reporting responsibilities, and of this subpart. (2) Designate an institutional official(s) to solicit and review financial disclosure statements from each Investigator who is planning to participate in PHS-funded research. (3) Ensure that Investigators have provided to the designated official(s) a listing of Significant Financial Interests that ensures disclosure of all Significant Financial Interests of the type described in §50.605(a) prior to the time an application is submitted to PHS. All financial disclosures must be updated during the pendency of the award, either on an annual basis, or as new reportable Significant Financial Interests are obtained. (4) Provide guidelines consistent with this subpart for the designated official(s) to identify Significant Financial Interests of the type described in §50.605(a) and take such actions as necessary to ensure that any such financial interest will be managed, reduced, or eliminated. (5) Maintain records, identifiable to each award, of all financial disclosures and all actions taken by the Institution with respect to each Significant Financial Interest of the type described in §50.605 for at least three years beyond the termination or completion of the award, or until resolution of any action by the HHS involving the records, whichever is longer. (6) Establish procedures for resolving any alleged violation of the financial conflict of interest policy of the Institution and establish appropriate enforcement action for failure to comply. (7) Certify, in each application for the funding to which this subpart applies, that; (i) There is in effect at that Institution a written and enforced administrative process to identify and manage, reduce or eliminate Significant Financial Interests of the type described in §50.605(a) with respect to all research projects for which funding is sought from the PHS, (ii) The Institution either has, or has not found a Significant Financial Interest of the type described in §50.606 and, where such interest is found, certify that actions will be taken prior to the award of funding to manage, reduce or eliminate that interest in accordance with this subpart; and that the Institution will notify the PHS Awarding Component of such action prior to issuance of the Notice of Grant Award. (iii) The Institution agrees to make information available, upon request, to the HHS regarding all Significant Financial Interests identified by the Institution of the type described in §50.605 and how those interests have been managed, reduced, or eliminated to protect the research from bias; (iv) The Institution will otherwise comply with this subpart. (8) (i) Notify the PHS Awarding Component of the identification and management, reduction or elimination of any Significant Financial Interest of the type described in §50.605 that originates or becomes known to the institution after the grant or cooperative agreement has been awarded, within sixty days of its becoming aware of that interest.
