FR940426-2-00136 FR940426-2-00078 One commenter states that FTA's proposed acceptance of institutional barriers to private sector involvement is inconsistent with Executive Order 12893 (January 26, 1994), which provides that ``agencies should work with State and local enities to minimize legal and regulatory barriers to private sector participation in the provision of infrastructure facilities and services.'' This commenter maintains that recision would undermine this policy. The Executive Order makes it clear, however, that encouragement of private sector participation, like the other principles of sound infrastructure management, is to be implemented through efficient State and local programs. Accordingly, the Executive Order directs that Federal agencies work with State and local entities to minimize such institutional barriers, not to mandate that local officials overlook them. Indeed, by stating that institutional barriers should be minimized rather than ignored, the Executive Order recognizes that such barriers exist and must be taken into account by local officials in determining the feasibility of private sector involvement. FTA finds, therefore, that recision of its current guidance concerning institutional barriers to privatization is fully consistent with Executive Order 12893. FTA finds that no data demonstrate that the current policy has resulted in increased private sector involvement and that the current policy has curbed the ability of local communities to determine which transit options best meet the needs of their community. FTA believes that this recision of the previous policy will restore to local transit officials the flexibility they need to determine to what extent privatization is feasible without the imposition of a Federal mandate that has often disrupted the grantmaking process and jeopardized the balance between Federal and State/local requirements. E. Appeal Process The circulars provide that both recipients and MPOs should develop a process for the resolution of disputes with private operators. Private operators may appeal to FTA if they fail to resolve their disputes at the local level. Pursuant to this provision, FTA has rendered administrative decisions following an investigation of disputes. In certain of these decisions under the current policy, FTA has indicated that it would withhold Federal funds from grant recipients that failed to conform to an FTA determination. In the Notice, FTA stated that since it will be conducting regular reviews of grantees' compliance with the planning requirements, a formal appeal process leading to FTA does not appear necessary. Commenters for the private sector supported a continued role by FTA in the private sector complaint process. One commenter stated that by proposing to do away with the appeal process, FTA is showing that it will not enforce the statutory requirements of the FT Act. Another noted that of the 12 private enterprise complaints brought to FTA since the current private sector policy was adopted, eight were dismissed outright because the grantee had committed no procedural error, two resulted in remands to the grantee, and in all but one other case, the grantee's decision was upheld. This, argues the commenter, ``is not a record of heavy-handed federal interference in local decisionmaking.'' FTA agrees that the appeal process has not played a significant role in furthering the private enterprise provisions of the FT Act. The figures cited by this commenter reveal that the process has in fact resulted in lengthy and cumbersome delays (FTA has taken up to two years to decide certain matters) and has had little impact on the local decisionmaking process or on the level of private sector involvement. A review of FTA records indicates that in the one case in which a grantee was cited for a violation of the private enterprise provisions and ordered to reopen a certain route to private sector bids, no private operator submitted a bid to provide service on the route. FTA therefore concludes that the appeal process has been a fruitless exercise. Periodic FTA reviews should ensure that grantees are in compliance with the planning requirements for local participation without needless Federal intrusion and additional paperwork and administrative burdens on both grantees and FTA. FTA will therefore eliminate the appeal to FTA. However, FTA notes that the agency may investigate and take action in the case of any failure by a grantee or MPO to follow Federal requirements. Since private enterprise participation in the planning process is mandated by ISTEA and the new metropolitan and statewide planning regulations (49 CFR part 613 and 23 CFR part 450), FTA will monitor and investigate any apparent failures by grantees and MPOs to follow the procedures set out in their own local planning process.
