FR941007-1-00021 FR941007-1-00001 A DOE official will be designated to preside at the hearing. The hearing will not be a judicial or an evidentiary-type hearing, but will be conducted in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 533 and section 336 of the Act. At the conclusion of all initial oral statements at each day of the hearing, each person who has made an oral statement will be given the opportunity to make a rebuttal statement, subject to time limitations. The rebuttal statement will be given in the order in which the initial statements were made. The official conducting the hearing will accept additional comments or questions from those attending, as time permits. Any interested person may submit to the presiding official written questions to be asked of any person making a statement at the hearing. The presiding official will determine whether the question is relevant and whether time limitations permit it to be presented for answer. Further questioning of speakers will be permitted by DOE. The presiding official will afford any interested person an opportunity to question, with respect to disputed issues of material fact, other interested persons who made oral presentations as well as employees of the United States Government who have made written or oral presentations relating to the proposed rule. This opportunity will be afforded after any rebuttal statements to the extent that the presiding official determines that such questioning is likely to result in a more timely and effective resolution of disputed issues of material fact. If the time provided is insufficient or inconvenient, DOE will consider affording an additional opportunity for questioning at a mutually convenient time. Persons interested in making use of this opportunity must submit their request to the presiding official no later than shortly after the completion of any rebuttal statements and be prepared to state specific justification, including why the issue is one of disputed fact and how the proposed questions would expedite their resolution. Any further procedural rules regarding proper conduct of the hearing will be announced by the presiding official. A transcript of the hearing will be made and the entire record of this rulemaking, including the transcript, will be retained by DOE and made available for inspection at the DOE Freedom of Information Reading Room as provided at the beginning of this notice. Any person may purchase a copy of the transcript from the transcribing reporter. Issued in Washington, DC September 21, 1994. Christine A. Ervin, Assistant Secretary, Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;24924 Filed 10&hyph;6&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6450&hyph;01&hyph;P
