FR941216-1-00056 FR941216-1-00010 (d) Examples. The following examples illustrate the rules of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section. For purposes of these examples, assume that the debt instrument is not a tax-exempt obligation. In addition, unless otherwise provided, assume that the rate is not reasonably expected to result in a significant front-loading or back-loading of interest and that the rate is not based on objective financial or economic information that is within the control of the issuer (or a related party) or that is unique to the circumstances of the issuer (or a related party). * * * * * Example 4. Rate based on changes in the value of a commodity index. X issues a debt instrument that provides for annual interest payments at the end of each year at a rate equal to the percentage increase, if any, in the value of an index for the year immediately preceding the payment. The index is based on the prices of several actively traded commodities. Variations in the value of this interest rate cannot reasonably be expected to measure contemporaneous variations in the cost of newly borrowed funds. Accordingly, the rate is not a qualified floating rate. However, because the rate is based on objective financial information, the rate is an objective rate. Example 5. Rate based on a percentage of S&P 500 Index. X issues a debt instrument that provides for annual interest payments at the end of each year based on a fixed percentage of the value of the S&P 500 Index. Variations in the value of this interest rate cannot reasonably be expected to measure contemporaneous variations in the cost of newly borrowed funds and, therefore, the rate is not a qualified floating rate. Although the rate would be an objective rate under paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section, the rate is not an objective rate because it is reasonably expected that the average value of the rate during the first half of the instrument's term will be significantly less than the average value of the rate during the final half of the instrument's term. Example 6. Rate based on issuer's profits. Z issues a debt instrument that provides for annual interest payments equal to 20 percent of Z's net profits earned during the year immediately preceding the payment. Variations in the value of this interest rate cannot reasonably be expected to measure contemporaneous variations in the cost of newly borrowed funds. Accordingly, the rate is not a qualified floating rate. In addition, because the stated rate is based on objective financial information that is unique to the issuer's circumstances, the rate is not an objective rate. * * * * * Example 10. Rate based on an inflation index. On January 1, 1996, X issues a debt instrument that provides for annual interest payments at the end of each year at a rate equal to 400 basis points (4 percent) plus the annual percentage change in a general inflation index (e.g., the Consumer Price Index, U.S. City Average, All Items, for all Urban Consumers, seasonally unadjusted). Variations in the value of this interest rate cannot reasonably be expected to measure contemporaneous variations in the cost of newly borrowed funds. Accordingly, the rate is not a qualified floating rate. However, because the rate is based on objective economic information, the rate is an objective rate. (e) * ␣9* ␣9* (2) Variable rate debt instrument that provides for annual payments of interest at a single variable rate. If a variable rate debt instrument provides for stated interest at a single qualified floating rate or objective rate that is unconditionally payable in cash or in property (other than debt instruments of the issuer), or that will be constructively received under section 451, at least annually_ (i) All stated interest with respect to the debt instrument is qualified stated interest; (ii) The amount of qualified stated interest and the amount of OID, if any, that accrues during an accrual period is determined under the rules applicable to fixed rate debt instruments by assuming that the variable rate is a fixed rate equal to_
