FR941007-1-00180 FR941007-1-00010 FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 12 CFR Part 203 [Regulation C; Docket No. R&hyph;0848] Home Mortgage Disclosure AGENCY: Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. ACTION: Proposed rule. SUMMARY: The Board is publishing for public comment proposed changes to Regulation C (Home Mortgage Disclosure) and to the instructions that financial institutions must use to comply with the annual reporting requirements under the regulation. The amendments reflect revisions proposed by the Board, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, and the Office of Thrift Supervision to their regulations implementing the Community Reinvestment Act (CRA). Under the joint CRA proposal, banks or savings associations that report data about their home mortgage lending pursuant to HMDA_and that have assets of $250 million or more, or that are subsidiaries of a holding company with total banking and thrift assets of $250 million or more_would collect and report geographic information on loans and loan applications relating to property located outside the MSAs in which the institution has a home or branch office. Currently, geographic identification is required only within MSAs where these lenders have an office. Data would be collected and reported in accordance with the instructions in Regulation C. The agencies believe that these data would provide more geographic detail on home mortgage lending that would facilitate complete CRA assessments for institutions that do not qualify as small banks or thrifts. DATES: Comments must be received on or before November 21, 1994. The revised final rules would apply to loan and application data beginning July 1, 1995. ADDRESSES: Comments should refer to Docket No. R&hyph;0848 and be sent to William W. Wiles, Secretary, Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, Washington, D.C. 20551. They may also be delivered to Room B&hyph;2222 of the Eccles Building between 8:45 a.m. and 5:15 p.m. weekdays, or to the guard station in the Eccles Building courtyard on 20th Street, NW, (between Constitution Avenue and C Street) at any time. Comments received will be available for inspection in Room MP&hyph;500 of the Martin Building between 9:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. weekdays, except as provided in 12 CFR 261.8 of the Board's rules regarding the availability of information. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Jane Jensen Gell or W. Kurt Schumacher, Staff Attorneys, Division of Consumer and Community Affairs, Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, Washington, DC 20551, at (202) 452&hyph;2412 or (202) 452&hyph;3667. For the hearing impaired only, contact Dorothea Thompson, Telecommunications Device for the Deaf (TDD), at (202) 452&hyph;3544. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: I. Background The Board's Regulation C (12 CFR Part 203) implements the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act of 1975 (HMDA) (12 U.S.C. 2801 et seq ). HMDA requires most mortgage lenders located in metropolitan areas to collect data about their housing-related lending activity. Annually, lenders must report that data to their federal supervisory agencies and disclose the data to the public. The reports and disclosures cover loan originations, applications that do not result in originations (for example, applications that are denied or withdrawn), and loan purchases. Information reported includes the location of the property to which the loan or application relates; the race or national origin, gender, and gross annual income of the borrower or applicant; and the type of purchaser for loans sold in the secondary market. The federal financial regulatory agencies have proposed amendments to the CRA. The CRA proposal would require banks or savings associations that report data about their home mortgage lending pursuant to HMDA_and that have assets of $250 million or more, or that are subsidiaries of a holding company with total banking and thrift assets of $250 million or more_to collect and report geographic information on loans and applications relating to property located in metropolitan areas whether or not the institution has a home or branch office there. They will also report geographic information for property located outside any MSA. (This proposal does not affect the current exemption in ยง203.3 of Regulation C for banks and savings associations; for example, institutions whose assets are $10 million or less remain exempt.) Currently, lenders have the option of collecting this information but are not required to do so. The agencies believe that these data would provide more geographic detail on home mortgage lending that would facilitate complete CRA assessments for institutions that do not qualify as small banks or thrifts. The revised final rules would apply to loan and application data beginning July 1, 1995.
