FR940317-2-00066 FR940317-2-00042 Initial claims for oxygen must also be supported by medical documentation. Separate documentation is used with electronic billing. (See Medicare Carriers Manual, Part 3, §4105.6.) This documentation may be in the form of a prescription written by the patient's attending physician who has recently examined the patient (normally within a month of the start of therapy) and must specify: •A diagnosis of the disease requiring home use of oxygen; •The oxygen flow rate; and •An estimate of the frequency, duration of use (e.g., 2 liters per minute, 10 minutes per hour, 12 hours per day), and duration of need (e.g., 6 months or lifetime). Note: A prescription for ``Oxygen PRN'' or ``Oxygen as needed'' does not meet this last requirement. Neither provides any basis for determining if the amount of oxygen is reasonable and necessary for the patient. All claims with oxygen flow rates of more than 2 liters per minute must be reviewed by a carrier's medical staff before payment can be made. The attending physician may also specify the type of oxygen delivery system to be used (i.e., gas, liquid, or concentrator). If the type of system is specified, then the medical reasons for selecting that system over the alternative systems must also be specified. New medical documentation written by the patient's attending physician must be submitted to the carrier in support of revised oxygen requirements when there has been a change in the patient's condition and need for oxygen therapy. Carriers are required to conduct periodic, continuing medical necessity reviews on patients whose conditions warrant these reviews and on patients with indefinite or extended periods of necessity as described in Medicare Carriers Manual, Part 3, §4105.6.C. When indicated, carriers may also request documentation of the results of a repeat arterial blood gas or oximetry study. Note: Section 4152 of OBRA 1990 requires earlier recertification and retesting of oxygen patients who begin coverage with an arterial blood gas result at or above a partial pressure of 55 or an arterial oxygen saturation percentage at or above 89. (See Medicare Carriers Manual §4105.6 for certifications and retesting schedules.) C. Laboratory Evidence._Initial claims for oxygen therapy must also include the results of a blood gas study that has been ordered and evaluated by the attending physician. This is usually in the form of a measurement of the partial pressure of oxygen (PO2) in arterial blood. (See Medicare Carriers Manual, Part 3, §2070.1 for instructions on clinical laboratory tests.) A measurement of arterial oxygen saturation obtained by ear or pulse oximetry, however, is also acceptable when ordered and evaluated by the attending physician and performed under his or her supervision or when performed by a qualified provider or supplier of laboratory services. In situations when the arterial blood gas and the oximetry studies are both used to document the need for home oxygen therapy and the results are conflicting, the arterial blood gas study is the preferred source of documenting medical need. A DME supplier is not considered a qualified provider or supplier of laboratory services for purposes of these guidelines. This prohibition does not extend to the results of an arterial blood gas test conducted by a hospital certified to do such tests. The conditions under which the laboratory tests are performed must be specified in writing and submitted with the initial claim, i.e., at rest, while sleeping, while exercising, on room air, or if while on oxygen, the amount, body position during testing, and similar information necessary for interpreting the evidence as specified by the carrier. The preferred sources of laboratory evidence are existing physician and/or hospital records that reflect the patient's medical condition. Since it is expected that virtually all patients who qualify for home oxygen coverage for the first time under these guidelines have recently been discharged from a hospital where they submitted to arterial blood gas tests, the carrier needs to request that such test results be submitted in support of their initial claims for home oxygen. If more than one arterial blood gas test is performed during the patient's hospital stay, the test result obtained closest to the hospital discharge date is the best evidence of the need for home oxygen therapy. Carriers may accept an attending physician's statement of recent hospital test results for a particular patient, when appropriate, in lieu of copies of actual hospital records. Subsequent blood gas tests that appear to duplicate the hospital test (e.g., when there is no reason to believe the patient's condition may have changed) are denied as not medically reasonable and necessary. A repeat arterial blood gas or oximetry study is normally necessary only when evidence indicates that an oxygen recipient has undergone a major change relevant to home use of oxygen. For example, if the carrier has reason to believe that there has been a major change in the patient's physical condition (e.g., when there has been a significant increase in the amount of oxygen billed on a monthly basis), it may ask for documentation of the results of another blood gas or oximetry study. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;6153 Filed 3&hyph;16&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4120&hyph;01&hyph;P
