FR940106-2-00101 FR940106-2-00054 DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE Drug Enforcement Administration [Docket No. 92&hyph;56] Abel J. Sands, M.D.; Denial of Application On May 14, 1992, the Deputy Assistant Administrator, Office of Diversion Control, Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA), issued an Order to Show Cause to Abel J. Sands, M.D. (Respondent) of 316 South Midwest Boulevard, Midwest City, Oklahoma 73110. The Order to Show Cause, which proposed to deny Respondent's application for registration pursuant to 21 U.S.C. 823(f), alleged that Respondent's registration would be inconsistent with the public interest. The Order to Show Cause alleged that Respondent issued prescriptions for controlled substances to undercover agents of the Oklahoma State Bureau of Narcotics and Dangerous Drugs (OBN) for other than legitimate medical purposes; that OBN took action against Respondent's state license to handle controlled substances; and that Respondent failed to keep complete and accurate records of this purchasing and dispensing of controlled substances. Respondent, through counsel, requested a hearing and the matter was placed on the docket of Administrative Law Judge Mary Ellen Bittner. Following prehearing procedures, a hearing was held in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, on December 15, 1992. On September 8, 1993, the administrative law judge issued her findings of fact, conclusions of law and recommended ruling. On September 30, 1993, Respondent filed exceptions to the recommended ruling of the administrative law judge. On October 12, 1993, the administrative law judge transmitted the record in this proceeding to the Administrator. Having considered the record in its entirety, and pursuant to 21 CFR 1316.67, the Acting Administrator hereby issues his final order in this matter based upon the findings of fact and conclusions of law set forth below. It was proven at the hearing that on numerous occasions, Respondent wrote prescriptions to undercover agents in the absence of a legitimate medical purpose. OBN first became aware of Respondent's prescribing practices after Respondent's name arose in the course of an investigation into the street purchase of cocaine, a Schedule II controlled substance, Valium and Xanax, both Schedule IV controlled substances. OBN agents posed as patients and visited Respondent's office in an attempt to obtain prescriptions for controlled substances without legitimate medical reason. The OBN agents conducted a total of seven successful undercover operations at Respondent's office between December 1988 and April 1989. On each occasion, the OBN agents were able to obtain prescriptions for Xanax without legitimate medical purpose. All of these undercover operations were taped and transcribed. On the first undercover visit on December 14, 1988, the undercover agent told Respondent that a friend from whom he had been purchasing Xanax advised him that he could obtain a prescription for Respondent. The agent told Respondent that the Xanax made him ``feel good.'' After initially refusing to provide the prescription, Respondent informed the agent that he would make a patient chart for him, the charge for which would be $25.00. Respondent proceeded to perform a cursory examination of the agent, which included taking his weight and blood pressure. The agent told Respondent that he needed Xanax to ``function'' at work after he used cocaine. Respondent ultimately provided the agent with a prescription for 60 Xanax, stating that writing for 100 would get him (Respondent) in ``trouble.'' OBN agents conducted similar undercover operations on six other occasions and obtained prescriptions for Xanax each time. The lead agent testified, and the transcripts provided corroboration, that he never complained of any medical problem which warranted the use of Xanax. The administrative law judge determined that Respondent did not establish a physician-patient relationship with the OBN agents and concluded that none of the prescriptions at issue was for a legitimate medical purpose.
