FR941028-2-00164 FR941028-2-00109 B. Epidemiology, Transmission, and Pathogenesis of TB The prevalence of TB is not distributed evenly throughout all segments of the U.S. population. Some subgroups or persons have a higher risk for TB either because they are more likely than other persons in the general population to have been exposed to and infected with M. tuberculosis or because their infection is more likely to progress to active TB after they have been infected ( 5 ). In some cases, both of these factors may be present. Groups of persons known to have a higher prevalence of TB infection include contacts of persons who have active TB, foreign-born persons from areas of the world with a high prevalence of TB (e.g., Asia, Africa, the Caribbean, and Latin America), medically underserved populations (e.g., some African-Americans, Hispanics, Asians and Pacific Islanders, American Indians, and Alaskan Natives), homeless persons, current or former correctional-facility inmates, alcoholics, injecting-drug users, and the elderly. Groups with a higher risk for progression from latent TB infection to active disease include persons who have been infected recently (i.e., within the previous 2 years), children less than <4 years of age, persons with fibrotic lesions on chest radiographs, and persons with certain medical conditions (i.e., human immunodeficiency virus [HIV] infection, silicosis, gastrectomy or jejuno-ileal bypass, being "10% below ideal body weight, chronic renal failure with renal dialysis, diabetes mellitus, immunosuppression resulting from receipt of high-dose corticosteroid or other immunosuppressive therapy, and some malignancies) ( 5 ). M. tuberculosis is carried in airborne particles, or droplet nuclei, that can be generated when persons who have pulmonary or laryngeal TB sneeze, cough, speak, or sing ( 6 ). The particles are an estimated 1&hyph;5 μm in size, and normal air currents can keep them airborne for prolonged time periods and spread them throughout a room or building ( 7 ). Infection occurs when a susceptible person inhales droplet nuclei containing M. tuberculosis , and these droplet nuclei traverse the mouth or nasal passages, upper respiratory tract, and bronchi to reach the alveoli of the lungs. Once in the alveoli, the organisms are taken up by alveolar macrophages and spread throughout the body. Usually within 2&hyph;10 weeks after initial infection with M. tuberculosis , the immune response limits further multiplication and spread of the tubercle bacilli; however, some of the bacilli remain dormant and viable for many years. This condition is referred to as latent TB infection. Persons with latent TB infection usually have positive purified protein derivative (PPD)-tuberculin skin-test results, but they do not have symptoms of active TB, and they are not infectious. In general, persons who become infected with M. tuberculosis have approximately a 10% risk for developing active TB during their lifetimes. This risk is greatest during the first 2 years after infection. Immunocompromised persons have a greater risk for the progression of latent TB infection to active TB disease; HIV infection is the strongest known risk factor for this progression. Persons with latent TB infection who become coinfected with HIV have approximately an 8%&hyph;10% risk per year for developing active TB ( 8 ). HIV-infected persons who are already severely immunosuppressed and who become newly infected with M. tuberculosis have an even greater risk for developing active TB ( 9&hyph;12 ). The probability that a person who is exposed to M. tuberculosis will become infected depends primarily on the concentration of infectious droplet nuclei in the air and the duration of exposure. Characteristics of the TB patient that enhance transmission include (a) disease in the lungs, airways, or larynx; (b) presence of cough or other forceful expiratory measures; (c) presence of acid-fast bacilli (AFB) in the sputum; (d) failure of the patient to cover the mouth and nose when coughing or sneezing; (e) presence of cavitation on chest radiograph; (f) inappropriate or short duration of chemotherapy; and (g) administration of procedures that can induce coughing or cause aerosolization of M. tuberculosis (e.g., sputum induction). Environmental factors that enhance the likelihood of transmission include (a) exposure in relatively small, enclosed spaces; (b) inadequate local or general ventilation that results in insufficient dilution and/or removal of infectious droplet nuclei; and (c) recirculation of air containing infectious droplet nuclei. Characteristics of the persons exposed to M. tuberculosis that may affect the risk for becoming infected are not as well defined. In general, persons who have been infected previously with M. tuberculosis may be less susceptible to subsequent infection. However, reinfection can occur among previously infected persons, especially if they are severely immunocompromised. Vaccination with Bacille of Calmette and Guérin (BCG) probably does not affect the risk for infection; rather, it decreases the risk for progressing from latent TB infection to active TB ( 13 ). Finally, although it is well established that HIV infection increases the likelihood of progressing from latent TB infection to active TB, it is unknown whether HIV infection increases the risk for becoming infected if exposed to M. tuberculosis . C. Risk for Nosocomial Transmission of M. Tuberclosis Transmission of M. tuberclosis is a recognized risk in health-care facilities ( 14&hyph;22 ). The magnitude of the risk varies considerably by the type of health-care facility, the prevalence of TB in the community, the patient population served, the HCW's occupational group, the area of the health-care facility in which the HCW works, and the effectiveness of TB infection-control interventions. The risk may be higher in areas where patients with TB are provided care before diagnosis and initiation of TB treatment and isolation precautions (e.g., in clinic waiting areas and emergency departments) or where diagnostic or treatment procedures that stimulate coughing are performed. Nosocomial transmission of M. tuberclosis has been associated with close contact with persons who have infectious TB and with the performance of certain procedures (e.g., bronchoscopy [ 17 ], endotracheal intubation and suctioning [ 18 ], open abscess irrigation [ 20 ], and autopsy [ 21,22 ]). Sputum induction and aerosol treatments that induce coughing may also increase the potential for transmission of M. tuberclosis ( 23,24 ). Personnel of health-care facilities should be particularly alert to the need for preventing transmission of M. tuberclosis in those facilities in which immunocompromised persons (e.g., HIV-infected persons) work or receive care_especially if cough-inducing procedures, such as sputum induction and aerosolized pentamidine treatments, are being performed. Several TB outbreaks among persons in health-care facilities have been reported recently ( 11,24&hyph;28 ; CDC, unpublished data). Many of these outbreaks involved transmission of multidrug-resistant strains of M. tuberclosis to both patients and HCWs. Most of the patients and some of the HCWs were HIV-infected persons in whom new infection progressed rapidly to active disease. Mortality associated with those outbreaks was high (range: 43%&hyph;93%). Furthermore, the interval between diagnosis and death was brief (range of median intervals: 4&hyph;16 weeks). Factors contributing to these outbreaks included delayed diagnosis of TB, delayed recognition of drug resistance, and delayed initiation of effective therapy_all of which resulted in prolonged infectiousness, delayed initiation and inadequate duration of TB isolation, inadequate ventilation in TB isolation rooms, lapses in TB isolation practices and inadequate precautions for cough-inducing procedures, and lack of adequate respiratory protection. Analysis of data collected from three of the health-care facilities involved in the outbreaks indicates that transmission of M. tuberclosis decreased significantly or ceased entirely in areas where measures similar to those in the 1990 TB Guidelines were implemented ( 2,29&hyph;32 ). However, several interventions were implemented simultaneously, and the effectiveness of the separate interventions could not be determined. D. Fundamentals of TB Infection Control An effective TB infection-control program requires early identification, isolation, and effective treatment of persons who have active TB. The primary emphasis of the TB infection-control plan should be on achieving these three goals. In all health-care facilities, particularly those in which persons who are at high risk for TB work or receive care, policies and procedures for TB control should be developed, reviewed periodically, and evaluated for effectiveness to determine the actions necessary to minimize the risk for transmission of M. tuberclosis . The TB infection-control program should be based on a hierarchy of control measures. The first level of the hierarchy, and that which affects the largest number of persons, is using administrative measures intended primarily to reduce the risk for exposing uninfected persons to persons who have infectious TB. These measures include (a) developing and implementing effective written policies and protocols to ensure the rapid identification, isolation, diagnostic evaluation, and treatment of persons likely to have TB; (b) implementing effective work practices among HCWs in the health-care facility (e.g., correctly wearing respiratory protection and keeping doors to isolation rooms closed); (c) educating, training, and counseling HCWs about TB; and (d) screening HCWs for TB infection and disease.
