FR941007-0-00082 FR941007-0-00023 (6) The transfer would not cause the person applying to receive the QS or IFQ to exceed the use limits in §676.22 (e) or (f); (7) The transfer would not violate the provisions of paragraph (f) of this section; and (8) Other pertinent information requested on the Application for Transfer has been supplied to the satisfaction of the Regional Director. (c) Eligibility to receive QS or IFQ by transfer. All persons applying to receive QS or IFQ must submit an Application for Eligibility to Receive QS/IFQ (Application for Eligibility), containing accurate information, to the Regional Director. The Regional Director will not approve a transfer of IFQ or QS to a person until the Application for Eligibility for that person is approved by the Regional Director. The Regional Director shall provide an Application for Eligibility form to any person on request. (1) A person must indicate on the Application for Eligibility whether the eligibility sought is as: (i) An individual; or (ii) A corporation, partnership, or other entity. (2) A person may submit the Application for Eligibility with the Application for Transfer or file the Application for Eligibility prior to submitting the Application for Transfer. If a person, as described in paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section, files the Application for Eligibility prior to submitting the Application for Transfer, and that person's status subsequently changes, as described in §676.22(j), that person must resubmit an Application for Eligibility before submitting, or with, the Application for Transfer. (3) The Regional Director's approval of an Application for Eligibility will be mailed to the person by certified mail. (4) The Regional Director will notify the applicant if an Application for Eligibility is disapproved. This notification of disapproval will include: (i) The disapproved Application for Eligibility; and (ii) An explanation why the Application for Eligibility was not approved. (5) Reasons for disapproval of an Application for Eligibility may include, but are not limited to: (i) Fewer than 150 days of experience working as an IFQ crew member; (ii) Lack of compliance with the U.S. citizenship or corporate ownership requirements specified by the definition of ``person'' at §676.11; (iii) An incomplete Application for Eligibility; or (iv) Fines, civil penalties, or other payments due and owing, or outstanding permit sanctions, resulting from Federal fishery violations. (d) Transfers of QS blocks. (1) A QS block must be transferred as an undivided whole, unless the size of the QS block exceeds the use limits specified at §676.22. If the QS block to be transferred exceeds the use limits specified at §676.22, the Regional Director will divide the block into two blocks, one block containing the maximum amount of QS allowable under the QS use limits and the other block containing the residual QS. (2) QS blocks representing less than 1,000 lb (0.5 mt) of IFQ for halibut or less than 3,000 lb (1.9 mt) for sablefish, based on the factors listed in §676.20(a), for the same IFQ regulatory area and vessel category, may be consolidated into larger QS blocks, provided that the consolidated QS blocks do not represent greater than 1,000 lb (0.5 mt) of IFQ for halibut or greater than 3,000 lb (1.4 mt) of IFQ for sablefish based on the factors listed in §676.20(a). A consolidated QS block cannot be divided and is considered a single block for purposes of use and transferability.
