FR940127-2-00197 FR940127-2-00111 Format for Research Grant Proposals Members of review committees and the staff expect each project description to be complete in itself. The administrative provisions governing the Special Research Grants Program, 7 CFR part 3400, set forth instructions for the preparation of grant proposals. The following proposal format requirements are in addition to or deviate from those contained in ยง3400.4(c). In accordance with ยง3400.4(c), to the extent that any of the following additional requirements are inconsistent or in conflict with the instructions at ยง3400.4(c), the provisions of this solicitation shall apply. Length of Proposal Grant proposals must be limited to 15 pages, single spaced exclusive of required forms (i.e. cover page, budget form, certifications), bibliography, and vitae of the principal investigator(s), senior associate(s) and other professional personnel, and the required National Environmental Policy Act Statement (NEPA Compliance discussed below) with its supporting documentation. Information should be typed on one side of page only. Reduction by photocopying or other means for the purpose of meeting the 15-page limit is not permitted. Attachment of appendices is discouraged and should be included only if pertinent to understanding the proposal. Reviewers are not required to read beyond the 15-page maximum to evaluate the proposal. Compliance With NEPA As outlined in 7 CFR part 3407 (the CSRS regulations implementing NEPA), environmental data or documentation for any proposed project is to be provided to CSRS in order to assist CSRS in carrying out its responsibilities under NEPA. In some cases, however, the preparation of environmental data or documentation may not be required. Certain categories of actions are excluded from the requirements of NEPA. The applicant should review the following categorical exclusions and determine if the proposed project may fall within one or more of the exclusions. (1) Department of Agriculture Categorical Exclusions (7 CFR 1b.3) (i) Policy development, planning and implementation which relate to routine activities such as personnel, organizational changes, or similar administrative functions; (ii) Activities which deal solely with the funding of programs, such as program budget proposals, disbursements, and transfer or reprogramming of funds; (iii) Inventories, research activities, and studies, such as resource inventories and routine data collection when such actions are clearly limited in context and intensity; (iv) Educational and information programs and activities; (v) Civil and criminal law enforcement and investigative activities; (vi) Activities which are advisory and consultative to other agencies and public and private entities; and (vii) Activities related to trade representation and market development activities abroad. (2) CSRS Categorical Exclusions (7 CFR 3407.6) Based on previous experience, the following categories of CSRS actions are excluded because they have been found to have limited scope and intensity and to have no significant individual or cumulative impacts on the quality of the human environment: (i) The following categories of research programs or projects of limited size and magnitude or with only short-term effects on the environment: (A) Research conducted within any laboratory, greenhouse, or other contained facility where research practices and safeguards prevent environmental impacts;
