FR940304-1-00119 FR940304-1-00014 In its comments on design options for gas and electric ovens, the Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers stated that since the DOE test procedure does not require maintaining heat in the oven over a period of time, improving the insulation in the cabinet will not show any energy savings. (Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers, No. 61A at 58). With regard to reduced vent size, the Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers stated that this design option should be considered only for electric ovens, not for gas ones. It then proceeded to state how any reductions in vent size will negatively impact cooking and baking performance as well as safety. (Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers, No. 61A at 58, 59). The Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers stated that, according to the DOE test procedure, existing instrumentation cannot measure the small energy efficiency gains that result from reducing conduction losses. (Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers, No. 61A at 59). As with cooktops, the Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers stated that reflective surfaces degrade quickly in ovens. This significantly reduces their impact on energy use over the life of the product. (Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers, No. 61A at 59, 60). The Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers asserted that oven thermal mass cannot be reduced. Further reductions in the gauge of the oven wall material may result in cracking and heat loss. (Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers, No. 61A at 60). The Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers stated that an oven separator to reduce oven thermal mass would pose potential safety problems due to improper installation, gas combustion considerations, and the handling of the separator by the consumer. No test procedure currently exists to certify the safety or performance of an oven using a separator. In addition, the Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers questioned the separator's utility, as consumers already use microwave and toaster ovens for small loads. The Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers also questioned whether the DOE test procedure could evaluate this design option. (Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers, No. 61A at 60&hyph;62). For electric ovens, the Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers proposed separate product classes for forced convection ovens for cooking and cleaning, halogen lamp ovens, and steam cooking ovens. The Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers stated that due to unique operating characteristics a separate class should be adopted for convection ovens. (Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers, No. 61A at 45, 46). With regard to halogen lamp ovens, the Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers asserted that the baking performance is relatively poor compared to the characteristics of a conventional electric oven. But since it may have certain advantages for broiling applications, the Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers said it should be a separate class. (Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers, No. 61A at 46). Since no United States manufacturer is currently producing steam ovens and because the food products that can be cooked or baked by this oven type are limited, the Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers said it should be adopted as a separate class. (Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers, No. 61A at 47). As stated in the discussion of product classes, the Department has established two product classes for electric ovens (standard and self-cleaning), and analyzed halogen lamp, convection, and steam cooking as design options for electric ovens. The design options commented on by the Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers and others have all been considered for electric ovens. This includes the biradiant oven concept that was referred to by the Natural Resources Defense Council. Data provided by the Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers, oven manufacturers, suppliers, and published reports 31 were used in the analysis of electric ovens. Manufacturers' data supplied by the Association of Home Appliance Manufacturers were the only source of cost and efficiency data provided to analyze oven separators. The improved insulation and reduced vent size design options were analyzed only for standard electric ovens. Insulation improvement levels and vent size reductions for standard ovens were selected to bring their baseline unit to the same efficiency level as the baseline unit selected for self-cleaning ovens. The Department received no data that indicated that insulation could be improved beyond the baseline level for self-cleaning ovens. In addition, any further reductions in vent size were assumed to jeopardize both oven safety and cooking performance. The Department did not receive any energy-use or cost data concerning the halogen lamp and steam cooking design options, thus preventing them from being analyzed for electric ovens. 31 ``Costing Analysis of Design Options for Residential Appliances and Space Conditioning Equipment,'' Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory, prepared by ADM Associates, Inc., Purchase No. 4541710, December 1987, ``Energy Efficient Electrical Product Knowledge Base,'' Canadian Electrical Association, prepared by ORTECH International, C.E.A. No. 821 U 678, October 1989, U.S. Department of Energy Engineering Analysis, DOE/CS&hyph;0166, June 1980, and D.P. DeWitt and M.V. Peart, ``Bi-Radiant Oven a Low-Energy Oven System,'' Purdue University, prepared for Oak Ridge National Laboratory, April 1980, ORNL/Sub&hyph;80/0082/1, ORNL/Sub&hyph;80/0082/2, ORNL/Sub&hyph;80/0082/3.
