FR940126-2-00095 FR940126-2-00051 The Exchange now proposes to amend Section 107B of the Guide to permit the listing and trading of ELNs linked to actively traded ADRs, provided that (1) the Exchange has in place an effective surveillance sharing agreement with the primary Exchange in the home country where the security underlying the ADR trades, or (2) the combined trading volume of the ADR and other related ADRs (as defined below) occurring in the U.S. ADR market represents (on a share equivalent basis) at least 50% of the combined worldwide trading volume in the ADR, the security underlying the ADR, other classes of common stock related to the underlying security, and ADRs overlying such other stock (``other related ADRs'') over the three month period preceding the date of listing. 6 The Exchange will use its best efforts to discover all markets (foreign and U.S.) on which the security underlying the ADR, and all related securities, trades. 7 These proposed changes are in addition to the criteria which are currently in place for the listing of ELNs. 6 The Exchange notes that under this calculation, the trading volume for any U.S. ADRs trading on or through a U.S. securities market that is not part of the U.S. ADR market will be included in the determination of world-wide trading volume, but not in the determination of the U.S. ADR market trading volume. See Amendment No. 1, supra note 1. 7 Id . Amendment No. 1 to the proposed rule change also defines the U.S. ADR market as the U.S. self-regulatory organizations (``SROs'') that are members of the Intermarket Surveillance Group (``ISG'') 8 and whose markets are linked together by the Intermarket Trading System (``ITS''). 9 Accordingly, the U.S. ADR market is currently comprised of those SROs that are members of ISG. 10 8 ISG was formed on July 14, 1983 to, among other things, coordinate more effectively surveillance and investigative information sharing arrangements in the stock and options markets. See Intermarket Surveillance Group Agreement, July 14, 1983. The members of the ISG are: the Amex: the Boston Stock Exchange, Inc.; the Chicago Board Options Exchange, Inc.; the Chicago Stock Exchange, Inc.; the Cincinnati Stock Exchange, Inc.; the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc.; the New York Stock Exchange, Inc.; the Pacific Stock Exchange, Inc.; and the Philadelphia Stock Exchange, Inc. 9 ITS is a communications system designed to facilitate trading among competing markets by providing each market with order routing capabilities based on current quotation information. The system links the participant markets and provides facilities and procedures for: (1) the display of composite quotation information at each participant market, so that brokers are able to determine readily the best bid and offer available from any participant for multiply traded securities; (2) efficient routing of orders and sending administrative messages (on the functioning of the system) to all participating markets; (3) participation, under certain conditions, by members of all participating markets in opening transactions in those markets; and (4) routing orders from a participating market to a participating market with a better price. 10 See Amendment No. 1, supra note 1. The Exchange believes that the proposed amendment will benefit investors by expanding the number of securities that may be linked to ELNs, thereby providing investors with enhanced investment flexibility. The Exchange believes that it is appropriate to now include ADRs within the existing regulatory framework for ELNs because of the significant level of U.S. investor interest in both U.S. and non-U.S. highly capitalized and actively traded reporting companies. Since both the ELNs and the ADRs will be subject to the criteria outlined in sections 107A and 107B of the Guide, and the Exchange will either have in place an effective surveillance sharing agreement with the primary exchange in the home country where the security underlying the ADR trades or the ADR will meet the trading volume criteria set forth in section 107B, the Exchange believes that it will have the ability to inquire into potential trading problems or irregularities with respect to the ELNs and the ADRs to which they are linked. The Exchange believes that the proposed rule change is consistent with section 6(b) of the Act, in general, and furthers the objectives of section 6(b)(5) in particular, in that it is designed to prevent fraudulent and manipulative acts and practices, to promote just and equitable principles of trade, to foster cooperation and coordination with persons engaged in facilitating transactions in securities, and to remove impediments to an perfect the mechanism of a free and open market and a national market system. (B) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Burden on Competition The Amex does not believe that the proposed rule change will impose any inappropriate burden on competition. (C) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received From Members, Participants or Others No written comments were solicited or received with respect to the proposed rule change.
