FR940622-0-00047 FR940622-0-00011 Comment: One commenter suggested that the regulations prevent any transfers, including those of stable patients, unless that patient requires services or facilities not available at the hospital when the patient first arrived. Another commenter wanted ``stable'' patients to be subject to the same ``appropriate transfer'' criteria as patients in unstable condition because the regulatory definition of ``stabilized'' does not require the emergency medical condition to be alleviated; it only requires that no material deterioration be likely. Response: To accept these comments would go beyond the scope of the statute, which does not regulate the transfer of stabilized individuals. The statute allows hospitals to transfer an individual, without meeting the requirements of an appropriate transfer, after his or her emergency medical condition is stabilized. The statute does require, however, that the transferring hospital provide whatever medical treatment it can, within its capacity, to minimize the risks to the individual with an unstabilized medical condition, and, in the case of a woman in labor, to the unborn child. Comment: One commenter wanted the regulations to define the situations in which obstetrical transfers are appropriate because in the commenter's State, hospitals that do not offer obstetrical services must always transfer pregnant patients in active labor, especially high risk patients. Response: It is not necessary to revise the regulations to be this specific. Regardless of practices within the State, COBRA and OBRA 89 permit a woman in labor or with an unstabilized emergency medical condition to be transferred only if she (or someone acting on her behalf) requests the transfer or if a physician signs a certification that the benefits outweigh the risks. If the hospital does not provide obstetrical services, the benefits may outweigh the risks of transfer or the woman or her representative may request a transfer. However, we cannot say categorically and in all cases that this will be true. (Note also Response to next Comment.) Regardless of State law or practice, a hospital must fulfill the requirements of the statute and cannot simply cite State law or practice as the basis for a transfer under the statute. We note that OBRA 89 removed the term ``active labor'' from section 1867 of the Act and included the full range of symptoms that term was intended to include within the scope of the term ``emergency medical condition,'' which it redefined. Comment: A number of commenters suggested that we require a hospital to accept a transfer when it has the capacity to treat the patient and the requesting hospital does not. One suggested that we require, as JCAHO does, that hospitals help to develop and promote community-based plans for providing emergency services.
