FR941102-0-00040 FR941102-0-00006 (1) The shareholder or shareholders who control at least 80 percent of the shares of the bank would control, immediately after the reorganization, at least 80 percent of the shares of the holding company in substantially the same proportion, except for changes in shareholders' interests resulting from the exercise of dissenting shareholders' rights under State or Federal law; 5 5 A shareholder of a bank in reorganization will be considered to have the same proportional interest in the holding company if the shareholder interest increases, on a pro rata basis, as a result of either the redemption of shares from dissenting shareholders by the bank or bank holding company or the acquisition of shares of dissenting shareholders by the remaining shareholders. (2) No shareholder or group of shareholders acting in concert would, following the reorganization, own or control 10 percent or more of any class of voting shares of the bank holding company unless that shareholder or group of shareholders was authorized, after review under the Change in Bank Control Act of 1978 (12 U.S.C. 1817(j)) by the appropriate Federal banking agency for the bank, to own or control 10 percent or more of any class of voting shares of the bank; 6 6 This procedure is not available in cases in which the exercise of dissenting shareholders' rights would cause a company that is not a bank holding company (other than the company in formation) to be required to register as a bank holding company. This procedure also is not available for the formation of a bank holding company organized in mutual form. (3) The bank is adequately capitalized (as defined in section 38 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1831o)); (4) The bank has received at least a composite ``satisfactory'' rating at its most recent examination, in the event that the bank has been subject to an examination; (5) At the time of the reorganization, neither the bank nor any of its officers, directors or shareholders is involved in any unresolved supervisory or enforcement matters with any appropriate Federal banking agency; (6) The company demonstrates that any debt that it would incur at the time of the reorganization, and the proposed means of retiring this debt, would not place undue burden on the holding company or its subsidiary on a pro forma basis; 7 7 For a banking organization with consolidated assets, on a pro forma basis, of less than $150 million (other than a banking organization that would control a de novo bank), this requirement would be satisfied if the proposal would comply with the Board's policy statement on small one-bank holding company formations (12 CFR Part 225, Appendix C). (7) The holding company would not, as a result of the reorganization, acquire control of any additional bank or engage in any activities other than those of managing and controlling banks; and (8) During this period, neither the appropriate Reserve Bank nor the Board has objected to the proposal or required the filing of an application under §225.14 of this subpart. (b) Contents of notice. A notice filed under this subsection must include: (1) Certification by the notificant's board of directors that the requirements of 12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(C) and this section are met by the proposal; (2) A list identifying the shareholders of the bank prior to the reorganization and of the holding company following the reorganization, and specifying the percentage of shares held by each shareholder in the bank and proposed to be held in the new holding company; (3) A description of the resulting management of the proposed bank holding company and its subsidiary bank, including: (i) Biographical information regarding any senior officers and directors of the resulting bank holding company who were not senior officers or directors of the bank prior to the reorganization; and, (ii) A detailed history of the involvement of any officer, director or shareholder of the resulting bank holding company in any administrative or criminal proceeding; (4) Pro forma financial statements for the holding company, and a description of the amount, source and terms of debt, if any, that the bank holding company proposes to incur, and information regarding the sources and timing for debt service and retirement; and, (5) Verification that notice of the proposal has been published in a newspaper of general circulation in the community in which the bank is located that provides an opportunity for interested persons to comment on the notice for a period of at least 15 calendar days. (c) Acknowledgement of notice. Within 7 calendar days following receipt of a notice under this section, the Reserve Bank shall provide the notificant with a written acknowledgement of receipt of the notice. This written acknowledgment shall indicate that the transaction described in the notice may be consummated on the 30th calendar day after the date of receipt of the notice if the Reserve Bank or the Board has not objected to the proposal during that time. (d) Application required upon objection. The Reserve Bank or the Board may object to a proposal during the notice period by providing the bank holding company with a written explanation of the reasons for the objection. In such case, the bank holding company may file an application for prior approval of the proposal pursuant to section 225.14 of this subpart. PART 262_RULES OF PROCEDURE 1. The authority citation for part 262 continues to read as follows: Authority: 5 U.S.C. 552, 12 U.S.C. 321, 1828(c), and 1842. 2. In §262.3, paragraph (b)(1)(i)(D) is revised to read as follows: §262.3 Applications. * * * * * (b) *␣*␣* (1)(i) *␣*␣* (D) To become a bank holding company (except as provided in 12 CFR 225.15), and * * * * * By order of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, effective October 26, 1994. William W. Wiles, Secretary of the Board. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;27058 Filed 11&hyph;01&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6210&hyph;01&hyph;P
