FR941221-1-00043 FR941221-1-00013 FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mr. James E. Longbottom, Environmental Monitoring Systems Laboratory, Office of Research and Development, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Cincinnati, Ohio 45268. Telephone number: (513) 569&hyph;7308. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Docket Materials Materials in the public docket include the following: •Copy of the proposed procedure and performance data. •Technical reviews of the proposed analytical techniques. •Statistical reviews of the performance data. •Recommendation for Nationwide Approval from the Director, Environmental Monitoring Systems Laboratory-Cincinnati. I. Authority This proposed regulation is issued under authority of sections 301, 304(h) and 501(a) of the Clean Water Act, 33 U.S.C. 1251 et seq. (the Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972 as amended) (the ``Act''). Section 301 of the Act prohibits the discharge of any pollutant into navigable waters unless the discharge complies with a National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit, issued under section 402. Section 304(h) of the Act requires the Administrator of the EPA to ``promulgate guidelines establishing test procedures for the analysis of pollutants that shall include the factors which must be provided in any certification pursuant to section 401 of this Act or permit application pursuant to section 402 of this Act''. Section 501(a) of the Act authorizes the Administrator to ``prescribe such regulations as are necessary to carry out his functions under this Act''. II. Regulatory Background The CWA establishes two principal bases for effluent limitations. First, existing discharges are required to meet technology-based effluent limitations. New source discharges must meet new source performance standards based on the best available demonstrated control technology. Second, where necessary, additional requirements are imposed to assure attainment and maintenance of water quality standards established by the States under section 303 of the CWA. In establishing or reviewing NPDES permit limits, EPA must ensure that permitted discharges will not cause or contribute to a violation of water quality standards, including designated water uses. For use in permit applications, discharge monitoring reports, and state certification and to ensure compliance with effluent limitations, standards of performance, and pretreatment standards, EPA has promulgated regulations providing nationally-approved testing procedures at 40 CFR part 136. Test procedures have previously been approved for 262 different parameters. Those procedures apply to the analysis of inorganic (metal, non-metal, mineral) and organic chemical, radiological, bacteriological, nutrient, demand, residue, and physical parameters. Additionally, some particular industries may discharge pollutants for which test procedures have not been proposed and approved under 40 CFR part 136. Under 40 CFR part 122.41 permit writers may impose monitoring requirements and establish test methods for pollutants for which no approved part 136 method exists. 40 CFR 122.41(j) (4). EPA may also approve additional test procedures when establishing industry-wide technology-based effluent limitations guidelines and standards as described at 40 CFR 401.13. The procedures for approval of alternate test procedures (ATPs) are described at 40 CFR 136.4 and 136.5. Under these procedures the Administrator may approve alternate test procedures for nationwide use which are developed and proposed by any person. 40 CFR 136.4 (a). Dischargers seeking to use such alternate test procedures on a limited basis (eg. for their own discharge) must apply to the State or Regional EPA permitting office in which the discharge occurs under §136.4 (d). As specified below, today's proposed rule would approve an optional nationwide alternate procedure for determination of chlorinated pesticides and PCBs in wastewater test samples. III. The Disk Extraction Test Procedure The 3 M Corporation, in accordance with the regulations published at 40 CFR 136.5, applied for nationwide approval of their ``Organochlorine Pesticides and PCBs in Wastewater Using Empore TM Disk'' . 3M subsequently presented data to meet the method comparability criteria set forth in the EPA ``Protocol for Approval of Alternate Test Procedures for Inorganic and Organic Analytes in National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System Monitoring'', July 12, 1993.
