FR940705-2-00199 FR940705-2-00091 Appendix G&hyph;II&hyph;D&hyph;2&hyph;i. Materials (e.g., plants, animals, and clothing) not related to the experiment being conducted are not permitted in the facility. Appendix G&hyph;II&hyph;D&hyph;2&hyph;j. Hypodermic needles and syringes are used only for parenteral injection and aspiration of fluids from laboratory animals and diaphragm bottles. Only needle-locking syringes or disposable syringe-needle units (i.e., needle is integral part of unit) are used for the injection or aspiration of fluids containing organisms that contain recombinant DNA molecules. Needles should not be bent, sheared, replaced in the needle sheath or guard, or removed from the syringe following use. The needle and syringe should be placed in a puncture-resistant container and decontaminated, preferably by autoclaving before discard or reuse. Whenever possible, cannulas are used instead of sharp needles (e.g., gavage). Appendix G&hyph;II&hyph;D&hyph;2&hyph;k. A system is set up for reporting laboratory accidents, exposures, employee absenteeism, and for the medical surveillance of potential laboratory-associated illnesses. Spills and accidents which result in overt exposures to organisms containing recombinant DNA molecules are immediately reported to the Biological Safety Officer, Institutional Biosafety Committee, and NIH/ORDA. Reports to the NIH/ORDA shall be sent to the Office of Recombinant DNA Activities, National Institutes of Health, Building 31, Room 4B11, Bethesda, Maryland 20892, (301) 496&hyph;9838. Written records are prepared and maintained. An essential adjunct to such a reporting-surveillance system is the availability of a facility for quarantine, isolation, and medical care of personnel with potential or known laboratory associated illnesses. Appendix G&hyph;II&hyph;D&hyph;2&hyph;l. Laboratory animals involved in experiments requiring BL4 level physical containment shall be housed either in cages contained in Class III cabinets or in partial containment caging systems, such as Horsfall units (see Appendix G&hyph;III&hyph;K), open cages placed in ventilated enclosures, or solid-wall and- bottom cages placed on holding racks equipped with ultraviolet irradiation lamps and reflectors that are located in a specially designed area in which all personnel are required to wear one-piece positive pressure suits. Appendix G&hyph;II&hyph;D&hyph;2&hyph;m. Alternative Selection of Containment Equipment (BL4) Experimental procedures involving a host-vector system that provides a one-step higher level of biological containment than that specified may be conducted in the BL4 facility using containment equipment requirements specified for the BL3 level of physical containment. Alternative combinations of containment safeguards are shown in Appendix G_Table 1. Appendix G&hyph;II&hyph;D&hyph;3. Containment Equipment (BL4). Appendix G&hyph;II&hyph;D&hyph;3&hyph;a. All procedures within the facility with agents assigned to Biosafety Level 4 are conducted in the Class III biological safety cabinet or in Class I or II biological safety cabinets used in conjunction with one-piece positive pressure personnel suits ventilated by a life-support system. Appendix G&hyph;II&hyph;D&hyph;4. Laboratory Facilities (BL4). Appendix G&hyph;II&hyph;D&hyph;4&hyph;a. The maximum containment facility consists of either a separate building or a clearly demarcated and isolated zone within a building. Outer and inner change rooms separated by a shower are provided for personnel entering and exiting the facility. A double-doored autoclave, fumigation chamber, or ventilated airlock is provided for passage of those materials, supplies, or equipment which are not brought into the facility through the change room. Appendix G&hyph;II&hyph;D&hyph;4&hyph;b. Walls, floors, and ceilings of the facility are constructed to form a sealed internal shell which facilitates fumigation and is animal and insect proof. The internal surfaces of this shell are resistant to liquids and chemicals, thus facilitating cleaning and decontamination of the area. All penetrations in these structures and surfaces are sealed. Any drains in the floors contain traps filled with a chemical disinfectant of demonstrated efficacy against the target agent, and they are connected directly to the liquid waste decontamination system. Sewer and other ventilation lines contain high efficiency particulate air/HEPA filters.
