FR940620-0-00103 FR940620-0-00029 Response. Counsel stations were included in the proposed rule by use of the term litigants' stations. The provision has been clarified to specifically reference counsel tables. 11.2.1(6)␣Fixed Lecterns This provision requires fixed lecterns to provide adjustable heights. At least one height shall be between 28 inches to 34 inches above the floor and have knee clearance to accommodate litigants and speakers who use wheelchairs. Comment. One commenter requested clarification on whether portable lecterns can be provided in addition to fixed lecterns in new construction. Response. The provision does not prohibit the use of portable lecterns. However, if portable lecterns are used, they should be used by all persons, not just those with disabilities. Therefore, there would be no need for an additional fixed lectern. No changes were made to this provision. 11.2.1(7)␣Fixed Speakers' Rostrums and Daises This provision requires fixed speakers' rostrums and at least one fixed dais to be accessible and comply with ADAAG 4.32 (Fixed or Built-in Seating and Tables). An unobstructed turning radius and clear floor space for a forward position must be provided serving each area. Comment. The proposed rule required that fixed speakers' rostrums and at least one dais be adaptable. One commenter questioned why speaker's rostrums are not considered common use areas and required to be fully accessible. Response. Fixed daises and speakers' rostrums are commonly provided in legislative meeting rooms in a State capitol building, city council chambers and other city and county commission meeting rooms. Such meeting rooms may be made available for use by the public or guests may be invited to address the assembly. In such cases, the speaker's rostrum or raised daises would not be an area used only by employees as a work area. Consequently, the proposed requirement at 11.2.1(4) for adaptable speakers' rostrums and raised daises was deleted and a new provision has been added at ADAAG 11.2.1(7) requiring fixed daises and speakers' rostrums to be accessible. 11.3␣Jury Assembly Areas and Jury Deliberation Areas This provision requires that all jury assembly areas and jury deliberation rooms be accessible. No comments were received on this provision and no changes were made. 11.4␣Courthouse Holding Facilities This section applies a scoping requirement to courthouse holding facilities including central holding cells and court-floor holding cells serving courtrooms. Language has been added to clarify that at least one cell must be accessible where central-holding cells are not separated by age or sex. 11.4.2␣Requirements for Accessible Cells This section contains the minimum requirements for accessible cells. 11.4.2(1)␣Doors and Doorways Paragraph (1) requires that doors to accessible spaces on an accessible route comply with ADAAG 4.1.3(7) (Doors). However, doors to accessible spaces and on an accessible route are exempt from the requirements pertaining to 4.13.6 (Maneuvering Clearances), 4.13.9 (Door Hardware), 4.13.10 (Door Closers), 4.13.11 (Door Opening Force) and 4.13.12 (Automatic Doors and Power-Assisted Doors). Comment. Several correctional officials and design professionals indicated that design requirements may necessitate use of 300 to 500 pound doors. Such doors cannot meet the specification for closing and opening forces in ADAAG 4.13.10 (Door Closers) and 4.13.11 (Door Opening Force) without, at a minimum, power-assist devices. Response. In the interim final rule, a reference to the specifications for door closers (ADAAG 4.13.10) has been added in the exception at ADAAG 11.4.2(1) (Doors and Doorways).
