FR941116-2-00137 FR941116-2-00096 Contributions/Linkages An important aspect of any proposal will be its description of how State and local resources will be used to reduce Federal operating costs. It is, therefore, essential that precise and comprehensive information about the linkages be available to ensure that the proposed site receives every opportunity for an equitable evaluation. The proposal should contain for each linkage the following information: •A comprehensive description of the service to be provided, including projected listing of resources that will be involved such as number of instructors/staff, types of equipment and materials. •Whether it will be provided at no cost to Job Corps or will be available on a contractual (paid) basis to Job Corps. •Whether the linkage will be provided on-site or off-site. •The number of students to be served and over what period of time, as well as the specific benefits to Job Corps students while in Job Corps and/or after leaving the program. •Distance to linkage, if off-site, and any arrangements for transportation to off-site services, including any cost to Job Corps. •The estimated annual value of the contribution and the basis on which the estimate was determined ( e.g. , two full-time staff devoted to Job Corps at an annual salary of $30,000 each for a total annual value of $60,000, or one hour of a professional staff-person's time per week for 52 weeks at an hourly rate of $15.00 for an annual value of $780, or 15 computers at a cost of $1,800 each for an annual value of $27,000). •Any limitations associated with the linkage, such as eligibility restrictions ( e.g., in-state versus out-of-state residents), limited hours of service, and availability over time ( e.g., all-year versus selected months). •Long-term prospects for continuation of the commitment (e.g., one time only, 1 year, on-going, dependent on outside funding sources). If dependent on outside funding levels, which may vary significantly, what is the likelihood that the linkage will not be funded? •Documentation that addresses timeframes and steps involved in firming up the linkage, if appropriate, including obtaining State or local legislation, fitting into other planning cycles, or securing other agreements or arrangements which may be necessary to assure provision of the service. •A letter of commitment confirming each aspect of the linkage, including the level of resources and annual value of these resources, from the head of the agency responsible for delivering the contribution. •Name of the agency/organization(s), address, telephone number and contact person.
