FR940304-2-00056 FR940304-2-00034 c. All rights to seek judicial review or otherwise to challenge or contest the validity of the order entered pursuant to this agreement; and d. All claims under the Equal Access to Justice Act. 4. This agreement shall not become part of the public record of the proceeding unless and until it is accepted by the Commission. If this agreement is accepted by the Commission, it will be placed on the public record for a period of sixty (60) days and information in respect thereto publicly released. The Commission thereafter may either withdraw its acceptance of this agreement and so notify the respondents, in which event it will take such action as it may consider appropriate, or issue and serve its decision, in disposition of the proceeding. 5. This agreement is for settlement purposes only and does not constitute an admission by the respondents that the law has been violated as alleged in the attached draft complaint, or that the facts alleged in the draft complaint, other than the jurisdictional facts, are true. 6. This agreement contemplates that, if it is accepted by the Commission, and if such acceptance is not subsequently withdrawn by the Commission pursuant to the provisions of section 3.25(f) of the Commission's Rules, the Commission may, without further notice to respondents, (1) issue its decision containing the following order to cease and desist in disposition of the proceeding, and (2) make information public in respect thereto. When so entered, the order to cease and desist shall have the same force and effect and may be altered, modified or set aside in the same manner and within the same time provided by statute for other orders. The order shall become final upon service. Delivery by the U.S. Postal Service of the decision containing the agreed-to order to respondents' address as stated in this agreement shall constitute service. Respondents waive any right they may have to any other manner of service. The complaint may be used in construing the terms of the order, and no agreement, understanding, representation, or interpretation not contained in the order or the agreement may be used to vary or contradict the terms of the order. 7. Respondents have read the complaint and order contemplated hereby. They understand that once the order has been issued, they will be required to file one or more compliance reports showing that they have fully complied with the order. Respondents further understand that they may be liable for civil penalties in the amount provided by law for each violation of the order after it becomes final. Order I It is ordered that Sonic Technology Products, Inc., (``Sonic'') a corporation, and W. Lowell Robertson and Brian Phillip Jobe, individually and as officers of said corporation, and their successors and assigns, agents, representatives, and employees, directly or through any corporation, subsidiary, division, or other device, in connection with the advertising, marketing, offering for sale, sale, or distribution of the ``PestChaser,'' the ``Pestrepeller,'' or any other ultrasonic pest control device, in or affecting commerce, as ``commerce'' is defined in the Federal Trade Commission Act, do forthwith cease and desist from representing, directly or by implication: A. That the device can or will eliminate infestations of rodents; B. That the device can or will eliminate or reduce infestations of fleas; or C. That the device can or will repel fleas. II
