FR940928-2-00059 FR940928-2-00049 Supporting Statement for Information Collection_GNMA Multiclass Securities Program A. Justification 1. This information collection is required in connection with the implementation of the full participation stage of GNMA's Multiclass Program. GNMA's authority to guarantee Multiclass instruments in contained in section 306(g)(1) of the National Housing Act (``NHA'') (12 U.S.C. 1721(g)(1)), which authorizes GNMA to guarantee ``securities *␣*␣* based on or backed by a trust or pool composed of mortgages *␣*␣*.'' The Multiclass securities will be based on or backed by mortgages since GNMA Mortgage-Backed Securities (``MBS'') will serve as the collateral. This position is consistent with the FNMA and FHLMC REMIC programs which are authorized by substantially similar statutory provisions. Further, GNMA's authority to operate a Multiclass program has recently been recognized in section 3004 of the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1993 (``OBRA'') which amended section 306(g)(3) of the NHA (12 U.S.C. 1721(g)(3)) to provide GNMA with greater flexibility for the Multiclass program regarding fee structure, contracting, industry consultation and program implementation. Congress annually sets GNMA's commitment authority to guarantee MBS pursuant to section 306(g)(2) of the NHA (12 U.S.C. 1721(g)(2)). Since the Multiclass securities will be backed by GNMA MBS, GNMA has already guaranteed the collateral for the Multiclass instruments. The Multiclass Program had an initial stage and GNMA is now implementing a full participation stage. During the initial stage, GNMA guaranteed Multiclass instruments that were issued by a small number of participants, consisting of sponsors, co-sponsors, trustees, trust counsel and accounting firms, selected by GNMA through the use of Competitive Application Proposals (``CAPS''). At the conclusion of the initial stage, participation in the GNMA-guaranteed Multiclass Program will be expanded. GNMA is requiring information from entities that wish to participate as sponsor, co-sponsor, accountant, trust counsel and minority and women-owned law firms in the full participation stage. Each participant is required to certify annually that neither the participant nor any employee, partner or officer working on the GNMA Multiclass Securities Program has been convicted of or has been found liable in a civil action for fraud, forgery, bribery, falsification or destruction of records, making false statements or any other indicating a lack of business integrity that seriously and directly affects the present responsibility of the officer, partner or professional, and is not currently suspended or debarred by a state or the Federal government. Each sponsor is required to certify that the sponsor has developed and implemented a plan for minority and women-owned law firm participation and the extent to which the plan was achieved. To secure trustee services, GNMA is requesting applications from qualified institutions under a CAP. Trustees approved pursuant to the CAP will be authorized to serve with respect to securities issued during the period specified in the CAP. 2. The information provided by the participants will be submitted to GNMA. GNMA requires the information requested in order to assure the financial integrity of the program. 3. It is impractical and would be inefficient to design improved technology to collect this information. 4. There will be no duplication of information. 5. There is no similar information already available which could be used or modified for this purpose. 6. We have attempted to minimize the burden on the participants by requiring the minimum amount of information needed to ensure the integrity of the Multiclass Program. 7. The information will be collected on an annual basis to demonstrate that the participant continues to meet the eligibility requirements. 8. There are no specific circumstances that require the information collection to be conducted in a manner which is inconsistent with guidelines in 5 CFR 1320.6. 9. There has been no outside consultation on this information collection. The Notice will call for public comments after it is published. 10. No assurances of confidentiality are provided. 11. There is no sensitive information requirements in the application process. 12. GNMA does not estimate that there will be any additional cost to the Federal Government. The information will be reviewed in accordance with GNMA's existing review and monitoring procedures. Annual cost to the participants is established to be minimal.
