FR941003-1-00033 FR941003-1-00003 List of Subjects in 37 CFR Part 1 Administrative practice and procedure, Courts, Inventions and patents. For the reasons set out in the preamble, it is proposed to amend 37 CFR Part 1 wherein removals are indicated by brackets ( ) and additions by arrows ( >< ) as follows: PART 1_RULES OF PRACTICE IN PATENT CASES 1. The authority citation for 37 CFR Part 1 would continue to read as follows: Authority: 35 U.S.C. 6, unless otherwise noted. 2. Section 1.11 is proposed to be amended by revising paragraph (e) to read as follows: §1.11 Files open to the public. * * * * * (e) The file of any interference involving a patent, a statutory invention registration, > a reissue application, < or an application on which a patent has been issued or which has been published as a statutory invention registration, is open to inspection by the public, and copies may be obtained upon paying the fee therefor, if: (1) The interference has terminated, or (2) an award of priority or judgment has been entered as to all parties and all counts. 3. In §1.192, it is proposed to revise paragraphs (a), (c), (c)(5) and (c)(5)(ii), redesignate current paragraphs (c)(1) through (c)(7) as paragraphs (c)(3) through (c)(9) and add new paragraphs (c)(1) and (c)(2) to read as follows: §1.192 Appellant's brief. (a) The appellant > Appellant < shall, within 2 months from the date of the notice of appeal under §1.191 in an application, reissue application, or patent under reexamination, or within the time allowed for response to the action appealed from, if such time is later, file a brief in triplicate. The brief must be accompanied by the requisite fee set forth in §1.17(f) and must set forth the authorities and arguments on which the appellant will rely to maintain the appeal. Any arguments or authorities not included in the brief > will < may be refused consideration by the Board of Patent Appeals and Interferences > , unless good cause is shown < . * * * * * (c) The brief shall contain the following items under appropriate headings and in the order here indicated > below < unless > the brief is filed by an applicant who is not represented by a registered practitioner < there is no attorney or agent of record in the application or reexamination proceeding, the brief was not prepared by a registered practitioner, and the brief was not signed by a registered practitioner, wherein the brief will be accepted as complying with this paragraph provided it is at least in substantial compliance with the requirements of paragraphs (c)(1), (2), (6) and (7) :
