FR940825-2-00107 FR940825-2-00073 9. Bayer is one of a small number of firms in the world that engage in research and development of active ingredients for household insecticides. Bayer has numerous patents in countries around the world, including United States patents, on such active ingredients. Bayer makes and sells, or licenses others to make and sell, such active ingredients in various countries, including the United States. 10. Bayer, which makes and sells household insecticides in many countries outside the United States, is one of the few significant potential entrants into the United States household insecticides market. Bayer earlier had planned and made preparations to enter the United States household insecticides market with a new product, called Laser. Laser's chief active ingredient was Cyfluthrin, developed and patented by Bayer and widely considered to be superior to other active ingredients because of its long-lasting killing power. Through Laser, Bayer could have become one of Johnson's major competitors in the household insecticides market in the United States. IV Violation Alleged 11. Beginning at least as early as March 1988 and continuing to the present, Johnson and Bayer entered into an agreement to unreasonably restrain trade and commerce and lessen competition in the manufacture and sale of household insecticides in the United States in violation of Section 1 of the Sherman Act, 15 U.S.C. 1. 12. For the purpose of forming and effectuating this agreement, defendants did the following things, among others: (a) Bayer licensed Johnson to use Clyfluthrin in household insecticides in the United States, and granted Johnson a right of first refusal for exclusive rights for the United States on future active ingredients developed by Bayer for household insecticides; (b) Bayer refrained from licensing Johnson's competitors to use or sell Cyfluthrin; and (c) Bayer ended its plans to market Laser and compete with Johnson in the United States household insecticides market. V Competitve Effects 13. Defendants agreement and activities have had the following direct, substantial, and reasonably foreseeable effects, among others: (a) Incentives for Bayer to compete with Johnson in the manufacture and sale of household insecticides in the United States have been substantially reduced; and (b) Competition generally in the market for the sale of household insecticides in the United States has been unnecessarily and unreasonably restrained. VI Prayer For Relief Wherefore, plaintiff prays: 1. That Johnson and Bayer be enjoined and restrained from entering into any agreement or understanding the purpose or effect of which is to allocate or divide territories or markets for the sale of household insecticides; 2. That Johnson and Bayer be enjoined from entering into any exclusive license for an active ingredient patented by Bayer without plaintiff's prior approval; 3. That Johnson and Bayer be enjoined from entering into or carrying out an exclusive license to make, use or sell Cyfluthrin in the United States without plaintiff's prior approval; 4. That Johnson be enjoined and restrained from obtaining from anyone an exclusive license for any active ingredient for use in any household insecticide without prior notice (and if necessary, provision of additional information regarding the arrangement) to plaintiff; 5. That plaintiff have such other relief as may be just and proper; and 6. That plaintiff be awarded its costs in this action. Dated: August 3, 1994. Anne K. Bingaman, Assistant Attorney General; Robert E. Litan , Deputy Assistant Attorney General; Mark C. Schechter, Deputy Director, Office of Operations; Gail Kursh, Chief, Professions & Intellectual Property Section, Antitrust Division, U.S. Department of Justice Anthony E. Harris, Bar No. 01133713; Kurt Shaffert, Attorneys, Antitrust Division, U.S. Dept. of Justice, 555 4th Street, N.W., Room 9903, JCB, Washington, D.C. 20001, (202) 307&hyph;0951
