FR940228-1-00082 FR940228-1-00010 The Amendments of 1992 provide that an institution may not impose any penalty on any student because of the student's inability to meet his or her financial obligations to the institution as a result of the delayed disbursement of a title IV, HEA program loan due to compliance with statutory and regulatory requirements for the Title IV, HEA programs, or delays attributable to the institution. The statute specifies that those prohibited penalties include the assessment of late fees, the denial of access to classes, libraries, or other institutional facilities, or the requirement that the student borrow additional funds. The Secretary proposes to clarify that the restriction that institutions may not require a student to borrow additional funds would apply only to funds for which interest or other charges are assessed. Therefore, this provision would not apply to any interest-free loans that the institution might require the student to borrow until other sources of aid are available. The Amendments of 1992 provide that an institution may not provide any commission, bonus, or other incentive payment based directly or indirectly on success in securing enrollments or financial aid to any persons or entities engaged in any student recruiting or admission activities. An institution also may not provide such an incentive payment to any persons or entities engaged in making decisions regarding the awarding of student financial assistance. The statute specifies that this requirement does not apply to the recruitment of foreign students residing in foreign countries who are not eligible to receive Federal student assistance. The Secretary proposes to extend this provision to require that institutions also may not contract with entities that improperly provide, any commission, bonus, or other incentive payment as delineated in the statute. The Secretary believes that this provision is necessary to implement more rigid restrictions than were seen in the past on the practices of ``commissioned salespersons.'' The Secretary proposes to repeat the language of the statute with the addition of this change. The Secretary believes it is clear that this statutory requirement places rigid restrictions on the practice of recruitment, admission activities, and the awarding of student financial assistance. The Secretary is aware that some institutions pay incentives to recruiters or admissions office employees based on the success of those persons in enrolling students, provided that the enrolled students maintain satisfactory progress for and remain enrolled in the institution for a specified period of time. The Secretary considers this practice, which commonly is referred to as an incentive based on ``retention,'' to be an example of an activity that is prohibited by the statute. During the negotiated rulemaking sessions, the Secretary's negotiator requested further examples of prohibited activities. A non-Federal negotiator offered the following examples that the Secretary believes are not permitted by the statute. (1) An institution might offer payments or gifts to students for referring other prospective students for admission to the institution. (2) An institution might offer payments or gifts to students on the condition that persons whom the students referred to the institution were actually admitted and remained enrolled in the institution for a specified period of time. (3) An institution might present gifts to alumni, such as coffee mugs, sporting events tickets, or contributions in their name for referring students to the institution for admission. (4) An institution might pay bonuses to Directors of Admissions (or other management personnel) based on the number of enrollments received during a particular academic year or the number of students who, after enrolling, remained at the institution until all financial aid had been received. The Secretary specifically requests comments on these examples and others that might serve as useful guidelines in these regulations. The Amendments of 1992 require that an institution comply with applicable requirements established by all members of the ``triad''; i.e., the Secretary, State postsecondary review entities, and nationally recognized accrediting agencies pursuant to part H of title IV of the HEA. The Secretary considers this provision to be self-explanatory and proposes to add this statutory requirement to the regulations without substantive modifications.
