FR940705-1-00003 FR940705-1-00001 Relocation Bonuses Candidate quality. In §§575.201, 575.204 (c)(1) and (c)(2) (i) and (iii), and 575.208(b), the current regulations allow payment of a relocation bonus only when, in the absence of such a bonus, difficulty would be encountered in filling the position with a ``high quality candidate.'' As for recruitment bonuses (discussed above), payment of relocation bonuses should be considered before requesting approval of special salary rates for difficult-to-fill positions. The proposed regulations would allow an agency to pay a relocation bonus to any employee the agency wishes to relocate to a position that would otherwise be difficult to fill. Length of appointment. In §575.203, the current definition of ``employee'' for relocation bonus purposes requires an appointment of at least 2 years. The proposed regulation would allow the employee's appointment to be any length of time determined appropriate by the agency. Also, the proposed definition would make a technical change to clarify that a relocation bonus may be paid to an employee whose duty station is changed to a different commuting area permanently as well as temporarily. Written determination. In §575.204(d), the current regulations provide for exceptions to case-by-case approvals of relocation bonuses with prior OPM approval. The proposed regulations would allow such exceptions without prior OPM approval. Reporting requirement. In §575.208(b), the current regulations for relocation bonuses require an annual written report by each agency on its use of relocation bonuses. The proposed regulations would remove this requirement. Retention Allowances Length of appointment. In §575.303, the current definition of ``employee'' for retention allowance purposes requires an appointment of at least 2 years. The proposed regulations would allow the employee's appointment to be any length of time determined appropriate by the agency. Length of service. In §575.304(a), the current regulations permit payment of a retention allowance only to an employee who (1) has completed 1 year of continuous service with the agency immediately prior to such payment, or (2) has completed a period of employment established under a service agreement for a recruitment or relocation bonus. the proposed regulations would allow an agency to pay a retention allowance to an employee with less than 1 year of continuous service. However, the proposed regulations continue to require that an employee under a service agreement for a recruitment or relocation bonus complete such an agreement before receiving a retention allowance. Reason for being likely to leave. In §§575.304(b) and 575.305(c), the current regulations permit payment of a retention allowance to an employee only if he or she is likely to leave the Federal service for employment outside the executive, legislative, or judicial branch of the Federal Government. The proposed regulations would allow payment of a retention allowance to an employee who is likely to leave not only for employment outside the Federal Government, but for a reason other than employment, such as retirement. Reporting requirement. In §575.308(b), the current regulations for retention allowances require an annual written report by each agency on its use of retention allowances. The proposed regulations would remove this requirement. Miscellaneous In §575.103, the definition of ``commuting area'' is not germane to the payment of recruitment bonuses and would be removed by the proposed regulations. (The definition would remain in §575.203 for payment of relocation bonuses.) Finally, the proposed regulations add a new paragraph (d) in §575.306 to clarify that a retention allowance is not pay for purposes of a lump-sum payment for annual leave under 5 U.S.C. 5551. (See Comptroller General opinion B&hyph;249816, March 8, 1993.) E.O. 12866, Regulatory Review This rule has been reviewed by the Office of Management and Budget in accordance with E.O. 12866. Regulatory Flexibility Act I certify that these regulations would not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities because they would apply only to Federal agencies and employees.
