FR940810-1-00050 FR940810-1-00009 PART 570_COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BLOCK GRANTS 1. The authority citation for part 570 would continue to read as follows: Authority: 42 U.S.C. 3535(d) and 5300&hyph;5320. 2. Section 570.3 would be amended to add a new definition of ``Income;'' and to revise the definitions of ``Low and moderate income household or low- income household,'' ``Low and moderate income person or low-income person,'' ``Low-income household,'' ``Low-income person,'' ``Moderate income household,'' and ``Moderate income person'' to read as follows: §570.3 Definitions. * * * * * Income , for the purpose of determining whether a family or household is low- or moderate-income under subpart C of this part, is defined as follows: (1)(i) The definition of annual income under the Section 8 Housing Assistance Payments program at 24 CFR part 813 (except that if the CDBG assistance being provided is homeowner rehabilitation under §570.202, the value of the homeowner's primary residence may be excluded from any calculation of Net Family Assets); (ii) Income as reported under the Census long-form for the 1990 decennial Census. This definition includes: (A) Wages, salaries, tips, commissions, etc.; (B) Self-employment income from own non-farm business, including proprietorships and partnerships; (C) Farm self-employment income; (D) Interest, dividends, net rental income, or income from estates or trusts; (E) Social security or railroad retirement; (F) Supplemental Security Income, Aid to Families with Dependent Children, or other public assistance or public welfare programs; (G) Retirement, survivor, or disability pensions; and (H) Any other sources of income received regularly, including Veterans Administration payments, unemployment compensation, and alimony; or (iii) Adjusted gross income as defined for purposes of reporting under IRS Form 1040 for individual Federal income tax purposes. (2) The annual income of the family or household, as applicable, should be projected based on the prevailing rate of income of each person at the time assistance is provided for the individual, family or household, and shall include income from all family or household members. Income or asset enhancement derived from the CDBG-assisted activity shall not be considered in calculating income. Grantees may select any of the three listed definitions for each activity, except that integrally related activities of the same type and having the same qualifications as those set forth in §570.208(a), shall use the same definition of annual income. The option to choose a definition does not apply to activities that qualify under §570.208(a)(1) except when the recipient carries out a survey. Activities qualifying under §570.208(a)(1) generally must use the area income data supplied to recipients by HUD. * * * * * Low and moderate income household or low-income household means a household having an income equal to or less than the Section 8 low income limits established by HUD. Low and moderate income person or low-income person means a member of a family which has an income equal to or less than the Section 8 low income limits established by HUD. Unrelated individuals will be considered as one person families for this purpose. Low-income household means a household having an income equal to or less than the Section 8 very low income limits established by HUD. Low-income person means a member of a family which has an income equal to or less than the Section 8 very low income limits established by HUD. Unrelated individuals shall be considered as one-person families for this purpose. * * * * * Moderate income household means a household having an income equal to or less than the Section 8 low income limit and greater than the Section 8 very low income limit, established by HUD. Moderate income person means a member of a family which has an income equal to or less than the Section 8 low income limit and greater than the Section 8 very low income limit, established by HUD. Unrelated individuals shall be considered as one-person families for this purpose. * * * * * 3. In §570.200, paragraph (g) would be revised to read as follows: §570.200 General policies. * * * * * (g) Limitation on planning and administrative costs . No more than 20 percent of the sum of any grant, plus program income, shall be expended for planning and program administrative costs, as defined in §§570.205 and 507.206, respectively. Recipients of entitlement grants under subpart D shall conform with this requirement by limiting expenditures for planning and administration during a program year to an amount that does not exceed 20 percent of the sum of its entitlement grant made for that program year (if any) plus the program income received during that program year. * * * * * 4. In §570.201, paragraph (e) introductory text would be revised to read as follows: §570.201 Basic eligible activities. * * * * * (e) Public services . Provision of public services (including labor, supplies, and materials) that are directed toward improving the community's public services and facilities, including but not limited to those concerned with employment, crime prevention, child care, health, drug abuse, education, fair housing counseling, energy conservation, welfare (but excluding the provision of income payments identified under §570.207(b)(4)), homebuyer downpayment assistance, or recreational needs. In order to be eligible for CDBG assistance, a public service must meet each of the following criteria:
