FR940617-0-00160 FR940617-0-00026 (2) Defeat device does not include such items which either operate only during engine starting or are necessary to protect the engine (or equipment in which it is installed) against damage or accident during its operation. §89.108&hyph;96 Adjustable parameters, requirements. (a) Nonroad engines equipped with adjustable parameters must comply with all requirements of this subpart for any adjustment in the physically adjustable range. (b) An operating parameter is not considered adjustable if it is permanently sealed or otherwise not normally accessible using ordinary tools. (c) The Administrator may require that adjustable parameters be set to any specification within its adjustable range for certification, selective enforcement audit, or in-use testing to determine compliance with the requirements of this subpart. §89.109&hyph;96 Maintenance instructions. The manufacturer must furnish or cause to be furnished to the ultimate purchaser of each new nonroad engine written instructions for the maintenance needed to assure proper functioning of the emission control system. §89.110&hyph;96 Emission control information label. (a) The manufacturer must affix at the time of manufacture a permanent and legible label identifying each nonroad engine. The label must meet the following requirements: (1) Be attached in such a manner that it cannot be removed without destroying or defacing the label; (2) Be durable and readable for the entire engine life; (3) Be secured to an engine part necessary for normal engine operation and not normally requiring replacement during engine life; (4) Be written in English; and (5) Be located so as to be readily visible to the average person after the engine is installed in the equipment. A supplemental label meeting all the requirements of this section may be attached to a location other than the engine, in cases where the required label must be obscured after the engine is installed in the equipment. (b) The label must contain the following information: (1) The heading ``Important Engine Information;'' (2) The full corporate name and trademark of the manufacturer; (3) EPA standardized engine family designation; (4) Engine displacement; (5) Advertised power; (6) Engine tuneup specifications and adjustments. These should indicate the proper transmission position during tuneup, and accessories (for example, air conditioner), if any, that should be in operation; (7) Fuel requirements; (8) Date of manufacture (month and year). The manufacturer may, in lieu of including the date of manufacture on the engine label, maintain a record of the engine manufacture dates. The manufacturer shall provide the date of manufacture records to the Administrator upon request; (9) Family emission limits (FELs) if applicable; and (10) The statement: ``This engine conforms to [model year] U.S. EPA regulations large nonroad compression- ignition engines.'' (c) Other information concerning proper maintenance and use or indicating compliance or noncompliance with other standards may be indicated on the label. (d) Each engine must have a legible unique engine identification number permanently affixed to or engraved on the engine. §89.111&hyph;96 Averaging, banking, and trading of exhaust emissions. Regulations regarding the availability of an averaging, banking, and trading program along with applicable record- keeping requirements are found in subpart C of this part. Participation in the averaging, banking, and trading program is optional. §89.112&hyph;96 Oxides of nitrogen, carbon monoxide, hydrocarbon, and particulate matter exhaust emission standards.
