FR940511-2-00170 FR940511-2-00108 Currently, the proposal only covers purchases of Treasury securities that settle one or more business days after the auction date. This limitation is needed because of the limitations in GSCC's system. However, the number of Treasury securities that settle on the same day as auction date is so small that this limitation should not have a significant effect on the national clearance system. 20 20 During all of 1993 and 1994, no Treasury securities have settled on the same day as the auction date. Memorandum to File from Christine Sibille, Attorney, Commission (April 25, 1994). In addition, the proposal only covers proprietary purchases. If a GSCC member were to fail, GSCC would still accept auction awards to the extent covered by the GSCC member's short position. If a GSCC member's customer purchases were included in the proposal, there is a possibility that a customer's purchase would be used to satisfy the failed member's short position rather than delivered to the customer. Once the auction takedown proposal has been implemented, there will be opportunities to study means of including customer trades without undue risk to the customer. Until such time, the Commission believes that it is reasonable to exclude customer trades. 21 21 Approximately 15% of the securities awarded to GSCC members are customer purchases. Memorandum to File from Christine Sibille, Attorney, Commission (April 25, 1994). The proposal would change GSCC's settlement pricing to accommodate introduction of auction positions. These changes will serve two functions. First, it will ensure that GSCC never delivers auction purchases for less than the amount it paid for the securities. Second, it will provide GSCC with a risk control measure when a member is subject to higher than normal surveillance status. This should help GSCC address the risk of liquidity problems, and enhance GSCC's ability to safeguard funds and securities. The proposal also provides a general mechanism for GSCC to accept locked-in trade data from sources other than a Federal Reserve Bank. By accepting the trades directly from a locked-in trade source (such as an exchange), the process of clearing and settling the locked-in trade is made more efficient. The GSCC member does not have to duplicate input of the data, submitting the data once to the locked-in trade source and once to GSCC. Instead, the information flows directly to GSCC, thereby lessening the risk of incorrect or incomplete submissions, or unconfirmed trades. The proposal extends the benefits of GSCC's centralized, automated netting system to netting members' auction securities purchases. By including auction securities in GSCC's netting system, the level of potential netting is increased and the number of required movements of securities are reduced. 22 Netting of auction securities also may have the effect of increasing a member's liquidity. Previously, a GSCC member with a short position would have its required margin payments calculated based on its short position, even if it had an offsetting long position in auction purchases. Once the positions are netted, the member's margin payments will be calculated based on the position after taking into account the auction purchases, perhaps creating a lower margin payment. The additional liquidity may assist in the prompt and accurate clearance and settlement of securities transactions. In this manner, the proposal removes impediments to the national system for the prompt and accurate clearance and settlement of securities transactions, and fosters cooperation and coordination with persons engaged in clearance and settlement of securities transactions. 22 In March 1994, GSCC's netting system received $289 billion in daily average buy/sell dollars. This amount was netted to result in $65 billion in average daily receive and deliver obligations. In effect, GSCC netted out approximately 77% of the dollar obligations of members. IV. Conclusion For the reasons stated above, the Commission finds that the proposed rule change is consistent with section 17A of the Act. It is therefore ordered , Pursuant to section 19(b)(2) of the Act, that the proposed rule change (SR&hyph;GSCC&hyph;94&hyph;01) be, and hereby is, approved. For the Commission, by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;11339 Filed 5&hyph;10&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
