FR941110-0-00132 FR941110-0-00016 488.442␣Civil money penalties: Due date for payment of penalty. 488.444␣Civil money penalties: Settlement of penalties. 488.450␣Continuation of payments to a facility with deficiencies. (§488.232) 488.452␣State and Federal disagreements involving findings not in agreement in situations where there is no immediate jeopardy. (§488.234) 488.454␣Duration of remedies. (§488.236) 488.456␣Termination of provider agreement. (§488.238) Section 488.401␣Definitions It was brought to our attention that the term ``immediate family'' also appears in subpart E as well as subpart F. Therefore, in the final regulation we are moving the definition of ``immediate family'' to subpart E, §488.301, but we are stating the comments and responses below. Comment: A few commenters believe that the definition of ``immediate family'' should be expanded to include niece, nephew, and domestic partner. Response: We have not accepted this suggestion. Section 1004, part 1, of the Provider Reimbursement Manual defines ``immediate family'' for Medicare purposes. The commenters offered no compelling argument as to why any individual should be added to the definition of immediate family. In fact, we are amending our definition to be consistent with the definition found in the Provider Reimbursement Manual by deleting ``spouse of grandparent or grandchild.'' Comment: Some commenters pointed out that the definition of ``immediate jeopardy'' should be located in subpart E instead of subpart F because the term is first introduced in subpart E. Comment: We agree with the commenters. In the final rule, we have relocated the definition of ``immediate jeopardy'' from proposed §488.201 in subpart F to §488.301 in subpart E. However, since commenters concerned with responses regarding the definition of immediate jeopardy will first look in this section, we have retained the comments and responses below. Comment: We received numerous comments about HCFA's or the State survey agency's ability to assign resident rights and/or physical environment violations at higher severity levels. These commenters believe that any deficiency could be egregious enough to be considered ``moderate harm'' or ``immediate jeopardy.'' Response: We agree with these commenters and are allowing violations of any participation requirement, including resident rights and physical environment, to be assessed at any degree of seriousness. Comment: Many commenters wanted clarification regarding cases in which termination actions for immediate jeopardy would be applicable. Response: Sections 1819(h)(2)(A)(i), 1819(h)(4), 1919(h)(1)(A), 1919(h)(3)(B)(i), and 1919(h)(5) of the Act specifically state that termination of participation for a facility is possible with any determination of noncompliance where the State or the Secretary finds this noncompliance immediately jeopardizes the health or safety of the residents. For example, immediate jeopardy to resident health or safety may exist, but is not limited to, the presence of one of more of the following: •Insect or rodent infestation indicative of food contamination or the possible spread of contagion; •Failure to control infections as evidenced by the presence of facility-acquired infections; •Patient abuse or poor resident care, including; + Instances of malnutrition or dehydration that are unrelated to the resident's condition and are a result of patient care; + Neglect by the staff with the result that residents are often left lying in urine, feces and other waste; •Drug or pharmaceutical hazards that directly affect resident health and safety, such as: + Excessive drug errors or mishandling of drugs; + Failure to provide medications as prescribed; + Failure to monitor drugs as evidenced by lack of ordered laboratory work, failure to take vital signs as indicated by drug regimen, and lack of other nursing monitoring practices; + Gross mishandling of drugs such as leaving drug trays unattended and available to residents and visitors. + Administration of drugs by unqualified staff; or + Administration of experimental drugs without the informed consent of the resident (or responsible party). This list is not to be interpreted as all-inclusive, but rather as examples of what may be construed as immediate jeopardy situations warranting termination. Comment: Other commenters were unclear about how the phrase ``at any time'' constitutes ``immediate threat.'' Response: We agree that it is unclear and are removing the phrase in §488.401. Comment: Some commenters believe the definition in §442.2 conflicts with the proposed definition of immediate jeopardy.
