FR941220-0-00015 FR941220-0-00005 Summary of Responses to Comments on the September 27, 1991 Proposed Rule We received items of correspondence from 144 commenters, including professional organizations and associations, HHAs, public health departments and other State governmental agencies, universities, and individuals. A summary of those comments and our responses follow. Requirements for Payment (§409.41) Comment: One commenter stated that Medicare should provide coverage of home health aide and other services furnished by organizations other than Medicare-approved HHAs. Response: We are unable to accept this comment. The Act at section 1861(m) defines home health services as specific items and services that are furnished by (or under arrangements with) an HHA (as defined in section 1861(o) of the Act). Therefore, Medicare has no statutory authority to cover any home health service that is not furnished by or under arrangements with a Medicare-approved HHA. Beneficiary Qualifications for Coverage of Services (§409.42) Comment: One commenter stated that the first sentence of §409.42(b), ``the beneficiary must be under the care of a physician who establishes the plan of care'', should be changed to allow for a patient's treatment by a staff physician. Response: We do not believe that such a revision is necessary. The requirement that a patient be under the care of a physician who establishes the plan of care does not preclude the patient's treatment by other physicians in addition to the one who establishes the plan of care. Comment: Several commenters stated that the need for dietician services should be included in §409.42(c) (which lists the skilled services necessary to qualify the beneficiary for home health services) and therefore added to those needed skilled services that qualify a beneficiary for coverage of Medicare home health services. (Other commenters wanted this service added to §409.44 as a covered skilled service.) Response: Sections 1814(a)(2)(C) and 1835(a)(2)(A) of the Act establish the eligibility criteria for Medicare coverage of home health services. Because these sections of the Act do not include the need for dietician services with the need for intermittent skilled nursing care, physical therapy, speech pathology services, and continuing occupational therapy as necessary to establish eligibility for Medicare coverage of home health services, we cannot accept these comments. Comment: One commenter requested we change the terms ``speech therapy'' and ``speech therapist'' to ``speech-language pathology'' and ``speech-language pathologist'' throughout the rule. Response: We have replaced the term ``speech therapy'' with ``speech-language pathology services'' and the term ``speech therapist'' with ``speech-language pathologist'' throughout this rule. As indicated by the commenter, this revision will ensure that this rule more closely reflects current standards in this area. It is also important to note that the term ``skilled therapist'' in this rule includes speech-language pathologists. Plan of Care Requirements (§409.43) Comment: One commenter requested we clarify that certain services furnished by an HHA that are not related to the treatment of the patient's illness or injury do not require a physician's order. Response: Section 409.43 establishes plan of care requirements which must be met to obtain Medicare coverage of home health services. Section 409.43 requires all Medicare covered home health services to be furnished under a plan of care established and periodically reviewed by a physician. Noncovered services, such as those that are not related to the treatment of the patient's illness or injury, are not subject to the coverage requirements of this section. Comment: One commenter requested clarification of the required content of the physician's orders. The commenter was concerned that the intent of the section was to require the physician's order to include a long, narrative description of the services ordered. Another commenter requested clarification of the required specificity of physician's orders for home health aide services. Response: Section 409.43 does not require that the plan of care include a narrative description of the services ordered. As part of our ongoing efforts to reduce unnecessary paperwork, we have revised this section of the rule to clarify that the plan of care need specify only the medical treatments to be furnished, the discipline that will furnish them, and the frequency at which they will be furnished. Appropriate specificity of medical treatments in the physician's orders would include such orders as ``observe and evaluate surgical site'', ``perform sterile dressing changes'', and, for home health aide services, ``assistance in personal care.'' As practice acts and other laws and regulations govern the actual methods by which these services are performed, it is not necessary to include a description of how to furnish the service in the physician's order. It is also important to note that certain additional plan of care requirements are contained in the Medicare HHA conditions of participation at 42 CFR 484.18. Comment: One commenter requested that §409.43(b) be revised to require that orders for therapy services be developed in consultation with the qualified therapist.
