FR941103-2-00120 FR941103-2-00068 The availability of specific jobs or occupations for which training will be provided and the relevance of the training to the jobs into which participants will be placed; A commitment from the employers to hire dislocated workers who successfully complete the training into those jobs; and Agreements with dislocated workers programs under Title III of the Job Training Partnership Act that will identify eligible dislocated workers and refer them to the broker for service. C. Administration and Management Identify the management structure for the project and demonstrate the means to ensure accountability for performance. Provide a description of the process and procedures to be used to obtain feedback from participants and other appropriate parties on the responsiveness and effectiveness of the services provided. The description should include an identification of the types of information to be obtained, the method(s) and frequency of data collection, and how the information will be used in implementing and managing the project. It is expected that grantees may employ focus groups and surveys, in addition to other methods, to collect feedback information. D. Use of Existing Services and Resources An identification of the specific sources and amounts of other funds which will be used, in addition to funds provided through this grant, to implement the project. The application must include information on any other JTPA funds and non-JTPA resources committed to this project, including employer funds, secured and unsecured loans, grants, and other forms of assistance, public and private. The application shall also describe the relationship of this project to the ongoing assistance to dislocated workers through the formula-funded JTPA Title III program(s) in the service area. E. Coordination and Linkages A description of the consultation with relevant parties in developing the project design and of the role of these parties in implementing the project, especially with regard to employer involvement in the development of appropriate training. Suggested consultation shall include: State JTPA Dislocated Worker Unit, Substate Title III grantee(s) and administrative entity(ies), as well as organized labor, employers, and organizations providing education, training and supportive services. F. Participant Services A description of the services to be available and/or provided to participants. The services supported with funds under this grant must be allowable under Section 314 of the Act. This description should include a participant service flowchart indicating the sequence in the participant service process and the criteria/decision points which are used to determine the appropriateness of specific services for individual participants, and the support provided to ensure that each participant will receive the appropriate assistance from the point of enrollment until 90 days after placement. G. Outcomes A description of the project outcomes and of the specific measures, and planned achievement levels, that will be used to determine the success of the project. These outcomes and measures should include, but are not limited to: •The number of participants projected: to be enrolled in services, to successfully complete services through the project, and to be placed into new jobs;
