FR941227-0-00007 FR941227-0-00002 One commenter suggested that §§870.103(c)(2) and 890.104(c)(2) be changed to specify that the reconsideration review is an independent level of review. We are making this modification in the interest of clarity. One commenter asked how these regulations apply to agencies that have previously delegated initial decisions to another agency through a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU). Such agencies may need to amend the MOU's to show which agency is to make the reconsideration decision. Currently the initial decision letters have been directing employees to ask OPM to reconsider the initial decision. Under the revised regulations the initial decision must tell the employee how to seek reconsideration. One commenter expressed the concern that the term ``agency'' used in §890.104 could restrict the agency's options about the role of the National Finance Center (NFC) in the reconsideration process for those agencies that have a MOU with NFC to administer their payroll or FEHB accounts for enrollees who make direct premium payments. Since NFC acts as an agent for the agency, these regulations in no way restrict NFC's role. However, agencies and NFC will need to decide which will perform the reconsideration function and then modify the MOU accordingly. In general, the comments we received indicated that agencies are uncertain about what reconsideration actually is. Therefore, we are adding a definition of the term ``reconsideration'' to clarify that it is the final part of the administrative review process and consists of a determination of whether the law and regulations were correctly applied when the initial decision was made. In addition, there were several suggestions to correct real or perceived technical or typographical errors in the proposed regulations. We have made changes where appropriate. Regulatory Flexibility Act I certify that this regulation will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities because it merely amends administrative procedures currently performed by OPM and Federal agencies. List of Subjects 5 CFR Part 870 Administrative practice and procedure, Government employees, Hostages, Iraq, Kuwait, Lebanon, Life insurance, Retirement. 5 CFR Parts 871, 872, and 873 Administrative practice and procedure, Government employees, Life insurance, Retirement. 5 CFR 874 Government employees, Life insurance, Retirement. 5 CFR Part 890 Administrative practice and procedure, Government employees, Health facilities, Health insurance, Health professions, Hostages, Iraq, Kuwait, Lebanon, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Retirement. Office of Personnel Management. James B. King, Director.
