FR940621-2-00089 FR940621-2-00053 (l) Subsequent to its participation in the TRAK Program, each Plan receives the following written or oral disclosures with respect to its ongoing participation in the TRAK Program: (1) The Trust's semi-annual and annual report which will include financial statement for the Trust and investment management fees paid by each Portfolio. (2) A written quarterly monitoring statement containing an analysis and an evaluation of a Plan investor's account to ascertain whether the Plan's investment objectives have been met and recommending, if required, changes in Portfolio allocations. (3) If required by the arrangement negotiated between the Consulting Group and a Section 404(c) Plan, a quarterly, detailed investment performance monitoring report, in writing, provided to an Independent Plan Fiduciary of such Plan showing, Plan level asset allocations, Plan cash flow analysis and annualized risk adjusted rates of return for Plan investments. In addition, if required by such arrangement, Financial Consultants will meet periodically with Independent Plan Fiduciaries of Section 404(c) Plans to discuss the report as well as with eligible participants to review their accounts' performance. (4) If required by the arrangement negotiated between the Consulting Group and a Section 404(c) Plan, a quarterly participant performance monitoring report provided to a Plan participant which accompanies the participant's benefit statement and describes the investment performance of the Portfolios, the investment performance of the participant's individual investment in the TRAK Program, and gives market commentary and toll-free numbers that will enable the participant to obtain more information about the TRAK Program or to amend his or her investment allocations. (5) On a quarterly and annual basis, written disclosures to all Plans of the (a) percentage of each Portfolio's brokerage commissions that are paid to SBI and its affiliates and (b) the average brokerage commission per share paid by each Portfolio to SBI and its affiliates, as compared to the average brokerage commission per share paid by the Trust to brokers other than SBI and its affiliates, both expressed as cents per share. (m) SBI shall maintain, for a period of six years, the records necessary to enable the persons described in paragraph (n) of this Section to determine whether the conditions of this exemption have been met, except that (1) a prohibited transaction will not be considered to have occurred if, due to circumstances beyond the control of SBI and/or its affiliates, the records are lost or destroyed prior to the end of the six year period, and (2) no party in interest other than SBI shall be subject to the civil penalty that may be assessed under section 502(i) of the Act, or to the taxes imposed by section 4975 (a) and (b) of the Code, if the records are not maintained, or are not available for examination as required by paragraph (n) below. (n)(1) Except as provided in section (2) of this paragraph and notwithstanding any provisions of subsections (a) (2) and (b) of section 504 of the Act, the records referred to in paragraph (m) of this Section shall be unconditionally available at their customary location during normal business hours by: (A) Any duly authorized employee or representative of the Department or the Internal Revenue Service; (B) Any fiduciary of a participating Plan or any duly authorized representative of such fiduciary; (C) Any contributing employer to any participating Plan or any duly authorized employee representative of such employer; and (D) Any participant or beneficiary of any participating Plan, or any duly authorized representative of such participant or beneficiary. (2) None of the persons described above in subparagraphs (B)&hyph;(D) of this paragraph (n) shall be authorized to examine the trade secrets of SBI or commercial or financial information which is privileged or confidential. Section III. Definitions For purposes of this exemption: (a) An ``affiliate'' of SBI includes_ (1) Any person directly or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, controlling, controlled by, or under common control with SBI. (For purposes of this subsection, the term ``control'' means the power to exercise a controlling influence over the management or policies of a person other than an individual.) (2) Any officer, director or partner in such person, and (3) Any corporation or partnership of which such person is an officer, director or a 5 percent partner or owner. (b) An ``Independent Plan Fiduciary'' is a Plan fiduciary which is independent of SBI and its affiliates and is either (1) A Plan administrator, sponsor, trustee or named fiduciary, as the recordholder of Trust shares of a Section 404(c) Plan, (2) A participant in a Keogh Plan, (3) An individual covered under a self-directed IRA which invests in Trust shares, (4) A trustee, investment manager or named fiduciary responsible for investment decisions in the case of a Title I Plan that does not permit individual direction as contemplated by Section 404(c) of the Act, or (5) A participant in a Section 404(c) Plan. Section IV. Effective Dates This exemption will be effective as of July 31, 1993, except for transactions involving the GIC Fund. The exemption will be effective March 29, 1994 with respect to the inclusion of the GIC Fund in the TRAK Program. The availability of this exemption is subject to the express condition that the material facts and representations contained in the applications for exemption are true and complete and accurately describe all material terms of the transactions. In the case of continuing transactions, if any of the material facts or representations described in the applications change, the exemption will cease to apply as of the date of such change. In the event of any such change, an application for a new exemption must be made to the Department. For a more complete statement of the facts and representations supporting the Department's decision to grant PTE 92&hyph;77, refer to the proposed exemption and grant notice which are cited above. Signed at Washington, DC, this 16th day of June 1994. Ivan L. Strasfeld, Director of Exemption Determinations, Pension and Welfare Benefits Administration, U.S. Department of Labor. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;15006 Filed 6&hyph;20&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4510&hyph;29&hyph;P
