FR940323-2-00092 FR940323-2-00067 • Grants/Amounts: About $3 million will be available to support up to 6 competing renewal projects and up to 12 new projects. An average of about $166,500 per award for one year is anticipated. Project periods are up to 3 years. • Contact: For programmatic or technical information, contact: Jane S. Lin-Fu, M.D., telephone: 301 443&hyph;1080. 4.1.4. Maternal and Child Health Improvement Projects Maternal and Child Health Improvement Projects (MCHIP) are divided into 5 sub-categories: Maternal, Infant, Child, and Adolescent Health; Health Care Reform for Children with Special Health Care Needs; Data Utilization and Enhancement; Healthy Tomorrows Partnerships for Children; and Field-Initiated Projects. 4.1.4.1. Maternal, Infant, Child, and Adolescent Health • Application Deadline: May 19, 1994 (Revised deadline). • Purpose: To improve the health of all mothers, infants, children, and adolescents. Demonstration projects in this category will focus on developing preventive intervention strategies to improve reproductive health, promote infant health, and reduce infant mortality and morbidity in rural areas and smaller urban communities. • Priorities/Special Concerns: A funding priority will be placed on projects from historically Black colleges and universities (HBCUs). An approved proposal from an HBCU will receive a 0.5 point favorable adjustment of the priority score in a 4 point range before funding decisions are made. • Grants/Amounts: About $1.25 million will be available to support up to a total of 12 new projects, at an average of about $100,000 per award for one year. Project periods are up to 4 years except where otherwise noted. This is a change from information in an Advance Notice of Application Deadline Dates published in the Federal Register on February 2 at 59 FR 4925. • Contact: For programmatic or technical information, contact David Heppel, M.D., telephone: 301 443&hyph;2250. 4.1.4.1.1 School Health Program • Application Deadline: Date to be announced •Purpose: To address critical health problems and health-damaging behaviors of the school age population, including children with special health care needs. This initiative, a demonstration of concepts currently under consideration as a health care reform measure, is designed to improve accessibility and increase utilization of comprehensive health and health-related services geared to developmental needs; and to assist States to develop full service schools which meet communities need for provision of comprehensive, culturally competent and integrated health, psychosocial, and education services to all children and adolescents. Coordination and collaboration among State MCH programs, local health departments, community and migrant health centers, State and local education agencies, and community-based organizations will be emphasized. Projects will be supported in staff development, service demonstrations, and consumer health education and promotion demonstrations. This activity is a joint program initiative with the Bureau of Primary Health Care (BPHC), HRSA, and will shortly be announced in greater detail in a separate Federal Register notice, with a separate due date. • Priorities/Special Concerns: Priorities and special concerns have yet to be determined. • Grants/Amounts: About $1.5 million will be available to support up to 10 school health staff development projects, at an average of $150,000. An additional $1.0 million, together with funds to be made available by BPHC, will be available for combined projects to address service demonstrations and consumer health education and promotion demonstrations. Additional details will be announced. • Contact: Contact(s) to be announced. 4.1.4.2. Health Care Reform for Children With Special Health Care Needs • Application Deadline: May 10, 1994. • Purpose: To address issues in the current environment of cost containment, managed care, and the anticipated movement toward universal, basic health insurance coverage that relate to children with special health care needs, their families and providers, and the public health system's role in their care. The focus is on elimination of barriers to adequate, appropriate and high quality care that may not be overcome through assurance of universal coverage. • Priorities/Special Concerns: Applicants in this MCHIP category are invited to submit proposals in the following program areas: _Personnel preparation and assistance. _Quality assurance.
