FR940720-0-00063 FR940720-0-00006 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY 40 CFR Part 80 [AMS&hyph;FRL&hyph;5007&hyph;9] Regulation of Fuels and Fuel Additives: Standards for Reformulated and Conventional Gasoline AGENCY: Environmental Protection Agency. ACTION: Direct final rule. SUMMARY: The Clean Air Act, as amended in 1990 (CAA or the Act), mandated that the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA or the Agency) promulgate regulations requiring that gasoline sold in certain areas be reformulated to reduce vehicle emissions of toxic and ozone-forming compounds and that gasoline sold outside these areas would not be more polluting than it was in 1990. On February 16, 1994, EPA published the final rule establishing performance standards and compliance provisions for conventional and reformulated gasoline (RFG). This direct final rule (DFRM) makes minor corrections, clarifications, and revisions to various provisions in the final reformulated gasoline rule. This action addresses the following issues: Work-In-Progress (WIP) baseline adjustments; JP&hyph;4 baseline adjustments; summer/winter season definition for baseline determination; complex model valid range extension for conventional gasoline baselines; valid range limits for aromatics, oxygen, benzene, and RVP; clarifications to the VOC and NO X extrapolations in the complex model; clarifications of seasonal condition inconsistencies; and enforcement corrections/clarifications associated with the reformulated gasoline and anti-dumping regulations, as well as several technical clarifications and typographical corrections. EFFECTIVE DATES: This rule will be effective September 19, 1994 unless notice is received by August 19, 1994 that adverse or critical comments will be submitted or that an opportunity to submit such comments at a public hearing is requested. If such comments or a request for a public hearing are received by the Agency, then EPA will publish a subsequent Federal Register notice withdrawing from this action only those items which are specifically listed in those comments or in the request for a public hearing. See SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION for further discussion on submission of public comment. ADDRESSES: Interested parties may submit written comments (in duplicate, if possible) to Public Docket No. A&hyph;94&hyph;30, at Air Docket Section, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Waterside Mall, Room M&hyph;1500, 401 M Street SW., Washington, DC 20460. The Agency requests that commenters also send a copy of any comments to David Korotney at the address listed in the FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT section. Materials relevant to the reformulated gasoline final rule and this direct final rule are contained in Public Dockets A&hyph;91&hyph;02 and A&hyph;92&hyph;12, located at room M&hyph;1500, Waterside Mall (ground floor), U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, 401 M Street SW., Washington, DC 20460. The docket may be inspected from 8 a.m. until 12 noon and from 1:30 p.m. until 3 p.m. Monday through Friday. A reasonable fee may be charged by EPA for copying docket materials. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: David Korotney, U.S. EPA (RDSD&hyph;12), Regulation Development and Support Division, 2565 Plymouth Road, Ann Arbor, MI 48105, Telephone: (313) 668&hyph;4507. To Request Copies of this Action Contact: Delores Frank, U.S. EPA (RDSD&hyph;12), Regulation Development and Support Division, 2565 Plymouth Road, Ann Arbor, MI 48105, Telephone: (313) 668&hyph;4295. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Public Comments For parties that submit adverse or critical comments, notify EPA of intentions to submit adverse comments, or request a public hearing, the Agency requests that commenters identify each of the items at issue by the specific preamble section numbers that discuss those items. For instance, adverse comments on the change to the oxygen valid range limits should include a reference to Section (Item Number) II.A.1 of the preamble. Adverse comments on any of the insubstantial errors in Section I of the preamble should include a reference to the identification code associated with each change in that section. For instance, adverse comments on the paragraph reference change in §80.41(h)(2)(iii) should include a reference to Item Number I&hyph;A. The EPA will withdraw from this direct final action only those specific provision(s) so identified. All other provisions included in today's notice will become effective on September 19, 1994. EPA believes that the use of a direct final rule is appropriate because the changes made are generally minor in nature and all are expected to be non-controversial. The DFRM will allow the Agency to finalize such changes in a timely manner. For instance, many of the changes contained herein clarify issues relevant to the development and auditing of individual baselines which, in general, must be submitted by either June 1, 1994 or September 1, 1994. Likewise, the reformulated gasoline program will commence on December 1, 1994. The clarifications and changes contained herein will promote successful implementation of this program. A copy of this action is available on the OAQPS Technology Transfer Network Bulletin Board System (TTNBBS). The TTNBBS can be accessed with a dial-in phone line and a high-speed modem (PH # 919&hyph;541&hyph;5742). The parity of your modem should be set to none, the data bits to 8, and the stop bits to 1. Either a 1200, 2400, or 9600 baud modem should be used. When first signing on, the user will be required to answer some basic informational questions for registration purposes. After completing the registration process, proceed through the following series of menus: (M)␣␣OMS (K)␣␣Rulemaking and Reporting (3)␣␣Fuels (9)␣␣Reformulated gasoline A list of ZIP files will be shown, all of which are related to the reformulated gasoline rulemaking process. Today's action will be in the form of a ZIP file and can be identified by the following title: RFG&hyph;DFRM.ZIP. To download this file, type the following instructions and transfer according to the appropriate software on your computer:
