FR940722-0-00132 FR940722-0-00019 187. We believe that a modification of our 50.1 percent equity requirement will best achieve Congress' objective of providing effective and long-term economic opportunities for women and minority-owned firms in broadband PCS. At the same time, we shall maintain strict enforcement of the requirement that actual control reside with the qualified designated entities. Thus, to establish their eligibility for tax certificates, enhanced installment payments, bidding credits and relaxed cellular attribution rules, women and minority-owned applicants electing to use the 25 percent equity option may not in any instance allow an individual investor who is not in the control group to own more than a 25 percent passive equity interest. This restriction will apply even in circumstances in which allowing an investor to exceed these limitations would not result in the applicant's exceeding the gross revenues and other financial standards that apply to other bidders in the entrepreneurs' blocks and other situations involving financial caps. These structural safeguards, as well as the general requirement that other investors hold only passive interests in women and minority-owned applicants, will help to ensure that control truly remains with the women and minority designated entities. 188. For example, a women or minority-owned firm electing to use the 25 percent option may have a non-eligible investor with more than a 25 percent passive stake and still qualify to bid in the entrepreneurs' blocks or for benefits that apply to small businesses, as long as the attributable revenues of the investor do not cause the applicant to exceed the gross revenues/total assets caps. In these contexts, no additional restrictions are necessary, because women and minority-owned applicants, like other applicants, are eligible to bid in these blocks and to qualify as small businesses so long as they comply with the same restrictions on financial eligibility that apply to other applicants. Since the attribution rule itself operates to ensure compliance with size limitations, it is not necessary to impose additional restrictions on the size of interests held by investors with attributable interests. This firm will not qualify, however, for special measures applicable only to women and minority-owned businesses, such as ``enhanced'' installment payments or the 15 or 25 percent bidding credits, because it has a single non-eligible investor with more than a 25 percent passive interest. In circumstances in which women and minorities are required to retain only 25 percent of the firm's equity, this additional structural restriction is appropriate because the objective in this context is to ensure not merely financial eligibility, but that women and minorities retain control of the license. 189. We set forth previously rules defining more explicitly the term ``control'' for purposes of determining whether a ``control group'' maintains de facto as well as de jure control of an applicant. 160 Those rules apply equally to the minority and women principals of minority and women-owned applicants. Consistent with our general policies with regard to women-owned applicants for purposes of our multiple ownership and cross-ownership rules in this broadcast context, we shall not adopt, at this time, any special rules or presumptions to determine whether women-owned applicants exercise independent control of their firms. See In the Matter of Clarification of Commission Policies Regarding Spousal Attribution, 7 FCC Rcd 1920, 57 FR 8845, Mar. 13, 1992. 160 See supra ¶164. 190. Our requirement that control rest with minorities and/or women and the clarifications above ensure that parties do not attempt to evade the statutory requirement to provide economic opportunities and ensure participation by businesses owned by these groups. We reaffirm our commitment to investigate all allegations of fronts, shams or other methods used by those who try to obtain a benefit to which they are not lawfully entitled. In this vein, we again admonish parties that we will conduct random pre- and post-auction audits to ensure that applicants receiving these benefits are bona fide designated entities. 191. We also note here that we are departing from the provision in the Second Report and Order that bars publicly traded companies from qualifying as minority and woman-owned businesses for purposes of participating in auctions. Most of the steps taken to assist these designated entities in this Order ( e.g., bidding credits and installment payments) are confined to winning bidders in the entrepreneurs' blocks, where there is a financial limit on the size of participants. Because of the expected large capital entry costs of broadband PCS, we believe that even publicly traded companies owned by women and minorities that qualify to bid in blocks C and F require additional measures, such as bidding credits and installment payments, to be able to participate successfully. We emphasize, however, that the exception to the attribution rules for publicly traded companies to be eligible to bid in the entrepreneurs' blocks does not apply here. 161 To qualify for measures targeted exclusively to women and minority-owned businesses, a company must satisfy the definition set forth in this section. 161 With regard to qualifying to bid in the entrepreneurs' blocks, we stated that we would not attribute the revenues or assets of an investor that owns up to 15 percent of a publicly traded applicant's voting stock. For privately held companies, the voting stock threshold is five percent. See supra ¶¶158, 163. 192. As noted above, applicants owned by women and minorities must meet the limitations on gross revenues, total assets and personal net worth to qualify for entry into the entrepreneurs' blocks. The size limitations do not apply, however, to all measures designed to assist applicants owned by minorities and/or women. The tax certificate policy applies to all broadband PCS licenses and is not limited to licenses in the entrepreneurs' blocks. Therefore, businesses owned by minorities and women need not meet the gross revenue and other financial restrictions to qualify for tax certificates. Similarly, the relaxed cellular attribution threshold for minority and women-owned firms adopted in the Broadband PCS Reconsideration Order is not limited to the entrepreneurs' blocks. Thus, minority and women-owned firms that do not meet the gross revenues, total assets and net worth restrictions may nevertheless qualify for the 40 percent cellular attribution rule. But minority and women-owned firms must satisfy the Commission's structural ownership requirements to receive the benefits of tax certificates and the relaxed cellular attribution rule; that is, they are subject to the limitation that interests held by investors who are not women and minorities must be passive.
