FR941222-1-00076 FR941222-1-00008 A. Compliance Costs for Listings The remainder of this section briefly describes (1) the universe of dye and pigment production facilities and volumes of the seven dye and pigment production wastes proposed to be listed, (2) the methodology for determining incremental cost and economic impacts to regulated entities, (3) the potential remedial action costs, and (4) economic impacts. Results of the analysis are summarized in Table VIII&hyph;1. 1. Universe of Dye and Pigment Production Facilities and Waste Volumes In order to estimate costs for the EIA, it first was necessary to estimate the total annual generation of dye and pigment production wastes affected by this action. As described in Section II.B of this preamble, the portion of the dye and pigment industry producing products affected by this listing is composed of 33 manufacturers operating 49 facilities producing dyes and pigments. In 1992, U.S. sales of all organic dyes and pigments totalled 403 million lbs., with a value of $1,691 million. Total annual product volumes and waste quantities generated by these affected facilities were derived from a 1991 survey of the dye and pigment production industries. The production volume and, hence, waste volume for dyes and pigments varies year to year depending on which colors are popular. A season in which dark colors are in fashion will produce higher volumes of waste; it is not known which colors were predominant in the study year. 2. Method for Determining Cost and Economic Impacts This section details EPA's approach for estimating the incremental compliance cost and the economic impacts attributable to the listing of dye and pigment production wastes. Because the dye and pigment production industries are moderately small (33 manufacturers currently operating 49 facilities), EPA was able to collect facility-specific information and estimate incremental costs at the wastestream level. For ten of the 49 facilities, however, some of the waste generation data were missing. In these cases, waste generation amounts were estimated. The information used in this analysis was collected in 1992 through RCRA Section 3007 Questionnaires, engineering site visits, and sampling and analysis of wastestreams. Approach to the Cost Analysis EPA's approach to the cost analysis for this rule was to compare the cost of current management practices, as reported in the RCRA Section 3007 Questionnaire by dye and pigment production facilities, with the projected cost of management to comply with the RCRA Subtitle C hazardous waste program. An additional analysis included the future cost to the industry of complying with land disposal restrictions. This difference in cost, when annualized, 9 represents the incremental annual compliance costs attributable to the rule. 9 Costs are discounted at a pre-tax rate of 4 percent over a 20-year period. Baseline or Current Management Scenario Relying on survey responses and engineering site visits, EPA was able to determine the current ( i.e., 1991) management practices for the handling and disposal of dye and pigment production wastes. Current management practices varied among facilities and wastestreams, and included such practices as on-site monofilling, off-site incineration, on-site destruction in boilers, and off-site landfilling in municipal, industrial or Subtitle C landfills. These current management practices at each facility represent the baseline scenario of the analysis. As part of the survey, EPA asked each facility to identify current costs for the management of dye and pigment production wastes. For this analysis, EPA relied on the industry's own waste-specific estimates concerning the cost of current management. EPA realizes that future events, such as waste minimization efforts, may change waste generation volumes and, thus, future waste management costs. Post-Regulatory Management Scenarios In estimating the cost of compliance with the listing of dye and pigment production wastes as RCRA hazardous wastes, EPA assessed the potential waste management on the part of industry to the listing and also assessed the management cost in response to LDRs. Initial waste management, excluding land disposal restrictions, assumes all non-wastewaters will be sent to off-site Subtitle C landfills. Wastewaters are assumed to be handled in tanks, at an estimated cost of $18.1 million/yr. It is important to note that 81 to 95 percent of the total, annual, incremental compliance costs result from listing the non-wastewaters. The non-wastewaters comprise less than one percent of the quantity of the affected wastes. There were two possible management strategies examined for the dye and pigment industries following the promulgation of LDRs. The first strategy, the higher-cost response, is waste management, including land disposal restrictions, with all non-wastewaters being sent to off-site incinerators. Wastewaters are assumed to be handled in newly-constructed treatment impoundments, which makes this strategy an upper-bound estimate ($70.7 million/yr) because the other option for wastewaters, handling in tanks, is marginally less expensive.
