FR941004-1-00065 FR941004-1-00016 (2) the location of any additional populations of these species and the reasons why any habitat should or should not be determined to be critical habitat as provided by section 4 of the Act; (3) additional information concerning the range, distribution, and population size of Lessingia germanorum and Arctostaphylos imbricata ; (4) current or planned activities in the subject area and their possible impacts on Lessingia germanorum and Arctostaphylos imbricata, or their possible impacts on a proposal to designate critical habitat for L. germanorum ; (5) specific information on the amount and distribution of suitable occupied or unoccupied habitat in the area of Lessingia germanorum, including updated information and maps on land ownership and land designation; (6) specific information on the biological value of areas that could be proposed as critical habitat, to other listed, proposed, or candidate species, and the relation of a proposal to designate critical habitat to maintaining biodiversity and ecosystem integrity; (7) any foreseeable economic and other impacts resulting from a proposed designation of critical habitat for Lessingia germanorum ; (8) specific examples of acts of taking or vandalism that have destroyed or damaged individuals or populations of Lessingia germanorum or Arctostaphylos imbricata ; and (9) the methodology the Service might use, under section 4(b)(2) of the Act, in determining if the benefits of excluding an area from critical habitat outweigh the benefits of specifying the area as critical habitat; Any final decision on this proposal will take into consideration the comments and any additional information received by the Service, and such communications may lead to a final regulation that differs from this proposal. The Act provides for a public hearing on this proposal, if requested. Requests must be received within 45 days of the date of publication of the proposal. Such requests must be made in writing and addressed to the Field Supervisor of the Sacramento Field Office (see ADDRESSES section). National Environmental Policy Act The Fish and Wildlife Service has determined that an Environmental Assessment, as defined under the authority of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, need not be prepared in connection with regulations adopted pursuant to section 4(a) of the Act. A notice outlining the Service's reasons for this determination was published in the Federal Register on October 25, 1983 (48 FR 49244). References Cited Bean, M.J, Fitzgerald, S.G. and M.A. O'Connell. 1991. Reconciling conflicts under the Endangered Species Act: The habitat conservation planning experience. World Wildlife Fund. California Department of Fish and Game. 1988. California native plant status report for Arctostaphylos imbricata. Unpublished report 4 pp. California Department of Fish and Game. 1989. Report to the Fish and Game Commission on the status of San Francisco Lessingia ( Lessingia germanorum ). California Department of Fish and Game, Natural Heritage Division Status Report 89&hyph;15, unpublished report 15 pp. California Department of Fish and Game. 1990. California Native Plant Status Report for Lessingia germanorum var. germanorum. Unpublished report 4 pp. California Department of Fish and Game. 1992. 1991 annual report on the status of California State listed threatened and endangered animals and plants. 193 pp.
