FR941012-0-00008 FR941012-0-00002 * * * * * 4. Section 19.44 is amended by adding a new paragraph (g) which reads as follows: §19.44 Carrier responsibility. * * * * * (g) If a container station operator chooses to collect merchandise from within the boundaries of the district in which the container station is located and transport the merchandise to his container station, the container station operator must formally receipt for the merchandise at the time of collection, and he becomes liable under his bond for proper safekeeping of the merchandise at that time. PART 112_CARRIERS, CARTMEN, AND LIGHTERMEN 1. The general authority citation for part 112 continues to read as follows: Authority: 19 U.S.C. 66, 1551, 1565, 1623, 1624. 2. The first sentence of §112.0 is revised to read as follows: §112.0 Scope. This part sets forth regulations providing for the bonding of carriers which will receive merchandise for transportation in bond, the licensing of cartmen and lightermen, and the procedures for applying for such bonds and licenses. *␣*␣* 3. Section 112.2(b) is revised to read as follows: §112.2 Bond or license required. * * * * * (b) Cartmen and lightermen. _(1) Necessity for bond. A bond, as provided for in this part, is required to transact business as a cartman or lighterman. The cartage or lighterage of merchandise designated for examination, entered for warehouse, taken to container stations or centralized examination stations, taken into custody as unclaimed or destined for admission to a foreign trade zone may be done under the bond of a cartman or lighterman who is licensed pursuant to the provisions of this part or that of a bonded carrier, as provided for in paragraph (a) of this section. Foreign trade zone operators, bonded warehouse proprietors, container station operators and centralized examination station operators may engage in limited cartage or lighterage under their respective bonds. A foreign trade zone operator may engage in cartage or lighterage under his bond only for merchandise destined for his foreign trade zone and may also transport merchandise to his zone from anywhere within the district boundaries where the foreign trade zone is located. A bonded warehouse proprietor may engage in cartage or lighterage under his bond only for merchandise destined for his bonded warehouse and may also transport merchandise to his warehouse from anywhere within the district boundaries where the bonded warehouse is located. A container station operator may engage in cartage or lighterage under his bond only for merchandise destined for his container station and may also transport merchandise to his container station from anywhere within the district boundaries where the container station is located. A centralized examination station operator may engage in cartage or lighterage under his bond only for merchandise destined for his centralized examination station and may also transport merchandise to his centralized examination station from anywhere within the district boundaries where the centralized examination station is located. (2) Necessity for license. A license, as provided for in this part, is required to transact business as a cartman or lighterman for the cartage or lighterage of merchandise. Bonded carriers may engage in cartage and lighterage under their bonds without obtaining a license. Foreign trade zone operators, bonded warehouse proprietors, container station operators and centralized examination station operators may engage, under their bonds, in the limited cartage and lighterage and other transportation described in this paragraph without obtaining a license. 4. Section 112.21 is revised to read as follows: §112.21 License required. A customhouse cartage or lighterage license issued by the district director in accordance with this part or specific authorization of the Commissioner of Customs shall be required to perform Customs cartage or lighterage, except as provided in §§18.3 and 125.12 of this chapter or, as provided in §112.2(b), when such merchandise is to be transported under the bond of the foreign trade zone operator, bonded warehouse proprietor, centralized examination station operator, container station operator, or a bonded carrier.
