FR940906-2-00127 FR940906-2-00083 Owner or Operator _The organization that owns or operates the nuclear facility or carrier or cargo that causes the radiological emergency. The owner or operator may be a Federal agency, a State or local government, or a private business. Protective Action Guide (PAG) _A radiation exposure or contamination level or range established by appropriate Federal or State agencies at which protective actions should be considered. Protective Action Recommendation (Federal) _Federal advice to State and local governments on measures that they should take to avoid or reduce exposure of the public to radiation from an accidental release of radioactive material. This includes emergency actions such as sheltering, evacuation, and prophylactic use of iodine. It also includes longer term measures to avoid or minimize exposure to residual radiation or exposure through the ingestion pathway such as restriction of food, temporary relocation, and permanent resettlement. Public Information Officer (PIO) _Official at headquarters or in the field responsible for preparing and coordinating the dissemination of public information in cooperation with other responding Federal, State, and local agencies. Radiological Assistance Program (RAP) Team _A response team dispatched to the site of a radiological incident by the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) regional coordinating office responding to a radiological incident. RAP Teams are located at DOE operations offices and national laboratories and some area offices. Radiological Emergency _A radiological incident that poses an actual, potential, or perceived hazard to public health or safety or loss of property. Recovery _Recovery, in this document, includes all types of emergency actions dedicated to the continued protection of the public or to promoting the resumption of normal activities in the affected area. Recovery Plan _A plan developed by each State, with assistance from the responding Federal agencies, to restore the affected area. Regional Operations Center (ROC) _The temporary operations facility for the coordination of Federal response and recovery activities, located at the FEMA Regional Office (or at the Federal Regional Center) and led by the FEMA Regional Director or Deputy Director until the DFO becomes operational. Senior FEMA Official (SFO) _Official appointed by the Director of FEMA, or his representative, to direct the FEMA response at the scene of a radiological emergency. State Coordinating Officer (SCO) _An official designated by the Governor of the affected State to work with the LFA's Onscene Commander and Senior FEMA Official in coordinating the response efforts of Federal, State, local, volunteer, and private agencies. Subcommittee on Federal Response _A subcommittee of the Federal Radiological Preparedness Coordinating Committee formed to develop and test the Federal Radiological Emergency Response Plan. Most agencies that will participate in the Federal radiological emergency response are represented on this subcommittee. Transportation Emergency _For the purposes of this plan, any emergency that involves a transportation vehicle or shipment containing radioactive materials outside the boundaries of a facility. Transportation of Radioactive Materials _The loading, unloading, movement, or temporary storage en route of radioactive materials.
