FR940405-2-00152 FR940405-2-00065 [Release No. 34&hyph;33825; File No. SR&hyph;DGOC&hyph;93&hyph;03] Self-Regulatory Organizations; Delta Government Options Corp.; Notice of Filing of Proposed Rule Change Relating to the Time for Exercises of Options and for the Assignments of Exercise Notices March 25, 1994. Pursuant to section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act''), 1 notice is hereby given that on December 27, 1993, Delta Government Options Corp. (``DGOC'') filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``Commission'') and on February 14, 1994, amended the proposed rule change as described in Items I, II, and III below, which Items have been prepared, in part, by DGOC. The Commission is publishing this notice to solicit comments on the proposed rule change from interested persons. 1 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1) (1988). I. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Terms of Substance of the Proposed Rule Change The proposed rule change will modify: (1) The time for the exercises of options by DGOC participants maintaining long positions; (2) the procedure DGOC uses to assign exercise notices to participants maintaining short positions; and (3) the time by which exercise notices will be assigned. II. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change In its filing with the Commission, DGOC included statements concerning the purpose of and basis for the proposed rule change and discussed any comments it received on the proposed rule change. The text of these statements may be examined at the places specified in Item IV below. DGOC has prepared summaries, set forth in sections (A), (B), and (C) below, of the most significant aspects of such statements. A. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change The proposal will amend Section 1001 (Exercise Procedures) of DGOC's Procedures to change the time by which a participant must tender to DGOC's clearing bank an option exercise notice. The cutoff time will be changed from 5:00 p.m. to 4:00 p.m. or such earlier time as may be announced by the Public Securities Association as the recommended closing time for trading in the government securities markets on the business day the participant wishes to exercise an option contract. The proposal also will amend DGOC's Procedures Section 1002 (Assignment of Exercise Notices) which describes the manner in which exercise notices are assigned to participants. Currently when less than all exercisable options in a class of options ( i.e. , all puts and calls covering the same issue of Treasury Securities) are exercised, exercise notices are assigned randomly to participants that maintain short positions in that class of options. Under the proposal, exercise notices will be assigned to each participant maintaining a short position in the same class of options on a pro rata basis. The pro rata allocation will be determined by a formula whereby the total number of exercise notices received for a class of options will be multiplied by the ratio of the number of exercisable options in that class subject to exercise that a participant maintains to all exercisable options in the class.
