FR940228-1-00139 FR940228-1-00010 (B) In determining the number of students who default before the end of that following fiscal year, the Secretary includes only loans for which the Secretary or a guaranty agency has paid claims for insurance. (ii) (A) In the case of a student who has attended and borrowed at more than one institution, the student (and his or her subsequent repayment or default) is attributed to each institution for attendance at which the student received a loan that entered repayment in the fiscal year. (B) A loan on which a payment is made by the institution, its owner, agent, contractor, employee, or any other affiliated entity or individual, in order to avoid default by the borrower, is considered as in default for purposes of this definition. (C) Any loan that has been rehabilitated under section 428F of the HEA before the end of that following fiscal year is not considered as in default for purposes of this definition. (D) For the purposes of this definition, a loan made in accordance with section 428A of the HEA (or a Federal Consolidation Loan a portion of which is used to repay a Federal SLS loan) shall not be considered to enter repayment until after the borrower has ceased to be enrolled in an educational program leading to a degree, certificate, or other recognized educational credential at the participating institution on at least a half- time basis (as determined by the institution) and ceased to be in a period of forbearance based on such enrollment. Each eligible lender of a loan made under section 428A (or a Federal Consolidation Loan a portion of which is used to repay a Federal SLS loan) of the HEA shall provide the guaranty agency with the information necessary to determine when the loan entered repayment for purposes of this definition, and the guaranty agency shall provide that information to the Secretary. (iii) (A) A cohort default rate of an institution applies to all locations of the institution as the institution exists on the first day of the fiscal year for which the rate is calculated. (B) A cohort default rate of an institution applies to all locations of the institution from the date the institution is notified of that rate until the institution is notified by the Secretary that the rate no longer applies. (iv) (A) For an institution that changes its status from that of a location of one institution to that of a free-standing institution, the Secretary determines the cohort default rate based on the institution's status as of October 1 of the fiscal year for which a cohort default rate is being calculated. (B) For an institution that changes its status from that of a free-standing institution to that of a location of another institution, the Secretary determines the cohort default rate based on the combined number of students who enter repayment during the applicable fiscal year and the combined number of students who default during the applicable fiscal years from both the former free-standing institution and the other institution. This cohort default rate applies to the new, consolidated institution and all of its current locations.
