FR941230-2-00057 FR941230-2-00046 COMPLAINT The United States of America, by its attorneys, acting under the direction of the Attorney General of the United States, brings this civil action to obtain equitable relief against the above-named defendants and complains and alleges as follows: I Jurisdiction and Venue 1. This Complaint is filed and these proceedings are instituted under Section 4 of the Sherman Act (15 U.S.C. 4) in order to prevent and restrain violation by defendants, as hereinafter alleged, of Section 1 of the Sherman Act (15 U.S.C. 1). This Court has jurisdiction over this matter pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 1331 and 1337. 2. Defendants maintain offices, transact business and are found within the Eastern District of New York, within the meaning of 15 U.S.C. 22 and 28 U.S.C. 1391(c). II Defendants 3. Classic Care Network, Inc. (Classic Care) is a not-for-profit corporation organized and existing under the laws of the state of New York. Its principal place of business is Nassau County, New York. Each of the defendant hospitals is a member of Classic Care and is represented with a seat on Classic Care's board of Directors. 4. North Shore University Hospital (North Shore) is a 440 bed, acute care, non-profit hospital corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of New York with its principal place of business in Manhasset, New York. North Shore is a member of Classic Care and its Chief Executive Officer (CEO) serves as a voting director of Classic Care. 5. North Shore University Hospital at Glen Cove (Glen Cove) is a 265 bed acute care voluntary hospital organized and existing under the laws of the State of New York with its principal place of business in Glen Cove, New York. Since 1990 Glen Cove has been an affiliate of North Shore University Hospital. Glen Cove is a member of Classic Care and is represented by a non-voting director of Classic Care. 6. Brookhaven Memorial Hospital Medical Center (Brookhaven) is a 321 bed acute care voluntary hospital organized and existing under the laws of the State of New York and located in East Patchogue, New York. Brookhaven is a member of Classic Care and its CEO serves as a voting director of Classic Care. 7. Central Suffolk Hospital (Central Suffolk) is a 214 bed acute care voluntary hospital organized and existing under the laws of the State of New York and located in Riverhead, New York. Central Suffolk is a member of Classic Care and its CEO serves as a voting director of Classic Care. 8. Good Samaritan Hospital (Good Samaritan) is a 425 bed acute care voluntary hospital organized and existing under the laws of the State of New York and located in Bay Shore, New York. Good Samaritan is a member of Classic Care and its CEO serves as a voting director of Classic Care. 9. Huntington Hospital (Huntington) is a 377 bed, acute care non-profit hospital organized and existing under the laws of the State of New York and located in Huntington, New York. Huntington is a member of Classic Care and its CEO serves as a voting director of Classic Care. 10. John T. Mather Memorial Hospital (Mather) is a 248 bed acute care voluntary hospital organized and existing under the laws of the State of New York and located in Port Jefferson, New York. Mather is a member of Classic Care and its CEO serves as a voting director of Classic Care.
