FR940304-0-00118 FR940304-0-00021 The American Petroleum Institute filed a petition for review of the September 10, 1992, rule, on December 8, 1992, raising the issue that EPA had not addressed the proposed exemptions for petroleum refining, production, and transportation in the September 10, 1992, final rule. Today's rule responds to comments and addresses outstanding issues related to used oil and petroleum refining facility processes. A. Summary of Comments From Interested Parties Today's rule was distributed in draft form for comment to the litigants and intervenors concerning the 1992 rule, and other concerned members of the regulated community, States, and environmental groups. The primary substantive comments received on the draft and EPA's responses to those comments are summarized below. EPA received several comments from the petroleum industry on the exemption from part 279 for storage and transportation of mixtures of used oil and crude oil that contain less than 1% used oil and are destined for insertion into petroleum refining process. These commenters objected primarily to provisions in the draft final rule limiting the exemption to mixtures that contain less than 1% used oil. The commenters also objected to limiting the amount of used oil that can be directly inserted into the petroleum refining process to 1% of the crude oil process unit throughput at any given time. EPA has retained the 1% limit in both cases in today's final rule for reasons discussed in section III.B.2 of this preamble. EPA received comments from used oil re-refiners (i.e., ``secondary'' petroleum industry_a type of used oil processor) regarding the regulatory status of petroleum refineries that receive used oil from off-site and store the used oil on-site before mixing it with crude oil. The draft rule proposed to regulate petroleum refining facilities as used oil transfer facilities in these circumstances. Commenters stated, however, that petroleum refiners that receive used oil from off-site pose the same potential concerns from receipt of adulterated used oil and improper storage of used oil as re-refiners and should therefore be subject to the requirements for used oil processor/re-refiners prior to mixing. EPA agrees and has revised the draft rule accordingly. These changes are discussed in greater detail below. EPA also received numerous comments on provisions clarifying what constitutes a used oil processor. Provisions contained in the draft document would have prohibited both on- and off-site burning of used oil generated from specified activities that EPA is today clarifying are not subject to the used oil processor standards. Commenters stated that the used oil generated from these activities would be suitable for burning in accordance with the part 279, subpart G standards and that burning should not be further restricted. In response to these comments, EPA has decided to allow on-site burning of the used oil generated from these activities but has retained the prohibition against off-site burning. The basis for this decision is discussed in section III.C of today's preamble. B. Section 279.1_Definition of Petroleum Refining Facility Today's rule establishes a regulatory definition for ``petroleum refining facility.'' EPA believes it is necessary to define this term in order to provide a clear distinction between what the Agency considers to be and regulates as primary petroleum refining facilities and facilities that EPA considers to be used oil re-refiners for regulatory purposes. Under today's rule, ``petroleum refining facility'' is defined as follows: ``Petroleum refining facility'' means an establishment primarily engaged in producing gasoline, kerosine, distillate fuel oils, residual fuel oils, and lubricants, through fractionation, straight distillation of crude oil, redistillation of unfinished petroleum derivatives, cracking or other processes (i.e., facilities classified as SIC 2911). A used oil re-refiner, in contrast, is a facility that processes used oil to produce lube base stocks and greases, industrial fuels, asphalt extenders, diesel like fuels, and other products. EPA is aware that petroleum refiners and used oil re-refiners employ similar production processes and produce similar products. Consequently, the Agency has avoided defining these facilities in terms of the process steps employed to produce a finished product or the type of products produced. As defined by today's rule, petroleum refining facilities and used oil re-refining facilities differ primarily in the material that constitutes the primary initial feed to the process. In order for a facility to be considered a petroleum refining facility, the material fed to the front end of the refining process must be comprised primarily of crude oil. In order to be considered a used oil re-refiner, the material entering the front end of the process must be comprised primarily of used oil.
