FR940505-1-00452 FR940505-1-00012 (1) Diagnosis and repair of malfunctions in computer controlled close-loop vehicles. (2) Application of emission control theory and diagnostic data to the diagnosis and repair of failures of the transient emission test and the evaporative system function tests. (3) Utilization of diagnostic information on systematic or repeated failures observed in the transient emission test and the evaporative system function tests. (4) Generalized training on the various subsystems related to emission control. (o) Emission test procedures. Emission tests and functional tests shall be subject to the following requirements: (1) Flexibly fueled vehicles (i.e., those capable of operating both on gasoline and other fuels) shall at a minimum be subject to testing and shall be tested while operating in the gasoline mode unless the vehicle is never operated with gasoline. (2) An initial test is the emission test that occurs the first time in a test cycle. The initial test shall be performed without repair or adjustment at the emission inspection station prior to the test, except as provided for in the evaporative system integrity test. An emission inspection performed after failure of the initial test in a test cycle shall be considered a retest. (3) An official test, once initiated, shall be performed in its entirety regardless of intermediate outcomes except in the case of an invalid test condition or unsafe conditions. (4) Tests involving measurements shall be performed with approved equipment that has been calibrated according to the quality control procedures contained in EPA guidance or regulation. (5) Vehicles shall not be tested if the exhaust system is missing or leaking, or if the vehicle is in an unsafe condition. (6) The vehicle owner or driver shall have access to an area in the inspection station which permits observation of the entire official inspection procedure. This access may be limited but it may not prevent full observation. (7) In the inspection process, vehicles that have been altered from their original certified configuration shall be tested in the same manner as other subject vehicles, in accordance with the following: (i) Vehicles with engines other than the engine originally installed by the manufacturer, or an identical replacement engine, shall be subject to the test procedures and standards for the chassis type and model year, regardless of the engine replacement, including visual equipment inspections for parts that are part of the original certified configuration and part of the normal inspection for such configuration. An exception may be made if the vehicle meets new certification standards for that chassis and model year. (ii) Vehicles which are switched to a fuel type for which there is no certified configuration shall be tested according to the emission standards established for that vehicle type and model year. Emission control device requirements may be waived if the Administrator determines that the alternatively fueled vehicle configuration would meet the new vehicle standards for that model year without these devices. (p) Emission standards. Subject vehicles shall be tested and passed or failed according to the IM240 cutpoints provided in appendix B of subpart GGG of this part. (q) Emission inspection test report. The test provider(s) shall provide the vehicle owner or driver with a computer-generated emission inspection test report which includes the following: (1) A vehicle description, including license plate number, vehicle title number, VIN, vehicle make and model and odometer reading. (2) The date and time of the test. (3) The name or identification number of the individuals performing the tests and the location of the test station and lane number. (4) The type of tests performed, including emission tests, visual checks for the presence of emission control components, and functional, evaporative system checks. (5) The applicable test standards. (6) The test results, including exhaust concentrations and pass/fail results for each mode measured, pass/fail results for evaporative system checks, and which emission control devices inspected were passed, failed or not applicable. (7) A statement indicating the availability of warranty coverage as required in section 207 of the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7525).
