FR940304-2-00177 FR940304-2-00095 Federal Highway Administration Environmental Impact Statement: Cities of Aberdeen and Hoquiam, WA AGENCY: Federal Highway Administration (FHWA), DOT. ACTION: Notice of intent. SUMMARY: The FHWA is issuing this notice to advise the public that an environmental impact statement will be prepared for a proposed highway construction project in Grays Harbor County, Washington. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Barry F. Morehead, Division Administrator, Federal Highway Administration, 711 South Capitol Way, suite 501, Olympia, WA 98501, telephone: (206) 753&hyph;9555; or Gary Demich, District Administrator, District 3, Washington State Department of Transportation, P.O. Box 7440, Olympia, WA 98504, telephone: (206) 357&hyph;2659. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The FHWA in cooperation with the Washington State Department will prepare an environmental impact statement (EIS) on a proposal to improve State Route 101 (SR 101) in Grays Harbor County, Washington. The proposed project would select and adopt a new highway alignment through the cities of Aberdeen and Hoquiam. The new alignment would begin at the intersection of State Route 12 (SR 12) and terminate at the intersection with State Route 109 (SR 109), a distance of approximately 8 miles. This highway improvement is considered necessary to alleviate congestion, decrease delays, and improve safety. The SR 101 corridor through Aberdeen and Hoquiam is the main route between the metropolitan Puget Sound region, the Pacific Ocean beaches and the western Olympic Peninsula, leading to extremely high traffic volumes during peak tourist periods. Due to poor roadway geometrics, inadequate signal coordination, high volumes of port related truck traffic, and under utilization of the designated truck by-pass through the port industrial area, operational conflicts between heavy trucks and other vehicles result in severe congestion and delays. Accident rates are abnormally high through the Central Business District due to conflicts between through traffic and vehicles utilizing on-street parking. There are no alternate routes through the corridor. The proposed improvement would resolve congestion and safety concerns by improving truck access to Grays Harbor port facilities and providing an alternate corridor for through traffic. Alternatives currently under consideration include (1) no action; (2) limited improvements to the existing alignment, (3) two which would construct a new Hoquiam River Bridge crossing with limited improvements to the existing alignment, (4) three separate new alignment alternatives, and (5) a multi modal alternative. Incorporated into and studied with the various alternatives will be design variations for new bridges over the Wishkah and Hoquiam Rivers and completion of the SR 101/SR 12 Interchange. Announcements describing the proposed action and soliciting comments will be sent to appropriate Federal, State and local agencies. These will also be sent to affected Indian Tribes, private organizations and citizens who have previously expressed or are known to have interest in this proposal. Scoping meetings will be held in Aberdeen on March 23rd and 24th, 1994. Additional public meetings will be held prior to the release of the Draft EIS on the project. In addition, a public hearing will be held after the release of the Draft EIS to receive public and agency comments on the EIS. Public notice will be given of the time and place of these future meetings and the hearing. The Draft EIS will be available for public and agency review and comment prior to the public hearing. It is important that the full range of issues related to this proposed action be addressed and that all significant issues be identified. To ensure this, comments and suggestions are invited from all interested parties. Comments or questions concerning this proposed action and the EIS should be directed to the FHWA at the address and phone number provided above. (Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance Program Number 20.205, Highway Research, Planning and Construction. The regulations implementing Executive order 12372 regarding intergovernmental consultation on Federal programs and activities apply to this program.) Issued on February 23, 1994. José M. Miranda, Environmental Program Manager, Federal Highway Administration, Washington Division. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;4975 Filed 3&hyph;3&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;22&hyph;M
