FR941206-0-00086 FR941206-0-00011 (2) If acceptable to both the Administrator and the owner or operator of a source, reports may be submitted on electronic media. (3) Content and submittal dates for excess emissions and monitoring system performance reports. All excess emissions and monitoring system performance reports and all summary reports, if required per §63.10(e)(3) (vii) and (viii) of subpart A of this part, shall be delivered or postmarked within 30 days following the end of each calendar half or quarter as appropriate (see §63.10(e)(3) (i) through (iv) for applicability). Written reports of excess emissions or exceedances of process or control system parameters shall include all information required in §63.10(c) (5) through (13) of subpart A of this part as applicable in Table 1 of §63.360 and information from any calibration tests in which the monitoring equipment is not in compliance with PS&hyph;9 or the method used for temperature calibration. The written report shall also include the name, title, and signature of the responsible official who is certifying the accuracy of the report. When no excess emissions or exceedances have occurred or monitoring equipment has not been inoperative, repaired, or adjusted, such information shall be stated in the report. (b) Construction and Reconstruction. The owner or operator of each source using 10 tons shall fulfill all requirements for construction or reconstruction of a source in §63.5 of subpart A of this part, according to the applicability in Table 1 of §63.360, and in this paragraph. (1) Applicability. (i) This paragraph and §63.5 of subpart A of this part implement the preconstruction review requirements of section 112(i)(1) for sources subject to these emissions standards. In addition, this paragraph and §63.5 of subpart A of this part include other requirements for constructed and reconstructed sources that are or become subject to these emissions standards. (ii) After the effective date, the requirements in this section and in §63.5 of subpart A of this part apply to owners or operators who construct a new source or reconstruct a source subject to these emissions standards after December 6, 1994. New or reconstructed sources subject to these emissions standards with an initial startup date before the effective date are not subject to the preconstruction review requirements specified in paragraphs (b) (2) and (3) of this section and §63.5(d) (3) and (4) and (e) of subpart A of this part. (2) After the effective date, whether or not an approved permit program is effective in the State in which a source is (or would be) located, no person may construct a new source or reconstruct a source subject to these emissions standards, or reconstruct a source such that the source becomes a source subject to these emissions standards, without obtaining advance written approval from the Administrator in accordance with the procedures specified in paragraph (b)(3) of this section and §63.5(d) (3) and (4) and (e) of subpart A of this part. (3) Application for approval of construction or reconstruction. The provisions of paragraph (b)(3) of this section and §63.5(d) (3) and (4) of subpart A of this part implement section 112(i)(1) of the Act. (i) General application requirements. (A) An owner or operator who is subject to the requirements of paragraph (b)(2) of this section shall submit to the Administrator an application for approval of the construction of a new source subject to these emissions standards, the reconstruction of a source subject to these emissions standards, or the reconstruction of a source such that the source becomes a source subject to these emissions standards. The application shall be submitted as soon as practicable before the construction or reconstruction is planned to commence (but not sooner than the effective date) if the construction or reconstruction commences after the effective date. The application shall be submitted as soon as practicable before the initial startup date but no later than 60 days after the effective date if the construction or reconstruction had commenced and the initial startup date had not occurred before the effective date. The application for approval of construction or reconstruction may be used to fulfill the initial notification requirements of paragraph (c)(1)(iii) of this section. The owner or operator may submit the application for approval well in advance of the date construction or reconstruction is planned to commence in order to ensure a timely review by the Administrator and that the planned commencement date will not be delayed. (B) A separate application shall be submitted for each construction or reconstruction. Each application for approval of construction or reconstruction shall include at a minimum: ( 1 ) The applicant's name and address. ( 2 ) A notification of intention to construct a new source subject to these emissions standards or make any physical or operational change to a source subject to these emissions standards that may meet or has been determined to meet the criteria for a reconstruction, as defined in §63.2 of subpart A of this part. ( 3 ) The address (i.e., physical location) or proposed address of the source.
