FR941205-0-00178 FR941205-0-00029 (b) Monitoring and evaluation. Monitoring and evaluation activities will focus on compliance with program requirements and performance of the HFA in meeting program objectives of providing affordable housing. They will enable HUD to evaluate the effectiveness of the program as required by section 542(d)(3) of the Act. (c) Responsibility for monitoring and evaluation. The Commissioner or his or her designee will be responsible for overall program monitoring and evaluation. (d) HFA submissions. (1) For each loan insured under this part, basic underwriting and closing information must be submitted in a format specified by HUD and must accompany the closing docket submitted in accordance with ยง266.420(b). Information relative to project management and servicing (including disposition) will be required after endorsement. (2) The HFA must submit semi-annual reports setting forth the original mortgage amounts and outstanding principal balances on mortgages the HFA has underwritten, and the status of all projects insured under this part ( e.g., current, in default, acquired, under workout agreement, in bankruptcy). For projects where the mortgagor has declared bankruptcy, the HFA must submit information containing the date the bankruptcy was filed and the date the HFA requested the Court to dismiss the bankruptcy proceedings. ยง266.120 Actions for which sanctions may be imposed. Results of monitoring or other reviews may serve as the basis for the Commissioner's imposing sanctions on the HFA. Violations for which sanctions may be imposed include, but are not limited to: (a) Commission of fraud or making a material misrepresentation by the HFA with respect to any mortgage insured or to any other matter under this part. (b) Assignment or transfer of interest in any insured mortgage not in accord with the requirements of this part. (c) Engagement in business practices that do not conform to generally accepted practices of prudent lenders or that demonstrate irresponsibility. (d) Actions or conduct for which sanctions may be imposed against the HFA by HUD's Mortgagee Review Board under 24 CFR 25.9. (e) Failure to: (1) Reveal in its application for participation in the program all the information required by this part; (2) Notify HUD in a timely manner of any pending or actual changes that would adversely affect HFA operations or financial status; (3) Comply with all eligibility requirements for participation in the program; (4) Issue debentures in the event of an initial claim payment by HUD, or to reimburse HUD for payment of a claim; (5) Maintain its top tier designation or overall rating of ``A'' on general obligation bonds (or if such designation or rating is lost, comply with paragraph (e)(6) of this section); (6) Establish and maintain a dedicated account, if required, or meet other financial obligations under this program; (7) Perform underwriting, insurance of advances, cost certification, management, servicing or property disposition functions in a prudent and acceptable manner based on the standards incorporated by reference into the Risk-sharing Agreement; (8) Submit financial and other reports required by this part; (9) Comply with any regulatory requirement or with the Risk-Sharing Agreement; (10) Maintain any other standards HUD may establish for participation in this program; (11) Enforce the regulatory agreement provisions with respect to individual projects;
