FR940426-2-00079 FR940426-2-00054 NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION [Docket No. 72&hyph;1007] Sierra Nuclear Corporation; Environmental Assessment and Finding of No Significant Impact The U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC or the Commission) is considering issuance of an exemption to Sierra Nuclear Corporation (SNC) (formerly Pacific Sierra Nuclear Associates), located in Roswell, Georgia, to fabricate (but not use) a modified version of its NRC-approved Ventilated Storage Casks (VSC&hyph;24). These modified casks are intended to be used by Entergy Operations, Inc. (Entergy) to store spent fuel at its Arkansas Nuclear One (ANO) plant (Docket Nos. 50&hyph;313/368, License Nos. DPR&hyph;51/ NPF6) located near Russellville, Arkansas. Environmental Assessment Identification of Proposed Action The request, proposed by SNC letter dated January 24, 1994, would exempt SNC from the requirements of 10 CFR 72.234(c), which states that ``Fabrication of casks under the Certificate of Compliance must not start prior to receipt of the Certificate of Compliance for the cask model.'' Specifically, SNC proposed to fabricate the first fourteen (14) casks prior to the Commission's issuance of a revised Certificate of Compliance. The Commission is considering granting the exemption for four (4) casks and deferring action with respect to the remaining ten (10) casks. Granting the exemption at this time for fabrication of four (4) casks would readily enable ANO to proceed with activities to support its scheduled plant outages. The proposed exemption for fabrication would not authorize use of the casks to store spent fuel. The Need for the Proposed Action SNC's request for exemption is to ensure the availability of storage casks for planned loading in October 1994, in order to support ANO's upcoming refueling outages. SNC has indicated that in order to meet this schedule, purchase of the cask components and materials must begin promptly and fabrication must commence thereafter. The application for a revised Certificate of Compliance for the VSC&hyph;24, dated June 14, 1993, is being considered by the Commission. Procurement, fabrication, and construction activities by SNC under the exemption would be entirely at SNC's own risk. Favorable NRC action on the exemption request shall not be construed as an NRC commitment to favorably consider SNC's application for a revised certificate, or to approve SNC's modified proposed design for the VSC&hyph;24. SNC would bear the risk of any activities conducted under the exemption, including the risk of modification of the casks, if necessary, in light of NRC's forthcoming action on SNC's application and proposed design. Environmental Impacts of the Proposed Action The Commission has evaluated the environmental impacts of the proposed action, which is limited to fabrication only and would not authorize any action with respect to use of the casks to store spent fuel. The NRC reviewed the VSC&hyph;24 design Final Safety Analysis Report (SAR), and on April 28, 1993, issued a Safety Evaluation Report (SER) approving the SAR, and on May 3, 1993, issued a Certificate of Compliance for use of the VSC&hyph;24 under a general license. As a result of this SAR review and approval, SNC has an NRC-approved quality assurance program under which the VSCs can be fabricated. SNC has developed procurement and fabrication specifications under this approved QA program, which will be used to control procurement and fabrication activities related to construction of these casks. Environmental impact from the limited fabrication activities would be similar to small concrete construction activities at an existing facility and similar to the assembly of metal components at a large machine shop. The environmental assessments for the Proposed Rule (54 FR 19397) and Final Rule (55 FR 29181), ``Storage of Spent Fuel in NRC-approved Storage Casks at Power Reactor Sites,'' and Final Rule (58 FR 19849), ``List of Approved Spent Fuel Storage Casks: Additions'' considered the environmental impact associated with the construction and use of such certified casks and concluded that these activities would have no significant impact on the environment. Accordingly, the Commission concludes that the exemption to fabricate (but not use) the limited number of casks, will have no significant radiological or nonradiological environmental impacts. Alternative to the Proposed Action The alternative would be to deny the requested exemption. This would result potentially in the loss of lead time for procurement and fabrication necessary for the availability of casks intended for Entergy, and could thereby cause disruptions in planned activities for a series of plant outages beginning in 1995. Agencies and Persons Consulted The Commission's staff reviewed SNC's request and did not consult other agencies or persons. Finding of No Significant Impact Based upon the foregoing environmental assessment, the Commission concludes that the proposed action would not have a significant effect on the quality of the human environment. Accordingly, the Commission has determined not to prepare an environmental impact statement for the proposed exemption. For further details with respect to this action, the request for exemption dated January 24, 1994, and other documents are available for public inspection at the Commission's Public Document Room, the Gelman Building, 2120 L Street, NW., Washington, DC 20555, and the Local Public Document Room at the Tomlinson Library (Depository), Arkansas Tech University, Russellville, Arkansas 72801. Dated at Rockville, Maryland, this 20th day of April, 1994. For the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. E. William Brach, Deputy Director, Division of Industrial and Medical Nuclear Safety, Office of Nuclear Material Safety and Safeguards. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;10010 Filed 4&hyph;25&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 7590&hyph;01&hyph;M
