FR940721-0-00043 FR940721-0-00014 For equipment received from outside suppliers, section 210(f)(5)(A) provides that the equipment is considered U.S./Canadian if it contains at least 70 percent value added in the U.S./Canada. Thus, any equipment that is at least 70 percent U.S./Canadian is valued at 100 percent U.S./Canadian, and any equipment under 70 percent is valued at zero percent. This statutory provision is sometimes referred to as the ``roll-up, roll-down'' provision. For equipment received from allied suppliers, section 210(f)(5)(B) provides that the actual amount of U.S./Canadian content is used. The statute requires the Department of Transportation to promulgate regulations implementing the content labeling requirements. Section 210(c) requires the promulgation of regulations which specify the form and content of the required labels, and the manner and location in which the labels must be affixed. Section 210(d) requires promulgation of such regulations as may be necessary to carry out the labeling requirements, including regulations to establish a procedure to verify the required labeling information. That section also directs that such regulations provide the ultimate purchaser of a new passenger motor vehicle with the best and most understandable information possible about the foreign and U.S./Canada origin of the equipment of such vehicles without imposing costly and unnecessary burdens on the manufacturers. Finally, section 210(d) also specifies that the regulations include provisions requiring suppliers to certify whether their equipment is of U.S., U.S./Canadian, or foreign origin. Section 210 does not specify a specific date for completing the rulemaking. However, section 210(d) does direct that the regulations be promulgated in time to provide adequate compliance leadtime before content labeling becomes mandatory on October 1, 1994. B. Request for Comments and Public Meeting On November 18, 1992, NHTSA published in the Federal Register (57 FR 54351) a request for comments in order to obtain information which would be of assistance in developing a proposal to implement section 210. To add an additional dimension to the effort to obtain public input, a public meeting was held on December 17, 1992, during which the agency heard nine speakers. More than 20 written comments were subsequently received by the agency, including comments from vehicle manufacturers, and manufacturer and dealer groups. C. Notice of Proposed Rulemaking On November 19, 1993, NHTSA published in the Federal Register (57 FR 61042) a notice of proposed rulemaking (NPRM) for a new regulation to implement section 210. The NPRM reflected the agency's consideration of the matters raised in the oral and written comments received in response to the request for comments, as well as many other issues. In developing the proposed regulation, the agency necessarily followed the language of section 210 as closely as possible. NHTSA noted in the NPRM that, given the high level of detail set forth in the statute, the agency has little discretion with respect to many aspects of the calculation and labeling scheme. A summary of the proposed regulation follows. Under the proposed regulation, vehicle manufacturers would be required to affix to all new passenger motor vehicles a label which provides the five items of content information specified by section 210. The agency proposed to require specific language for the label. The NPRM included a sample label, consistent with the proposed requirements, which read as follows: PARTS CONTENT INFORMATION For vehicles in this carline: U.S./Canadian Parts Content: 50% Major Sources of Foreign Parts Content: Japan: 20% Mexico: 15% For this vehicle: Final Assembly Point: Flint, Michigan, USA Country of Origin: Engine: U.S. Transmission: Canada Note: The PARTS CONTENT of a typical vehicle makes up about (a range was to be specified in a final rule) percent of the vehicle's total wholesale cost to the dealer. NHTSA proposed to specify the heading ``PARTS CONTENT INFORMATION'' to draw the attention of consumers to the content information, and indicate the subject of the information. The purpose of the proposed sub-headings ``For vehicles in this carline'' and ``For this vehicle'' was to advise consumers which items of information relate to the carline as a whole and which relate to the individual vehicle. The purpose of the proposed explanatory note at the bottom of the label was to inform consumers about the percentage of a typical vehicle's wholesale cost to the dealer that is attributable to parts content, thereby helping consumers avoid confusing the parts content information specified on the label with overall vehicle value (which would include other factors such as final assembly labor). In order to ensure that vehicle manufacturers have the information necessary to calculate the information for the content labels, NHTSA proposed to require each supplier of passenger motor vehicle equipment to provide specified information about the content of the equipment it supplies. Under the proposal, the information was to be provided directly to the party receiving the equipment, i.e., either a vehicle manufacturer or an allied supplier, in the form of a certification. The agency proposed specific provisions concerning when the information was to be provided. NHTSA also proposed specific procedures for manufacturers and suppliers to follow in calculating values for the label. One issue of particular note was which costs are to be regarded as costs incurred at the final assembly point and beyond, including the costs of assembly and labor. Section 210 provides that these costs are not to be included in the calculation of parts content. NHTSA noted that manufacturers may conduct some pre-assembly operations, e.g., production of equipment, at the same location as final assembly. The agency tentatively concluded that such operations should be treated in the same fashion as the operations of an allied supplier. The agency proposed to specify a particular phase in the assembly process, for both the body and chassis, that would mark the beginning of final assembly. Another significant issue which NHTSA addressed in the NPRM was whether ``carline'' should encompass different countries of assembly. At present, there are a number of vehicle models that include some vehicles assembled in the U.S./Canada and other vehicles assembled in other countries. The agency tentatively concluded that country of final assembly should not be considered in making carline determinations, since section 210 specifies that carline determinations are to be made based on degree of commonality in construction. NHTSA recognized, however, that additional subdivision of carlines by country of assembly would result in labeling information that is more representative of the individually labeled vehicles. The agency requested comments on requiring additional labeling information for carlines assembled in more than one country.
