FR940407-2-00111 FR940407-2-00059 In the Commission's opinion, the resolutions adopted by the Board should help fill a potential gap in the NASD's 800 number service, by authorizing the Exchange to report the initiation of a formal NYSE disciplinary proceeding 14 involving an Exchange member, member organization or associated person, and significant changes in the status thereof, 15 directly to the CRD. As a result, that information will be available to the public whether or not it is voluntarily reported by the member or associated person. The Commission therefore finds that the proposed rule change should enhance the fairness and accuracy of the CRD database and, accordingly, of information released to the public through the 800 number service. 14 For purposes of reporting to the CRD, the NYSE considers a formal disciplinary proceeding to be pending if an executed stipulation has been filed or charges have been issued. See supra , notes 4&hyph;5 and accompanying text. 15 The NYSE provides the following examples of reportable changes in the status of a pending formal disciplinary proceeding: The issuance of a decision by a hearing panel; the filing of an appeal to the Board; and the issuance of a decision by the Board. The Commission has long believed that investors need access to reliable information in order to protect themselves against potential fraud and abuse. In this respect, the NYSE proposal should help customers make an informed decision about whether they should conduct or continue to conduct business with particular securities professionals. In sum, the Commission has concluded that the proposed rule change should increase the flow of information to the public and thus should ultimately strengthen investor protection. The Commission finds good cause for approving the proposed rule change prior to the thirtieth day after the date of publication of notice of filing thereof in the Federal Register. The NYSE proposal will enable the Exchange to report and the NASD to disclose certain information about the disciplinary history of securities professionals that currently may not be available to the public. Accelerated approval thereof will allow investors to benefit from the implementation of these procedures as soon as possible. Further, the substance of the proposed resolutions is similar to an NASD proposal that was published in the Federal Register for the full comment period and was approved by the Commission. 16 16 No comments were received in connection with the proposed rule change which expanded the scope of the 800 number service to include pending formal disciplinary actions. See Pending Event Disclosure Approval Order, supra, note 7. It is therefore ordered, Pursuant to section 19(b)(2) 17 that the proposed rule change (SR&hyph;NYSE&hyph;94&hyph;11) is hereby approved. 17 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(2) (1988). For the Commission, by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. 18 18 17 CFR 200.30&hyph;3(a)(12) (1991). Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;8280 Filed 4&hyph;6&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
