FR940217-2-00137 FR940217-2-00080 C. Consortia If schools apply as a consortium, each school must be an eligible institution. Schools in a consortium interact with the Secretary in the same manner as other schools with one exception: communication between the Secretary and the schools in the consortium is consolidated and channeled through a single point. II. Selection Criteria The Secretary will select schools to participate in the Direct Loan Program in the 1995&hyph;1996 academic year from among those that apply to participate. An application will be evaluated on the basis of whether the school is willing to participate electronically and whether it is capable of administering the program. From among eligible schools that meet these criteria, the Secretary will, to the extent possible, select schools that are reasonably representative in terms of several factors. A. Electronic capability Schools participating in the campus-based programs, which include the Federal Perkins Loan Program, the Federal Supplemental Educational Opportunity Grant Program, and the Federal Work-Study Program, must do so electronically. The majority of schools participating in the Federal Pell Grant Program also do so electronically. The Secretary intends to make maximum use of available technology in the Direct Loan Program and will therefore give strong consideration to whether the school is willing to participate in the program electronically. B. Administrative Capability In selecting schools for the 1995&hyph;1996 academic year, the Secretary will evaluate a school's demonstrated capability in administering student financial aid programs. While the Secretary retains discretion to evaluate all relevant circumstances, the Secretary has identified certain factors as indicators of a lack of administrative capability. These factors are listed in the standards for participation in this notice. C. Representativeness In selecting schools from among eligible applicants that are capable of administering the Direct Loan Program and are willing to participate electronically, the Secretary will select, to the extent practicable, schools that are reasonably representative in terms of several factors. These factors are listed in the standards for participation in this notice. III. Selection Process A. Currently Pending Applications A school that has been selected to participate in the Direct Loan Program for the 1994&hyph;1995 academic year, and an eligible school that applied to participate in the program for that year but was not selected, need not submit an application for the 1995&hyph;1996 academic year. If an eligible school that applied but was not selected for participation in the first year wishes not to be considered for participation in the second year, it should notify the Secretary.
