FR941116-0-00023 FR941116-0-00004 2. Ventilation. In lieu of the requirements of §25.831(a), the ventilation system must be designed to provide a sufficient amount of uncontaminated air to enable the crewmembers to perform their duties without undue discomfort or fatigue, and to provide reasonable passenger comfort during normal operating conditions and also in the event of any probable failure of any system that could adversely affect the cabin ventilating air. For normal operations, crewmembers and passengers must be provided with at least 10 cubic feet of fresh air per minute per person, or the equivalent in filtered, recirculated air based on the volume and composition at the corresponding cabin pressure altitude of not more than 8,000 feet. 3. Air Conditioning. In addition to the requirements of §25.831, paragraphs (b) through (e), the cabin cooling system must be designed to meet the following conditions during flight above 15,000 feet mean sea level (MSL): (a) After any probable failure, the cabin temperature-time history may not exceed the values shown in Figure 1. (b) After any improbable failure, the cabin temperature-time history may not exceed the values shown in Figure 2. 4. Pressurization. In addition to the requirements of §25.841, the following apply: (a) The pressurization system, which includes for this purpose bleed air, air conditioning, and pressure control systems, must prevent the cabin altitude from exceeding the cabin altitude-time history shown in Figure 3 after each of the following: (1) Any probable malfunction or failure of the pressurization system. The existence of undetected, latent malfunctions or failures in conjunction with probable failures must be considered. (2) Any single failure in the pressurization system, combined with the occurrence of a leak produced by a complete loss of a door seal element, or a fuselage leak through an opening having an effective area 2.0 times the effective area that produces the maximum permissible fuselage leak rate approved for normal operation, whichever produces a more severe leak. (b) The cabin altitude-time history may not exceed that shown in Figure 4 after each of the following: (1) The maximum pressure vessel opening resulting from an initially detectable crack propagating for a period encompassing four normal inspection intervals. Mid-panel cracks and cracks through skin-stringer and skin-frame combinations must be considered. (2) The pressure vessel opening or duct failure resulting from probable damage (failure effect) while under maximum operating cabin pressure differential due to a tire burst, engine rotor burst, loss of antennas or stall warning vanes, or any probable equipment failure (bleed air, pressure control, air conditioning, electrical source(s), etc.) that affects pressurization. (3) Complete loss of thrust from all engines. (c) In showing compliance with paragraphs 4(a) and 4(b) of these special conditions (Pressurization), it may be assumed that an emergency descent is made by approved emergency procedure. A 17-second crew recognition and reaction time must be applied between cabin altitude warning and the initiation of an emergency descent. Note: For flight evaluation of the rapid descent, the test article must have the cabin volume representative of what is expected to be normal, such that Dassault Aviation must reduce the total cabin volume by that which would be occupied by the furnishings and total number of people. 5. Oxygen Equipment and Supply. (a) A continuous flow oxygen system must be provided for the passengers. (b) A quick-donning pressure demand mask with mask-mounted regulator must be provided for each pilot. Quick-donning from the stowed position must be demonstrated to show that the mask can be withdrawn from stowage and donned with 5 seconds. BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;13&hyph;M ␣ E:GRAPHICSER16NO94.000 E:GRAPHICSER16NO94.001 BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;13&hyph;C Issued in Renton, Washington, on November 4, 1994. Darrell M. Pederson, Acting Manager, Transport Airplane Directorate, Aircraft Certification Service, ANM&hyph;100. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;28285 Filed 11&hyph;15&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;13&hyph;M
