FR941028-2-00198 FR941028-2-00109 a. Fixed room-air recirculation systems. The preferred method of recirculating HEPA-filtered air within a room is a built-in system, in which air is exhausted from the room into a duct, filtered through a HEPA filter, and returned to the room (Figure S3&hyph;5). This technique may be used to add air changes in areas where there is a recommended minimum ACH that is difficult to meet with general ventilation alone. The air does not have to be conditioned, other than by the filtration, and this permits higher airflow rates than the general ventilation system can usually achieve. An alternative is the use of HEPA filtration units that are mounted on the wall or ceiling of the room (Figure S3&hyph;7). Fixed recirculation systems are preferred over portable (free-standing) units because they can be installed and maintained with a greater degree of reliability. b. Portable room-air recirculation units. Portable HEPA filtration units may be considered for recirculating air within rooms in which there is no general ventilation system, where the system is incapable of providing adequate airflow, or where increased effectiveness in room airflow is desired. Effectiveness depends on circulating as much of the air in the room as possible through the HEPA filter, which may be difficult to achieve and evaluate. The effectiveness of a particular unit can vary depending on the room's configuration, the furniture and persons in the room, and placement of the HEPA filtration unit and the supply and exhaust grilles. Therefore, the effectiveness of the portable unit may vary considerably in rooms with different configurations or in the same room if moved from one location to another in the room. If portable units are used, caution should be exercised to ensure they can recirculate all or nearly all of the room air through the HEPA filter. Some commercially available units may not be able to meet this requirement because of design limitations or insufficient airflow capacity. In addition, units should be designed and operated to ensure that persons in the room cannot interfere with or otherwise compromise the functioning of the unit. Portable HEPA filtration units have not been evaluated adequately to determine their role in TB infection-control programs. Portable HEPA filtration units should be designed to achieve the equivalent of "12 ACH. They should also be designed to ensure adequate air mixing in all areas of the hospital rooms in which they are used, and they should not interfere with the current ventilation system. Some HEPA filtration units employ UVGI for disinfecting air after HEPA filtration. However, whether exposing the HEPA-filtered air to UV irradiation further decreases the concentration of contaminants is not known. c. Evaluation of room-air recirculation systems and units. Detailed and accurate evaluations of room-air recirculation systems and units require the use of sophisticated test equipment and lengthy test procedures that are not practical. However, an estimate of the unit's ability to circulate the air in the room can be made by visualizing airflow patterns as was described previously for estimating room air mixing (Suppl. 3, Section II.B.1). If the air movement is good in all areas of the room, the unit should be effective. 4. Installing, Maintaining, and Monitoring HEPA Filters Proper installation and testing and meticulous maintenance are critical if a HEPA filtration system is used ( 104 ), especially if the system used recirculates air to other parts of the facility. Improper design, installation, or maintenance could allow infectious particles to circumvent filtration and escape into the general ventilation system ( 47 ). HEPA filters should be installed to prevent leakage between filter segments and between the filter bed and its frame. A regularly scheduled maintenance program is required to monitor the HEPA filter for possible leakage and for filter loading. A quantitative leakage and filter performance test (e.g., the dioctal phthalate [DOP] penetration test [ 105 ]) should be performed at the initial installation and every time the filter is changed or moved. The test should be repeated every 6 months for filters in general-use areas and in areas with systems that exhaust air that is likely to be contaminated with M. tuberculosis (e.g, TB isolation rooms). A manometer or other pressure-sensing device should be installed in the filter system to provide an accurate and objective means of determining the need for filter replacement. Pressure drop characteristics of the filter are supplied by the manufacturer of the filter. Installation of the filter should allow for maintenance that will not contaminate the delivery system or the area served. For general infection-control purposes, special care should be taken to not jar or drop the filter element during or after removal. The scheduled maintenance program should include procedures for installation, removal, and disposal of filter elements. HEPA filter maintenance should be performed only by adequately trained personnel. Appropriate respiratory protection should be worn while performing maintenance and testing procedures. In addition, filter housing and ducts leading to the housing should be labelled clearly with the words ``Contaminated Air'' (or a similar warning). When a HEPA filter is used, one or more lower efficiency disposable prefilters installed upstream will extend the useful life of the HEPA filter. A disposable filter can increase the life of a HEPA filter by 25%. If the disposable filter is followed by a 90% extended surface filter, the life of the HEPA filter can be extended almost 900% ( 98 ). These prefilters should be handled and disposed of in the same manner as the HEPA filter. D. TB Isolation Rooms and Treatment Rooms Purpose: To separate patients who are likely to have infectious TB from other persons, to provide an environment that will allow reduction of the concentration of droplet nuclei through various engineering methods, and to prevent the escape of droplet nuclei from such rooms into the corridor and other areas of the facility using directional airflow. A hierarchy of ventilation methods used to achieve a reduction in the concentration of droplet nuclei and to achieve directional airflow using negative pressure has been developed (Table S3&hyph;2). The methods are listed in order from the most desirable to the least desirable. The method selected will depend on the configuration of the isolation room and the ventilation system in the facility; the determination should be made in consultation with a ventilation engineer. Table S 3&hyph;2._ Hierarchy of Ventilation Methods for Tuberculosis (TB) Isolation Rooms and Treatment Rooms 1Reducing concentration of airborne tubercle bacilli* 1Achieving directional airflow using negative pressure 1. Facility heating, ventilation, and air-conditioning (HVAC) system 1. Facility HVAC system. 2. Fixed room-air high-efficiency particulate air (HEPA) recirculation system 2. Bleed air from fixed room-air HEPA recirculation system. 3. Wall- or ceiling-mounted room-air HEPA recirculation system 3. Bleed air from wall- or ceiling-mounted room-air HEPA recirculation system. 4. Portable room-air HEPA recirculation unit ¶ 4. Bleed air from portable room-air HEPA recirculation unit. ¶ ␣ l 5. Exhaust air from room through window-mounted fan.** *Ventilation methods are used to reduce the concentration of airborne tubercle bacilli. If the facility HVAC system cannot achieve the recommended ventilation rate, auxiliary room-air recirculation methods may be used. These methods are listed in order from the most desirable to the least desirable. Ultraviolet germicidal irradiation may be used as a supplement to any of the ventilation methods for air cleaning. Directional airflow using negative pressure can be achieved with the facility HVAC system and/or the auxiliary air-recirculation-cleaning systems. These methods are listed in order from the most desirable to the least desirable. To remove the amount of return air necessary to achieve negative pressure. ¶ The effectiveness of portable room-air HEPA recirculation units can vary depending on the room's configuration, the furniture and persons in the room, the placement of the unit, the supply and exhaust grilles, and the achievable ventilation rates and air mixing. Units should be designed and operated to ensure that persons in the room cannot interfere with or otherwise compromise the function of the unit. Fixed recirculating systems are preferred over portable units in TB isolation rooms of facilities in which services are provided regularly to TB patients. **This method simply achieves negative pressure and should be used only as a temporary measure.
