FR940506-2-00075 FR940506-2-00048 [File No. 922 3373] Mia Rose Products, Inc., et al.; Proposed Consent Agreement With Analysis To Aid Public Comment AGENCY: Federal Trade Commission. ACTION: Proposed consent agreement. SUMMARY: In settlement of alleged violations of federal law prohibiting unfair acts and practices and unfair methods of competition, this consent agreement, accepted subject to final Commission approval, would prohibit, among other things, a California-based corporation and its officer from making any representation about the efficacy or performance of any air cleaning, air freshening, or insecticidal product, unless the respondents possess and rely upon competent and reliable scientific evidence to substantiate the representation. DATES: Comments must be received on or before July 5, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments should be directed to: FTC/Office of the Secretary, room 159, 6th St. and Pa. Ave. NW., Washington, DC 20580. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: 0 Jeffrey Klurfeld or Linda Badger, FTC/San Francisco Regional Office, 901 Market St., suite 570, San Francisco, CA. 94103. (415) 744&hyph;7920. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Pursuant to Section 6(f) of the Federal Trade Commission Act, 38 Stat. 721, 15 U.S.C. 46 and ยง2.34 of the Commission's Rules of Practice (16 CFR 2.34), notice is hereby given that the following consent agreement containing a consent order to cease and desist, having been filed with and accepted, subject to final approval, by the Commission, has been placed on the public record for a period of sixty (60) days. Public comment is invited. Such comments or views will be considered by the Commission and will be available for inspection and copying at its principal office in accordance with Section 4.9(b)(6)(ii) of the Commission's Rules of Practice (16 CFR 4.9(b)(6)(ii)). Agreement Containing Consent Order To Cease and Desist The Federal Trade Commission, having initiated an investigation of certain acts and practices of Mia Rose Products, Inc., and Mia Palencar (``respondents''), and it now appearing that proposed respondents are willing to enter into an agreement containing an order to cease and desist from the acts and practices being investigated, It is hereby agreed by and between respondents and by their duly authorized officers, and counsel for the Federal Trade Commission that: 1. Proposed respondent Mia Rose Products, Inc. is a corporation organized, existing, and doing business under and by virtue of the laws of the State of California. The principal place of business of this corporation is located at 3555&hyph;B Harbor Gateway South, Costa Mesa, California 92626. Proposed respondent Mia Palencar is an officer of the corporate respondent. She formulates, directs, and controls the acts and practices of the corporate respondent and her address is the same as that of corporate respondent. 2. Proposed respondents admit all the jurisdictional facts set forth in the attached draft complaint. 3. Proposed respondents waive: a. Any further procedural steps; b. The requirement that the Commission's decision contain a statement of findings of fact and conclusions of law;
