FR940930-1-00008 FR940930-1-00004 14 CFR Part 255 [Docket No. 48808] Computer Reservations System (CRS) Regulations AGENCY: Office of the Secretary, Department of Transportation. ACTION: Termination of proceeding on petition for rulemaking on rules governing computer reservations systems. SUMMARY: The Department is granting a request by the American Society of Travel Agents (ASTA) that ASTA be allowed to withdraw its petition for a rulemaking to amend the Department's rules on computer reservations systems (CRSs). ASTA had asked the Department to amend its CRS rules (14 CFR Part 255) to include a prohibition against the inclusion of lost booking fees in the damages recoverable by a CRS vendor when a travel agency breaches its contract for CRS services before the end of the contract's term. ASTA is now asking the Department for leave to withdraw its petition on the ground that the largest CRS vendor has agreed to change its CRS contract practices in a way which will eliminate ASTA's need for a rulemaking. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Thomas Ray, Office of the General Counsel, 400 Seventh St. S.W., Washington, D.C. 20590, (202) 366&hyph;4731. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: In the United States travel agencies sell the great majority of all airline tickets. In selling air transportation (and other travel services) travel agencies primarily rely on computer reservations systems to find out what airline services and fares are available for their customers, to make bookings, and to issue tickets. Each of the CRSs operating in the United States is owned by one or more airlines or airline holding companies. The nature of the CRS and the airline businesses gives each operator of a CRS (``the vendor'') a significant ability to prejudice the competitive position of other airlines and to limit the information on airline services given travel agencies and their customers. The Civil Aeronautics Board, the agency which had been responsible for airline economic regulation through 1984, therefore adopted rules regulating CRS operations under section 411 of the Federal Aviation Act (``the Act''), 49 U.S.C. 1381. Two years ago we revised those rules to further protect airline competition. 14 CFR Part 255, adopted by 57 FR 43780 (September 22, 1992). One of the major issues in our rulemaking concerned the contract terms sought by CRS vendors from travel agencies using a CRS (``subscribers''), since several commonly-used contract terms restricted the subscribers' ability to add or switch systems. We revised our CRS rules to prohibit certain subscriber contract clauses that appeared to unreasonably interfere with a travel agency's ability to use more than one system, but we did not adopt other proposals for regulating subscriber contracts. A number of parties in the rulemaking had complained that vendors made it difficult for subscribers to switch systems before the end of the term of their CRS contract by making a subscriber liable for substantial liquidated damages if it breached the contract. The liquidated damages formulas used by the vendors typically included an element for ``lost booking fees.'' Booking fees_the fees paid by airlines and other travel suppliers whenever an agency uses a system to book a travel service_provide most of each vendor's CRS revenues. Lost booking fees are the amount of booking fees the vendor would have received if the subscriber had continued to use its system during the remaining term of the contract. In calculating lost booking fees the vendor typically assumed that the subscriber would have used its system for most of its bookings. The inclusion of lost booking fees in the damages due a vendor on a subscriber's breach of contract greatly increases the damages obtainable by the vendor from the subscriber and thereby makes it much more costly for an agency to breach its CRS contract. While we decided not to adopt a prohibition against the inclusion of lost booking fees in liquidated damages, we stated that our rules were intended to give travel agencies the ability to use more than one system and that therefore no vendor should expect a subscriber to use its system for most of the agency's bookings during the term of the contract. No vendor could therefore reasonably expect that a subscriber contract would produce a substantial flow of booking fees. As a result, we concluded that the contract law principles governing liquidated damages would make unenforceable any contract that required a subscriber to pay damages based on lost booking fees. 57 FR 43827&hyph;43828.
