FR940620-1-00017 FR940620-1-00006 Step 6_Administrative Costs. The agency accounts for any additional Medicaid administrative costs incurred in processing the group health information by determining the average increase in cost per recipient. These costs may include all up-front administrative costs associated with the implementation of this provision. These costs must be amortized over a 5-year period. Step 7_Cost-Effectiveness Calculation. Compare the costs under the group health plan to those costs under Medicaid. This comparison is as follows: Group Health Plan •Subtract the employer recognized covered expense (step 5) from the health plan cost (step 4) (the figure obtained is the proxy for deductibles, coinsurance and limitations within group health plans); •Add the employee's share of premiums paid (step 1); and •Add the additional administrative costs (step 6) (the figure obtained is the total State costs under the group health plan). Medicaid Expenditures •Subtract the total State costs, obtained above, from the Medicaid average covered expense amount (step 3). •Cost-effectiveness is achieved if costs calculated under the group health plan are lower than costs calculated for the same services under Medicaid. (See example on determining cost-effectiveness.) Note: When non-Medicaid eligible family members are enrolled in group health plans in order to enroll the Medicaid eligible family member, do not include the deductible, coinsurance, and other cost-sharing obligations for non-Medicaid eligible family members in calculations. To illustrate implementation of the cost-effectiveness guidelines, we include the following example: Example of Cost-Effectiveness Guidelines Step 1_Policy Information. Obtain information on all group health plans available to the Medicaid recipient. This information must include the effective date of the policy, exclusions to enrollment, the covered services under the policy and the employee's share of premiums paid to the health plan. Individual: Ms. Smith, age 25, AFDC, county X. Daughter, age 6, AFDC, county X. Group Health plan: Effective date 1/1/91. No exclusions. Six Covered Services _Hospital Inpatient, Hospital Outpatient, Physician Services, Clinic, Laboratory and X-ray, and Prescription Drugs. Premiums: $840.00 yearly. Step 2_Average Medicaid Costs. Using the Medicaid Management Information System (MMIS), obtain the average total costs per person per year for Medicaid services to persons having characteristics similar to the applicant (age, sex, Medicaid eligibility category and geographic data). MMIS Data: ␣ 1␣ 1␣ 1␣ 25 year old female, AFDC, county X = $1,550.00 6 year old female, AFDC, county X = 1,250.00 n,n,s Total Medicaid Expenses l␣ $2,800.00 Step 3_Medicaid Costs for Included Services. Determine the amount of the total yearly Medicaid expenditures for the services covered by the specific group health plan. Ten services offered under the State plan: Inpatient Hospital Clinic_ SNF and Home Health Physician Service Physical Therapy Outpatient Hospital Laboratory and X-ray EPSDT Family Planning Services Prescription Drugs Six services offered under the group health plan: Inpatient Hospital Clinic_ Physician Services Outpatient Hospital Laboratory and X-ray Prescription Drugs Here, the services covered by the group health plan are the most frequently used services under both the group health plan and under the Medicaid State plan. For purposes of this example, these six services happen to comprise 82 percent of the Medicaid costs in the example State. On an average annual basis, the costs to Medicaid of providing the six services offered under the group health plan are: ␣ 1␣ 1␣ Ms. Smith's expenses at 82% $1,271.00 Daughter's expenses at 82% 1,025.00 n,s Medicaid average covered expense amount $2,296.00 Step 4_Group Health Plan Costs for Included Services. Adjust the Medicaid average covered expense amount (amount from step 3) for the higher prices employer plans typically pay. Use either a single State specific factor derived from experience with TPL, group health plan specific information, or a national factor supplied by HCFA. For the purpose of this example, 1.3 was used as a factor. The Medicaid covered expense is multiplied by this factor to produce an estimated covered expense as recognized by the employer plan.
