FR941006-1-00101 FR941006-1-00015 (e) Reporting. The total amount paid by an authorized committee for the cost of transportation or for ground services and facilities shall be reported as an expenditure in accordance with 11 CFR 104.3(b)(2)(i). Any reimbursement received by such committee for transportation or ground services and facilities shall be reported in accordance with 11 CFR 104.3(a)(3)(ix). 24. Section 9034.7 would be revised to read as follows: ยง9034.7 Allocation of Travel Expenditures. (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of 11 CFR 106.3, expenditures for travel relating to the office of President by any individual, including a candidate, shall, pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (b) of this section, be qualified campaign expenses and be reported by the candidate's authorized committee(s) as expenditures. (b) (1) For a trip which is entirely campaign-related, the total cost of the trip shall be a qualified campaign expense and a reportable expenditure. (2) For a trip which includes campaign-related and non-campaign related stops, that portion of the cost of the trip allocable to campaign activity shall be a qualified campaign expense and a reportable expenditure. Such portion shall be determined by calculating what the trip would have cost from the point of origin of the trip to the first campaign-related stop and from that stop through each subsequent campaign-related stop, back to the point of origin. If any campaign activity, other than incidental contacts, is conducted at a stop, that stop shall be considered campaign-related. Campaign activity includes soliciting, making, or accepting contributions, and expressly advocating the election or defeat of any candidate. Other factors, including the setting, timing and statements or expressions of the purpose of an event, the substance of the remarks or speech made, and the audience, will also be considered in determining whether a stop is campaign-related. (3) For each trip, an itinerary shall be prepared and such itinerary shall be made available for Commission inspection. (4) For trips by government conveyance or by charter, a list of all passengers on such trip, along with a designation of which passengers are and which are not campaign-related, shall be made available for Commission inspection. (5) (i) If any individual, including a candidate, uses a government airplane for campaign-related travel, the candidate's authorized committee shall pay the appropriate government entity an amount equal to: (A) The lowest unrestricted and non-discounted first class commercial air fare available for the time traveled, in the case of travel to a city served by a regularly scheduled commercial airline service; or (B) The lowest unrestricted and non-discounted coach commercial air fare available for the time traveled, in the case of travel to a city served by regularly scheduled coach airline service, but not regularly scheduled first class airline service; or (C) The commercial charter rate for a comparable airplane (in terms of size, model and make), in the case of travel to a city not served by a regularly scheduled commercial airline service. (ii) If a government airplane is flown to a campaign-related stop where it will pick up passengers, or from a campaign-related stop where it left off passengers, the candidates's authorized committee shall pay the appropriate government entity an amount equal to the amount required under paragraph (b)(5)(i) of this section for one passenger plus costs for fuel and crew. (iii) If any individual, including a candidate, uses a government conveyance, other than an airplane, for campaign-related travel, the candidate's authorized committee shall pay the appropriate government entity an amount equal to the commercial rental rate for a comparable conveyance, in terms of size, model and make.
