FR940217-1-00103 FR940217-1-00014 (g) The expiration, modification, or revocation of an emergency action against an institution or third-party servicer does not bar subsequent emergency action against that institution on grounds other than those specifically identified in the notice imposing the prior emergency action. Separate grounds may include violation by an institution or third-party servicer of an agreement or limitation imposed or resulting from the prior emergency action. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1094) 13. Section 668.84 is revised to read as follows: ยง668.84 Fine proceedings. (a) Scope and consequences. (1) The Secretary may impose a fine of up to $25,000 per violation on a participating institution or third-party servicer that_ (i) Violates any statutory provision of or applicable to Title IV of the HEA, any regulatory provision prescribed under that statutory authority, or any applicable special arrangement, agreement, or limitation; or (ii) Substantially misrepresents the nature of_ (A) In the case of an institution, its educational program, its financial charges, or the employability of its graduates; or (B) In the case of a third-party servicer, as applicable, the educational program, financial charges, or employability of the graduates of any institution that contracts with the servicer. (2) If the Secretary begins a fine proceeding against a third-party servicer, the Secretary also may begin a fine, limitation, suspension, or termination proceeding against any institution under whose contract a third-party servicer commits the violation. (b) Procedures. (1) A designated department official begins a fine proceeding by sending the institution or servicer, as applicable, a notice by certified mail, return receipt requested. In the case of a fine proceeding against a third-party servicer, the official also sends the notice to each institution that is affected by the alleged violations identified as the basis for the fine action, and, to the extent possible, to each institution that contracts with the servicer for the same service affected by the violation. This notice_ (i) Informs the institution or servicer of the Secretary's intent to fine the institution or servicer, as applicable, and the amount of the fine and identifies the alleged violations that constitute the basis for the action; (ii) Specifies the proposed effective date of the fine, which is at least 20 days from mailing of the notice of intent; (iii) Informs the institution or servicer that the fine will not be effective on the date specified in the notice if the designated department official receives from the institution or servicer, as applicable, by that date a written request for a hearing or written material indicating why the fine should not be imposed; and (iv) In the case of a fine proceeding against a third-party servicer, informs each institution that is affected by the alleged violations of the consequences of the action to the institution.
