FR940407-2-00094 FR940407-2-00050 3. The Office shall be sensitive to the needs of individuals' confidentiality and shall make every effort to protect such interests. Section F. Submissions._ 1. Any person may file a submission with the Office regarding labor law matters arising in the territory of another Party. A single copy is satisfactory for filing. Filing may be by hand delivery, mail delivery, or facsimile transmission. 2. The submission shall identify clearly the person filing the submission and shall be signed and dated. It shall state with specificity the matters that the submitter requests the Office to consider and include supporting information available to the submitter. To the fullest extent possible, the submission shall address and explain whether: (a) the matters complained of appear to demonstrate action inconsistent with another Party's obligations under Part II of the Agreement; (b) there has been harm to the submitter or other persons, and, if so, to what extent; (c) the matters complained of appear to demonstrate a pattern of non-enforcement of labor law by another Party; (d) relief has been sought under the domestic laws of another Party, and, if so, the status of any legal proceedings; and (e) the matters complained of are pending before an international body. Section G. Acceptance of Submissions._ 1. Within 60 days after the filing of a submission, the Secretary shall determine whether to accept the submission for review. The Secretary may communicate with the submitter during this period regarding any matter relating to the determination. 2. In general, the Secretary shall accept a submission for review if it raises issues relevant to labor law matters in the territory of another Party and if a review would further the objectives of the Agreement. 3. The Secretary may decline to accept a submission for review if: (a) the submission does not identify clearly the person filing the submission, is not signed and dated, or is not sufficiently specific to determine the nature of the request and permit an appropriate review; (b) the statements contained in the submission, even if substantiated, would not constitute a failure of another Party to comply with its obligations under Part II of the Agreement; (c) the statements contained in the submission or available information demonstrates that appropriate relief has not been sought under the domestic laws of another Party, or that the matter or a related matter is pending before an international body; or (d) the submission is substantially similar to a recent submission and significant, new information has not been made available. 4. If the Secretary accepts a submission for review, the Secretary shall publish promptly in the Federal Register a notice of the determination, a statement specifying why review is warranted, and the terms of the review, and notify promptly in writing such persons as may be appropriate. 5. If the Secretary declines to accept a submission for review, the Secretary shall notify promptly in writing the submitter and provide the reasons for the determination. Section H. Reviews and Public Reports._
