FR940317-1-00131 FR940317-1-00013 (d) Mobile home carriers. Liability is governed by the applicable rate tariff, rate tender, declared valuation, or personal property government bill of lading (PPGBL) as stated in DOD 4500.34&hyph;R, appendix E, and generally is the full cost of repairs for damage incurred during transit. In addition to the exclusions listed in paragraph 11&hyph;26, a mobile home carrier is excused from liability when the carrier has introduced substantial proof that a latent structural defect (one not detectable during the carrier's preliminary inspection) caused the loss or damage. (e) Liability limit. Except for claims involving mobile home carriers, excess valuation or RCP, the liability of any third party is limited to the least amount of the following: (1) Weight liability or NTS inventory line item maximum. (2) Amount paid by DA. (3) Depreciated value of an item (if the third party bases an offer of settlement on the Joint Military/Industry Depreciation Guide in DA Pam 27&hyph;162, app G, Table G&hyph;2.) §536.188 Settlement procedures in recovery actions. (a) Offers of settlement. An offer of settlement or tender of payment from a third party should be carefully examined giving due regard to all factors involved. When such consideration shows the offer or tender to be appropriate, it may be accepted. When the offer or tender does not appear appropriate, further correspondence should be initiated with the third party to clarify the issues. (b) Prior acceptance of settlement by owner. DA is not bound by the owner's acceptance of a settlement from a third party where the acceptance was procured through fraud, duress, collusion, mistake of fact, or misrepresentation. In such circumstances, when a claim is filed, all correspondence with the third party must be included in the file and further recovery action should be taken where the prior settlement is inadequate. (c) Establishment of timely notice. (1) Handled by one third party only. Where one third party had responsibility for the shipment from pickup to delivery, written exceptions on DD Form 1840 (Notice of Loss or Damage ) is evidence that items in the shipment were lost or damaged when delivered. However, a clear delivery receipt (DD Form 1840) is only prima facie evidence of a good delivery and may be rebutted by submission of DD Form 1840R, listing all later discovered loss or damage. The DD Form 1840R must be dispatched within 75 days of delivery; the date of dispatch is the controlling date. However, the normal 75-day limit for reporting additional damage on DD Form 1840R may be extended by the claimant's hospitalization or officially recognized absence under the Joint Military-Industry Agreement on Loss and Damage Rules (DA Pam 27&hyph;162, appendix E, sec II). Implementation dates for the use of this form and details regarding its use are found in DA Pam 27&hyph;162, paragraph 3&hyph;4. On claims for household goods delivered prior to these implementation dates, timely notice is established by exceptions noted at delivery on DD Form 619&hyph;1 (Statement of Accessorial Services Performed), or on the inventory if dated and signed by a representative of the third party. Timely notice also includes DD Form 1840, or a letter or other document noting loss or damage dispatched to the third party within 45 days of delivery. (2) Handled by two or more third parties. Each time custody of the property changes hands, the inventory will be annotated to show any overage, shortage, and damage found. In the case of pickup by a carrier from a NTS contractor, an exception sheet must be prepared and be acknowledged by the warehouse firm to reflect any changes in the condition of the goods. §536.189 Payment to the claimant beyond the statutory limit. When payment of the statutory limit is made on a claim determined to be meritorious in a greater amount after the application of individual and category maximum allowances, USARCS will apply amounts recovered from a carrier or contractor to compensate the claimant to the extent of the difference between the statutory limit and the amount that would have been paid but for the statutory limit. However, when an insurer has paid any portion of the value of the items involved, USARCS will apply the procedure in section §536.190(b). Any additional recovery monies available will be paid out under §536.190(b), if applicable. §536.190 Reimbursements to claimants and insurers from money received. USARCS is responsible for pursuing recovery on all claims paid under this subpart that involve payment of the statutory limit, increased released valuation purchased by the member, replacement cost protection, and/or private insurance. When forwarding these files to USARCS, the field office should identify them by writing in red on the front upper left corner of the file, ``IRV,'' ``RCP,'' or ``STATUTORY LIMIT.'' (a) Reimbursement to a claimant. Only USARCS may reimburse claimants on files which are required to be forwarded to USARCS for centralized recovery. In cases where a JA/claims attorney allowed payment of a claim before settling with private insurance, a command claims service, area claims office, or claims processing office with approval authority may always make a supplemental payment to a claimant when the claimant's private insurer paid more on an item than did the Government. If a claimant has not been fully compensated, he or she can receive a supplemental payment up to the adjudicated value of the claimant's loss under the following circumstances: (1) When the adjudicated value of the loss on an item exceeds an item or category maximum and the amount collected exceeds the amount paid on the claim, the claimant will be paid the adjudicated value to the extent that the amount recovered exceeds the amount paid.
