FR940627-2-00006 FR940627-2-00004 In the course of this investigation, parties will have the opportunity to provide relevant information related to the issues of the PRC's NME status and granting of separates rates to individual exporters. See Final Determination of Sales at Less Than Fair Value: Silicon Carbide from the PRC (59 FR 22585, May 2, 1994). Petitioners based the factors of production on the production process used by PRC producers of the subject merchandise and valued these factors, where possible, on publicly available published information from the surrogate country, India. Where certain values were not available from Indian sources, petitioner has used values from Pakistan and Indonesia. These countries have been determined to be appropriate surrogates for the PRC. See November 29, 1993, memorandum from Rob Straw, Office of Policy to the File, Antidumping Investigation of Paper Clips from the PRC, A&hyph;570&hyph;826. For purposes of these initiations, we have accepted, pursuant to section 773 (c)(4) of the Act, petitioner's view that India, Pakistan, and Indonesia are appropriate surrogate countries. Pursuant to section 773(c)(1) of the Act, petitioner determined FMV on the basis of the value of factors of production specified in section 773(c)(3) of the Act. These factors included materials, energy, labor costs and a percentage for factory overhead based on information from India. Petitioner then added the statutory minimum of ten percent for general expenses and eight percent for profit, as well as an amount for packing. We disregarded certain factor values where the inputs were based on prices in the United States because (1) petitioner failed to follow the Department's established hierarchy regarding selection of surrogate countries for the PRC, with respect to factor valuation, and (2) petitioner provided no basis for determining that United States values are representative of the appropriate surrogate country values. Based on a comparison of USP to FMV, the recalculated dumping margins ranged from 225.42 percent to 320.69 percent. South Africa Petitioner based USP for South Africa on IM&hyph;145 data. Petitioner adjusted for foreign inland freight, ocean freight and marine insurance charges. Ocean freight and marine insurance charges were estimated by comparing per-unit U.S. IM&hyph;145 customs value import statistics to per-unit U.S. IM&hyph;145 CIF import statistics. Petitioner based FMV on a domestic price quote from a producer of the subject merchandise in South Africa to a home market customer. An adjustment was made for foreign inland freight to arrive at an ex-factory price. Petitioner then added VAT to both the FMV and USP. Based on a comparison of USP to FMV, the dumping margin alleged by petitioner is 68 percent. Thailand Petitioner based USP for Thailand on U.S. IM&hyph;145 Customs data. Petitioner adjusted for foreign inland freight, ocean freight and marine insurance charges. Petitioner calculated inland freight charges based on the distance from the Thai producer's plant to the port of export. Ocean freight and marine insurance charges were estimated by comparing per-unit U.S. IM&hyph;145 customs value import statistics to per-unit U.S. IM&hyph;145 CIF import statistics. Petitioner based FMV on constructed value (CV) because it claimed that the Thai market was not viable and that home market and third country prices provided in the petition represented sales that were made below the cost of production (COP) and therefore were not appropriate bases for calculating FMV. Petitioner provided a sales price from a Thai producer to a home market customer, and third country prices to Germany and the Netherlands, based on 1993 Thai export statistics to these countries. We did not use the Thai sales price to the home market customer because the source of the information could not be substantiated. Petitioner's claim that the home market is not viable is moot because they have been unable to obtain a substantiated home market sales price in Thailand. We rejected prices to third countries because these prices were found to be below COP, as described below.
