FR940912-0-00041 FR940912-0-00006 (2) List the address of the headquarters of each disclosure entity and service organization of the System. (b) Federal regulation and insurance _(1) Farm Credit Administration. Describe the regulatory and enforcement authority of the FCA over System institutions under the Act. (2) Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation. (i) Describe the role and authorities of the Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation (FCSIC) under part E of title V of the Act. Describe specifically the role of the FCSIC in insuring the timely payment of principal and interest on FCS debt obligations and in providing assistance to System institutions. (ii) Describe the FCSIC's status as a Government corporation and state that System institutions have no control over the management of the FCSIC or the discretionary expenditures from the Farm Credit Insurance Fund (Insurance Fund), which are the sole prerogative of the FCSIC. (3) Farm Credit System Financial Assistance Corporation. Describe the role and authorities of the Financial Assistance Corporation under title VI of the Act, debt obligations of the Financial Assistance Corporation issued to provide financial assistance to the System, and statutory repayment obligations of System institutions. (c) Description of legal proceedings and enforcement actions. (1) Describe any material pending legal proceedings in which one or more System institutions are a party, or that involve claims that a System institution(s) may be required by contract or operation of law to satisfy, and the potential impact of such proceedings, to the extent known, on the System. (2) Provide a summary of the types of enforcement actions in effect during the year, and any material impact of such proceedings on the System. (d) Description of liabilities. (1) Describe how the System funds its lending operations, including: (i) System banks' authority to borrow, and issue notes, bonds, debentures, and other obligations, and limitations thereof under section 4.2 of the Act; (ii) A description of the types of debt obligations authorized to be issued under the Act, the types of debt obligations currently issued, the manner and form in which they are issued, rights of securities holders, risk factors, use of proceeds, tax effects of holding securities, market information, and other pertinent information; (iii) For each of the types of obligations that may be issued, whether it is insured, and the extent of any joint and several liability for the obligations; and (iv) Any applicable statutory and regulatory requirements affecting a bank's ability to incur debt. (2) Describe agreements among System banks and the Funding Corporation affecting a bank's ability to incur debt. (3) Describe agreements among System institutions regarding capital preservation, loss sharing, or any other forms of financial assistance. (e) Description of capital. (1) Describe the capitalization of the System, including capital structure, types of stock and participation certificates, and voting rights of holders of stock and participation certificates. (2) Describe the statutory requirement that a borrower purchase stock as a condition of obtaining a loan; how such stock is purchased, transferred, and retired; and how earnings are distributed. (3) Describe any statutory or other authority of a System institution to require additional capital contributions from stockholders. (4) Describe regulatory minimum permanent capital standards and capital adequacy requirements for banks and associations. State the number of institutions, if any, categorized by banks and associations, that are not currently in compliance with such standards and include a brief discussion of the reasons for the noncompliance. (5) Describe any statutory and regulatory restrictions on retirement of stock and distribution of earnings by System institutions. State the number of System institutions, if any, categorized by banks and associations, that are currently affected by such restrictions and provide a summary of the causes of such prohibitions. (f) Selected financial data. At a minimum, furnish the following combined financial data of the System in comparative columnar form for each of the last 5 fiscal years. (1) Balance sheet. (i) Loans. (ii) Allowance for losses. (iii) Net loans. (iv) Cash and investments. (v) Other property owned. (vi) Total assets. (vii) FCS debt obligations and other bonds, notes, debentures, and obligations, presented by type, with a descriptive title. (viii) Total liabilities. (ix) Capital stock and surplus. (2) Statement of income. (i) Net interest income. (ii) Net other expenses. (iii) Provision for loan losses. (iv) Extraordinary items.
