FR941013-2-00115 FR941013-2-00081 4. Sections 22(g) and 23(a) prohibit registered open-end investment companies and closed-end investment companies, respectively, from issuing any of their securities for services or for property other than cash or securities. These provisions prevent the dilution of equity and voting power that may result when securities are issued for consideration that is not readily valued. Applicants believe that the Agreement would merely provide for deferral of payment of such fees and thus would be viewed as being issued not in return for services but in return for a Fund not being required to pay such fees on a current basis. 5. Section 13(a)(3) provides that no registered investment company shall, unless authorized by the vote of a majority of its outstanding voting securities, deviate from any investment policy that is changeable only if authorized by shareholder vote. With limited exceptions, each Fund has adopted an investment policy regarding the purchase of investment company shares, which policy could prohibit or restrict the Fund from purchasing shares of other investment companies. Applicants believe that it is appropriate to exempt applicants as necessary from section 13(a)(3) so as to enable the Participating Funds to invest in Underlying Securities without a shareholder vote. Applicants will provide notice to shareholders in the statement of additional information of each Participating Fund of the deferred fee arrangement with the participating trustees. The value of the Underlying Securities will be de minimis in relation to the total net assets of the respective Fund, and will at all times equal the value of the Fund's obligations to pay deferred fees. Because investment companies that might exist in the future could establish fundamental policies that would accommodate purchases of shares of investment companies in connection with the deferred fee arrangement, the relief requested from section 13(a)(3) would extend to named applicants only. 6. Section 17(a)(1) generally prohibits an affiliated person of a registered investment company from selling any security to such registered investment company, except in limited circumstances. Funds that are advised by the same entity may be ``affiliated persons'' under section 2(a)(3)(C) of the Act. Section 17(a)(1) was designed to prevent sponsors of investment companies from using investment company assets as capital for enterprises with which they were associated or to acquire controlling interest in such enterprises. Applicants believe that an exemption from this provision would facilitate the matching of each Fund's liability for deferred fees with the Underlying Securities that would determine the amount of such liability. 7. Section 17(d) and rule 17d&hyph;1 generally prohibit a registered investment company's joint or joint and several participation with an affiliated person in a transaction in connection with any joint enterprise or other joint arrangement or profit-sharing plan ``on a basis different from or less advantageous than that of'' the affiliated person. Under the Agreement, Eligible Trustees will not receive a benefit, directly or indirectly, that would otherwise inure to a Fund or its shareholder. Eligible Trustees will receive tax deferral, but the Agreement otherwise will maintain the parties, viewed both separately and in their relationship to one another, in the same position as if the deferred fees were paid on a current basis. When all payments have been made to an Eligible Trustee, the trustee will be no better off (apart from the effect of tax deferral) than if he or she had received trustee fees on a current basis and invested them in Underlying Securities. Applicants' Condition Applicants agree that the order granting the requested relief shall be subject to the following condition: If a Participating Fund purchases Underlying Securities issued by an affiliated Fund, the Participating Fund will vote such shares in proportion to the votes of all other holders of shares of such affiliated Fund. For the Commission, by the Division of Investment Management, under delegated authority. Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;25280 Filed 10&hyph;12&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
