FR940318-2-00133 FR940318-2-00078 The two sections together may not exceed 25 single-spaced typewritten pages in length. I. Research Plan The Research Plan section of the application must include the following sub-sections: (1) The specific aims of the research plan, with study question(s) and objective(s) stated; (2) the background in research literature for the study; (3) a progress report (for competing continuation applicants only); (4) the research design and methods to be used; (5) data sources, management quality control, and analysis; and (6) originality (if applicable). The Plan should be well organized, clearly written, and succinct. The plan should address how the Scientific Integrity of the project will be maintained. It should contain all information necessary for reviewers to understand fully the research plan without being familiar with the IHS or tribal health programs. 1. Specific Aims: statement of study question(s) and objective(s). State the study question(s) and objective(s) of the research clearly and precisely. The rest of the Research Plan should follow logically from the study question(s). 2. Background in Research Literature: Give a brief but comprehensive review of existing research and knowledge related to the study question(s). Previous related work by members of the team, including data from a pilot phase, should be included in the review. Describe the conclusions to be drawn from, and the applicability of, that review to the research project. References should be cited in standard format. (See Index Medicus, or N Eng J Med 1991; 324:424&hyph;428; copies are available from the Area and National Research Offices.) 3. Progress report (for competing continuation studies only). Give the progress of the funded research project to date. Indicate how the final objective(s) of the research will be achieved. 4. Research design and methods to be used. Briefly define the research design, and why it is appropriate for the objective(s) of the research. Describe the research methods in detail. The description should include: (a) The population to be studied; (b) the inclusion and exclusion criteria for selecting study subjects; (c) the sampling techniques; (d) selection of controls (if any); (e) the definition of the independent and dependent variables (if any) and how to measure them; (f) the validation of interventions (if any); and (g) the definition of the expected outcomes or effects (if any) and how to measure them. Briefly discuss how to account for alternative explanations of expected findings. Provide sample size calculations (if needed), and evidence that the research can achieve the projected size. Give a project timeline, with completion dates of all major tasks. 5. Data sources, management, quality control, and analysis. Describe in detail the data sources, management, quality control and analysis. The description should include: (a) The data to be collected, by whom, and at which points in the study; (b) the data sources, and how access to the sources will be attained; (c) the procedures to collect, receive, code, and prepare the data for analysis; (d) the contents of interviews (if they are to be done), and the connection between the interview question and the variables to be studied; (e) how the data will be made secure; (f) how completeness of the data will be assured and low response rates dealt with; (g) how accuracy of the data will be measured and assured; (h) the plan for analysis; (i) the statistical analyses to be done (if any); and (j) the non-statistical analyses to be done (if any, e.g., in qualitative research). Include a copy of the data collection instruments, if available, or the instruments to be modified by the research project (if any), in the application's appendices. 6. Originality. If this research will develop new methods or directly lead to new information for research in general (not just about AI/AN people), briefly discuss that significance. J. Importance and Utility The Importance and Utility section of the application must include the following sub-sections: (1) The importance of the health problem(s) addressed by the research for the community(ies) involved; (2) the importance of the health problems addressed by the research for all AI/AN people and for the IHS Area; (3) the rationale for the setting of the study; (4) the utility of the product of the project and of the experience doing the project, to the community(ies) and service unit(s) (SUs) involved; and (5) the utility of the product of the project, and of the experience doing the project, to the IHS and other AI/AN people. The Importance and Utility section should be well organized, clearly written, and succinct. It should contain all information necessary for reviewers to understand fully both the importance of the health problem(s) addressed by the research project and its expected utility, without being familiar with the IHS or tribal health programs. 1. Importance of the health problem(s) for the community(ies) involved. Using quantitative evidence, briefly document the importance of the health problem(s) addressed by the research project among the range of health problems of the community(ies) in which the research project will be done.
