FR941230-2-00074 FR941230-2-00047 United States District Court, District of the Virgin Islands, St. Thomas Division Complaint The United States of America, through its attorneys of the Antitrust Division, acting under the direction of the Attorney General of the United States, brings this civil action to obtain equitable and other relief against the defendant named herein and alleges as follows: I Jurisdiction and Venue 1. This complaint is filed and this action is instituted under Section 4 of the Sherman Act, 15 U.S.C. 4, to prevent and restrain the continuing violation by the defendant, as hereinafter alleged, of Section 3 of the Sherman Act, 15 U.S.C. 3. This Court has jurisdiction over the subject matter and the person of the defendant pursuant to Section 12 of the Clayton Act, 15 U.S.C. 22, and 28 U.S.C. 1331 and 1337. 2. The defendant is a Virgin Islands corporation and maintains offices, transacts business and is found in the District of the Virgin Islands. Venue is proper in the District of the Virgin Islands under 15 U.S.C. 22 and 28 U.S.C. 1391(c). II Defendant 3. Topa Equities (V.I.), Ltd. is made a defendant herein. Topa Equities (V.I.), Ltd. is a holding company that wholly owns the Virgin Islands wholesale distilled spirits companies West Indies Corporation and Bellows International, Ltd. (Hereinafter in this Complaint, Topa Equities (V.I.), Ltd. and its subsidiaries will be referred to collectively as ``Topa.'') In 1991, Topa had total sales of distilled spirits in the Virgin Islands of approximately $24.7 million. 4. The activities of Topa are within the flow of, and substantially affect, commerce within the Virgin Islands and between the Virgin Islands and the several states and foreign nations. III Definitions 5. ``Distilled spirits'' means liquor products of all types intended for human consumption, including, but not limited to, whiskey, gin, vodka, rum, tequila, brandy, liqueurs and cordials, but excluding wine and malt beverages and non-alcoholic beverages. 6. ``Virgin Islands'' means the Territory of the Virgin Islands of the United States. 7. ``Retailer'' means any person engaged in the business of purchasing distilled spirits from wholesalers, as defined herein, and reselling them to consumers in establishments located in the Virgin Islands, including such Virgin Islands-located establishments as retail liquor stores, grocery stores, convenience stores, restaurants and hotels. 8. ``Supplier'' means any licensed manufacturer, distiller or importer of distilled spirits from which defendant or any other wholesaler, as defined herein, purchases or has purchased distilled spirits. 9. ``Wholesaler'' means any person holding a wholesaler's license for distilled spirits from the government of the Virgin Islands, and who is engaged in the business of purchasing distilled spirits from suppliers and reselling them to other wholesalers or to retailers located in the Virgin Islands. IV Trade and Commerce 10. Most distilled spirits sold within the Virgin Islands are imported from outside of the Virgin Islands. The imported distilled spirits are transported to the Virgin Islands mainly in container ships. A few brands of distilled spirits are produced within the Virgin Islands. Wholesalers like Topa purchase distilled spirits from suppliers, store them in warehouses and sell them to retailers who in turn sell to consumers in retail outlets. Every wholesaler and retailer must be licensed by the Virgin Islands government. Under Virgin Islands law, a wholesaler must obtain a license for distilled spirits wholesaling and is prohibited from retailing such products.
