FR940826-2-00175 FR940826-2-00095 UNITED STATES INFORMATION AGENCY College and University Development Program in Business Management for Croatia and Macedonia ACTION: Notice_Request for Proposals. SUMMARY: The Office of Academic Programs of the United States Information Agency's Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs announces an open competition for an assistance award program. Accredited post-secondary U.S. educational institutions and U.S. scholarly/professional organizations are invited to submit proposals to conduct exchange programs with post-secondary educational institutions in Croatia and Macedonia. The purpose of the exchange programs is to develop curricula and teaching methodologies for foreign faculties in the field of business management. USIA anticipates awarding one grant not to exceed $300,000 for a project in Macedonia, and one grant not to exceed $200,000 for a project in Croatia. Public or private non-profit organizations applying under this program must meet the provisions described in IRS regulation 501(c)(3). Grant Activities Grant activities should begin no later than February 1, 1995. Programs must be a minimum of 18 months and a maximum of two years in duration. Activities must include placement of U.S. faculty at Croatian or Macedonian institutions for in-country training of foreign faculty and for development of sustainable programs to educate future foreign business management teachers and business people. Targeted program activities may include: Faculty development and enrichment; curriculum design; modernization of the administrative structures within the foreign institution; outreach to the private sector; and direct teaching. U.S. and foreign participants may include post-graduate students on a ``faculty track'' who are currently involved in teaching at participating institutions (not to exceed 25% of all participants). Development of linkages with the private sector and development of appropriate materials are encouraged. Orientation, seminar, workshop and semester-long course formats will be acceptable. Visits to partner institutions by staff or consultants to plan joint projects may be funded under this program but should be a relatively small part of the overall exchange. Applicants are strongly encouraged to maintain an in-country presence at the foreign partner institution(s) for the duration of the program. This presence should include project director(s) at the partner institution(s) for periods of at least one continuous academic semester. Courses developed may include, but are not limited to: Marketing, production management, economics, industrial relations, finance, accounting, international business and business communications. Proposals must provide for a two-way exchange. Exchange activities should include establishment of electronic communications between partner institutions and other organizations. Funding Authority Funding for this program is provided under the Support for East European Democracies (SEED) Act. Under the auspices of the SEED Act, USIA is offering this program to help foster greater expertise in business management in selected countries of the region. Projects must conform with Agency requirements and guidelines outlined in this announcement and the Application Package. USIA projects and programs are subject to the availability of funds. ANNOUNCEMENT NAME AND NUMBER: All communications with USIA concerning this announcement should refer to the above title and reference number E/ASU&hyph;95&hyph;03. DATES: Deadline for proposals: The original and 14 complete copies of the proposal must be received at the U.S. Information Agency by 5 p.m. Washington, D.C. time on Tuesday, October 11, 1994. Faxed documents will not be accepted, nor will documents postmarked on October 11 but received at a later date. It is the responsibility of each applicant to ensure that proposals are received by the above deadline.
