FR940930-1-00072 FR940930-1-00020 (2) In addition, the RDFI's liability extends to Federal Government entries settled more than 45 days after the death or legal incapacity of the Receiver or the death of the beneficiary. This additional liability is the lesser of: (i) An amount equal to the amount of the entries which settled more than 45 days after the death or legal incapacity of the Receiver or the death of the beneficiary; (ii) An amount equal to the amount in the Receiver's or beneficiary's account as defined in §210.10(i)(2)(ii). (d) Reclamation actions are not directed toward Receiver's account. This part does not authorize or direct an RDFI to debit the account of a Receiver or any other customer, living or deceased, for the RDFI's liability to the Government under §§210.8 through 210.12. The amount in the Receiver's account is only a measure of the RDFI's liability. Nothing in this part shall be construed to affect any right an RDFI may have under State law or the RDFI's contract with a customer to recover amounts equal to those returned to the Government in compliance with this part. A withdrawer may deposit funds to an account and authorize the RDFI to return such monies to the Government. (e) Exception to liability rule_person entitled to Government benefits is deceased at the time of authorization. An RDFI shall not be liable for ACH credit entries sent to a Receiver acting as a fiduciary on behalf of a beneficiary, if the beneficiary was deceased at the time the authorization was executed and the RDFI had no knowledge of the death. The verification and liability provisions of §§210.3(a)(3) and 210.7 shall apply. (f) Requirement that Government Originators act on notice of death. An RDFI return of credits to the Government by ACH because of the death of the Receiver or beneficiary will constitute effective notice of death to the Government Originator. The RDFI shall not be liable for any future ACH transaction for that individual from the same Government Originator if the settlement date is more than 10 business days after the settlement date of the return entry. (g) Time limit to initiate reclamation actions. The Government may initiate reclamation actions to recover erroneous credits within 12 months after the date that the Originator receives notice that the Receiver died or became legally incapacitated, or that the beneficiary died. The amount Government Originators can reclaim is the total of all payments made during the 6 years following the date of death or legal incapacity of the Receiver or death of the beneficiary. (h) Actions to recover funds from withdrawers. The RDFI's liability under this part is not affected by any unsuccessful action taken by the Government to recover funds from any party. (i) Payment to the Government for reclaimed amounts. The payments subject to reclamation are: (1) If the RDFI had knowledge on the settlement date of the death or legal incapacity of the Receiver or the death of the beneficiary and did not timely and properly return the payment(s) by ACH return entry to the Government, the RDFI shall be liable for that entry(ies) and shall return an equal amount to the Government. (2) If the RDFI had no knowledge on the settlement date of the death or legal incapacity of the Receiver or the death of beneficiary, the RDFI shall be liable for the lesser of: (i) An amount equal to the amount of the payment(s); or (ii) An amount equal to the amount in the deceased or legally incapacitated Receiver's account, or the deceased beneficiary's account, up to the amount of the payment. The amount in the account is defined as the account balance when the RDFI received notice of the death or legal incapacity and had reasonable time to take action on it, plus any other additions to the account balance made before the RDFI returns the payment(s). For purposes of this paragraph, action is taken within a reasonable time if it is taken not later than the close of the business day following the receipt of the reclamation entry(ies). When determining the amount in the account, the RDFI's liability shall not be reduced for debit card withdrawals, automated withdrawals, pre-authorized debits, non-Government reclamations, and forged checks or other comparable instruments, made after the RDFI had knowledge of the death or legal incapacity. (j) List of withdrawers. If the amount paid by the RDFI is less than the full amount of the reclamation, the RDFI shall provide the Government:
