FR941104-0-00024 FR941104-0-00009 One commenter was concerned about the interaction between regulation of radioactive materials under the Atomic Energy Act (AEA) and of hazardous wastes under RCRA, specifically that EPA's authorization of the State of Washington for RCRA corrective action under the State's Hazardous Waste Management Act (HWMA) would allow the Washington Department of Ecology to ``preempt'' the State Department of Health's regulatory authority (delegated by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission) over the operation of their facility. The commenter was also concerned about certain conflicting state regulatory and statutory provisions regarding the regulatory authority of the Department of Health. In response, the State of Washington has not asked that the statutory provision cited by the commenter [RCW 70.105.240(2)] be authorized as part of the federally authorized RCRA program. As such, RCW 70.105.240(2) will not be part of the federally-authorized state RCRA corrective action program which will operate in lieu of the federal RCRA corrective action program. This will remain a ``state-only'' provision and EPA will not enforce it. The State of Washington is today being authorized to implement its corrective action program in lieu of the federal RCRA corrective action program. The RCRA corrective action program seeks to address releases of hazardous waste and constituents from solid waste management units at a facility. ``Regulated units'' are units such as landfills, waste piles, surface impoundments, and land treatment units used to treat, store, or dispose of RCRA-regulated hazardous wastes and are subject to full regulation under subtitle C of RCRA. See 40 CFR 264.90. ``Solid waste management units,'' or ``SWMUs,'' are any discernable units at which ``solid wastes'' may have been placed at any time. See 55 FR 30798, 30874, July 27, 1990 (proposed RCRA Subpart S Rule). If EPA determines that the presence of solid or hazardous waste at either a regulated unit or a solid waste management unit has led to a release or a threatened release of a hazardous waste or constituent from such units, EPA can require the owner or operator of a unit to address such releases by taking necessary ``corrective action'' at the unit. EPA's ability to require corrective action at such units does not mean that SWMUs are ``regulated'' under the RCRA ``base program'' and therefore subjected to RCRA permitting requirements. The RCRA ``base program'' consists, in part, of those provisions of RCRA that govern the generation, transport, treatment, storage and disposal of hazardous wastes. The RCRA ``base program'' is considered to be those provisions of the RCRA program before the passage of the Hazardous and Solid Waste Amendments (``HSWA'') of 1984 to RCRA. HSWA introduced the corrective action requirements into the RCRA statute. In contrast and in general, only ``regulated units'' and generator accumulation areas are subject to the operational requirements of the RCRA ``base program.'' These operational requirements are separate and apart from any corrective action requirements that might be imposed by the State of Washington under the authorized state corrective action program. Therefore, the commenter's concern that EPA's authorization of the State of Washington for RCRA corrective action will allow the Department of Ecology to ``preempt'' the Department of Health's regulatory authority over the operation of the commenter's facility is unfounded. If the State of Washington wanted to regulate the daily operations of the facility's radioactive waste management activities under RCRA, it would have to do so under the state's dangerous waste ``base'' RCRA program. One commenter stated that ``Given that EPA has stated that it will interpret Washington's regulatory definition of SWMU against its discussion in the proposed corrective action rule, [the commenter] requests that the State of Washington through its authorized program will not be allowed to assert jurisdiction over mixed waste activities prior to July 3, 1986, as well.'' The commenter cites the State of Washington's recent definition of ``solid waste management unit'' which was added to the State's Dangerous Waste regulations, which ``means any discernable location at a facility, as defined for the purposes of corrective action, where solid wastes have been placed at any time .␣.␣.'' (emphasis added). The commenter further states that ``the preamble to EPA's corrective action rule did not attempt to retroactively apply EPA's jurisdiction over mixed waste prior to July 3, 1986.'' In response, EPA has consistently interpreted the radioactive mixed waste to be a solid waste under RCRA for the purposes of RCRA corrective action ( see 55 FR 30798 at 30860, July 27, 1990 and 51 FR 24504 Footnote # 1, July 3, 1986). Therefore, it is clear that EPA considers radioactive mixed waste to be a solid waste under RCRA for purposes of RCRA corrective action. Corrective actions under RCRA which address releases from solid waste management units are not limited to releases of hazardous waste or constituents after any certain date. EPA's proposed definition of a ``solid waste management unit'' in EPA's proposed Subpart S rule ( see 55 FR at 30808-30809) and the State of Washington's promulgated definition of a ``solid waste management unit'' in its Dangerous Waste Regulations ( see WAC 173-303-646(2)(a)) both define a SWMU to include in part (state regulatory language differences are in brackets): Any discernable unit [location at a facility] .␣.␣. at which solid wastes have been placed at any time, irrespective of whether the unit was intended for the management of solid or hazardous [dangerous] waste. Thus, EPA's determination that the hazardous component of radioactive mixed waste was regulated and subject to permitting requirements of Subtitle C of RCRA in 1986 does not affect EPA's ability (or a state's ability, when that state has been authorized for corrective action under RCRA) to require corrective action for the hazardous component of radioactive solid waste at SWMUs where such waste was disposed of before 1986.
