FR940228-1-00123 FR940228-1-00010 (3) The Secretary may require the institution to apply for a certification that the institution continues to meet the requirements of this subpart. (d) Notification and application requirements for changes in name, location, or address. (1) A participating institution must notify the Secretary, in writing, if the institution wishes to continue to participate in a Title IV, HEA program following a change in name, location or address of the institution or continue to include in the institution's participation_ (i) A branch campus that has changed its name, location, or address; or (ii) Another location that has changed its name, location, or address if that location offers 100 percent of an educational program. (2) The Secretary considers the submission of the required notification under 34 CFR 600.30 with respect to that location to satisfy the notification requirement of this paragraph. (e) Required forms and information. An institution that applies for participation under paragraph (a) or (b) of this section must_ (1) Apply on the form prescribed by the Secretary; and (2) Provide all the information and documentation requested by the Secretary to certify that the institution meets the standards of this subpart. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1099c) 7. A new ยง668.13 is added to read as follows: ยง668.13 Certification procedures. (a) Requirements for certification. The Secretary certifies that an institution meets the standards of this subpart only if_ (1) The institution is an eligible institution; (2) The institution meets the standards of this subpart; (3) Each branch campus to be included in the institution's participation meets the applicable standards of this subpart; and (4)(i) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(4)(ii) of this section, in the case of an institution seeking to participate for the first time in the Federal Pell Grant Program, the campus-based programs, the FDSL Program, or the Federal Stafford Loan, Federal SLS, or Federal PLUS Program, the institution requires the following individuals to complete Title IV, HEA program training provided or approved by the Secretary: (A) The individual designated by the institution under ยง668.16(b)(1). (B)( 1 ) In the case of a for-profit institution, the chief administrator of the institution; or ( 2 ) In the case of an institution other than a for-profit institution, the chief administrator of the institution, or another administrative official of the institution designated by the chief administrator. (ii) If either one of the two individuals who is otherwise required to complete training under paragraph (a)(4)(i) of this section has previously completed Title IV, HEA program training provided or approved by the Secretary, the institution may elect to request an on-site Title IV, HEA program certification review by the Secretary instead of requiring that individual to complete again the Title IV, HEA program training provided or approved by the Secretary. (iii) An institution may not begin participation in the applicable Title IV, HEA program or programs_ (A) In the case of an institution that requires individuals to complete training in accordance with paragraph (a)(4)(i) of this section, until the individuals complete the required training; or (B) In the case of an institution that requests an on-site review in accordance with paragraph (a)(4)(ii) of this section, until the Secretary conducts the review and notifies the institution that it is in compliance with Title IV, HEA program requirements. (b) Period of participation. If the Secretary certifies that an institution meets the standards of this subpart, the Secretary also specifies the period for which the institution may participate in a Title IV, HEA program. An institution's period of participation expires four years after the date that the Secretary certifies that the institution meets the standards of this subpart, except that the Secretary may specify a shorter period.
