FR941206-0-00007 FR941206-0-00001 Characteristics of Meat/Bone Separation Machinery Machinery of the type described as advanced meat/bone separation machinery and meat recovery systems has been developing over the past 15 years. FSIS believes that the use of such machines has been limited because of the uncertain regulatory status of the product from these machines. It has not been clearly defined through regulatory means that the product of these machines would continue to be declared as meat or if the product might be reclassified as MS(S) or some other unique ingredient that would be identified on the label of products in which it is used as an ingredient. In order to clarify this situation, the Agency decided to publish a proposal that clearly defines as ``meat,'' product resulting from these advanced systems. The Proposal On March 3, 1994, FSIS published in the Federal Register a proposed rule (59 FR 10246) to amend the Federal meat inspection regulations by amending definition of ``meat'' set forth in 9 CFR 301.2(rr) to include as ``meat,'' product resulting from advanced meat/bone separation machinery and recovery systems, establishing criteria for meat from advanced meat/bone separation machinery and recovery systems, and establishing requirements for the handling of meat derived from advanced meat/bone separation machinery and recovery systems, as well as the material from which it is derived. A summary of the proposed rule follows. 1. Definition of Meat FSIS proposed to amend the definition of ``meat'' set forth in 9 CFR 301.2(rr) of the Federal meat inspection regulations to include as ``meat,'' product meeting certain criteria, that is derived from the mechanical separation of skeletal muscle tissue from the bones of livestock by using advanced mechanical meat/bone separation machinery and meat recovery systems that do not crush, grind, or pulverize bones, and from which the bones emerge comparable to those resulting from hand-deboning, i.e., essentially intact and in natural physical conformation such that they are recognizable as loin bones, rib bones, etc., when they emerge from the machinery. 2. Criteria for Meat Derived From Advanced Meat/Bone Separation Machinery and Recovery Systems FSIS proposed to establish protein quality and calcium content criteria for meat derived from advanced meat/bone separation machinery and meat recovery systems and assure its compliance with such criteria through a quality control program in order to assure conformance with consumer expectations of ``meat'' and production of ``meat'' comparable to that obtained by hand-deboning techniques. A maximum calcium content (as a measure of bone solids) of not more than 0.15 percent or 150 mg/100 gm of product (within a tolerance of 0.03 percent or 30 mg) and a minimum protein quality requirement of a protein digestibility-corrected amino acid score (PDCAAS) of not less than 40 expressed as a percent, or an alternative measure of at least 33 percent essential amino acids (EAA) of the total amino acids present, was proposed to be established for the product. a. Calcium content . FSIS proposed to include in the amendment to the definition of ``meat,'' criteria on maximum calcium content (as a measure of bone solids content) of this meat to assure that the meat derived from advanced meat/bone separation machinery and recovery systems is both consistent with consumer expectations of ``meat,'' e.g., beef trimmings, and comparable to ``meat,'' as traditionally defined, that is used to formulate further processed meat food products. The criteria is a measure designed to ensure that bones are not crushed, ground, or pulverized during processing. The maximum calcium content of 0.15 percent or 150 mg/100 gm of product is supported by data submitted to FSIS for the product derived from advanced meat/bone separation machinery. 5 Furthermore, based upon analytical repeatability studies conducted by the Agency for calcium, FSIS proposed to establish a tolerance, i.e., an allowance for statistical variability, of 0.03 percent or 30 mg/100 gm for individual samples. 6 5 A summary report of data provided to FSIS on the calcium content of meat from advanced meat/bone separation machinery and recovery systems is available for public inspection in the FSIS Docket Clerk's office. 6 A copy of an FSIS report containing data on the repeatability of analyzing calcium content (June 1992) is available for public inspection in the FSIS Docket Clerk's office. b. Protein quality . FSIS proposed to require that meat derived from advanced meat/bone separation machinery and recovery systems meet a minimum protein quality requirement_a PDCAAS of not less than 40 expressed as a percent and to accept as evidence of compliance with this requirement an alternative measurement_the content of 7 essential amino acids being at least 33 percent of the total of 17 amino acids present. The protein digestibility-corrected amino acid score was proposed to be determined by methods given in sections 5.4.1, 7.2.1, and 8.00 in the ``Protein Quality Evaluation, Report of the Joint FAO/WHO Expert Consultation on Protein Quality Evaluation'' which was incorporated by reference in the proposed rule. The proposed protein digestibility-corrected amino acid score of not less than 40 expressed as a percent is consistent with nutrition labeling requirements for protein in foods for children older than one but less than four years of age. Protein quality is a measure of the content, proportion, and availability of essential amino acids in food protein and a measure of the ability of the food protein to support human growth and body protein maintenance.
