FR940217-2-00095 FR940217-2-00055 Notice Pursuant to the National Cooperative Research and Production Act of 1993_Open Software Foundation, Inc. Notice is hereby given that, on November 19, 1993, pursuant to Section 6(a) of the National Cooperative Research and Production Act of 1993, 15 U.S.C. 4301 et seq. (``the Act''), Open Software Foundation, Inc. (``OSF'') has filed written notifications simultaneously with the Attorney General and the Federal Trade Commission disclosing changes in its membership. The additional notifications were filed for the purpose of extending the Act's provisions limiting the recovery of antitrust plaintiffs to actual damages under specified circumstances. Specifically, the identities of the new, non-voting members of OSF are as follows: Grumman Data Systems, Herndon, VA; NASA/Langley Research Center, Hampton, VA; Ohio State University, Columbus, OH; Herbert H. Lehman College, Bronx, NY; Laboratoire de l'Accelerateur Lineaire, Orsay, France; Foundation of Research and Technology Hellas, ICS, Heraklio, Greece; Battelle Pacific Northwest Laboratory, Richland, WA; Harvard University, Cambridge, MA; 3M Company, St. Paul, MN; Centre for Development of Telematics, New Delhi, India; University of Waikato, Hamilton, New Zealand; Griffith University, Nathan, Australia; Flinders University of South Australia, Adelaide, Australia; Edith Cowan University, Churchlands, Australia; Australian National University, Canberra, Australia; Michigan Department of Transportation, Lansing, MI; Open Systems Associates, Inc., Reston, VA; Intellisoft Corporation, Acton, MA; Duetsche Bundespost Telekom, Bonne, Germany; Sycomore, S.A., Paris La Defense, France; University of Melbourne, Parkville, Victoria, Australia; University of Western Sydney, MacArthur, Cambelltown, NSW, Australia; University of New South Wales, Kensington, NSW, Australia; Aggregate Computing, Inc., Minneapolis, MN; Montran Corporation, New York, NY; Information Communication Institute of Singapore, Singapore Telecommunications, Singapore; Wells Fargo Bank, San Francisco, CA; Atrium Technologies, Inc., Austin, TX; Fachhochschule Wiesbaden, Wiesbaden, Germany; Template Software, Inc., Herndon, VA; and Freie Universitat Berlin, Berlin, Germany. No new voting members have been added as of this filing. No other changes have been made in either the membership or planned activity of the group research project. Membership in this group research project remains open, and OSF intends to file additional written notifications disclosing all changes in membership. On August 8, 1988, OSF and the Open Software Foundation Institute, Inc. (the ``Institute'') filed its original notification pursuant to Section 6(a) of the Act. The Department of Justice published a notice in the Federal Register pursuant to Section 6(b) of the Act on September 7, 1988, (53 FR 34594). The last notification was filed with the Department on August 2, 1993. A notice was published in the Federal Register pursuant to Section 6(b) of the Act on September 2, 1993 (58 FR 46652). Joseph H. Widmar, Director of Operations, Antitrust Division. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;3660 Filed 2&hyph;16&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4410&hyph;01&hyph;M
