FR940426-2-00029 FR940426-2-00017 The amount of DOE discretionary funds available for tribal cleanup activities in the early years of the DOE environmental program was based on large projected budget increases. However, present and anticipated budget constrictions for the EM program only allow for moderate funding. As a result, the amount of funds available for tribal environmental management and cleanup activities has leveled, while the degree of involvement by tribes, and the number of tribes that want to be involved in remediation activities, continue to grow. Budget limitations, coupled with DOE's commitment to involve affected tribes in its cleanup and management activities, necessitate the development of standards and guidance for disbursement of DOE discretionary funds to tribes. These standards will require the development of criteria relating to eligibility and funding. Eligibility criteria would determine which tribes would qualify to enter into cooperative agreements with DOE. Funding criteria would determine the types of activities that are to be funded and the levels of funding. DOE acknowledges that eligibility and funding criteria may utilize similar factors. II. Discussion_Eligibility and Funding Criteria A. Eligibility Eligibility criteria would determine if a federally-recognized Indian tribe qualifies to enter into a cooperative agreement allowing tribal participation in DOE environmental remediation activities. The following considerations could be used to determine tribal eligibility: (1) Should a tribe be considered eligible if its legal interests arising from treaty, statutes, and case law are affected by a DOE hazardous waste site. (2) Should a tribe be considered eligible if its legal interests arising from treaty, statutes, and case law are affected by a DOE produced waste stream or transportation corridor which carries DOE hazardous wastes? (3) Should a tribe be considered eligible if its cultural and natural resources are located on or in close proximity to a DOE hazardous waste site, DOE produced waste stream, or transportation corridor which carries DOE hazardous wastes? Please define cultural and natural resources. (4) Should a tribe be eligible if its reservation is located on or in close proximity to a DOE hazardous waste site, DOE produced waste stream, or transportation corridor which carries DOE hazardous wastes? (5) Should ``close proximity'' be limited to a geographically defined area in relation to a DOE hazardous waste site, DOE produced waste stream, or transportation corridor which carries DOE hazardous wastes (e.g., a geographic area of not more than 50 miles, 100 miles, etc., from a hazardous site)? (6) Should ``close proximity'' be defined to include more distant areas where actual or likely physical harm could occur as a result of a DOE hazardous waste site, DOE produced waste stream, or transportation corridor which carries DOE hazardous wastes? (7) What other factors should be considered in determining eligibility? B. Funding Once it is ascertained which tribes are eligible to enter into cooperative agreements with DOE, the next determination is what particular tribal activities should be funded and at what levels. The following considerations which could be used to determine tribal funding include: (1) Should a priority system be used to categorize activities by factors such as the following: (a) The degree of the threat or actual level of harm to a tribe (e.g., the greater threat of harm, the greater the priority, etc.); (b) Size of affected tribal population; and (c) Types of activities proposed, (e.g., a groundwater monitoring activity to ensure a safe drinking water supply versus the remediation of a cultural site). (i) Should activities that support tribal management of cultural resources receive greater priority than other activities? (ii) Should activities which would assist a tribe in becoming more economically competitive and self-sufficient receive greater priority than other activities?
