FR940328-1-00039 FR940328-1-00018 (f) Maintenance. The Contractor shall maintain special tooling in accordance with sound industrial practice. These requirements do not apply to those items designated by the Contracting Officer for disposal as scrap or identified as of no further interest to the Government under paragraph (i), Disposition instructions, of this clause. (g) Identification of excess special tooling. The Contractor shall promptly identify and report all special tooling in excess of the amounts needed to complete full performance under this contract (see subparagraph (h)(3) of this clause). (h) Lists of special tooling. The Contractor shall prepare and distribute lists of special tooling as described below: (1) Initial list of special tooling. The Contractor shall furnish the Government an initial list of all special tooling subject to this clause. The list shall be furnished within 60 days after delivery of the first production end item under this contract unless a later date is prescribed. The list shall specify the following: (i) Nomenclature. (ii) Quantity. (iii) Unit (or group) price. (iv) Number of the contract under which the tooling is accountable. (v) Location of each item. If special tooling is located at a subcontractor vendor, specify alternate CAGE code or name and address if code is not available. (vi) Tool identification number. (vii) Part number of item on which used and next higher assembly. (viii) Retention codes. Assign one or more of the following to each item of special tooling: Code A. Spares Tooling. Required to produce a provisioned spare part or assembly. Code B. Judgment (Insurance) Tooling. Fabrication tools for parts that are not provisioned spares but which in the judgment of the Contractor will be required at some time for logistic support of the end item. Code C. Rate Tooling. Necessary to economically produce at increased rates (e.g., for mobilization or surge) but not essential for parts fabrication at low production rates. Code D. Assembly Tooling. Required for manufacture of the end product but not required for production of spare parts. Those items having no postproduction need except for potential modification or resumed production programs. Code E. Repair Tooling. Items which are capable of being used for repair of provisioned parts or assemblies. Code F. Replaceable Tooling. Spares or judgment tooling which, in the opinion of the Contractor, can be effectively and economically replaced by ``soft'' tooling on an ``as required'' basis in lieu of retention of the ``hard'' production tooling for supporting postproduction requirements. Code G. Maintenance Tooling. Items which are capable of being used for depot level maintenance of the applicable end item or components thereof. Code H. Crash Damage Tooling. Items which apply to provisioned or nonprovisioned parts or assemblies which are designated as, or have the potential of being, required for crash damage repairs. (ix) Storage method code. Assign one of the following: Code J. Inside storage. Code K. Outside storage. Code L. Special storage required. (x) Estimated unpacked weight of tool in pounds, if over 25 pounds. (xi) Estimated unpacked dimensions (length, width, and height in feet) of tool, if over 3 cubic feet. (2) Final list of special tooling. The Contractor shall furnish the Contracting Officer a final list of special tooling, subject to this clause, not later than 90 days prior to the scheduled deliveries of the last production end item under this contract. (3) Excess special tooling. Lists of special tooling excess to this contract shall be furnished within 60 days of the date that the item is determined to be excess. The Contractor shall include in this list the applicable excess code as follows: Code X. Excess due to changes in design or specification of the end items. Code Y. Excess due to nonserviceable or nonrepairable condition. Code Z. Excess due to no further requirements.
