FR940721-2-00022 FR940721-2-00015 For the reasons discussed above, to be feasible for use by the Navy for vessels throughout the fleet, equipment or strategies to implement an alternative must balance operational, design, cost, and environmental considerations in the same manner that equipment designed for propulsion, communications, weapons or other shipboard functions are evaluated. The criteria normally considered by the Navy for shipboard systems include those set out in the Appendix to this notice. Alternatives To Be Studied In developing the special area compliance plan, the Navy proposes to analyze three different categories of alternatives. The first two categories would ensure full compliance with Regulation 5 under Annex V. The third alternative would not ensure full compliance with Regulation 5 under Annex V, but may preserve many or all of the environmental values protected by Regulation 5 in the event that full compliance is not feasible. The Navy remains committed to full compliance, but is taking this opportunity to increase the information available on ways to mitigate discharges in special areas. The Navy will also analyze combinations of the technologies from the distinct alternatives. The general categories of alternatives are: On Board Destruction of Waste Alternative This category of alternatives focuses on technologies that result in virtually complete destruction of waste aboard the vessel. These might include incineration or more technologically advanced thermal destruction. Study of these technologies would include study of the proper handling of any residue as well any safety concerns and cross media pollution. Store and Retrograde Waste Alternative The second category of alternatives focuses on technologies that permit storage and retrograde of waste, either on board the generating ship or by service force ships. These would include study of refrigeration, compaction, odor barrier bags and other means to facilitate storage and retrograde of waste for disposal on shore. Process Solid Waste Until It Is ``Environmentally Benign'' and Discharge Alternative The third category of alternatives focuses on technologies that are designed to process waste to produce an effluent that is environmentally benign if discharged to the sea. The study of this alternative would also include fate and effect studies of the discharge and the relative effect of such discharges in comparison to other discharges from land or sea sources. Public Participation The Navy solicits public input to the special area compliance plan. Among other topics, public comments could address the scope of the alternatives to be considered, the studies considered necessary, the measures of merit by which to evaluate the alternatives, and suggested technologies or strategies for compliance. As described above, the Navy will hold a public meeting to obtain and consider public comments on the Navy's compliance with the MARPOL requirements. Members of the public are invited to attend. Following the public meeting the Navy will analyze the alternatives (including combinations of the alternatives), conduct required research and prepare a draft special area compliance plan. Comments should be submitted in writing to the Officer in Charge, Naval Surface Warfare Center, Carderock Division, Annapolis Detachment, 3A Leggett Circle, Annapolis, MD 21402&hyph;6067 (Attn: Code 634A) in time to be received not later than 30 days after the date of the public meeting. The Navy expects to formally consult with the other concerned agencies on the draft special area compliance plan in late 1995 and to make the draft special area compliance plan available for public comment in Spring, 1996. After public review and comment, the Navy will submit the plan to Congress. Appendix_Equipment Suitability Considerations 1. Installation feasibility a. Back fitting existing vessels b. Design in new vessels 2. Performance (adapted to waste management equipment) a. Throughput or processing capacity b. Pitch and roll sensitivities c. Flexibility in handling various blends of wastes d. Resulting waste products and/or residues
