FR941026-2-00088 FR941026-2-00057 DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION Coast Guard [CGD 94&hyph;064] National Preparedness for Response Exercise Program (PREP) AGENCY: Coast Guard, DOT. ACTION: Notice of PREP Area Exercise Schedule for 1995, 1996 and 1997. SUMMARY: The Coast Guard, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), the Research and Special Programs Administration (RSPA), and the Minerals Management Service (MMS), in concert with the states, the oil industry and concerned citizens, held a workshop on May 19, 1994, to discuss the proposed Preparedness for Response Exercise Program (PREP) Area exercise schedule and the scheduling process. This notice publishes the final revision of the Area exercise schedule for 1995, 1996, and 1997, and solicits industry members to lead Area exercises for 1995. DATES: Industry members interested in leading the Industry-led Area Exercises should submit their requests directly to the USCG or EPA On-Scene Coordinator (OSC) as soon as possible, but no later than 6 months prior to the proposed exercise date to ensure adequate planning time. Industry members should indicate the date and location of the exercise which they are interested in leading. Once the OSC has chosen an industry plan holder for an exercise, the OSC will contact the National Scheduling Coordinating Committee (NSCC) at the address listed below. ADDRESSES: Commandant (G&hyph;MEP&hyph;4), Room 2100, U.S. Coast Guard Headquarters, 2100 Second Street, SW; Washington, DC 20593&hyph;0001. ATTN: Ms. Karen Sahatjian. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Ms. Karen Sahatjian, Office of Marine Safety, Security and Environmental Protection, Marine Environmental Protection Division, (G&hyph;MEP&hyph;4), (202) 267&hyph;0746. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background Information The Coast Guard, EPA, RSPA, and MMS developed the National Preparedness for Response Exercise Program (PREP) to provide guidelines for compliance with the Oil Pollution Act of 1990 pollution response exercise requirements (33 U.S.C. 1321 (j)). One section of the PREP focuses on Area exercises, which are designed to evaluate the entire response mechanism in a given Area to ensure adequate pollution response preparedness. The goal of the PREP is to conduct 20 Area exercises per year, with the intent of exercising most Areas of the country over a three year period. In the March 25, 1994, edition of the Federal Register (59 FR 14254), the Coast Guard announced the May 19, 1994, workshop to discuss the scheduling process, and proposed an exercise schedule for 1995, 1996, and 1997. This notice sets forth the scheduling process and the finalized exercise schedule for 1995, 1996, and 1997. Scheduling Process The Area exercise scheduling process is as follows: 1. The National Scheduling Coordinating Committee (NSCC), comprised of representatives of the Coast Guard, EPA, RSPA, and MMS, meets in January of each year to develop a proposed Area exercise schedule for the upcoming three year period. (For example, when the NSCC meets in 1995, the three years considered will be 1996, 1997 and 1998.) The information in the proposed schedule includes: the exercise Area, the exercise quarter, whether the exercise is industry-led or government-led, and the type of industry that will lead the exercise (vessel, marine transportation-related (mtr) facility, non-marine transportation-related facility, offshore facility or pipeline). Once developed, the proposed schedule is published in the Federal Register in February of each year. 2. The NSCC solicits input on the proposed schedule for each three year period. The NSCC also requests industry plan holders to lead the Area exercise or participate in the government-led Area exercises. 3. Once comments are received by the NSCC, they are considered and acted upon, as appropriate. Where there is conflict, every effort is made to resolve it while maintaining the integrity of the scheduling process. Selection of Industry Participants for Area Exercises The selection process for industry participants for the Area exercises is as follows: 1. Industry response plan holders interested in leading the Area exercises or supporting the government-led Area exercises should submit their requests directly to the USCG or EPA On-Scene Coordinator. These requests should be submitted as soon as possible after the proposed schedule is published, but no later than 6 months prior to the proposed exercise date. Once the OSC has chosen an industry plan holder for an exercise, the OSC will contact the NSCC in writing to the address listed under ADDRESSES above. 2. In Areas where no plan holders have come forth and expressed an interest in leading or participating in the Area exercises, OSCs will recommend industry plan holders for exercise participation to the NSCC. Some issues that will be considered when selecting industry participants include the number of times a specific industry has conducted exercises in the past, the operating history of industries in the Area and the perceived need for a particular industry plan holder to be exercised. The OSCs will consult with the selected industry plan holders prior to submitting their names for exercise participation. 3. In Areas scheduled for exercises involving pipelines or offshore facilities, the OSCs will coordinate with the respective regulatory agency (RSPA or MMS) to select plan holders to lead or participate in these exercises. Scheduling Workshop A PREP scheduling workshop was conducted by the NSCC on May 19, 1994. Similar workshops will continue to be held annually in May. The workshops will continue to focus primarily on the upcoming year's Area exercise schedule, but also will address issues relating to the following two years of the triennial schedule. National level industry representation is strongly encouraged at these workshops, as this is an opportunity for industry plan holders to comment on the schedule and address issues which may affect them and their operations. Input from the workshops will continue to be used for finalizing the upcoming year's schedule and proposing the schedule for the following two years. Final Schedule The following is the final PREP Schedule for Calendar Years 1995, 1996, and 1997. All of the comments received were incorporated, as appropriate. Where no industry plan holders have come forward to either participate or lead an exercise, the OSCs will solicit and recommend plan holders. Companies that wish to participate should contact the USCG or EPA OSC, who will then forward the name to the NSCC at the address listed under ADDRESSES . The Coast Guard will continue to publish a final schedule in the Federal Register annually in the fall.
