FR940826-2-00029 FR940826-2-00021 4_The Department is also developing criteria for assessing the adequacy of contractor training programs for employees engaged in hazardous substance or emergency response operations. These criteria will be used by DOE field inspectors to evaluate and certify the adequacy of contractor training programs. DOE seeks comment on the development of appropriate criteria. 5_The Act defines the term ``hazardous substance'' to include radioactive waste and mixed radioactive and hazardous waste. This definition is not limited, however, to those substances. For purposes of the implementing regulations, DOE intends to include within the definition of hazardous substance, in addition to radioactive and mixed waste, those substances identified within the definition of hazardous substance in section 101(14) of CERCLA. DOE seeks comments on this definition. 6_DOE is considering defining ``nuclear weapons facility'' as follows: ``Any DOE reactor or non-reactor nuclear facility involved in research, production, assembly, storage, dismantling, or disposal of nuclear weapons, or material for nuclear weapons, that generates or contains hazardous substances, radioactive waste or mixed radioactive and hazardous waste.'' Comments are requested on this definition. 7_Comments are requested on the enforcement procedures that are appropriate to assure compliance with the intent of Congress, including the desirability of integration of the section 3131(b) enforcement procedures with the proposed DOE program set forth at 10 CFR Part 820, for enforcing violations of nuclear safety requirements which includes assessment of civil penalties under separate statutory authority, and whether the Department should provide for exemption from dual civil penalty assessments under both Part 820 and the Act. Comments are also requested on enforcement options such as varying penalty levels commensurate with the severity of the violation, past performance and multiple violations. DOE solicits comments on all of these issues and objectives, and on ways to achieve these objectives in an effective and efficient manner for both DOE and its contractors. Upon completion of its review of all comments received and other relevant materials, DOE will develop a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking for publication in the Federal Register . Issued in Washington, DC, August 15, 1994. Tara O'Toole, Assistant Secretary, Environment, Safety and Health. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;21128 Filed 8&hyph;25&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6450&hyph;01&hyph;P
