FR940617-0-00209 FR940617-0-00026 (2) Whenever the manufacturer conducts all tests on a test engine, the manufacturer's test data is accepted as the official data, provided that if the Administrator makes a determination based on testing conducted under paragraph (a) of this section that there is a substantial lack of agreement between the manufacturer's test results and the Administrator's test results, no manufacturer's test data from the manufacturer's test facility will be accepted for purposes of this subpart. (c) If testing conducted under §89.503&hyph;96 is unacceptable under paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the Administrator must: (1) Notify the manufacturer in writing of the Administrator's determination that the test facility is inappropriate for conducting the tests required by this subpart and the reasons therefor; and (2) Reinstate any manufacturer's data upon a showing by the manufacturer that the data acquired under §89.503&hyph;96 was erroneous and the manufacturer's data was correct. (d) The manufacturer may request in writing that the Administrator reconsider the determination in paragraph (b)(2) of this section based on data or information which indicates that changes have been made to the test facility and these changes have resolved the reasons for disqualification. §89.505&hyph;96 Maintenance of records; submittal of information. (a) The manufacturer of any new nonroad engine subject to any of the provisions of this subpart must establish, maintain, and retain the following adequately organized and indexed records: (1) General records. A description of all equipment used to test engines in accordance with §89.508&hyph;96 pursuant to a test order issued under this subpart, specifically, the equipment requirements specified in §§86.884&hyph;8 and 86.884&hyph;9 of this chapter and the equipment requirements specified in §§89.306&hyph;96, 89.308&hyph;96, 89.309&hyph;96, and 89.312&hyph;96. (2) Individual records. These records pertain to each audit conducted pursuant to this subpart and include: (i) The date, time, and location of each test; (ii) The number of hours of service accumulated on the engine when the test began and ended; (iii) The names of all supervisory personnel involved in the conduct of the audit; (iv) A record and description of any repairs performed prior to and/or subsequent to approval by the Administrator, giving the date, associated time, justification, name(s) of the authorizing personnel, and names of all supervisory personnel responsible for the conduct of the repair; (v) The date the engine was shipped from the assembly plant, associated storage facility or port facility, and date the engine was received at the testing facility; (vi) A complete record of all emission tests performed pursuant to this subpart (except tests performed directly by EPA), including all individual worksheets and/or other documentation relating to each test, or exact copies thereof, to be in accordance with the record requirements specified in §89.404&hyph;96 or §86.884&hyph;10 of this chapter. (vii) A brief description of any significant audit events not described under paragraph (a)(2) of this section, commencing with the test engine selection process and including such extraordinary events as engine damage during shipment. (3) The manufacturer must record test equipment description, pursuant to paragraph (a)(1) of this section, for each test cell that can be used to perform emission testing under this subpart. (b) The manufacturer must retain all records required to be maintained under this subpart for a period of one year after completion of all testing in response to a test order. Records may be retained as hard copy or reduced to microfilm, floppy disc, and so forth, depending upon the manufacturer's record retention procedure; provided, that in every case, all the information contained in the hard copy is retained. (c) The manufacturer must, upon request by the Administrator, submit the following information with regard to engine production: (1) Projected production for each engine configuration within each engine family for which certification is requested; (2) Number of engines, by configuration and assembly plant, scheduled for production for the time period designated in the request; (3) Number of engines, by configuration and by assembly plant, storage facility or port facility, scheduled to be stored at facilities for the time period designated in the request; and (4) Number of engines, by configuration and assembly plant, produced during the time period designated in the request that are complete for introduction into commerce. (d) Nothing in this section limits the Administrator's discretion in requiring the manufacturer to retain additional records or submit information not specifically required by this section. (e) All reports, submissions, notifications, and requests for approvals made under this subpart are addressed to: Director, Manufacturers Operations Division, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, 6405&hyph;J, 401 M Street SW, Washington, DC 20460. §89.506&hyph;96 Right of entry and access.
