FR940622-0-00051 FR940622-0-00011 Response: We have not adopted the commenters' suggestion, because section 6211(h)(1)(B) of OBRA 89 deletes the definition of ``active labor'' in section 1867(e)(2) of the Act. However, the concepts contained in that definition have now been clarified and included in the definition of ``emergency medical condition'' defined in section 1867(e)(1) of the Act. Comment: One commenter asked us to make it clear that even though it may be difficult to state whether delivery is imminent, a woman would be in ``active labor'' as that term is defined in section 1867(e)(2) of the Act (as added by COBRA), if there was either inadequate time to effect safe transfer to another hospital before delivery or if a transfer might pose a threat to the health and safety of the woman or the unborn child. Response: We agree. The proposed regulation restated the statutory definition, and, hence, reiterated that the transfer of a woman in labor is subject to the provisions of section 1867 of the Act if any of the following three conditions pertain: (a) delivery is imminent; (b) there is inadequate time to effect safe transfer to another hospital prior to delivery; or (c) a transfer may pose a threat to the health and safety of the woman or the unborn child. Section 6211(h)(2) of OBRA 89 amended section 1867(e) of the Act by deleting both the term ``active labor'' and the part of the definition that covers women in labor where delivery is imminent. The definition of ``emergency medical condition'', however, was expanded to include a woman who is having contractions when there is inadequate time to effect safe transfer to another hospital before delivery or a woman who is having contractions where the transfer may impose a threat to the health or safety of the woman or the unborn child. The OBRA 89 amendments clarified the scope of the statutory protections. We have amended ยง489.24(b) accordingly. In addition, the statute also refers to women in labor. We have defined the term ``labor'' in ยง489.24(b). Comment: Two commenters wanted the regulations to emphasize that the ``active labor'' definition applies only in prenatal situations in which no other prenatal emergency is present and that a pregnant woman with an emergency medical condition should be admitted even if not yet in active labor. Response: The regulations that apply to emergency medical conditions apply equally to a pregnant woman whose emergency condition does not involve active labor. As noted above, OBRA 89 changes eliminated the term ``active labor'' and included pregnant women within the meaning of the term ``emergency medical condition.'' Emergency Medical Condition Comment: Many commenters recommended that we adopt the definition of ``emergency'' used by the American College of Emergency Physicians (ACEP), standards that are already widely applied in the profession. Response: We believe that the ACEP definition is not suitable for purposes of requirements under section 1867 of the Act because it is designed to assure that cases in which the patient believes that an emergency medical condition exists are, in fact, emergencies. We believe that section 1867 of the Act only applies to actual emergencies as determined by appropriate medical screening. Therefore, we have not adopted this recommendation. Comment: One commenter asked us to cite the court cases from which the phrases ``serious impairment to bodily function'' and ``serious dysfunction of any bodily organ or part'' emanated. Response: These phrases are taken directly from the definitions in section 1867(e)(1) of the statute. There is no legislative history that indicates that Congress took them from reported court decisions. Comment: One commenter wanted the phrase ``placing the patient's health in serious jeopardy'' removed from the definition of emergency medical condition because it is not a result or an outcome from not providing emergency medical treatment but rather is only speculation. Response: We do not agree to delete the phrase ``placing the patient's health in serious jeopardy.'' The definition parallels the statute and as such reflects Congressional intent. All of the phrases contained in the definition of emergency medical condition describe outcomes that are likely to result from the denial of immediate attention upon the exercise of medical judgment to predict what would happen to the individual if appropriate medical attention was not provided immediately. Comment: Nine commenters wanted the definition to include psychiatric emergency; one commenter wanted the definition to include acute alcohol or drug intoxication. Response: We believe that the statutory definition already encompasses these types of cases. However, for clarification purposes, we have revised ยง489.24(b) to add acute alcohol or drug intoxication (substance abuse) and psychiatric manifestations as sufficiently severe medical symptoms to warrant the label ``emergency medical condition.''
