FR940104-1-00047 FR940104-1-00009 IV. Rulemaking Analyses and Notices A. DOT Regulatory Policies and Procedures and Executive Order 12866 NHTSA has considered the potential burdens and benefits associated with this advance notice. NHTSA has determined that this advance notice is a significant rulemaking action under the Department of Transportation's Regulatory Policies and Procedures and an economically significant notice under Executive Order 12866. The advance notice would have an annual effect on the economy of $100 million or more. It concerns a matter in which there is substantial public interest. Further, there is a potential for significant safety benefits if effective requirements can be developed to address braking stability and control of light vehicles. The preliminary Assessment of Economic Significance for this advance notice addresses preliminary estimates of the costs and benefits of potential countermeasures that the agency is considering in this action. Those estimates are summarized below. NHTSA believes that ABS is effective in preventing, and reducing the severity of many inability-to-stop-in-time and loss-of-control crashes. The previously mentioned 1975 Tri-Level study found ABS to be effective. Also, a preliminary agency evaluation of more current data found rear-wheel ABS on light trucks to be effective in preventing certain types of crashes. The agency is continuing to analyze the on-road experience of ABS-equipped vehicles as compared to those with standard braking systems. At this time, the agency does not have sufficient data to estimate the safety benefits of requiring mandatory installation of ABS on all light vehicles types. In this advance notice, the agency is requesting information on ABS effectiveness and the safety benefits that could be expected from a requirement for mandatory installation of the technology. In assessing the cost-effectiveness of any requirement for mandatory installation of the technology, benefits accruing to vehicles on which ABS would not have been voluntarily installed would be estimated and compared to the costs associated with equipping those vehicles with ABS. In the case of light trucks, depending on the extent and type of ABS voluntarily installed and the type of ABS required, the benefits at issue might be those that would be realized from all-wheel ABS as compared to rear-wheel systems. NHTSA estimates that the annual consumer cost of requiring antilock brake systems on light vehicles to be $1,040 million: $710 million for passenger cars and $330 million for light trucks. This assumes that all-wheel systems would be required. Estimated ABS hardware cost would be $920 million, installation costs would be $80 million, and increased fuel costs (due to a small increase in vehicle weight) about $40 million. B. Executive Order 12612 (Federalism) NHTSA has analyzed this action under the principles and criteria in Executive Order 12612. The agency had determined that this advance notice does not have sufficient Federalism implication to warrant the preparation of a Federalism Assessment. No State laws would be affected. The agency welcomes comment on this issue. Comments NHTSA invites comments from interested persons on the questions presented in this advance notice and on other relevant issues. It is requested but not required that 10 copies be submitted. Comments must not exceed 15 pages in length. (49 CFR 553.21). Necessary attachments may be appended to these submissions without regard to the 15-page limit. This limitation is intended to encourage commenters to detail their primary arguments in a concise fashion. If a commenter wishes to submit certain information under a claim of confidentiality, three copies of the complete submission, including purportedly confidential business information, should be submitted to the Chief Counsel, NHTSA, at the street address given above, and seven copies from which the purportedly confidential information has been deleted should be submitted to the Docket Section. A request for confidentiality should be accompanied by a cover letter setting forth the information specified in the agency's confidential business information regulation. 49 CFR Part 512. NHTSA will consider all comments received before the close of business on the comment closing date indicated in the ``Dates'' caption of this advance notice. To the extent possible, the agency will consider comments filed after the closing date. Comments on the advance notice will be available for inspection in the docket. After the closing date, NHTSA will continue to file relevant information in the Docket as this information becomes available, and recommends that interested persons continue to examine the Docket for new material. Those persons desiring to be notified upon receipt of their comments in the rules docket should enclose a self-addressed, stamped postcard in the envelope with their comments. Upon receiving the comments, the docket supervisor will return the postcard by mail. A regulatory information number (RIN) is assigned to each regulatory action listed in the Unified Agenda of Federal Regulations. The Regulatory Information Service Center publishes their Unified Agenda in April and October of each year. The RIN contained in the heading of this document can be used to cross reference this action with the Unified Agenda. List of Subjects in 49 CFR Part 571 Imports, Motor vehicle safety, Motor vehicles, Rubber and rubber products, Tires. (15 U.S.C. 1392, 1401, 1407; delegations of authority at 49 CFR 1.50 and 501.8) Issued on: December 29, 1993. Barry Felrice. Associate Administrator for Rulemaking. [FR Doc. 93&hyph;32106 Filed 12&hyph;29&hyph;93; 3:35 pm] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;59&hyph;M
