FR940620-2-00121 FR940620-2-00063 Diphtheria, Tetanus, and Pertussis Vaccine (DTP) What you need to know before your child gets the vaccine. About the Diseases Diphtheria, tetanus (lockjaw), and pertussis (whooping cough) are serious diseases. Diphtheria and pertussis spread when germs pass from an infected person to the nose or throat of others. Tetanus is caused by a germ that enters the body through a cut or wound. ␣ 1Diphtheria causes 1Tetanus causes 1Pertussis causes A thick coating in the nose, throat, or airway Serious, painful spasms of all muscles Coughing and choking for several weeks (makes it hard for infants to eat, drink, or breathe) It can lead to: _breathing problems _heart failure _paralysis _death It can lead to: _``locking'' of the jaw so the patient cannot open his or her mouth or swallow _death It can lead to: _pneumonia _seizures (jerking and staring spells) _brain damage _death. About the Vaccines Benefits of the Vaccine Vaccination is the best way to protect against diphtheria, tetanus, and pertussis. Because most children get the vaccine, there are now many fewer cases of these diseases. There would be many more cases if we stopped vaccinating children. DTP Schedule Most children should have a total of 5 DTP vaccines. They should have DTP at: z 2 months of age z 4 months of age z 6 months of age z 12&hyph;18 months of age z 4&hyph;6 years of age Other vaccines may be given at the same time as DTP. Related Vaccines DTaP ( D iphtheria T etanus a cellular P ertussis) •Like DTP, it prevents diphtheria, tetanus, and pertussis. •It is only given for the 4th and 5th doses. •It is less likely to cause the mild problems we see after DTP and is probably less likely to cause some of the moderate problems. DT ( D iphtheria T etanus) •Unlike DTP, it does not prevent pertussis. For this reason, it is usually not recommended. Who should get DTP vaccine? Most doctors recommend that almost all young children get DTP or DTaP vaccine. Some children should get DT. With all vaccines, there are some cautions. Tell your doctor or nurse if the child getting the vaccine: e ever had a serious allergic reaction or other problem after getting DTP, DTaP, or DT e now has moderate or severe illness e has ever had a seizure e has a parent, brother, or sister who has had seizures e has a brain problem that is getting worse If you are not sure, ask your doctor or nurse.
