FR940429-2-00016 FR940429-2-00014 SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: I. Background Recent debate has focused on whether United States patent policy is being effectively served by the current standard of nonobviousness both as it is applied by the Patent and Trademark Office during patent examination and as it has been interpreted by the Federal courts. Under 35 U.S.C. 103, a patent may not be obtained ``*␣*␣* if the differences between the subject matter sought to be patented and the prior art are such the subject matter as a whole would have been obvious at the time the invention was made to a person having ordinary skill in the art to which subject matter pertains.'' In Graham v. John Deere & Co. , 383 U.S. 1 (1966), the Supreme Court defined a three-part test to be followed to determine the nonobviousness of an invention under 35 U.S.C. 103. Under this test, (1) the scope and content of the prior art are to be determined; (2) the differences between the prior art and the claims at issue are to be ascertained; and (3) the level of ordinary skill in the pertinent art is to be resolved. According to the Court, secondary considerations such as commercial success, long felt but unsolved needs, failure of others, etc., might be utilized to give light to the circumstances surrounding the origin of the subject matter sought to be patented. The Court noted that as indicia of obviousness or nonobviousness, secondary considerations may have relevancy. Some critics have charged that the Graham v. John Deere standard of nonobviousness has been changed by decisions of the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. For example, it is argued that secondary considerations have been given too much weight when determining the nonobviousness of an invention to the extent that an invention with strong commercial success will be found not obvious despite appearing so in light of prior art. Other critics charge that the scope of the prior art to be considered when evaluating the obviousness of an invention has been improperly narrowed, precluding obviousness from being established by combining the teachings of the prior art to produce the claimed invention absent some express teaching or suggestion supporting the combination. The PTO has the burden of establishing a case of prima facie obviousness to support a prior art rejection under 35 U.S.C. 103. This burden can be met when the teachings from the prior art suggest the claimed subject matter to a person of ordinary skill in the art. Once established, the applicant must present evidence or arguments to rebut the Examiner's prime facie case. For example, an applicant may argue that there was no teaching or suggestion in the prior art to combine the references in the manner suggested by the Examiner to render the claimed invention obvious. The applicant may also rebut the Examiner's case of prima facie obviousness by demonstrating that the references cited by the Examiner teach away from the claimed invention. Some critics argue that more guidance is needed to define when a prima facie case has been established and how it may be successfully rebutted. It has also suggested that the standard of nonobviousness has been inappropriately lowered. Alleged effects of this ``lowered'' standard include a decrease in the perceived stature of patented inventions (e.g., patents are being granted on inventions industry views as being trivial, simple or straightforward). Recent debate has also focused on the propriety of the de novo standard of review applied by the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit and whether greater deference should be given to the obviousness determinations of the PTO and the District Courts on appeal. To resolve the issues presented, the PTO will conduct a public hearing to examine the issue of nonobviousness in the context of whether or not the current standard of nonobivousness effectively promotes United States patent policy and whether a more rigorous standard for awarding U.S. patents should be pursued. II. Topics for Discussion The hearing will address the following topics: 1. Justifications and rationale for and against the nonobviousness standard applied by the PTO and the Federal courts, including: (a) Is a more rigorous standard of nonobviousness needed? If so, how should the standard be defined? (b) Should the current standard of nonobviousness be administered differently? (c) Is the standard of nonobviousness applied differently among the different examining groups within the PTO? (d) Should the standard of nonobivousness vary according to the field of technology involved? (e) What role should secondary considerations, such as commercial success, unexpected results, etc., play when determining the nonobviousness of the invention? (f) Whether a prima facie case of obviousness based upon a combination of references should necessarily require ``motivation'' to combine the teachings of the prior art disclosures? Why or why not? What other standard or standards for evaluating the propriety of combining the teachings of references might be appropriate? (g) Is the ``ordinary level of skill'' in the art being interpreted and applied correctly, and if not, what changes are needed? (h) Whether obviousness determinations should be subject to de novo review on appeal to the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit? If not, what standard of review should apply? 2. Desirable characteristics of specific guidelines regarding the burden of proof needed to rebut an Examiner's prima facie case of obviousness.
