FR940203-2-00144 FR940203-2-00068 Changes: The clause ``or its equivalent'' has been added to the definition of the term ``Career major,'' to the ``General Program Requirements'' section of this notice, and to the ``Local Programs'' criterion, providing for alternative certificates for disabled students. Selection Criteria_Management Plan Comment: One commenter felt that greater emphasis should be given to States that present new or alternative methods of assessment for their activities. This commenter also believed that priority should be given to applicants that are able to demonstrate real innovation on the part of their own staff as well as on the part of the stakeholders they have brought together. Discussion: The Secretaries agree with the commenter that special consideration should be given to States that propose innovative approaches and have added this factor to the decision-making process of the Secretaries. Changes: The notice has been modified so that the description of the review process included under ``Selection Criteria for Evaluating Applications'' has been revised to state that final funding decisions made by the Secretaries will also include consideration of such factors as replicability, sustainability, and innovation. In addition, the ``Management Plan'' criterion now asks the question ``Does the management plan include a process for incorporating methods to improve or redesign the implementation system based on program outcomes?'' Comment: One commenter was concerned about special education students and expressed the belief that interagency data collection is essential for monitoring the success of special education programs and requested that the Secretaries add a question to read: ``Does the State's management plan include a system for interagency data collection?'' This commenter also requested the insertion of the word ``cross-trained'' into the question on key personnel so that it would read ``Are key personnel under the plan cross-trained and qualified to perform␣*␣*␣*.'' This commenter believed that key personnel should be knowledgeable on both labor and educational issues. Discussion: The Secretaries agree that the provision of occupational and career development assistance as well as program information, guidance, and counseling, are all important aspects of School-to-Work Opportunities programs to be developed under the priority. However, the Secretaries believe that the importance of these is already provided for in the priority as written. While the Secretaries agree with the commenter that it would be beneficial for applicants to utilize key personnel who are knowledgeable of both the labor and educational components, the Secretaries do not think it advisable to prescribe the qualifications of key personnel. The Secretaries prefer to leave those decisions to the States. Changes: None. Comment: One commenter was concerned about the sufficiency of occupational and career information provided under School-to-Work Opportunities programs and suggested adding two questions to the ``Management Plan'' criterion, to read: ``Does the State management plan adequately address the timely provision of accurate occupational and career information to school and program administrators, teachers and counselors, students and parents throughout the State?'' and ``Does the State management plan adequately address the need to provide career development assistance, guidance and counseling to students and parents in all parts of the State?'' Discussion: The Secretaries have concluded that, since the implementation of School-to-Work Opportunities programs will be a joint effort involving coordination among Federal, State, and local entities, it is likely that effective methods to improve or redesign a project's implementation will be shared among these. Changes: None. Selection Criteria_Distribution of Points Comment: One commenter questioned the distribution of points among the selection criteria and recommended that the points be redistributed with 20 points for the ``Comprehensive Statewide System'' criterion, 17 points for the ``Collaboration and Involvement of Key Partners'' criterion, 17 points for the ``Resources'' criterion (particularly if the disadvantaged are to meet the same goals as other students), 17 points for the ``Student Participation'' criterion, 17 points for the ``Local Programs'' criterion, and 12 points for the ``Management Plan'' criterion. Another commenter concerned with special education students suggested that more points be awarded for the ``Local Programs'' selection criterion. Discussion: The Secretaries have given much consideration to the distribution of points among the selection criteria. They have concluded that the distribution provided for in the notice results in the most appropriate balance among the criteria. Changes: None.
