FR941220-1-00058 FR941220-1-00010 In order to focus commenters' attention on the changes that are proposed for the nonprocurement debarment and suspension rule, the agencies participating in this proposed rulemaking_all but the Department of Transportation which did not complete clearance of this proposed rule_have decided to publish the text of only those portions of the common rule that are affected by changes proposed by the Interagency Committee, rather than publishing the complete text of the common rule. Comments are sought on only those portions of the common rule that are proposed for amendment in this document. In addition to the amendments discussed below, the agencies propose to make minor technical changes to correct spelling errors and other nonsubstantive errors in the printing of the common rule. Section-by-Section Analysis Subpart A. Section XXXX .100, Purpose. The agencies participating in this rulemaking action propose to amend XXXX .100, Purpose, to reflect the E.O. 12689 requirement that both procurement and nonprocurement debarment and suspension actions have governmentwide effect across procurement and nonprocurement programs and activities. Section XXXX .105, Definitions. Under ยง XXXX .105 as proposed for amendment, the definition of the nonprocurement list would be replaced by a new definition for a ``List of Parties Excluded from Federal Procurement and Nonprocurement Programs.'' The List will integrate all procurement and nonprocurement debarments, suspensions, and other exclusionary actions. The definitions section also contains proposed technical amendments to implement E.O. 12689 and to correct printing errors in the initial publication of the common rule. Section XXXX .110, Coverage. Section XXXX .110(c) would be amended to provide for reciprocity between nonprocurement and procurement debarment and suspension actions. Under the reciprocity rule, every Executive Branch agency would have to give effect not only to exclusionary actions of other Federal agencies under the common rule but also to debarments, suspensions, proposed debarments or other governmentwide exclusions imposed under the Federal Acquisition Regulation after the effective date of the common rule reciprocity amendments. Thus, for example, once an agency has proposed for debarment an entity under the FAR, no other executive agency could enter into a covered transaction with that entity nor could a primary tier recipient enter into a lower tier covered transaction with that entity. Section XXXX .225, Failure to adhere to restrictions. Section XXXX .225 would be amended to make clear that the prohibition against knowingly doing business under a covered transaction with a person who is debarred or suspended also prohibits doing business with a person proposed for debarment under the FAR. Appendix A. The agencies propose to amend paragraph (1)(a) of the Certification Regarding Debarment, Suspension, and Other Responsibility Matters_Primary Covered Transactions to ensure that it covers actions taken under the Federal Acquisition Regulation to debar, suspend, propose for debarment, or otherwise take a governmentwide exclusionary action. Impact analyses Executive Order 12866 This rule has been reviewed under Executive Order 12866. These proposed amendments would unify two separate debarment and suspension systems_nonprocurement and procurement_that previously existed. Regulatory Flexibility Act of 1980 The Regulatory Flexibility Act of 1980 (5 U.S.C. 605(b)) requires that, for each rule with a ``significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities,'' an analysis must be prepared describing the rule's impact on small entities, identifying any significant alternatives to the rule that would minimize the economic impact on the small entities. The participating agencies certify that these proposed regulations would not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. Paperwork Reduction Act The participating agencies certify that this proposed rule would not impose any reporting or recordkeeping requirements under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980, 44 U.S.C. Chapter 35.
