FR940127-1-00043 FR940127-1-00012 The petitioner submitted information and literature references on the status of the whitebark pine, stating that in significant portions of the species' range, populations are declining so rapidly that the ability of the tree species to regenerate itself is in question. The petition identifies three major factors involved in the ``precipitous'' decline of the whitebark pine: white pine blister rust ( Cronartium ribicola ), mountain pine beetle ( Dendroctonus ponderosae ), and fire suppression. The petition indicates that white pine blister rust, an introduced disease, has become established throughout most of the whitebark pine's range with ``extensive'' infestation and mortality occurring in the moist mountain regions of Montana, northern Idaho, Oregon, and the Washington Cascades. The petition also states that mountain pine beetle infestations have had devastating effects on whitebark pine populations in Montana and Wyoming. The petitioner also points out that fire suppression has played a role in the population decline by allowing other tree species to invade whitebark pine habitat and replace it, as well as facilitating the spread of white pine blister rust and mountain pine beetle infestation. While recent mountain pine beetle infestations have killed most of the mature trees in some areas (Reynolds 1990), infestations appear to reach epidemic levels only where specific conditions exist. Whitebark pine populations have been severely reduced by white pine blister rust in many moist mountain habitats where the climate allows the blister rust to complete its life cycle (Kendall and Arno 1990). However, in drier portions of the whitebark pine's range, climatic conditions are not favorable for infection, and damage due to white pine blister rust is negligible (Charles Wellner, retired U.S. Forest Service, in litt ., 1991). Thus, throughout portions of its range, the whitebark pine remains common in suitable habitats and/or populations do not appear to be declining (Dr. Clinton Williams, U.S. Forest Service, in litt ., 1991; Chester Buchanan, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, in litt ., 1991; R.T. Ogilvie, Royal British Columbia Museum, pers. comm., 1992). The Service has reviewed the petition, the literature cited in the petition, other available literature and information, and has consulted with biologists and researchers familiar with the whitebark pine. After reviewing the best scientific and commercial information available, the Service finds the petition does not present substantial information that listing the whitebark pine may be warranted. In making this finding, the Service does recognize that white pine blister rust, mountain pine beetle infestations, and successional replacement and competition by more shade-tolerant conifers do pose a real threat to the whitebark pine in portions of its range. Some whitebark pine populations have undergone dramatic declines due to one or a combination of these factors, and the degree of population decline may be severe in local or, in some cases, over broad geographic areas. However, in other portions of the species' range, where different climatic conditions exist, these same factors are not stand-threatening, and healthy whitebark pine stands continue to persist. Whitebark pine is usually restricted to remote, higher elevation areas and generally is not valued as a timber species. Consequently, little inventory or monitoring work has been completed in much of its range. In many areas, there are little or no quantitative data on its distribution, status, or the extent of decline due to the various factors mentioned above. However, available data do not indicate the species may be threatened or endangered throughout a significant portion of its range. In regard to the petitioner's request that critical habitat be designated for the whitebark pine, the designation of critical habitat is not a petitionable action under the Act. References Cited Kendall, K.C. and S.F. Arno. 1990. Whitebark pine_An important but endangered wildlife resource. Pages 264&hyph;273 in Proceedings_Whitebark pine ecosystems: ecology and management of a high-mountain resource. USDA, U.S. Forest Service, Intermtn. Res. Sta., General Tech. Report INT&hyph;270. Reynolds, Frances. 1990. Whitebark pine ecosystems; the threats and the challenge. In Forestry Research West, USDA, U.S. Forest Service. 3pp. Author This notice was prepared by Jane P. Roybal (see ADDRESSES above). Authority The authority for this action is the Endangered Species Act of 1973, as amended (16 U.S.C. 1531&hyph;1544). List of Subjects in 50 CFR Part 17 Endangered and threatened species, Exports, Imports, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Transportation. Dated: January 13, 1994. Richard N. Smith, Acting Director, Fish and Wildlife Service. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;1701 Filed 1&hyph;26&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4310&hyph;55&hyph;P
