FR941121-0-00074 FR941121-0-00009 DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES Health Care Financing Administration 42 CFR Part 417 [OMC&hyph;008&hyph;F] RIN 0938&hyph;AD79 Medicare Program; Appeal Rights and Procedures for Beneficiaries Enrolled in Prepaid Health Care Plans AGENCY: Health Care Financing Administration (HCFA), HHS. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: This final rule modifies or establishes administrative review procedures for Medicare beneficiaries enrolled in health maintenance organizations (HMOs), competitive medical plans (CMPs), and health care prepayment plans (HCPPs). Specifically, it requires that an HMO or CMP complete a reconsideration, requested by a Medicare enrollee for denied services or claims, within 60 days from the date of receipt of the reconsideration request; extends to HMO and CMP enrollees the right to request immediate review by a Utilization and Quality Control Peer Review Organization of an HMO's, CMP's, or hospital's determination that an inpatient hospital stay is no longer necessary; and requires an HCPP to establish administrative review procedures for its Medicare enrollees who are dissatisfied with decisions on denied services or claims. DATES: These regulations are effective December 21, 1994. HMOs and CMPs must comply with the requirements of this final rule beginning February 21, 1995. HCPPs must comply with the requirements of this final rule beginning May 22, 1995. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Maureen Miller, (202) 619&hyph;0129. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: I. General Background Payment for services provided to Medicare beneficiaries under title XVIII of the Social Security Act (the Act) is generally made on a fee-for-service basis or on a prepayment basis. This rule deals with Medicare services provided to beneficiaries by entities paid on a prepayment basis. We refer to these entities collectively as ``prepaid health care organizations.'' Under the prepayment method, health maintenance organizations (HMOs), competitive medical plans (CMPs), and health care prepayment plans (HCPPs), enter into contracts or agreements with us to provide a range of services to Medicare beneficiaries who voluntarily enroll in these plans.
