FR940412-1-00089 FR940412-1-00012 Subpart E_Special Requirements for Certain Materials §148.200 Purpose. This subpart prescribes special requirements applicable to specific materials. These requirements are in addition to the Minimum Transportation Requirements of subpart C of this part which are applicable to all of the materials listed in table 148.10 of this part. §148.205 Ammonium nitrate fertilizers. (a) This section applies to the stowage and transportation in bulk of the following fertilizers composed of uniform, nonsegregating mixtures containing ammonium nitrate: (1) Ammonium nitrate with added matter which is organic and chemically inert towards ammonium nitrate; containing not less than 90% of ammonium nitrate and not more than 0.2% of combustible material (including organic material calculated as carbon); or containing less than 90% but more than 70% of ammonium nitrate and not more than 0.4% combustible material. (2) Ammonium nitrate with calcium carbonate and/or dolomite, containing more than 80% but less than 90% of ammonium nitrate and not more than 0.4% of total combustible material. (3) Ammonium nitrate with ammonium sulfate containing more than 45% but not more than 70% of ammonium nitrate and containing not more than 0.4% of combustible material. (4) Nitrogen phosphate or nitrogen/potash type fertilizers or complete nitrogen/phosphate/potash type fertilizers containing more than 70% but less than 90% of ammonium nitrate and not more than 0.4% of combustible material. (b) No ammonium nitrate fertilizer to which this section applies may be transported in bulk unless it demonstrates resistance to detonation when tested as prescribed in appendix D.5 of the BC Code or an equivalent test satisfactory to the Administration of the country of origin. (c) Prior to loading fertilizer to which this section applies_ (1) The shipper must provide the master of the vessel with a written certification that the ammonium nitrate fertilizer has met the test requirements of paragraph (b) of this section; (2) The cargo hold must be inspected for cleanliness and must be free from readily combustible materials; (3) Each cargo hatch must be weathertight as defined in §42.13&hyph;10 of this chapter; (4) The temperature of the fertilizer must be less than 55 ○C (131 ○F); and (5) Each fuel tank situated under a cargo hold where the fertilizer is to be stowed must be pressure tested to ensure that there is no leakage of manholes or piping systems leading through the cargo hold. (d) Bunkering or transferring of fuel may not be performed during cargo loading and unloading operations involving fertilizer to which this section applies. (e) When a fertilizer to which this section applies is transported on a cargo vessel_ (1) No other material may be stowed in the same hold with the fertilizer; (2) In addition to the segregation requirements in §148.140, the fertilizer must be separated by a complete cargo compartment or hold from readily combustible materials, chlorates, chlorides, chlorites, hypochlorites, nitrites, permanganates, and fibrous materials; and (3) The bulkhead between a cargo hold containing the fertilizer and the engine room must be insulated to ``A&hyph;60'' class division or an equivalent arrangement to the satisfaction of the cognizant Coast Guard Captain of the Port or the Administration of the country of shipment. §148.220 Ammonium nitrate-phosphate fertilizer. (a) This section applies to the stowage and transportation of uniform, nonsegregating mixtures of nitrogen/phosphate or nitrogen/potash type fertilizers, or complete fertilizers of nitrogen/phosphate/potash type containing not more than 70% of ammonium nitrate and containing not more than 0.4% total added combustible material or containing not more than 45% ammonium nitrate with unrestricted combustible material. (b) This part does not apply to a fertilizer mixture described in paragraph (a) of this section if_ (1) When tested in the trough test prescribed in Appendix D.4 of the BC code, it is found to be free from the risk of self-sustaining decomposition; and (2) It does not contain an excess of nitrate calculated as potassium nitrate above the nitrate calculated as ammonium nitrate greater than 10% by weight of the mixture. (c) No fertilizer to which this section applies may be transported in bulk if, when tested in the trough test prescribed in Appendix D.4 of the BC code, it has a self-sustaining decomposition rate that is greater than 0.25 m/h, or is liable to self-heating sufficient to initiate decomposition. (d) Fertilizers to which this section applies must be stowed away from all sources of heat; and out of direct contact with a metal engine compartment boundary.
