FR941121-0-00100 FR941121-0-00011 In particular, the following presents a partial list of measures the Commission is adopting to ensure that CMRS applications under part 90 comply with the statutory requirements for licensing of common carriers under Title III of the Act, as well as to streamline and unify processing of all CMRS and PMRS applications. Application Forms and Procedures_The Order adopts a single unified application form (Form 600) for all CMRS and PMRS applicants in all terrestrial services. Form 600 will also be used to determine the regulatory classification of an applicant. Qualifying Information_All parties to a CMRS application will be required to comply with the alien ownership restrictions of section 310(b) of the Act and must also disclose whether: (1) Any party has had a Commission license or permit revoked; (2) any party has been found by a court to have monopolized radio communication; or (3) any party has been convicted of a felony. Application Fees and Regulatory Fees_Currently, application fees can only be changed by Congress. Therefore, the existing application fee schedule will continue to govern fee requirements. If, however, Congress acts to extend to the Commission authority to modify the fee schedules, we will address the question of altering our regulatory fees at that time. Public Notice and Petition To Deny Procedures_The Order adopts rules that apply the public notice and petition to deny procedures currently contained in part 22 to all CMRS applicants. In addition to applications for initial licenses, these procedures will extend to applications for major modifications and for assignments and transfers of part 90 CMRS licenses. Mutually Exclusive Applications and Competitive Bidding_The Order Adopts rule changes that will generally result in using 30-day notice and cut-off procedures and competitive bidding to select among mutually exclusive initial CMRS applications in part 22 services (except for Phase I cellular unserved area applications), 900 MHz SMR service, and 800 MHz SMR service. For Phase I cellular applications the Order adopts a one-day filing window, concluding that such a window is sufficient because there is a date certain on which applications for unserved areas are permitted to be filed. The Order adopts no changes to application procedures for 929&hyph;930 MHz paging in Part 90, but notes that some procedural changes are likely to be considered in the future. Amendment of Applications and License Modification_The Order adopts rule changes that conform part 22 and part 90 definitions for initial applications and major and minor amendments and modifications, to the extent practicable. Modification applications will be accepted for filing on a first-come, first-served basis. Conditional and Special Temporary Authority_The Order concludes that the waiting period for pre-grant construction for part 22 CMRS should be reduced from 90 to 35 days, and we establish a 35-day waiting period for all CMRS. The Order also determines that section 309(f) of the Act prohibits pre-grant operation under special temporary authority (STA) except in those cases in which the applicant establishes that there are ``extraordinary circumstances'' where a delay in operations would seriously prejudice the public interest. Ordering Clauses Accordingly, it is ordered that the rule changes made, as specified below, will become effective January 2, 1995, pursuant to sections 4(i), 4(j), 7(a), 302, 303(c), 303(f), 303(g), 303(r), 332(c), and 332(d) of the Communications Act of 1934 as amended, 47 U.S.C. 154(i), 154(j), 157(a), 302, 303(c), 303(f), 303(g), 303(r), 332(c), and 332(d). It is further ordered that the acceptance of 800 MHz applications on the 280 SMR category channels is suspended, effective August 9, 1994, except that applications for transfer or assignment of existing SMR facilities will continue to be accepted. It is further ordered that authority is delegated to the Chief, Common Carrier Bureau, as specified herein, to develop a new form or modify existing forms for licenses or applicants to certify and/or provide information showing that they are in compliance with the spectrum aggregation limit adopted in this Order. It is further ordered that the Secretary shall send a copy of this Report and Order to the Chief Counsel for Advocacy of the Small Business Administration. It is further ordered that the motion to accept late-filed comments filed by E.F. Johnson Company is granted. It is further ordered that the Request for Declaratory Ruling and Request for Rule Waiver filed by SunCom Mobile & Data is denied. It is further ordered that the Petition for Rule Making filed by the American Mobile Telecommunications Association, RM&hyph;8387, is dismissed as moot. It is further ordered that the Emergency Petition to Dismiss Comments and Reply Comments of the American Mobile Telecommunications Association, filed by Range Corporation d/b/a Range Telecommunications, is denied. List of Subjects 47 CFR Part 1 Administrative practice and procedure. 47 CFR Part 20 Commercial mobile radio services. 47 CFR Part 22 Public mobile services, Radio. 47 CFR Part 24 Personal communications services. 47 CFR Part 90 Private land mobile services, Radio. Federal Communications Commission. William F. Caton, Acting Secretary.
