FR940203-2-00110 FR940203-2-00068 On October 14, 1993, the Secretaries of the Departments of Education and Labor published a notice of proposed priority and proposed selection criteria for this program in the Federal Register (58 FR 53388). Note: This notice of final priority does not solicit applications. A notice inviting applications under this competition is published in a separate notice in this issue of the Federal Register . Analysis of Comments and Changes In response to the Secretaries' invitation in the notice of proposed priority, 27 parties submitted comments. An analysis of the comments and of the changes since publication of the notice of proposed priority is published as an appendix to this notice. Changes in the Notice In responding to comments received and in developing the final notice, the Secretaries have considered the persuasiveness of the numerous suggestions made by the various commenters. The Secretaries have also considered the House and Senate School-to-Work Opportunities bills currently being considered by Congress. The Secretaries have made some of the changes suggested by commenters because the Secretaries concluded that these changes served to further the purposes of the School-to-Work Opportunities initiative. In addition, in the interest of facilitating grantees' transition from funding under the Cooperative Demonstration authority to funding under the anticipated School-to-Work Opportunities legislation, the Secretaries have also made changes that are consistent with the Cooperative Demonstration authority in the Carl D. Perkins Vocational and Applied Technology Education Act, and, where possible, with the House and Senate bills. Ultimately, although there may be certain differences between the legislation as enacted and the notice, the Secretaries do not expect these to be fundamental. To the extent that any differences exist, the Secretaries plan to provide grantees with appropriate technical assistance and support in the transition from funding under the Cooperative Demonstration authority to systems funding under the anticipated School-to-Work Opportunities legislation. An analysis of the comments and of the changes in the notice since publication of the proposed priority and selection criteria is published as an appendix to this notice. The following changes made to the notice are described in the order that they appear in the notice; technical and other minor changes are not addressed: (a) Definitions (1) ``All students''. Reference to ``students who have dropped out of school'' has been added to the definition of the term ``All students'' to clarify that drop-out youth are included within the term and that, therefore, drop-out youth are intended to be served under the School-to-Work Opportunities program. (2) ``All aspects of the industry''. The term ``Elements of an industry'' has been replaced by the term ``All aspects of the industry'' for the purpose of achieving consistency with the proposed School-to-Work Opportunities legislation, as well as with the Carl D. Perkins Vocational and Applied Technology Education Act, both of which utilize the term ``all aspects of the industry.'' In defining the term, the Secretaries have chosen to apply the definition contained in 34 CFR 400.4(b) of the regulations implementing the Perkins Act. The use of the term ``All aspects of the industry'' rather than ``Elements of the industry'' is not intended to affect a change upon this competition or upon the requirements contained in the notice. (3) ``Career major''. Paragraph (d) of the definition of ``Career major'' has been revised to indicate that a student participating in a School-to-Work Opportunities program may satisfy the requirement for a high school diploma by earning the ``equivalent'' of a high school diploma. The determination of what is the ``equivalent'' of a high school diploma is left to each State. Paragraph (e) of the definition of ``Career major'' has been revised by adding the clause ``or admission into a degree granting college or university.'' This change is meant to clarify that admission into a degree-granting college or university is one example of the further education and training to which a career major may lead. (4) ``Partnership''. The definition of the term ``Partnership'' has been revised by adding the words ``non-managerial'' before the word ``employee''. The intent is to clarify what type of employee is being referred to in the reference to ``labor organizations or employee representatives.'' The Secretaries consider it likely that managerial employees will be represented within the category of ``employers.'' In addition, the definition of ``Partnership'' has been revised to include within the illustrative list of ``other entities'' that may be included in a partnership national trade associations working at the local level; proprietary institutions of higher education, as defined in section 481(b) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1088(b)), which continue to meet the eligibility and certification requirements under section 498 of such Act; and vocational student organizations.
