FR940228-1-00090 FR940228-1-00010 Past Performance of an Institution or Persons Affiliated With An Institution The Secretary proposes to remove from the factors of financial responsibility the provisions in current ยง668.13 (c)(4) and (d)(2) governing the effect on an institution's financial responsibility of criminal conduct and fraud involving Federal funds. Those provisions have been superseded by a similar statutory provision that is addressed in the discussion on proposed ยง668.14 governing program participation agreements. Under proposed ยง668.15(c)(2), an institution would not be considered financially responsible, despite meeting all other requirements of this proposed section, if: (1) The institution has been limited, suspended, terminated, or entered into a settlement agreement, to resolve such an action by the Secretary or a guaranty agency within the preceding five years; (2) the institution had an audit finding during its two most recent audits, or a program review finding during its two most recent program reviews, that resulted in the institution's being required to repay an amount greater than five percent of the Title IV, HEA funds that the institution received for any award year covered by the audit or the program review; or (3) the institution failed to address satisfactorily any compliance problems identified in program review or audit reports based upon a final decision of the Secretary. The consequences of this proposed provision are described more fully earlier in this preamble in the discussion on provisional certification. Essentially, institutions that fall into one of these categories not only would not be considered financially responsible, but could not be provisionally certified without the submission of certain financial guarantees or personal assumptions of liability arising from participation in the Title IV, HEA programs. Exceptions to the General Standards of Financial Responsibility The Amendments of 1992, as amended by the Technical Amendments of 1993, provide that the Secretary shall determine an institution to be financially responsible even though it does not meet certain general standards of financial responsibility, under various conditions. Section 498(c)(5)(B) of the HEA provides that the Secretary shall establish a process whereby an institution is exempt from the cash reserve requirement if the institution is located in, and is legally authorized to operate within, a State that has a tuition recovery fund that ensures that the institution is able to pay all required refunds and the institution contributes to that tuition recovery fund. The Secretary proposes that an institution is exempt from the proposed cash reserve requirement if it meets these conditions; however, the Secretary proposes to stipulate that a State's tuition recovery fund must be acceptable to the Secretary. The Secretary would like to ensure that a State's tuition recovery fund truly has the resources to ensure payment of all required refunds if necessary. To this end, the Secretary would expect States to provide as much information as possible to demonstrate that their tuition recovery fund can pay all required refunds on behalf of an institution that closed precipitously. The Secretary invites comment on what specific standards should be used to measure the acceptability of a State's tuition recovery fund. Section 498(c)(3) of the HEA provides that an institution is financially responsible even though it does not meet the other general standards of financial responsibility, under the following circumstances. First, an institution that is not financially responsible under the general standards of financial responsibility (except the cash reserve requirement) is financially responsible if the institution submits to the Secretary third-party financial guarantees, such as performance bonds or letters of credit payable to the Secretary, that equal not less than one-half of the annual potential Title IV, HEA program liabilities of the institution. The Secretary proposes that a letter of credit that is payable to the Secretary and effective for a period of time as determined by the Secretary would be the only acceptable type of third-party guarantee for this requirement. The determination by the Secretary that payment from a third-party guarantee requires that funds become immediately available to make refunds or to reimburse the Secretary for debts incurred in the programs. It has been the Secretary's experience that letters of credit are the only method by which funds do become immediately available; however, the Secretary requests comments on other standard forms of publicly guaranteed security that would provide the same level of security to the Secretary. The Secretary notes that an institution is liable for all mishandled Title IV, HEA program funds that it receives. Further, the Secretary believes that the total Title IV, HEA program funds received by an institution during the last complete award year is the best indicator of the amount of Title IV, HEA program assistance that the institution will receive for the next award year. Therefore, the Secretary proposes to require an institution to submit a letter of credit equal to not less than one-half of the Title IV, HEA program funds received by the institution during the last complete award year for which figures are available in order to meet this requirement.
