FR940525-2-00123 FR940525-2-00064 Attorney for licensee: James A. Beoletto, Esquire, Southern California Edison Company, P.O. Box 800, Rosemead, California 91770. NRC Project Director : Seymour H. Weiss. Tennessee Valley Authority, Docket Nos. 50&hyph;259, 50&hyph;260 and 50&hyph;296, Browns Ferry Nuclear Plant, Units 1, 2 and 3, Limestone County, Alabama Date of amendment request: December 23, 1993 (TS346). Description of amendment request : The proposed amendment would revise the BFN Units 1, 2, and 3 Technical Specifications (TS) by providing an alternate visual inspection schedule for safety-related snubbers. The licensee has stated that the amendment follows the recommendations of NRC Generic Letter (GL) 90&hyph;09, ``Alternative Requirements for Snubber Visual Inspection Intervals and Corrective Actions'' dated December 11, 1990. GL 90&hyph;09 describes a TS line item improvement acceptable to the NRC staff. The purpose of the line item improvement is to provide a means for reducing resource demands and unnecessary occupational radiological exposure attributable to snubber inspections while continuing to provide an acceptable level of confidence in snubber operability. Basis for proposed no significant hazards consideration determination: As required by 10 CFR 50.91(a), the licensee has provided its analysis of the issue of no significant hazards consideration, which is presented below: 1. The proposed amendment does not involve a significant increase in the probability or consequences of an accident previously evaluated. Implementing the guidance specified in GL 90&hyph;09 will not introduce any new failure mode and will not alter any assumptions previously made in evaluating the consequences of an accident. The proposed alternate schedule for visual inspections will maintain the same operability confidence level as the existing schedule. Also, the surveillance requirement and schedule for snubber functional testing remains the same providing a 95 percent confidence level that 90 percent to 100 percent of the snubbers operate within the specified acceptance limits. The proposed visual inspection schedule is separate from functional testing and provides additional confidence that the installed snubbers will serve their design function and are being maintained operable. The proposed changes do not affect limiting safety system settings or operating parameters, and do not modify or add any accident initiating events or parameters. Therefore, the proposed change does not significantly increase the probability or consequences of an accident previously evaluated. 2. The proposed amendment does not create the possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any accident previously evaluated. Implementing the recommendations specified in GL 90&hyph;09 does not involve any physical alterations to plant equipment, changes to setpoints or operating parameters, nor does it involve any potential accident initiating event. As stated in the generic letter, the alternate schedule for snubber visual inspections maintains the same confidence level as the existing schedule. Additionally, functional testing of snubbers provides a 95 percent confidence level that 90 percent to 100 percent of the snubbers operate within specified acceptance limits. Since this TS change does not physically alter the plant equipment and the snubber confidence level remains the same there will not be any new or different accident resulting from snubber failure from any accident previously evaluated. 3. The proposed amendment does not involve a significant reduction in a margin of safety. The proposed change incorporates the surveillance requirements for snubber visual inspection intervals following the guidance provided in GL 90&hyph;09. As stated in the generic letter, the proposed snubber visual inspection interval maintains the same confidence level as the existing snubber visual inspection interval. This surveillance requirement does not alter the current Limiting Condition for Operation or the accompanying actions for the snubber(s). The requirement for functional testing of safety-related snubbers is unchanged and remains the basis for the established margin of safety and assures a 95 percent confidence level that 90 percent to 100 percent of the snubbers operate within the specified acceptance limits. This functional testing along with the proposed visual inspection intervals provides adequate assurance that the snubber will perform its intended function. Therefore, the proposed changes do not involve a significant reduction in a margin of safety. The NRC staff has reviewed the licensee's analysis and, based on this review, it appears that the three standards of 10 CFR 50.92(c) are satisfied. Therefore, the NRC staff proposes to determine that the amendment request involves no significant hazards consideration. Local Public Document Room location: Athens Public Library, South Street, Athens, Alabama 35611. Attorney for licensee: General Counsel, Tennessee Valley Authority, 400 West Summit Hill Drive, ET llH, Knoxville, Tennessee 37902. NRC Project Director: Frederick J. Hebdon. Toledo Edison Company, Centerior Service Company, and The Cleveland Electric Illuminating Company, Docket No. 50&hyph;346, Davis-Besse Nuclear Power Station, Unit No. 1, Ottawa County, Ohio Date of amendment request: March 30, 1994. Description of amendment request: The proposed amendment would revise the TS 3/4.1.1.1 (Reactivity Control Systems_Boration Control Systems_ Boration Control_Shutdown Margin), TS 3/4.1.2.8 (Reactivity Control Systems_Borated Water Sources_Shutdown), TS 3/4.1.2.9 (Reactivity Control Systems_Borated Water Sources_Operating), Bases 3/4.1.2 (Boration Systems), TS 3.4.5.1 (Emergency Core Cooling Systems, ECCS_Core Cooling Tanks), TS 3/4.5.2 (ECCS_ECCS Subsystems), TS 3/4.5.4 (ECCS_Borated Water Storage Tank), Bases 3/4.5 (ECCS), and TS 3/4.10.4 (Special Test Exceptions_Shutdown Margin). This amendment would: (a) Increase the required boration flowrate in the event the required shutdown margin is not met, (b) increase the applicable minimum boron concentration and/or volume requirements, (c) revise the applicable Action statements and Surveillance Requirements, and (d) propose several administrative and editorial changes.
