FR941005-1-00007 FR941005-1-00002 The NRC staff would like to inform the readers that 10 CFR 150.31 applies only to 11e(2) byproduct material (tailings and other wastes generated from the milling of ores primarily for their source material content) and reflects statutory requirements in the Uranium Mill Tailings Radiation Control Act of 1978, as amended. Similar requirements could be developed to apply to other byproduct material. In order to avoid confusion with the requirements for 11e(2) byproduct material, the proper location for these new requirements would need to be considered in the development of any new section in Part 150. The Petitioner's Proposed Amendment The petitioner requests that 10 CFR Parts 150 and 2 be amended to overcome the problems the petitioner has itemized and recommends the following revisions to the regulations: 1. The petitioner proposes that §150.31 be amended by redesignating existing paragraph (c) as paragraph (d), redesignating existing paragraph (d) as paragraph (e), and adding a new paragraph (c) to read as follows: Section 150.31␣Requirements for Agreement State Regulation of Byproduct Material * * * * * (c) After [date], in the licensing and regulation of byproduct material, as defined in §150.3(c)(2) of this part, or of any activity which results in the production of such byproduct material, an Agreement State shall require compliance with procedures which: (1) Include the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section, and (2) In the case of rulemaking also include: (i) Except as provided by paragraph (c)(2)(iv) of this section, when it proposes to adopt, amend, or repeal a regulation, shall submit notice of the proposed change to the Secretary, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555, Attention: Chief, Docketing and Service Branch. (ii) The notice will include: (A) Either the terms or substance of the proposed rule, or a specification of the subjects and issues involved; (B) The manner, time, and place within which interested members of the public may comment, and a statement of where and when copies of such comments may be examined. (C) The authority under which the regulation is proposed; and (D) The time, place, and nature of the public hearing, if any. (iii) The notice required in paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section will be made not less than [number to be determined] days prior to the time fixed for hearing, if any, unless the Agreement State for good cause stated in the notice provides otherwise. (iv) The notice and comment provisions contained in paragraph (c)(2) (i), (ii), and (iii) of this section will not be required to be applied_ (A) To interpretive rules, general statements of policy, or rules of agency organization, procedure, or practice; or (B) When the Agreement State for good cause finds that notice and public comment are impracticable, unnecessary, or contrary to the public interest, and are not required by statute. This finding, and the reasons therefor, will be incorporated into any rule issued without notice and comment for good cause. (v) The Agreement State shall provide for a 30-day post-promulgation comment period for_ (A) Any rule adopted without notice and comment under the good cause exception in paragraph (c)(2)(iv)(B) of this section where the basis is that notice and comment is ``impracticable'' or ``contrary to the public interest;'' or (B) Any interpretive rule, or general statement of policy adopted without notice and comment under paragraph (c)(2)(iv)(A) of this section, except for those cases for which the Agreement State finds that such procedures would serve no public interest, or would be so burdensome as to outweigh any foreseeable gain. (vi) For any post-promulgation comments received under paragraph (c)(2)(v) of this section, the Agreement State shall submit a statement to the Secretary, U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Washington, DC 20555, Attention: Chief, Docketing and Service Branch. This statement shall contain an evaluation of the significant comments and any revisions of the rule or policy statement made as a result of the comments and their evaluation.
