FR940826-0-00065 FR940826-0-00016 B. Minimum Opening Bid 10. In the Third Report and Order, we stated that we believe it is necessary to impose a minimum bid increment to ensure that the auctions conclude within a reasonable period of time in narrowband PCS auctions where simultaneous multiple round bidding is used. The bid increment is the amount or percentage by which the bid must be raised above the previous round's high bid in order to be accepted as a valid bid in the current round. We stated that we might impose a minimum bid increment of 5 percent or $0.01 per MHz per pop, whichever is greater, in narrowband PCS auctions where multiple round bidding is used. We also retained the discretion to vary the minimum bid increments for individual licenses or groups of licenses over the course of an auction. 22 22 Third Report and Order at ¶¶30&hyph;32. 11. In order to expedite the auction process further, we also reserve the discretion to establish a suggested opening bid or a minimum opening bid on each license in addition to the minimum bid increment. 23 If we were to adopt minimum opening bids, we anticipate that we would seek expedited comments on any figures proposed. Once a minimum bid is established for a license, initial bids will have to be above that level to be considered valid. The amount of the suggested opening bid or the minimum opening bid, if one is used, will be set forth in the Public Notice announcing the auction. Generally, we will establish suggested opening bids or minimum opening bids in the range of $.03&hyph;$.20 per MHz-pop for each license. 24 A suggested opening bid or minimum opening bid will provide bidders with an incentive to start bidding at a substantial portion of the license value, thus ensuring a rapid conclusion to the auction. 23 See ex parte submission of Paul Milgrom, May 19, 1994 and Fifth Report and Order ¶45, in PP Docket 93&hyph;253, FCC No. 94&hyph;178, 59 FR 37566 (Jul 29, 1994), ( Fifth Report and Order ). 24 The number of ``MHz-pops'' is calculated by multiplying the population of the license service area by the amount of spectrum authorized by the license. In its September 1993 Mid-Session Review of the 1994 Budget, the Office of Management and Budget estimated that spectrum auctions would generate $12.6 billion from 1994 through 1998. A 1992 report by the Congressional Budget Office assumed that $2 billion would be raised from competitive bidding in services other than PCS. Thus, the approximate value of 120 MHz of PCS spectrum is placed at $10.6 billion according to these estimates, or 35 cents per pop per MHz. C. Activity and Stopping Rules 12. In the Third Report and Order, we stated that when we use the three-stage Milgrom-Wilson activity rule, the auction will move from stage I to stage II when, after three rounds of bidding, the high bid has changed on 5 percent or fewer of the licenses (measured in MHz-pops) being auctioned. Stage III will begin when the high bid has changed on 2 percent or fewer licenses over three rounds. 25 We conclude after our experience in conducting the nationwide narrowban auction that we may find it important to move the auctions from one stage to the next at a different pace than would occur under this rule. Accordingly, we retain the discretion to determine and announce during the course of an auction when, and if, to move from one auction stage to the next, based on a variety of measures of bidder activity, ( e.g., the percentage of licenses on which there are new bids, the number of new bids, and the percentage increase in revenue). Bidders will be notified at least one round prior to the commencement of the next stage of an auction. 25 Third Report and Order at n. 16. 13. We also stated that in stage III, a bidder would have to be active on 100 percent of the MHz-pops for which it wishes to retain eligibility. 26 In order to allow bidders greater flexibility, we think that it may be beneficial in some auctions to reduce this figure slightly, but in no case below 90 percent. We will announce the required activity levels for stage III in a Public Notice in advance of each auction. 26 See Third Report and Order ¶¶38. 14. In the Third Report and Order, we stated that where we use the Milgrom-Wilson activity rule we intend to use a simplified waiver procedure whereby bidders will be permitted five automatic waivers from the activity rule during the course of an auction. 27 A waiver permits a bidder to maintain its eligibility at the same level as in the round for which the waiver is submitted, regardless of the bidder's level of bidding activity in that round. Subsequently, we have concluded based on our experience in conducting the nationwide narrowband auction that fewer waivers may be necessary to maintain the pace of the auction and prevent strategic use of waivers. Consequently, we will allow one automatic waiver from the activity rule during each stage of an auction, or one automatic waiver during a number of bidding rounds specified in a Public Notice. We retain the flexibility, however, to change by Public Notice the number of waivers that will be permitted and the frequency with which they may be exercised by public notice prior to a specific narrowband auction. While we may allow bidders to request proactive waivers that will keep the bidding open, under no circumstances will an automatic waiver prevent an auction from closing. 27 Third Report and Order at ¶40.
