FR941007-1-00042 FR941007-1-00008 Also, Standard No. 213 has been amended to require either of the following labels on rear-facing infant seats or on child restraints that can be converted for use in a rear-facing infant mode: WARNING: PLACE THIS RESTRAINT IN A VEHICLE SEAT THAT DOES NOT HAVE AN AIR BAG or WARNING: WHEN YOUR BABY'S SIZE REQUIRES THAT THIS RESTRAINT BE USED SO THAT YOUR BABY FACES THE REAR OF THE VEHICLE, PLACE THE RESTRAINT IN A VEHICLE SEAT THAT DOES NOT HAVE AN AIR BAG The first warning is to be used for child seats that are rear-facing only, and the second warning is to be used for infant seats that convert from forward-facing to rear-facing. NHTSA has tentatively concluded that the language of these labels need not be amended. Manufacturers of child restraint systems are required to state in the printed instructions accompanying the restraint that the safest location for any child restraint is in the rear seat, regardless of whether the vehicle has an air bag. In addition, NHTSA is concerned that changing the language to clarify that the warning does not apply when the air bag can be deactivated will lessen the impact of the message on the public. Since not all vehicles may be equipped with cutoff devices, NHTSA is concerned that the result of lessening the impact of the message would be the placement of an infant in a seating position with an air bag that cannot be deactivated. VI. Phase-out of Manual Cutoff Devices The agency has tentatively concluded that use of manual cutoff devices should not be permitted indefinitely. The agency has also tentatively concluded that vehicles with air bags having manual cutoff devices should not be counted toward compliance with the phase-in for air bags. Further, manual cutoff devices should be prohibited in all passenger cars manufactured on or after September 1, 1997, and all light trucks manufactured on or after September 1, 1998. These are the dates on which 100 percent compliance is required by 49 U.S.C. 30127. To implement these proposals, NHTSA would amend S4.1.5.1(b)'s definition of an ``inflatable restraint system,'' a term used in the paragraphs relating to the air bag requirements, to state that it does not include an air bag that can be deactivated by a manual cutoff device. This several year period would give manufacturers time to develop and introduce automatic devices. Automatic technology would reduce the potential problem with either intentional or accidental misuse of these devices to deactivate an air bag at times other than when a rear-facing infant restraint is in the seat. The agency is optimistic that new automatic sensing technology will soon be available to deactivate an air bag in certain situations, or to modify the deployment rate of the air bag according to the speed of the impact or the distance between the air bag and the occupant to be protected. NHTSA encourages vehicle manufacturers and suppliers to continue and accelerate their efforts to develop such technology.
