FR941004-2-00108 FR941004-2-00068 The Provisional Rules of Procedure have been circulated by the CITES Secretariat to the Parties. The Rules of Procedure must be adopted by the Plenary of the COP at the outset. The only difference between the Rules of Procedure for COP8 and the Provisional Rules circulated by the Secretariat are in Rule 15, paragraph 3, which was modified by the Standing Committee at its thirty-first meeting in Geneva, 21&hyph;25 March 1994. The modifications recommended by the Standing Committee, and indeed all of the Rules of Procedure, are not official until they are adopted by the COP. Rule 15, paragraph 3, refers to secret ballots. According to the Rules of Procedure adopted at COP8 (which did not differ from those at COP7), when a delegation proposes that a vote be taken by secret ballot, an open vote is required to approve this proposal; a majority of all Parties voting must approve a secret ballot before it is implemented. The revised Rules of Procedure recommended by the Standing Committee, amended at the suggestion of the observer from Zimbabwe at that meeting, require that only six parties (the proposer and five seconds) request a secret ballot for it to be implemented for a particular vote. At the Standing Committee meeting, the United States delegation opposed modifying the Rules of Procedure. The proposed COP9 position of the United States remains in opposition to this modification of the Rules of Procedure, which operated effectively at both COP7 and COP8. In numerous international fora (e.g., GATT, UNCED), it has been the position of the United States to promote openness in the dealings of intergovernmental organizations. The United States believes that since a delegation at a COP is accountable to its government, it should not need to vote in secret. The United States is also very concerned that making secret ballots too easy will unnecessarily delay the work of the COP. The United States also believes that it is inappropriate for the minority (possibly only six countries) to dictate to the majority how votes should proceed. The United States believes that a rule allowing a few countries to require use of the secret ballot could lead to excessive use of this option. Secret ballots are extremely slow and time consuming. For budgetary and other reasons, electronic voting cannot be provided at the COP, which would have minimized the time necessary to conduct a secret vote. Regardless of how few or many secret ballots are taken at the COP, however, all U.S. positions and votes on issues will be publicly disclosed. IV. Election of Chair and Vice-Chair of the Meeting and of Committees I and II and of the Budget Committee No documents will be prepared for this item. Support election of a Conference Chair from the United States, and highly qualified Committee and Vice Chairs representing the geographic diversity of CITES. The Chair of the CITES Standing Committee (New Zealand) will serve as temporary Chair of the Conference until a permanent Conference Chair is elected. It is traditional for the host country to provide the Conference Chair, and the United States will propose a person with substantial executive skills and international negotiating experience to be nominated as Chair. This person, if elected by the parties, will serve as Presiding Officer of the Conference and also of the Conference Bureau, the executive body which manages the business of the Conference; other members of the Bureau include the Committee Chairs (discussed below), the nine members of the Standing Committee (see Agenda Item IX), and the Secretariat. The major technical work of CITES is done in the Committees, and thus Committee chairs must have great technical knowledge and skill. In addition, CITES benefits from active participation and leadership of representatives of every region of the world. The United States will support election of Committee Chairs and Vice Chairs of the Conference having requisite technical knowledge and skills and also reflecting the geographic and cultural diversity of CITES. The United States is now consulting with the Secretariat and the Standing Committee regarding suitable candidates. V. Adoption of the Agenda and Working Programme See Doc. 9.1 (Rev)_Provisional Agenda for COP9; Doc. 9.2 (Rev)_ Provisional Working Programme for COP9; Doc. 9.2.1 (Rev)_Provisional Working Program for COP9 Committee I; and Doc. 9.2.2 (Rev)_Provisional Working Program for COP9 Committee II. Support adoption of an agenda and working program that guarantees a smoothly operating meeting that addresses all species and implementation issues; the U.S. nominee to serve as Conference Chair, if accepted by the parties, will be responsible for management of the overall agenda, in consultation with the Bureau.
