FR940405-1-00003 FR940405-1-00002 7 CFR Part 56 [Docket No. PY&hyph;92&hyph;004] RIN 0581&hyph;AA60 Voluntary Shell Egg Grading AGENCY: Agricultural Marketing Service, USDA. ACTION: Proposed rule. SUMMARY: The Agricultural Marketing Service (AMS) proposes to clarify and update the voluntary shell egg grading regulations and standards in response to new technology and current practices in the shell egg industry and to conform to statutory requirements. The proposed revisions would amend existing regulations to define washed ungraded eggs and clarify the definition of a quality assurance inspector. The proposal would add age and disability as types of prohibited discrimination in providing grading services. Additionally, the proposal would clarify the type of facilities and equipment to be supplied to a grader and the method by which cartons of eggs are to be identified. Further revisions would update grading room requirements to include mechanized shell egg operations and to require rinse water to be at least as warm as wash water. In addition, the standards for quality of individual shell eggs for B quality in U.S. Nest-Run grades would be harmonized with the U.S. Standards for Quality of Individual Shell Eggs for B quality, and the wholesale shell egg grades and weight classes would be deleted. DATES: Comments must be received on or before June 6, 1994. ADDRESSES: Send written comments, in duplicate, to Janice L. Lockard, Chief, Standardization Branch, Poultry Division, Agricultural Marketing Service, room 3944-South, P.O. Box 96456, Washington, DC 20090&hyph;6456. Comments received may be inspected at this location between 8:00 a.m and 4:30 p.m., Eastern Time, Monday through Friday, except holidays. State that your comments refer to Docket No. PY&hyph;92&hyph;004. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Larry W. Robinson, Chief, Grading Branch, 202&hyph;720&hyph;3271. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: This rule has been determined to be not-significant for purposes of Executive Order 12866 and therefore has not been reviewed by OMB. This proposed rule has been reviewed under Executive Order 12778, Civil Justice Reform. It is not intended to have retroactive effect. This rule would not preempt any State or local laws, regulations, or policies, unless they present an irreconcilable conflict with this rule. There are no administrative procedures which must be exhausted prior to any judicial challenge to the provisions of this rule. The AMS Administrator has determined that this proposed rule, if promulgated, will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities, as defined by the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. 601 et seq .), because the revisions reflect current industry production and marketing practices. The information collection requirements that appear in ยง56.17(b) and ยง56.37 to be amended by the proposed rule have been previously approved by the Office of Management and Budget and assigned OMB Control No. 0581&hyph;0128, under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980. Background Periodically the Poultry Division of AMS reviews its existing regulations. As a result of a review, it was determined that several revisions were necessary to make the shell egg standards and regulations for grading shell eggs more useful and efficient. The grading of shell eggs by the AMS is a voluntary program, provided under the Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946, as amended (7 U.S.C. 1621 et seq. ), and is offered on a fee-for-service basis. The grading program is designed to assist orderly marketing of shell eggs. Therefore, the standards must keep abreast of new technology and advancements in production and marketing practices.
