FR940503-2-00038 FR940503-2-00028 Enhanced Storage in Europe: DOE considered but rejected as unreasonable the alternative of assisting foreign research reactors to expand spent fuel storage capacity at the reactor sites or at other sites in Europe. By the time new facilities could be constructed and licensed, or existing facilities modified, the reactors from which DOE proposes to accept spent fuel would have been forced to send their spent fuel to Scotland for reprocessing, where that is an option, or to shut down. For the reasons discussed above and in greater detail in the Environmental Assessment, forcing research reactors to shut down or reprocess would undermine the gains already realized in converting to low enriched uranium fuels under the Reduced Enrichment for Research and Test Reactors Program. The governments in the countries where these reactors are located have stated that acceptance of spent fuel has become a measure of the United States' reliability in worldwide nuclear cooperation. A perceived lack of reliability could complicate upcoming negotiations for renewal of important nonproliferation agreements. Cumulative Impact In addition to the environmental impacts from the proposed action, the Environmental Assessment also considered the cumulative dose of transporting other shipments of spent fuel to the Savannah River Site and shipments of low-level radioactive materials to the Barnwell facility, east of the Savannah River Site. No significant cumulative effects were identified. Determination Based on the analyses in the Environmental Assessment, and after careful consideration of comments received, DOE has determined that the acceptance of up to 409 spent nuclear fuel elements from eight foreign research reactors in Europe for storage at the Savannah River Site does not constitute a major Federal action significantly affecting the quality of the human environment, within the meaning of the National Environmental Policy Act. Therefore, an Environmental Impact Statement is not required and DOE issues this Finding of No Significant Impact. Based on an evaluation of the five proposed ports of entry (Jacksonville, Florida; Savannah, Georgia; the Army Military Ocean Terminal at Sunny Point, and Wilmington, North Carolina; and Charleston, South Carolina) and alternative modes of transporting the spent nuclear fuel from the port of entry to the Savannah River Site (truck or train), DOE has concluded that no significant impact would result from any combination of proposed port and mode of transport from the port of entry to the Savannah River Site. However, upon further consideration, and in an effort to balance the domestic and international interests at stake, DOE has decided to implement the proposed action as follows. The spent nuclear fuel will be shipped by commercial or chartered vessel from Europe to the Army's Military Ocean Terminal at Sunny Point, North Carolina to the maximum extent practicable (rather than allowing the shipper to select from among any one of the five proposed ports as described in the Environmental Assessment) and transported overland by rail (rather than truck). Should DOE determine that another port or mode of transport (from among those considered as the proposed action) is necessary, DOE will provide direct notice of the change to State and local government officials of the affected states and will notify the public through local media and other means, as appropriate. Issued at Washington, DC, this 22nd day of April, 1994. Tara O'Toole, Assistant Secretary, Environment, Safety and Health. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;10569 Filed 5&hyph;2&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6450&hyph;01&hyph;P
