FR940819-1-00005 FR940819-1-00001 §1924.101 Purpose. This subpart establishes the basic Agency policies for planning and performing site development work. It also provides the procedures and guidelines for preparing site development plans consistent with Federal laws, regulations and Executive Orders. §1924.102 General policy. (a) Rural development. This subpart provides for the development of building sites and related facilities in rural areas. It is designed to: (1) Recognize community needs and desires, and encourage leadership responsibility in local planning, control and development. (2) Recognize standards for building-site design which encourage and lead to the development of economically stable communities, and the creation of attractive, healthy, and permanent living environments. (3) Encourage improvements planned for the site to be the most cost-effective of the practicable alternatives. Encourage utilities and services utilized to be reliable, efficient and available at reasonable costs. (4) Provide for a planning process that will consider impacts on the environment and existing development in order to formulate actions that protect, enhance, and restore environmental quality. (b) Subdivisions. The Agency does not review or approve subdivisions. Each site approved by the Agency must meet the requirements of §1924.115 of this subpart, on a site by site basis. (c) Development related costs. (1) Applicant. The applicant is responsible for all costs incurred before loan and/or grant closing associated with planning, technical services, and actual construction. These costs may be included in the loan/grant as authorized by Agency regulations. (2) Developer. The developer is responsible for payment of all costs associated with development under this subpart. §1924.103 Scope. This subpart is for Agency personnel when considering a site or site development work for Rural Housing (RH) loans for individuals. It provides supplemental requirements for Rural Rental Housing (RRH) loans, Rural Cooperative Housing (RCH) loans, Farm Labor Housing (LH) loans and grants, and Rural Housing Site (RHS) loans. It also provides a site development standard (Exhibit B of this subpart) which supplements this subpart to determine the acceptability of development. All of this subpart applies to Single Family Housing unless otherwise noted. All of this subpart also applies to Multiple Family Housing except §§1924.115, 1924.120 and 1924.121, which applies only to Single Family Housing, and any paragraph specifically shown for Single Family Housing. In addition, the Agency will consult with appropriate Federal, State, and local agencies, other organizations, and individuals to implement the provisions of this subpart. §1924.104 Definitions. As used in this subpart: Agency. Farmers Home Administration (FmHA). Applicant. Any person, partnership, limited partnership, trust, consumer cooperative, corporation, public body or association that has filed a preapplication, or in the case of Agency programs that do not require a preapplication, an official application with the Agency in anticipation of receiving or utilizing Agency financial assistance. Community. A community includes cities, towns, boroughs, villages, and unincorporated places which have the characteristics of incorporated areas with support services such as shopping, post office, schools, central sewer and water facilities, police and fire protection, hospitals, medical and pharmaceutical facilities, etc., and are easily identifiable as established concentrations of inhabited dwellings and private and public buildings. Developer. Any person, partnership, public body or corporation which intends to develop a site(s) and ask the Agency to finance it. Development. The act of building structures and installing site improvements on an individual dwelling site, a subdivision, or a multiple family tract. Multiple Family Housing. Agency Rural Rental Housing loans, Rural Cooperative Housing loans, Farm Labor Housing loans and grants, and Rural Housing Site loans. Single Family Housing. Agency Rural Housing loans for individuals for construction of, repair of, or purchase of a dwelling to be occupied by one household. Site. A parcel of land proposed as a dwelling site, with or without development. Site approval official. The Agency official making the determination that a site meets the requirements in this subpart to be acceptable for site loans. (See §1924.120 of this subpart.) Street surfaces. Streets may be hard or all weather surfaced.
