FR940223-2-00238 FR940223-2-00104 While DOT will attempt to assure that programs funded are geographically diverse, at the same time, for the first year of funding, DOT may give priority consideration to fund programs in any or all of the areas of greatest need as determined by criteria set forth in the regulations issued under the National and Community Service Trust Act (see ``Need'' in Section 4.1. ``General Criteria,'' of this RFP). 4. Matching Funds in Excess of Requirements. Priority consideration will be given to any proposals that provide funding from other sources in excess of the required match amounts (see Section 5.3, ``Matching Funds,'' in this RFP). 5. Overall Compliance and Consistency with the National and Community Service Trust Act and related regulations and all other applicable laws and regulations. 6. Ability to Achieve Transportation-Related Goals. DOT is particularly interested in programs that will address one or more of the following transportation-related goals: a. Tying America together through an effective intermodal transportation system; b. Promoting safe and secure transportation; c. Actively enhancing our environment through wise transportation decisions; d. Putting people first in our transportation system by making it relevant and accessible to users. 4.3␣Priorities for Specific DOT Programs For each specific DOT Program, priority consideration will be given for proposals with the following characteristics: a. Priorities for Rehabilitation, Reclamation, and Beautification of Transportation-Related Facilities Program: 1. Proposal's balance between work experience, basic and life skills, education, training, and support services. 2. Ability to adequately oversee and supervise crews of youths. 3. Demonstrated ability to network with other organizations and proposed coordination with and use of other available organizational resources. 4. Demonstration of how participation will address currently unmet needs in community. b. Priorities for Transit Ambassadors Program: 1. Ability to deal with the elderly, disabled, and Head-Start populations; 2. Ability to deal with minor emergency medical situations, or to provide training in this area; 3. Knowledge of the types of transportation and the schedules available in the community, such as bus, subway, light rail, and taxis; 4. Procedures for summoning (such as a two-way communication) emergency medical services and police for assistance; 5. Understanding of the community lifestyles; 6. Knowledge of the layout of the community being served, for example, major intersections, street lights, and traffic patterns.
