FR941221-2-00019 FR941221-2-00011 (4) No Obligation for Future Funding _If an application is selected for funding under the pilot Program, there is no obligation to provide any additional future funding in connection with that award. Renewal of an award to increase funding or extend the period of performance is at the total discretion of the awarding entities. An annual review of each award will be conducted to determine the worthiness of continued or additional future funding. (5) Delinquent Federal Debts _No award of Federal funds shall be made to an applicant who has an outstanding delinquent Federal debt until either: i. The delinquent account is paid in full, ii. A negotiated repayment schedule is established and at least one payment is received, or iii. Other arrangements satisfactory to the Department of Commerce are made. (6) Name Check Review. All applicants are subject to a name check review process. Name checks are intended to reveal if any key individuals associated with the applicant have been convicted of or are presently facing criminal charges such as fraud, theft, perjury, or other matters which significantly reflect on the applicant's management honesty or financial integrity. (7) Primary Applicant Certifications. All primary applicants must submit a completed Form CD&hyph;511, ``Certifications Regarding Debarment, Suspension and Other Responsibility Matters; Drug-Free Workplace Requirements and Lobbying,'' and the following explanations are hereby provided: i. Nonprocurement Debarment and Suspension. Prospective participants (as defined at 15 CFR Part 26, Section 105) are subject to 15 CFR Part 26 ``Nonprocurement Debarment and Suspension'' and the related section of the certification form prescribed above applies; ii. Drug-Free Workplace. Funding recipients (as defined at 15 CFR Part 26, Section 605) are subject to 15 CFR Part 26, Subpart F, ``Governmentwide Requirements for Drug-Free Workplace (Grants)'' and the related section of the certification form prescribed above applies; iii. Anti-Lobbying. Persons (as defined at 15 CFR Part 28, Section 105) are subject to the lobbying provisions of 31 U.S.C. 1352, ``Limitation on use of appropriated funds to influence certain Federal contracting and financial transactions,'' and the lobbying section of the certification form prescribed above applies to applications/bids for grants, cooperative agreements, and contracts for more than $100,000, and loans and loan guarantees for more than $150,000, or the single family maximum mortgage limit for affected programs, whichever is greater; and iv. Anti-Lobbying Disclosures. Any applicant or component entity thereof that has paid or will pay for lobbying using any funds must submit an SF&hyph;LLL, ``Disclosure of Lobbying Activities,'' as required under 15 CFR Part 28, Appendix B. (8) Lower Tier Certifications. Recipients shall require applicants/ bidders for subgrants, contracts, subcontracts, or other lower tier covered transactions at any tier under the award to submit, if applicable, a completed Form CD&hyph;512, ``Certifications Regarding Debarment, Suspension, Ineligibility and Voluntary Exclusion-Lower Tier Covered Transactions and Lobbying'' and disclosure form, SF&hyph;LLL, ``Disclosure of Lobbying Activities.'' Form CD&hyph;512 is intended for the use of recipients and should not be transmitted to the Department of Commerce. SF&hyph;LLL submitted by any tier recipient or subrecipient should be submitted to the Department of Commerce in accordance with the instructions contained in the award document. (9) False Statements. A false statement on an application is grounds for denial or termination of funds and grounds for possible punishment by a fine or imprisonment as provided in 18 U.S.C. 1001. (10) Intergovernmental Review _Applications under this program are not subject to Executive Order 12372, ``Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs.'' (11) Purchase of American-Made Equipment and Products _Applicants are hereby notified that they will be encouraged, to the greatest extent practicable, to purchase American-made equipment and products with funding provided under this Program in accordance with Congressional intent as set forth in the resolution contained in Public Law 103&hyph;317, sections 607 (a)&hyph;(b). (12) The implementation and conduct of this Program is contingent upon the availability of all funding anticipated for its operation. The Commerce Department reserves the right to discontinue this Program in the event all funding is not made available or is otherwise not secured. Dated: December 9, 1994. Mary Lowe Good, Under Secretary of Commerce for Technology, U.S. Department of Commerce. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;31381 Filed 12&hyph;20&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3510&hyph;18&hyph;M
