FR941221-2-00103 FR941221-2-00071 The Commission has completed the evaluation to the proposed action and concludes that this action would not significantly increase the probability of exceeding the maximum allowable value of expected primary containment leakage during a hypothetical design basis accident. Performing the Type B and C tests for the specified penetrations no more than 26 days beyond the 2-year interval, not to exceed February 19, 1995, would meet the underlying purpose of the rule, that any primary containment leakage during a hypothetical design basis accident will remain less than the maximum allowable leakage rate value established by 10 CFR Part 50, Appendix J. Thus, radiological releases will not differ from those determined previously and the proposed action does not otherwise affect facility radiological effluent or occupational exposures. The change will not increase the probability or consequences of accidents, since no changes are being made in the types of any effluents that may be released offsite, and there is no significant increase in the allowable individual or cumulative occupational radiation exposure. Accordingly, the Commission concludes that there are no significant radiological environmental impacts associated with the proposed action. With regard to potential nonradiological impacts, the proposed action involves a one-time schedular change to surveillance and testing requirements that does not affect nonradiological plant effluents and has no other environmental impact. Accordingly, the Commission concludes that there are no significant nonradiological environmental impacts associated with the proposed action. Alternatives to the Proposed Action Since the Commission has concluded there is no measurable environmental impact associated with the proposed action, any alternatives with equal or greater environmental impact need not be evaluated. The principal alternative to the action would be to deny the request. Such action would not enhance the protection of the environment and would result in no change in current environmental impacts. The environmental impact of the proposed action and the alternative action are similar. Alternative Use of Resources This action does not involve the use of any resources not previously considered in the ``Final Environmental Statement related to the operation of Limerick Generating Station, Units 1 and 2,'' dated April 1984. Agencies and Persons Consulted The NRC staff consulted with the Pennsylvania State official regarding the environmental impact of the proposed action. The State official had no comments. Finding of No Significant Impact Based upon the environmental assessment, the Commission concludes that the proposed action will not have a significant effect on the quality of the human environment. Accordingly, the Commission has determined not to prepare an environmental impact statement for the proposed action. For further details with respect to the proposed action, see the licensee's letter dated July 22, 1994, which is available for public inspection at the Commission's Public Document Room, The Gelman Building, 2120 L Street, NW., Washington, DC, and the local public document room located at the Pottstown Public Library, 500 High Street, Pottstown, Pennsylvania 19464. Dated at Rockville, Maryland, this 15th day of December 1994. For the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. Chester Poslusny, Acting Director, Project Directorate I&hyph;2, Division of Reactor Projects_I/II, Office of Nuclear Reactor Regulation. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;31308 Filed 12&hyph;20&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 7590&hyph;01&hyph;M
