FR940627-0-00243 FR940627-0-00019 (iii) The start of the exposure period for the NTX measures study population may be staggered from that of the main study group to more evenly distribute the analytical work required in both study populations. The exposures would remain the same in all other respects. (d) Test procedures_ (1) Animal selection_ (i) Species and sex. The rat is the recommended species. If another rodent species is used, the tester shall provide justification for its selection. Both sexes shall be used in any assessment unless it is demonstrated that one sex is refractory to the effects of exposure. (ii) Age and number. Rats shall be at least ten weeks of age at the beginning of the study exposure. The number of animals necessary for individual health effect outcomes is as follows: (A) Thirty rodents per concentration level/group, fifteen of each sex, shall be used to satisfy the reporting requirements of the 90-day toxicity study. Ten animals per concentration level/group shall be designated for whole body perfusion with fixative (by gravity) for lung studies, and neurohistology and testes studies, as appropriate. (B) Forty rodents, 25 females and ten males shall be added for each test concentration or control group when combining a 90-day toxicity study with a fertility assessment. (C) The tester shall provide a group of 10 animals (five animals per sex per experimental/control groups) in addition to the main test population when performing the GFAP neurotoxicity HEA. (2) Recovery group. The manufacturer shall include an group of 20 animals (10 animals per sex) in the test population, exposing them to the highest concentration level for the entire length of the study's exposure period. This group shall then be observed for reversibility, persistence, or delayed occurrence of toxic effects during a post-exposure period of not less than 28 days. (3) Inhalation exposure. (i) All data developed within this study shall be in accordance with good laboratory practice provisions under ยง 79.60. (ii) The general conduct of this study shall be in accordance with the vehicle emissions inhalation exposure guideline in ยง79.61. (4) Observation of animals. (i) All toxicological (e.g., weight loss) and neurological signs (e.g., motor disturbance) shall be recorded frequently enough to observe any abnormality, and not less than weekly for all study animals. Animals shall be weighed weekly. (ii) The following is a minimal list of measures that shall be noted: (A) Body weight; (B) Subject's reactivity to general stimuli such as removal from the cage or handling; (C) Description, incidence, and severity of any convulsions, tremors, or abnormal motor movements in the home cage; (D) Descriptions and incidence of posture and gait abnormalities observed in the home cage; (E) Description and incidence of any unusual or abnormal behaviors, excessive or repetitive actions (stereotypies), emaciation, dehydration, hypotonia or hypertonia, altered fur appearance, red or crusty deposits around the eyes, nose, or mouth, and any other observations that may facilitate interpretation of the data.
