FR941021-0-00059 FR941021-0-00007 For the reasons set out in the preamble, 30 CFR parts 250, 256, 280, and 281 are amended as follows: PART 250_OIL AND GAS AND SULPHUR OPERATIONS IN THE OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF 1. The authority citation for part 250 is revised to read as follows: Authority: 43 U.S.C. 1334. 2. Section 250.2 is amended by adding the following definitions, in alphabetical order, to read as follows: ยง250.2 Definitions. * * * * * Archaeological resource means any material remains of human life or activities that are at least 50 years of age and that are of archaeological interest. * * * * * Material remains means physical evidence of human habitation, occupation, use, or activity, including the site, location, or context in which such evidence is situated. * * * * * Of archaeological interest means capable of providing scientific or humanistic understanding of past human behavior, cultural adaptation, and related topics through the application of scientific or scholarly techniques, such as controlled observation, contextual measurement, controlled collection, analysis, interpretation, and explanation. * * * * * Significant archaeological resource means those archaeological resources that meet the criteria of significance for eligibility to the National Register of Historic Places as defined in 36 CFR 60.4. * * * * * 3. A new ยง250.26 is added to subpart A to read as follows: ยง250.26 Archaeological reports and surveys. (a) If the Regional Director believes that an archaeological resource may exist in the lease area, the Regional Director will notify the lessee in writing. The lessee shall include an archaeological report in the Exploration Plan or Development and Production Plan and shall comply with the following: (1) If the evidence suggests that an archaeological resource may be present, the lessee shall either: (i) Locate the site of any operation so as not to affect adversely the area where the archaeological resource may be; or (ii) Establish to the satisfaction of the Regional Director that an archaeological resource does not exist or will not be adversely affected by operations. This shall be done by further archaeological investigation, conducted by an archaeologist and a geophysicist, using survey equipment and techniques deemed necessary by the Regional Director. A report on the investigation shall be submitted to the Regional Director for review. (2) If the Regional Director determines that an archaeological resource is likely to be present in the lease area and may be adversely affected by operations, the Regional Director will notify the lessee immediately. The lessee shall take no action that may adversely affect the archaeological resource until the Regional Director has told the lessee how to protect it. (b) If the lessee discovers any archaeological resource while conducting operations in the lease area, the lessee shall immediately halt operations within the area of the discovery and report the discovery to the Regional Director. If investigations determine that the resource is significant, the Regional Director will inform the lessee how to protect it. 4. Section 250.33 is amended by revising paragraphs (b)(15) and (o) to read as follows:
