FR941104-2-00011 FR941104-2-00005 Appendix 1_Study Guidelines Section 1: (a) Modernization of the NWS is essential to public safety and should proceed without unnecessary delay. (b) The WSMA establishes procedures that assure that the modernization of the NWS will not result in the degradation of weather services currently provided to the public but these procedures do not provide for the independent review of decisions until shortly after the actual event; and (c) It is appropriate to review the adequacy of the nation's overall NEXRAD coverage, to ensure a solid scientific and technical basis for the decision making process, and to assure meaningful participation by the public. Section 2: The purposes of this document are to provide the fullest opportunity for public participation in the modernization process without unduly delaying this process; and to ensure, through the application of independent scientific criteria that weather services provided in each service area will not be degraded as obsolete radars are decommissioned or as field offices are closed, consolidated, relocated or automated. Section 3: The definitions contained in section 702 of the WSMA shall apply to the terms in this document. In addition, the term ``area of concern'' means a service area identified in a timely public comment in response to the Federal Register notice required by section 4 of this document. Section 4: Within 30 days the Secretary shall publish a notice in the Federal Register requesting comments on service areas where it is believed that current weather services may be degraded as existing radars are decommissioned or as field offices are closed, consolidated, automated or relocated. The notice shall allow 60 days for the submission of comments. Persons submitting comments shall state the basis for their belief as fully as possible, and shall include a description of local weather characteristics (including unique weather phenomena) and weather related concerns which involve a substantial threat to public safety which they believe affect the weather services provided in areas of concern. All comments received by the Secretary shall be provided promptly to the NRC. Section 5: (a) Within 30 days the Secretary shall contract with the NRC, or amend an existing contract as necessary, to conduct an independent scientific assessment of proposed NEXRAD radar coverage and consolidation of Field Offices in terms of ``no degradation of services'' and to establish criteria for identifying service areas where the decommissioning of existing radars could degrade service to affected users. (b) Within 180 days, but not earlier than 60 days after the close of the comment period provided in the Federal Register notice of section 4, the NRC shall furnish to the Secretary the assessment and criteria required by subsection (a) together with recommendations regarding the need and timing for any future independent studies by the NRC. Section 6: (a) After receipt of the NRC report, the Secretary shall apply the NRC criteria and other applicable criteria previously approved by the NRC pursuant to the WSMA to areas of concerns and, taking into account the comments received in response to the Federal Register notice of section 4, identify those where he/she believes that actions to decommission a radar or to close, consolidate, relocate, automate a field office noted in the current version of the NIP are not likely to satisfy the requirements of the WSMA. The Secretary shall report the results of his/her review to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate and the Committee on Science, Space and Technology of the House of Representatives. If the Secretary believes that additional radars are needed to satisfy the requirements of the WSMA, he/she shall also identify the number and location of the radars needed. (b) Submission of a report under this section shall not relieve the Secretary from the requirement of section 706(b) of the WSMA to certify no degradation of service when she/he restructures a field office. If the field office is located in an area of concern, the Secretary shall provide all comments relating to that area of concern received pursuant to section 4 of the MTC during the certification process. Section 7: (a) The Secretary shall not close, consolidate, relocate, or automate any field office or decommission any NWS radar until the public has had an opportunity to identify areas of concern. (b) Regardless of the contents of the most recent NIP, the Secretary shall not decommission a radar or close, consolidate, automate or relocate a field office in an area of concern unless_ (1) The Secretary has reported to the Congress as provided in section 6 that he/she believes that the action contemplated would not result in a degradation of service; and (2) 30 days have expired from the date the report was submitted to Congress. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;27364 Filed 11&hyph;3&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3510&hyph;12&hyph;M
