FR940505-1-00136 FR940505-1-00012 General Aviation_aircraft privately owned and operated on a nonscheduled basis Public_aircraft operated by federal, state, or local government agencies other than the Department of Defense Aircraft in each category are operated in considerably different fashion. For example, commercial aircraft operate on a relatively fixed schedule while military aircraft operate according to specific mission requirements. For that reason, each aircraft category will be controlled separately under this proposed FIP program. ( 2 ) Related Mobile Sources. Emissions related to aircraft operations are generated by a variety of mobile sources. Ground support equipment (GSE) includes vehicles such as aircraft tugs, baggage tugs, fuel trucks, maintenance vehicles, and other miscellaneous vehicles. Ground access vehicles include vehicles used by passengers, employees, freight operators, and other persons using an airport. These sources have been considered in developing this program. ( 3 ) Need for Control. Aircraft and aircraft-related emissions as a category represent significant sources of air pollution in the FIP areas. In the South Coast air basin, the FIP area where airports represent the greatest portion of the inventory, aircraft operating at the five commercial airports alone contributed 0.3 and 1.1 percent of the total 1990 baseline emissions inventory for VOC and NO X , respectively. At projected growth rates, aircraft at these five airports_Los Angeles, Ontario, Burbank, John Wayne, and Long Beach_will consume nearly 3.9 and 4.4 percent of the basin's allowable 2010 NO X and VOC inventory, respectively, if left uncontrolled. ( 4 ) Level of Control. EPA intends to reduce emissions resulting from aircraft and aircraft-related activities in the three California FIP areas to a level and at a rate commensurate with that required for stationary emission sources in those areas which are subject to the proposed emission cap rules described in section III.C.5. of this NPRM. This approach was selected by EPA for aviation primarily because of the difficulty in identifying specific control measures given the diverse operational nature of the aviation sector and the leadtime available for FIP development, the difficulty of requiring specific operational or procedural control measures for aircraft due to safety and operational flexibility concerns, and the desirability of achieving emission reductions comparable to those being demanded from other significant source categories. Currently, the proposed stationary source rules include a range of potential emission reduction requirements. Consequently, the overall reduction targets for aviation reflect the same range of stringency. The proposed control levels for these sources are expressed as the percentage reduction from the respective 1990 baseline emissions inventory that must be achieved by 2005. The range of required reductions for each pollutant by area are shown below. 2005 Aviation Emission Reduction Requirements: Proposed Range of Percentage Reductions From 1990 Baseline Emissions 1Area 1VOC 2Low 2High 1NO X 2Low 2High South Coast 20 45 30 45 Ventura 20 45 30 45 Sacramento 20 45 N/A N/A The Agency will promulgate a specific percentage reduction target in the final rule based on public comments and any additional technical information. (b) Commercial Aviation. ( 1 ) Overview. ( a ) Airline Focus and Specific Sources Covered. The FIP strategy for commercial aircraft operations is aimed at reducing total emissions from all emission sources under direct control of commercial airlines operating at all airports in each nonattainment area. The strategy is constructed so that each airline is responsible for its own compliance. ``Commercial airlines'' are defined as those air carriers operating aircraft with any of the following FAA operational certificates: Parts 121, 125, 127, 129, and 135.
