FR940712-1-00008 FR940712-1-00001 (d) Two-year prohibition on acceptance of credit from FDIC-insured depository institutions. (1) An employee described in paragraph (d)(2) of this section shall not, directly or indirectly, accept or become obligated on an extension of credit from an FDIC-insured depository institution or its subsidiary for a period of two years from the date of the employee's last personal and substantial participation in an audit, resolution, liquidation, supervisory proceeding, or internal agency deliberation affecting that particular institution, its predecessor or successor, or any subsidiary of such institution. This prohibition does not apply to credit obtained through the use of a credit card under the same terms and conditions as are offered to the general public. (2) The prohibition in paragraph (d)(1) of this section applies to an employee in the Division of Finance, Division of Depositor and Asset Services, Division of Resolutions, Legal Division, or who is a member of a standing committee of the Board of Directors whose official duties include: (i) Audit of insured depository institutions for deposit insurance assessment purposes; (ii) Resolution or liquidation of failed or failing insured depository institutions; (iii) Participation in the supervision of insured depository institutions or enforcement proceedings under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act; or (iv) Internal agency deliberations affecting a particular insured depository institution, its predecessor or successor, or a subsidiary of such institution. (e) Employee disqualification. (1) An employee described in paragraph (c)(2) of this section shall not participate in an examination, audit, visitation, review, or investigation, or other particular matter involving an FDIC-insured depository institution or other person with whom the employee has an outstanding extension of credit. (2) A covered employee, other than an employee who is described in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, shall not participate in any particular matter involving an FDIC-insured depository institution or other person with whom the employee has an outstanding extension of credit. (3) Disqualification is not required under paragraph (e)(2) of this section: (i) If the credit was extended through the use of a credit card on the same terms and conditions as are offered to the general public; or (ii) When the agency designee, with the concurrence of the appropriate director, has authorized the employee to participate in the matter using the standard set forth in 5 CFR 2635.502(d). (4) The Comptroller of the Currency and the Director of the Office of Thrift Supervision shall be disqualified from matters pending before the Board of Directors to the same extent as a covered employee subject to paragraph (e)(2) of this section. (f) Retention and renegotiation of pre-existing extensions of credit. (1) Nothing in this section prohibits the retention of a pre-existing extension of credit that an employee would be prohibited from accepting by ยง3201.102 (b) or (c) if the extension of credit was permitted to be retained under 12 CFR part 336 prior to the adoption of this regulation or if the employee's acceptance of the extension of credit was proper at the time the obligation was incurred, as in the case of an extension of credit incurred prior to commencement of employment or reassignment to another division or location. Subsequent action affecting the status of the creditor, such as merger, acquisition, or transaction under 12 U.S.C. 1823, does not change the character of an extension of credit that was proper when incurred. An employee who retains a pre-existing extension that he or she would be prohibited from accepting by ยง3201.102 (b) or (c) shall report the pre-existing extension of credit to the appropriate director or agency designee within 30 days from the following event, as appropriate: (i) Adoption of this part; (ii) Commencement of employment; (iii) Assignment to another division or location; or (iv) Action affecting the status of the creditor. (2) Any renegotiation of a pre-existing extension of credit shall be treated as a new extension of credit that is subject to the prohibitions contained in ยง3201.102 (b) through (d). An employee may request that an exception be made to the prohibitions to permit renegotiation of a pre-existing extension of credit. Any such request shall be made in writing to the appropriate director and agency designee, or in the case of an employee described in paragraph (b)(2) (i) and (ii) of this section, to the Ethics Counselor, stating: (i) The purpose of the renegotiation; (ii) The terms and conditions of the original extension of credit; (iii) The terms and conditions now available to the general public; (iv) The terms and conditions now offered to the employee; (v) The action the employee has taken to move the loan to an institution from which an employee would not be prohibited from accepting an extension of credit; and (vi) The financial hardship, if any, denial of the request will cause. (3) After submission of the request, the appropriate director and agency designee, or the Ethics Counselor, may grant the employee's request based upon a written determination that the request is not inconsistent with 5 CFR part 2635 or otherwise prohibited by law and that, under the particular circumstances, application of the prohibition is not necessary to avoid the appearance of the misuse of position or loss of impartiality, or otherwise to ensure confidence in the impartiality and objectivity with which agency programs are administered. ยง3201.103 Prohibitions on ownership of securities of FDIC-insured depository institutions.
