FR940804-0-00119 FR940804-0-00024 When there is reasonable cause to believe that the purpose of the meeting is not the lawful defense of the underlying charges, but the commission of a new or additional crime (such as bribery of a witness or subordination of perjury), attendance by informants or undercover agents at attorney-client meetings is permissible pursuant to paragraph 77.6(e). The belief, however, must be based on reasonable cause, not mere suspicion or conjecture. See Mastroianni, 749 F.2d at 906. Furthermore, the prohibition against communication of lawful defense strategy to the prosecution should be observed if, in fact, such strategy is imparted to the informant or agent. Government attorneys should give serious consideration to the extreme sensitivity of permitting agent and informant attendance at defense meetings. Agents and informants should be instructed to avoid participating in such meetings, and to minimize their participation when attendance is required, if it is possible to do so without arousing suspicion. Agents or witnesses who attend defense meetings should also be instructed to make every attempt to avoid taking any role in the shaping of defense strategy or trial preparations. Additionally, agents and informants should be instructed to avoid imparting lawful defense strategy or trial preparation information to attorneys for the government or to law enforcement agents who are directly participating in the ongoing investigation or in the prosecution of pending criminal charges. Finally, this restriction applies only to law enforcement officials and cooperating witnesses who are acting as ``agents for the government'' at the time of the communication. If one of several co-defendants who attended an attorney-client defense strategy meeting later testifies for the government at trial, no violation will have occurred as long as the co-defendant was not a government agent at the time of the meeting. United States v. Brugman, 655 F.2d 540, 545&hyph;46 (4th Cir. 1981). A Department component commented that an undercover agent's attendance at a meeting at which legal strategy is not discussed does not intrude on the attorney-client relationship; therefore, the component proposed limiting this paragraph's prohibition against government agents participating in an attorney-client meeting or communication to situations where there is a ``reasonable basis'' to believe that the meeting or communication will concern legal advice or strategy. The Department believes that it is unwise and unworkable to encourage government attorneys and undercover agents to guess whether legal issues will come up in an attorney-client meeting or communication. It would also be disruptive of the attorney-client relationship for government attorneys and undercover agents to gather the information that might make such a determination even remotely reliable. Therefore, this paragraph has not been changed. Section 77.10: Organizations and Employees This section addresses the difficult issue of when a communication with an employee or member of a represented organization should be considered a communication with the organization itself. Important interests depend on this determination. On the one hand, organizations should not be shielded from effective criminal or civil law enforcement prosecution simply by retaining counsel. It is not uncommon for federal prosecutors to encounter attorneys who assert that they represent every individual in a large corporation or organization. If such attorneys were able to prevent government investigators from gaining informal access to any employee of the organization by withholding consent, information relevant to claims against the organization might never come to light because such information is often in the exclusive possession of the organization and its employees. See, e.g., Suggs v. Capital Cities/ABC Inc., 54 Empl. Prac. Dec. (CCH) ¶ 40,195 at 63,910 (S.D.N.Y. Apr. 24, 1990). On the other hand, organizations are entitled to the effective assistance of counsel, and the relationship between an organization and its counsel deserves respect. The Department believes that this section, and particularly the definition of ``controlling individual'' in paragraph (a) of this section, strikes an appropriate balance, one that ensures government attorneys the ability to enforce federal law, while preserving the opportunity for corporations and other organizations to secure effective assistance of counsel. Paragraph (a): Communications with current employees; organizational representation. This paragraph states that a communication with a current employee of an organizational party or person should be treated as a communication with the organization for purposes of this part only if the employee is a ``controlling individual.'' If a communication with a current employee is properly characterized under this regulation as a communication with a represented organization (that is, if the communication is with a controlling individual), then that communication is subject generally to the same limitations that would apply if the communication were with a represented person or represented party. In accord with the basic structure of this regulation, which distinguishes between represented parties and represented persons, this paragraph effectively provides that when an organization is a represented party, an attorney for the government shall not communicate, or cause another to communicate, with any controlling individual of the organization without the consent of the organization's attorney, subject to the exceptions enumerated in §77.6. In contrast, when an organization qualifies as a represented person, an attorney for the government may communicate, or cause another to communicate, with any controlling individual, provided the communication does not violate the provisions of §§77.8 or 77.9.
