FR940318-2-00134 FR940318-2-00078 2. Importance of the health problem(s) for all AI/AN people and for the IHS Area. Using quantitative evidence, briefly document the importance of the health problem(s) addressed by the research project among the range of health problems of all or major groups of AI/AN people, and by the AI/AN people of the IHS Area. 3. Setting of the study. Briefly discuss why the study should be done only, or be done best, in an AI/AN population, and why in the proposed community(ies). 4. Utility of the product and experience to the community(ies) and SUs involved. Briefly define the expected utility of the product (e.g., new information) or of the experience (e.g., new research skills, capabilities, resources, or liaisons to do practice-based or community-based research) to the community(ies) and/or SUs involved. 5. Utility of the product and experience to the IHS and other AI/AN people. Briefly define the expected utility of the product (e.g., new information) or of the experience (e.g., new research skills capabilities, resources, or liaisons to do practice-based or community-based research) to the IHS and/or other AI/AN people. K. Documentation of Approvals, Support, and Clearances 1. Tribal approval. The research project must have the full understanding, documented approval, and support of the Indian tribe(s) or Alaska village(s) involved. Documented approval must be evidenced by a signed and dated Tribal Resolution, done no more than 12 months before December 1, 1994. If more than one tribe is involved, evidence of support from all tribes affected must be submitted with the application. Applications by tribal organizations will not require resolution(s) if the current tribal resolution(s) under which they operate would encompass the proposed grant activities. A statement of proof or a copy of the current operational resolution must accompany the application. 2. Letters of cooperation, collaboration, or assistance. If other research programs are to be involved in the research project, letters confirming the specific nature and extent of cooperation, collaboration, or assistance must be submitted. 3. Service Unit Director approval. All applicants must provide letter(s) of approval from the Director of any SUs involved in or affected by the research project. 4. Area Contracting Officer clearance. The IHS components which apply must obtain a letter of clearance from the Area Contracting Officer if any purchasing, contracting, or consultant hiring actions will be requested in the research project. This letter of clearance must be included with the submitted proposal. 5. Area Director approval. The IHS components applying must also obtain a signed Form 424 in Section 18.d&hyph;e. from the Area RPC as evidence of the IHS Area Director's approval. This is in accordance with Part 1_General, Chapter 7, research Activities, Sub Part 1&hyph;7.4 A. of the IHS Manual which establishes the Area RPC as the Area Director's reviewing authority for research proposals. L. Protection of Human Subjects The application shall contain assurances that the applicant will comply with the following: 1. Regulations to protect all human subjects of the research. If the research project will involve human subjects, the applicant must submit for approval the completed protocol to the applicable IHS Area Institutional Review Board(s) (IRB). If one or more co-investigator(s) is (are) from an institution that has a permanent IRB (i.e., has a Multiple Project Assurance [MPA]), the applicant must submit form HHS 596 to that IRB as well. All IRB approvals must be secured prior to funding of the proposal. (See section M. Review Process, below.) It is recommended that any applicant who proposes to involve human subjects, or who is not sure if the project meets the definition of research involving human subjects in 45 CFR part 46, contact the appropriate Area Research Coordinator listed in this announcement for technical assistance as the application is being developed. 2. Maintenance of data confidentiality, anonymity (if indicated), and subject privacy. Applicants must describe the process to maintain the confidentiality of data collected, the protection of patient records, and the privacy of human subjects. If subjects are to be protected by anonymity, applicants must describe the process to maintain anonymity. M. Review Process 1. Review by authorized Institutional Review Boards (IRB). All applications involving human subjects will be reviewed by the authorized Area or National IRBs in the IHS for compliance with requirements to protect human subjects contained in 45 CFR 46, and as specified in the IHS MPA. It is suggested but not required that the application be sent to the appropriate Area (IRB(s) 2 (two) months before the deadline, for the IRB review of the proposal to permit making the changes before the final submission. The IRB will review only IRB issues, not purely technical methods. Any applications involving investigators from institutions with IRBs with MPAs and involving human subjects must also be reviewed by the IRBs of the respective institution(s). The researcher should contact non-IHS IRBs for their deadline requirements. No research project can be funded by IHS unless it has been approved by, and has met the conditions of, all applicable IRBs. 2. Review by the Indian Health Research Study Section (IHRSS). Applications meeting eligibility requirements that are complete, responsive, and conform to this program announcement will be reviewed for merit by the IHRSS appointed by the IHS to review these applications. The IHRSS review will be conducted in accordance with the IHS objective review procedures. The technical review process ensures selection of quality research projects in a national competition for limited funding. The IHRSS will include at least 60 percent non-IHS, Federal or non-Federal, individuals, all experts in research. For each application, the IHRSS will decide to disapprove, or to defer pending more information, or to approve the project. If the IHRSS decides to approve the project, it will review the application against established criteria, and will assign a numerical score to the application. The members of the IHRSS will use the following criteria and weights to make the score.
