FR940202-0-00077 FR940202-0-00006 (i) .015 multiplied by the product of the total noncontingent principal payments and the number of complete years to maturity from the issue date (or, in the case of an installment obligation, the weighted average maturity as defined in ยง1.1273&hyph;1(e)(3)); or (ii) 15 percent of the total noncontingent principal payments. (3) Stated interest_ (i) General rule. The debt instrument must provide for stated interest (compounded or paid at least annually) at_ (A) One or more qualified floating rates; (B) A single fixed rate and one or more qualified floating rates; (C) A single objective rate; or (D) A single fixed rate and a single objective rate that is a qualified inverse floating rate. (ii) Certain debt instruments bearing interest at a fixed rate for an initial period. If interest on a debt instrument is stated at a fixed rate for an initial period of less than 1 year followed by a variable rate that is either a qualified floating rate or an objective rate for a subsequent period, and the value of the variable rate on the issue date is intended to approximate the fixed rate, the fixed rate and the variable rate together constitute a single qualified floating rate or objective rate. A fixed rate and a variable rate will be conclusively presumed to meet the requirements of the preceding sentence if the value of the variable rate on the issue date does not differ from the value of the fixed rate by more than .25 percentage points (25 basis points). (4) Current value. The debt instrument must provide that a qualified floating rate or objective rate in effect at any time during the term of the instrument is set at a current value of that rate. A current value is the value of the rate on any day that is no earlier than 3 months prior to the first day on which that value is in effect and no later than 1 year following that first day. (b) Qualified floating rate_ (1) In general. A variable rate is a qualified floating rate if variations in the value of the rate can reasonably be expected to measure contemporaneous variations in the cost of newly borrowed funds in the currency in which the debt instrument is denominated. The rate may measure contemporaneous variations in borrowing costs for the issuer of the debt instrument or for issuers in general. Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, a multiple of a qualified floating rate is not a qualified floating rate. If a debt instrument provides for two or more qualified floating rates that can reasonably be expected to have approximately the same values throughout the term of the instrument, the qualified floating rates together constitute a single qualified floating rate. Two or more qualified floating rates will be conclusively presumed to meet the requirements of the preceding sentence if the values of all rates on the issue date are within .25 percentage points (25 basis points) of each other. (2) Certain rates based on a qualified floating rate. A variable rate is a qualified floating rate if it is equal to either_ (i) The product of a qualified floating rate described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section and a fixed multiple that is greater than zero but not more than 1.35; or (ii) The product of a qualified floating rate described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section and a fixed multiple that is greater than zero but not more than 1.35, increased or decreased by a fixed rate. (3) Restrictions on the stated rate of interest. A variable rate is not a qualified floating rate if it is subject to a restriction or restrictions on the maximum stated interest rate (cap), a restriction or restrictions on the minimum stated interest rate (floor), a restriction or restrictions on the amount of increase or decrease in the stated interest rate (governor), or other similar restrictions. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, the following restrictions will not cause a variable rate to fail to be a qualified floating rate_ (i) A cap, floor, or governor that is fixed throughout the term of the debt instrument; (ii) A cap or similar restriction that is not reasonably expected as of the issue date to cause the yield on the debt instrument to be significantly less than the expected yield determined without the cap; (iii) A floor or similar restriction that is not reasonably expected as of the issue date to cause the yield on the debt instrument to be significantly more than the expected yield determined without the floor; or
