FR940428-1-00044 FR940428-1-00008 Rangeland Improvements §222.13 Improvements. (a) An authorized officer may authorize permittees, individuals, organizations, or other federal, State, and local agencies to perform rangeland improvement work (§222.2) consistent with the forest plan and with applicable rangeland project decisions. (1) An authorized officer may require as a term or condition of the permit that the permittee maintain rangeland improvements to specified standards. (2) The cost of rangeland improvement work may be borne in whole or in part by the Forest Service. (b) The installation, construction, and/or maintenance of rangeland improvements are subject to the following conditions: (1) All new or replacement rangeland improvements to be constructed or accomplished by permittees must be expressly authorized by the grazing permit. (2) Subject to valid existing rights, title to permanent structural rangeland improvements is held by the United States. Title to temporary structural rangeland improvements may be held by the party which performs the rangeland improvement work, if no part of the cost of that work is borne by the United States. (3) When rangeland improvement work is performed by a party other than the Forest Service, that party does not obtain an exclusive right to use the improvement or the land influenced by the improvement. (c) Rangeland improvements on National Forest land in the 16 contiguous Western States may be funded by the Range Betterment Fund. (d) Grazing fee credits or adjustments for rangeland improvement work are subject to the following: (1) Grazing fee credits for rangeland improvements may be granted to permittees on National Forest System lands in the Eastern States pursuant to §§222.53 and 222.54. (2) The annual grazing fee on National Grasslands or Land Utilization Projects may be adjusted to reflect the cost to a grazing permittee of complying with conservation practices required by a term grazing permit, provided that such cost has not already been used in establishing the grazing base value. (3) Except as provided in paragraphs (d)(1) and (d)(2) of this section, authorized officers shall not adjust grazing fees charged in exchange for rangeland improvement work performed on all other National Forest System lands. §222.14 Compensation for permittees' interest in rangeland improvements. (a) Except as otherwise provided in this section, whenever a term grazing permit in the 16 contiguous Western States is cancelled, in whole or in part, to dispose of the land or to devote it to another public purpose, the current permittee shall receive reasonable compensation for investments in authorized permanent structural rangeland improvements on the land affected by the permit concellation. Compensation may not exceed the fair market value of the terminated portion of the permittee's interest in the improvement. (b) A permittee who waived a grazing permit to the United States prior to the notice of cancellation, in accordance with §222.8(a)(1), shall not receive any compensation under this section. (c) If a term grazing permit expires and the permittee fails to renew it in accordance with §222.9, no compensation will be granted for rangeland improvements to the former holder of the expired permit. Cooperation §222.15 Recognition and cooperation with local livestock or grazing associations and districts. (a) An authorized officer may recognize a local livestock or grazing association or district for the purpose of issuing a term permit if the following requirements are met: (1) A majority of the grazing permittees on the allotments designated in the term permit to be issued are members of the association or district. (2) The activities of the association or district are governed by a constitution and bylaws which include a provision for members to address their grievances to the association or district in accordance with the term permit and the governing constitution and bylaws of the organization and which are approved by the authorized officer. (3) The officers of the association or district are elected by a majority of the association or district members or by a quorum as specified in the organization's constitution and bylaws. (4) The officers, other than secretary and treasurer, are grazing permittees on the allotments involved. (b) Once an association or district is recognized and a term permit issued, the Forest Service may cooperate with the association or district under the terms and conditions of the permit in the management of rangeland resources and livestock on the land covered by the term permit issued to the association, provided that the association provides the means for their members to: (1) Manage their permitted livestock and the range resources cooperatively; (2) Share costs for handling of livestock, construction, and maintenance of range improvements or other projects deemed necessary for proper management of the permitted livestock and range resources; (3) Meet with Forest officers to discuss and formulate programs for management of their livestock and the rangeland resources; (4) Communicate proposals, issues, or concerns to Forest Service officials; and (5) Formulate special association rules as needed to ensure proper resource management. (c) An authorized officer may withdraw recognition and subsequently cancel the grazing permit of a grazing association or district at the request of the majority of the members, when the association or district is inactive and does not hold an annual or a special meeting during a 12-month period, or when the association or district fails to comply with the provisions of paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section. §222.16 Cooperation with national, state, and county livestock organizations and others. (a) Forest Service officials shall endeavor to establish and maintain cooperative working relationships with national livestock organizations who have an interest in the administration of National Forest System lands and other lands under Forest Service control and to work cooperatively with state and county livestock organizations having similar interests. (b) Insofar as the programs and responsibilities of other agencies and units of government involve grazing upon National Forest System lands and other lands under Forest Service control or the livestock which graze thereupon, the Forest Service may, subject to the availability of appropriated funds, cooperate with: (1) State, county, and federal agencies in the application and enforcement of all laws and regulations relating to livestock diseases, sanitation, and noxious weeds; (2) County or other local weed control districts in analyzing noxious weed problems and developing integrated weed management strategies for areas which may include National Forest System lands and other lands under Forest Service control; (3) The Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service and other Federal or State agencies and institutions in surveillance of pesticide application programs and animal damage management; and (4) State cattle and sheep sanitary or brand boards in control of estray and unbranded livestock, to the extent such cooperation does not conflict with the Wild Free-Roaming Horse and Burro Act of December 15, 1971. (c) Forest Service officials also shall endeavor to cooperate with other agencies, institutions, organizations, and individuals having an interest in the protection and management of the range resource on public or private lands.
