FR940325-2-00071 FR940325-2-00039 The following points should be taken into consideration by all applicants: •Incomplete applications and applications that do not otherwise conform to this announcement will not be accepted for review. Applicants will be notified in writing of any such determination by ANA. •Complete applications that conform to all the requirements of this program announcement are subjected to a competitive review and evaluation process. An independent review panel consisting of reviewers familiar with Native American languages will evaluate each application against the published criteria in this announcement. The results of this review will assist the Commissioner in making final funding decisions. •The Commissioner's decision will also take into account the comments of ANA staff, state and Federal agencies having performance related information, and other interested parties. •As a matter of policy the Commissioner will make grant awards consistent with the stated purpose of this announcement and all relevant statutory and regulatory requirements under 45 CFR parts 74 and 92 applicable to grants under this announcement. •After the Commissioner has made decisions on all applications, unsuccessful applicants will be notified in writing within approximately 120 days of the closing date. Successful applicants are notified through an official Financial Assistance Award (FAA) document. The Administration for Native Americans staff cannot respond to requests for funding decisions prior to the official notification to the applicants. The FAA will state the amount of Federal funds awarded, the purpose of the grant, the terms and conditions of the grant award, the effective date of the award, the project period, the budget period, and the amount of the non-Federal matching share requirement. I. Review Process and Criteria 1. Initial Application Review Timely applications submitted under this announcement will undergo a pre-review to determine that: •The applicant is eligible in accordance with the Eligible Applicants Section of this announcement. •The application materials submitted are sufficient to allow the panel to undertake an in-depth evaluation (All required materials and forms are listed in the Grant Application Checklist.) 2. Determination of Ineligibility Applicants who are initially rejected from competitive evaluation because of ineligibility, may appeal an ANA decision of applicant ineligibility. Likewise, applicants may also appeal an ANA decision that an applicant's proposed activities are ineligible for funding consideration. Section 810(b) (42 U.S.C. 2991h) of the Native American Programs Act provides for an appeals process when ANA determines that an organization or activities are ineligible for assistance. When an applicant or the activities proposed by the applicant are rejected as ineligible, the applicant will be advised of the appropriate appeal process. 3. Competitive Review of Accepted Applications Applications which pass the pre-review will be evaluated and rated by an independent review panel on the basis of the evaluation criteria. These criteria are used to evaluate the quality of a proposed project, and to determine the likelihood of its success. A proposed project should reflect the purposes stated and described in the Introduction and Program Purpose (Section A) of this announcement. The evaluation criteria are: (1) Current Status of Native American Language(s) Addressed and Description(s) of Existing Programs/Projects (if any) Which Support the Language(s) Addressed. (10 Points) (a) The application fully describes the current status of the Native American language to be addressed; current status is defined as data compiled within the previous thirty-six (36) months. The description of the current status minimally includes the following information: (1) Number of speakers; (2) age of speakers; (3) gender of speakers; (4) level(s) of fluency; (5) number of first language speakers (the Native language is the first language acquired); (6) number of second language speakers (the Native language is the second language acquired); (7) where the language is used (specific uses such as: home, court system, religious ceremonies, church, multimedia, school, governance activities and other, as appropriate to applicant) (8) source of data; (formal and/or informal) and (9) rate of language loss or gain. The application has clearly delineated the current status of the Native American language to be addressed by the project.
