FR941013-2-00157 FR941013-2-00107 Thursday October 13, 1994 Part III Department of Education Early Education Programs for Children With Disabilities; Notices Federal Register ␣/␣Vol. 59, No. 197␣/␣Thursday, October 13, 1994␣/␣Notices DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION Early Education Program for Children With Disabilities; Technology, Educational Media, and Materials for Individuals With Disabilities Program; and Program for Children and Youth With Serious Emotional Disturbance AGENCY: Department of Education. ACTION: Notice of final priorities. SUMMARY: The Secretary announces final priorities for three programs administered by the Office of Special Education and Rehabilitative Services (OSERS) under the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act. The Secretary may use these priorities in Fiscal Year 1995 and subsequent years. The Secretary takes this action to focus Federal assistance on identified needs to improve outcomes for children with disabilities. The final priorities are intended to ensure wide and effective use of program funds. EFFECTIVE DATE: These priorities take effect either 45 days after publication in the Federal Register or later if the Congress takes certain adjournments. If you want to know the effective date of these priorities call or write the Department of Education contact person. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: The name, address, and telephone number of the person at the Department to contact for information on each specific priority is listed under that priority. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: This notice contains one final priority under the Early Education Program for Children with Disabilities, one final priority under the Technology, Educational Media, and Materials for Individuals with Disabilities Program, and one final priority under the Program for Children and Youth with Serious Emotional Disturbance. The purpose of each program is stated separately under the title of that program. On August 1, 1994, the Secretary published a notice of proposed priorities for these programs in the Federal Register (59 FR 39234&hyph;39238). These final priorities support the National Education Goals by improving understanding of how to enable children and youth with disabilities to reach higher levels of academic achievement. The publication of these final priorities does not preclude the Secretary from proposing additional priorities, nor does it limit the Secretary to funding only these priorities, subject to meeting applicable rulemaking requirements. Funding of particular projects depends on the availability of funds, and the quality of the applications received. Further, priorities could be affected by enactment of legislation reauthorizing these programs. Note: This notice of final priorities does not solicit applications. A notice inviting applications under these competitions is published in separate notices in this issue of the Federal Register .
