FR941028-2-00070 FR941028-2-00052 Food and Drug Administration [Docket No. 92D&hyph;0296] Guidance Manual for Computer Assisted New Drug Applications; Availability AGENCY: Food and Drug Administration, HHS. ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) is announcing the availability of the revised guidance manual entitled ``Computer Assisted New Drug Application (CANDA) Guidance Manual.'' This manual was developed by FDA's Center for Drug Evaluation and Research (CDER), in conjunction with the pharmaceutical industry. The manual provides guidance for the submission of computer assisted new drug applications (CANDA's), investigational new drug applications (IND's), and abbreviated new drug applications (ANDA's). DATES: Written comments by February 15, 1995. ADDRESSES: Submit written requests for single copies of the guidance manual to the CDER Executive Secretariat Staff (HFD&hyph;8), Center for Drug Evaluation and Research, Food and Drug Administration, 7500 Standish Pl., Rockville, MD 20855. Send two self-addressed adhesive labels to assist that office in processing your request. Submit written comments on the guidance manual to the Dockets Management Branch (HFA&hyph;305), Food and Drug Administration, rm. 1&hyph;24, 12420 Parklawn Dr., Rockville, MD 20857. Requests and comments should be identified with the docket number found in brackets in the heading of this document. A copy of the guidance manual and received comments are available for public examination in the Dockets Management Branch between 9 a.m. and 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. Instructions for obtaining the guidance manual electronically can be found in the ``Supplementary Information'' section of this document. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: David M. Moss, Center for Drug Evaluation and Research (HFD&hyph;70), Food and Drug Administration, 5600 Fishers Lane, Rockville, MD 20857, 301&hyph;443&hyph;2836. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Section 505 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 355) requires drug sponsors to submit new drug applications (NDA's) to FDA for review and approval before marketing in the United States. FDA's review processes culminate in a risk-benefit assessment and regulatory decision. To arrive at a substantive risk-benefit assessment and confident regulatory decision, the agency must evaluate all information and data provided via the application supporting safety, efficacy, and/or other claims. The agency has been assessing the use of automation technology to support and assist in premarketing review processes and has found that technology holds the potential for enhancing review process quality and efficiencies. Consequently, the agency supports the use of electronic submissions by the pharmaceutical industry. In the Federal Register of October 9, 1992 (57 FR 46565), FDA published a notice announcing that the draft guidance manual for CANDA's was available in hard copy and electronically. The guidance manual provides general guidance to assist the pharmaceutical industry in preparing and submitting CANDA's that are effective and capable of being evaluated. In the Federal Register of April 8, 1993 (59 FR 18218), the agency published a notice announcing the procedures for revising the draft guidance manual, and that the revised guidance manual would be available electronically. Please note that an accompanying paper submission of the application remains a requirement at this time. The electronic version should correspond exactly to the paper version; where it does not, the differences are to be specified. Currently, assessment of electronic submissions versus paper submissions is underway. The ``CANDA Guidance Manual'' discusses procedures of general applicability that are acceptable to the agency, but are not legal requirements. The ``CANDA Guidance Manual'' does not bind the agency, nor does it create or confer any rights, privileges, benefits, or obligations for or on any person. The agency will distribute copies free of charge since the electronic submission program is evolving and the manual provides recommended interim guidance and procedures, and does not mandate electronic submission specifications. An electronic version of the guidance manual is available via Internet. Requestors should connect to the CDER FTP server using the FTP protocol. The manual and updates are available in the sub-directory ``CANDA'' in both WordPerfect Version 5.2 and an ASCII version. Individual chapters are also available. The file READ.ME in the CANDA sub-directory lists the file names of the WordPerfect and ASCII versions of the entire document and each chapter. 1Sample for the CANDA Guidance Manual 1Sample for Updates To the CANDA Guidance Manual FTP CDV2.CDER.FDA.GOV FTP CDV2.CDER.FDA.GOV LOGIN ANONYMOUS LOGIN ANONYMOUS <ANY PASSWORD> <ANY PASSWORD> BINARY CD CANDA CD CANDA GET CANDA.UPDATE GET CANDA.WPC ␣ EXIT EXIT Interested persons may, on or before February 15, 1995, submit written comments on the guidance manual to the Dockets Management Branch (address above). FDA will consider these comments in determining whether further revisions to the draft guidance manual are warranted. Two copies of any comments should be submitted, except that individuals may submit one copy. Dated: October 24, 1994. William K. Hubbard, Interim Deputy Commissioner for Policy. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;26729 Filed 10&hyph;27&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4160&hyph;01&hyph;F
