FR941202-2-00185 FR941202-2-00098 4.0␣Accreditation Process 4.1␣Components of Accreditation These criteria must be fulfilled for accreditation. The components and criteria are herein described. 4.1.1␣Personnel Qualifications This component ensures that the managerial and supervisory personnel in the environmental laboratory meet a minimum set of qualifications that address the elements of education, training and experience. It should be recognized that some of these elements are interconnectable, i.e. a greater magnitude of training and/or experience may substitute for lesser degrees of formal education. Refer to Quality Systems for a detailed review of supervisors and managers, and the criteria to be maintained by the supervisors and managers for awarding accreditation. 4.1.2␣On-Site Assessments On-site assessments and evaluations may be of two types: announced and unannounced. The assessment ensures that the environmental laboratory is capable of performing analyses to the level, precision and accuracy required by the specific method or performance based method. Announced assessments test these methods and evaluate the results against the criteria under the best circumstances in a controlled environment. The unannounced assessment measures the abilities of the laboratory to meet these standards for methods on an average day under normal working conditions and in a normal working environment. Each type of assessment has limitations and advantages, but the information obtained from both will provide a higher degree of confidence in the ability of the laboratory to attain a required level of competence in the quality of data produced for regulatory and compliance purposes. Refer to on-site assessment for additional information regarding frequency, procedures, criteria, scheduling and documentation of on-site assessments. Announced Assessments _The elements present in and criteria for announced assessments for national accreditation are: (a) The assessment must be performed a minimum of one time per year and be conducted on-site; i.e., the site at which the actual analyses take place; (b) The assessment may consist of any or all of the categories for which the laboratory wants to obtain accreditation; (c) The inspector must have access to all information and data requested both for analyses completed and laboratory personnel; (d) The results of the assessment and the Performance Evaluation sample analyses indicating satisfactory or unsatisfactory performance will be sent to the National Database on environmental laboratories; and (e) At least two performance evaluation (PE) samples, twice per year, for each method or field of testing, must be successfully analyzed according to the standards established for quality assurance/quality control, precision and accuracy. It may not be required to analyze PE samples during the on-site assessment. Marginal performance on any previous PE samples can be grounds for requiring that a subsequent PE sample analysis be performed under the observation of an inspector. Unannounced Assessments _The elements and criteria for the unannounced assessments for the purpose of the national accreditation program are: (a) The inspector may not be denied immediate access to the laboratory facility;
