FR940922-1-00008 FR940922-1-00004 (iv) Library officers working on commercial publication projects shall notify all collaborators of Library policy in writing if the collaboration is arranged through an exchange of correspondence. A statement of Library policy shall be incorporated into the agreement if the terms of the collaboration are embodied in any written instrument, such as a contract or letter of understanding. (6) Noncommercial users. Staff members assisting individuals who are noncommercial users of Library resources shall encourage them to extend the customary professional courtesy of acknowledging their sources in publications, including films, television, and radio, and to use approved credit lines. (7) Each product acquired for resale by the Library that involves new labeling or packaging shall bear a Library logo and shall contain information describing the relevance of the item to the Library or its collections. Items not involving new packaging shall be accompanied by a printed description of the Library and its mission, with Library logo, as well as the rationale for operating a gift shop program in a statement such as, ``Proceeds from gift shop sales are used to support the Library collections and to further the Library's educational mission.'' (8) Each item authorized by the Library pursuant to a licensing agreement (directly or through a third party) shall bear a Library logo and shall contain information describing the relevance of the item to the Library or its collections. (9) Office Systems Services shall make available copies of the Library seal or logo in a variety of sizes and formats, including digital versions. (10) Each service unit head shall be responsible for devising the most appropriate way to carry out and enforce this policy. (d) Violations. (1) All violations or suspected violations of this part or of 18 U.S.C. 1017 shall be reported to the Office of the General Counsel as soon as they become known. (2) Whenever the General Counsel has determined that any person or organization is engaged in or about to engage in an act or practice that constitutes or will constitute conduct prohibited by this part or a violation of any requirements of this part, the General Counsel shall take whatever action necessary, including seeking the assistance of the U.S. Department of Justice, to obtain injunctive relief or damages. Dated: September 16, 1994. James H. Billington, The Librarian of Congress. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;23416 Filed 9&hyph;21&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 1410&hyph;04&hyph;P
