FR940318-0-00073 FR940318-0-00013 (ii) Convertible stock. Convertible stock is treated as an option for purposes of this paragraph (d) (in addition to being treated as stock under ยง1.382&hyph;2(a)(3)(ii)) only if the terms of the conversion feature permit or require consideration other than the stock being converted. (iii) Series of options. For purposes of this paragraph (d), an option to acquire an option with respect to the stock of the loss corporation, and each one of a series of such options, is treated as an option to acquire such stock. (iv) General principles of tax law. This paragraph (d) does not affect the determination under general principles of tax law (such as substance over form) of whether an instrument is an option or stock. (10) Subsequent treatment of options treated as exercised on a change date_ (i) In general. The following rules apply to options that are treated as exercised under paragraph (d)(2) of this section on a change date: (A) The option is not treated as exercised under paragraph (d)(2) of this section on any testing date after the change date and prior to a transfer of the option that would itself ( i.e., without regard to the purposes for the issuance or any prior transfers of the option) cause the option to satisfy the ownership test of paragraph (d)(3) of this section, the control test of paragraph (d)(4) of this section, or the income test of paragraph (d)(5) of this section; and (B) The exercise of the option, if by the person who owned the option immediately after the ownership change (or by a transferee of the option who acquired the option, directly or indirectly, from that person in one or more transfers described in paragraph (d)(11) of this section), does not contribute to another ownership change on any testing date on or after the date of exercise. (ii) Alternative look-back rule for options exercised within 3 years after change date. If a loss corporation, on its return, as originally filed, for a taxable year that includes a change date, properly treats an option as exercised under paragraph (d)(2) of this section on the change date, and the option is actually exercised within three years after the change date, the loss corporation may treat the rules of paragraph (d)(10)(i) of this section as inapplicable to the option and instead treat the option as having been exercised on the change date for the purpose of determining whether an ownership change occurs on any and all testing dates after the change date (filing such amended returns as may be necessary for taxable years ending after the change date and before the date of exercise of the option). A transfer after the change date of an option to which this paragraph (d)(10)(ii) applies is treated as a transfer of the stock subject to the option. The exercise of an option to which this paragraph (d)(10)(ii) applies is not taken into account for the purpose of determining whether an ownership change occurs on or after the date of exercise.
