FR940127-1-00039 FR940127-1-00011 The proposed critical habitat units for the marbled murrelet coincide with the location of many of the Late-Successional Reserves as described in Option 9 of the FEMAT Report (USDA et al. 1993a) and Alternative 9 (USDA et al. 1993b). Alternative 9 is identified as the preferred alternative in the DSEIS for the Proposed Northwest Forest Plan. Based on the description of standards for management of and limitations on impacts to marbled murrelet habitat within the Late-Successional Reserves, management of the Reserves under Alternative 9 would be consistent with designating them as critical habitat for the marbled murrelet. Therefore, the economic effects of the designation of Late-Successional Reserves as critical habitat are not likely to exceed those described in the economic analysis of the FEMAT Report (Johnson et al. 1993, USDA et al. 1993a). The Service has preliminarily reviewed the possible economic impacts of designating critical habitat for the marbled murrelet on ongoing timber activities. Both the Forest Service and the Bureau of Land Management are currently under court injunctions prohibiting the offering of any new sales until the agencies comply with the National Environmental Policy Act and various forest management legislation. The Proposed Northwest Forest Plan will be presented to the court by April 1994 in an attempt to resolve the court's concerns. Pending that court decision, the only timber available to the timber industry from Federal lands are sold and awarded sales, particularly sales offered under the protection of Section 318. Therefore, the Service proposes to exclude sold and awarded sales from any final critical habitat designation due to economic impacts, both regionally and nationally, due to the limited amount of volume available for Federal harvest. Comments are requested from the public on this aspect of the proposed rule. The time constraints governing this proposed critical habitat designation did not allow for a more detailed evaluation on the particular areas proposed. Following receipt of comments and information during the public comment period, the Service will conduct additional economic analyses if needed. The Service will further evaluate the economic and other relevant impacts of including or excluding particular areas from a designation of marbled murrelet critical habitat. Public Comments Solicited The Service intends that any final action resulting from this proposal will be as accurate and as effective as possible. Therefore, comments or suggestions from the public, other concerned government agencies, Indian Nations, the scientific community, industry, or any other interested party concerning this proposed rule is hereby solicited. Comments are particularly sought concerning: (1) The reasons why any Federal lands (either proposed critical habitat or additional areas) should or should not be determined to be critical habitat as provided by section 4 of the Act, including adaptive management areas under Alternative 9 of the Proposed Northwest Forest Plan; (2) The location and reasons why any non-Federal lands should or should not be determined to be critical habitat as provided by section 4 of the Act, including potential threats and the value of any areas to the conservation of the species;
