FR940721-2-00060 FR940721-2-00035 Contesting record procedures: Contact the official at the address specified under notification procedures above, and reasonably identify the record and specify the information to be contested. State the corrective action sought and the reasons for the correction with supporting justification. These procedures are in accordance with Department regulations, 45 CFR 5b.7. Record source categories: The data contained in these records is either furnished by the individual or, in the case of some Medicare secondary payer situations, through third party contacts. In most cases, the identifying information is provided to the physician by the individual. The physician then adds the medical information and submits the bill to the carrier for payment. Systems exempted from certain provisions of the act: None. 09&hyph;70&hyph;0503 System name: Intermediary Medicare Claims Records, HHS/HCFA/BPO Security classification: None. System location: Intermediaries under contract to the Health Care Financing Administration and the Social Security Administration. Direct inquiries for intermediary locations to: HCFA, Bureau of Program Operations, Office of Contracting and Financial Management, Division of Acquisition and Contracts, Contractor Operations Branch, Meadows East Building, Room 332, 6325 Security Boulevard, Baltimore, Maryland 21207&hyph;5187. Categories of individuals covered by the system: Beneficiaries on whose behalf providers have submitted claims for reimbursement on a reasonable cost basis under Medicare parts A and B, or are eligible for Medicare, or individuals whose enrollment in an employer group health benefits plan covers the beneficiary under Medicare. Categories of records in the system: Billing for Medical and Other Health Services: Uniform bill for provider services or equivalent data in electronic format, and Medicare Secondary Payer records containing other third party liability insurance information necessary for appropriate Medicare claims payment and other documents used to support payments to beneficiaries and providers of services. These forms contain the beneficiary's name, sex, health insurance claim number, address, date of birth, medical record number, prior stay information, provider name and address, physician's name and/or identification number, warranty information when pacemakers are implanted or explanted, date of admission and discharge, other health insurance, diagnosis, surgical procedures, a statement of services rendered for related charges and other data needed to substantiate claims. The following elements are outpatient data provided to Medicare intermediaries by rehabilitation agencies, skilled nursing facilities, hospital outpatient departments, home intravenous drug providers and home health agencies that provide physical therapy in addition to home health services: •Outpatient's name. •HI number. •Admission data to provider. •Place treatment rendered. •Number of visits since start of care. •Diagnosis.
