FR940303-1-00006 FR940303-1-00003 A. During the course of his representation of a client a lawyer shall not: 1. Communicate or cause another to communicate on the subject of the representation with a party he knows to be represented by a lawyer in that matter unless he has the prior consent of the lawyer representing such other party or is authorized by law to do so. Rule 4.2 of the ABA Model Rules states: In representing a client, a lawyer shall not communicate about the subject of the representation with a party the lawyer knows to be represented by another lawyer in the matter, unless the lawyer has the consent of the other lawyer or is authorized by law to do so. Disciplinary authorities in all 50 states and in the District of Columbia have adopted one of these rules, or a similar prohibition. Underlying these rules is the recognition that when two parties in a legal proceeding are represented, it is unfair for an attorney to circumvent opposing counsel and employ superior skills and legal training to take advantage of the opposing party. At the same time, the courts have long recognized that government law enforcement agents must be allowed broad powers, within constitutional limits, to investigate crime and civil violations of police and regulatory laws. These powers properly include the authority to conduct undercover operations and to interview witnesses, potential suspects, targets and even defendants who waive their rights to remain silent. Although the Fifth and Sixth Amendments significantly restrict contacts with defendants after their initial appearance before a judge or after indictment, these constraints generally do not apply before a person has been taken into custody or charged in an adversary proceeding. Sound policies support this substantial power of police to investigate. The general public, victims of crime, and even potential suspects have a strong interest in vigorous inquiry by law enforcement officers before arrest or the filing of charges. As long as investigations were treated as within the province of the police alone, the traditional rule forbidding counsel from directly contacting represented persons did not come into conflict with legitimate law enforcement activities. In recent years, however, the Department of Justice has encouraged federal prosecutors to play a larger role in preindictment, prearrest investigations. Some of this increased involvement stems from the wider use of law enforcement techniques, such as electronic surveillance, which require the preparation of legal filings. Also, complex white collar and organized crime investigations necessitate more intensive engagement of lawyers, who present such cases to grand juries. Most important, greater participation of lawyers at the preindictment stage of law enforcement has been regarded as helpful in assuring that police investigations comply with high legal and ethical standards. This extension of the traditional prosecutor's responsibility has been a salutary development. One by-product, however, has been uncertainty about whether the traditional professional limitation on attorney contacts with represented parties should be viewed as a restriction upon prosecutors engaged in investigations and, by extension, the agents with whom they work. The overwhelming preponderance of federal appellate courts have held that the restriction on contacts with represented persons does not apply at the preindictment investigation stage. See, e.g., United States v. Ryans , 903 F.2d 731 (10th Cir.), cert. denied, 498 U.S. 855 (1990) (discussing cases); United States v. Lemonakis , 485 F.2d 941, 955&hyph;56 (DC Cir. 1973), cert. denied, 415 U.S. 989 (1974). Only the Second Circuit has suggested otherwise. See United States v. Hammad , 858 F.2d 834 (2d Cir. 1988). In recent years, state courts and state bar organizations have expressed different views on the point at which the prohibition on contacts now embodied in DR 7&hyph;104, Model Rule 4.2 and their analogs should apply to criminal enforcement proceedings. Uncertainty about the scope and applicability of DR 7&hyph;104, Rule 4.2 and their state counterparts has directly affected the investigative activities of agents, including Federal Bureau of Investigation and Drug Enforcement Administration personnel, who work with prosecutors. An expansive application of these rules in some jurisdictions may have the effect of blocking preindictment interviews or undercover operations that most courts have held permissible under federal constitutional and statutory law. This problem is compounded when federal attorneys assigned to the same case are members of different state bars. Under federal law, a Department attorney must be a member in good standing of a state bar, but he or she need not belong to the bar in each state in which he or she is practicing for the government. As a result, prosecution teams often comprise attorneys admitted to different bars. The application of different state disciplinary rules to these individuals creates uncertainty, confusion and the possibility of unfairness. Indeed, one member of a two-member federal prosecution team could receive a commendation for effective law enforcement while the other member would be subject to state discipline for the exact same conduct. In light of these circumstances, the Department has concluded that a compelling need exists which warrants a uniform federal rule to reconcile the traditional rule against contacts with a represented person with the obligation of the Department of Justice to enforce the law vigorously. Indeed, absent a new federal rule, prosecutors have been forced on occasion to reduce their participation in the investigative phase of law enforcement so as to leave federal agents unfettered by state disciplinary rules that were never intended to govern police behavior. Such a retreat from the field by prosecutors serves neither efficiency nor the interest in elevating legal compliance and ethical standards in all phases of law enforcement. Furthermore, the disciplinary rules themselves invite this type of regulation. Virtually all the states have adopted rules that include an ``authorized by law'' exception. These proposed regulations are intended to provide legal authorization in states whose bar rules provide that exception. Finally, the Department has long maintained, and continues to maintain, that it has the authority to exempt its attorneys from the application of DR 7&hyph;104 and Model Rule 4.2 and their state counterparts. Furthermore, the Department maintains that whether, and to what extent, such prohibitions should apply to Department attorneys is a policy question. See Ethical Restraints of the ABA Code of Professional Responsibility on Federal Criminal Investigations, 4B Op. O.L.C. 576, 577 (1980). However, in light of the fact that all 50 states and the District of Columbia have adopted some form of a prohibition on contacts with represented parties, and in view of the long history of those rules, the Department believes that its attorneys should adhere to the principles underlying those rules to the maximum extent possible. Therefore, even though the Department has the authority to exempt its attorneys from the reach of these rules, the Department has decided not to implement a wholesale exemption.
