FR941104-1-00057 FR941104-1-00009 Many species in the family have become extinct or reduced to very low numbers largely as a result of habitat destruction and/or degradation. A few species have been collected commercially, initially as a source of raw material for the button industry, but, since the advent of synthetic button materials and the artificial pearl industry in Japan, as a source of spherical blanks around which nacre is deposited by living bivalves during the production of pearls. These species, which are sought commercially, are generally characterized by their thick, white shells, and they occur most often in large rivers and reservoirs. Most states where they are harvested regulate their collection, usually with prohibitions on collection in waters known to contain populations of endangered or threatened unionid species. Although endangered and threatened unionids may occasionally be taken incidentally along with the commercial forms, there does not appear to be compelling evidence indicating any significant export of endangered mussels with commercial shipments for the pearl industry. Other species are harvested, although in smaller numbers, for the natural freshwater pearls used in jewelry. Still others, those with colorful nacre, are utilized directly in the production of jewelry. Shell collecting alone is believed to be a threat to some species, especially those that are rare or unique. Trade in these products and/or shells may constitute a threat to many species, especially those most endangered. Three comments were received during the comment period concerning a possible proposal to list unionids in the Appendices of CITES; one from the Fisheries Agency of Japan, one from the State of Missouri, and one from the Tennessee Shell Company, Inc. The FAJ voiced a general concern about listing species in the absence of sufficient scientific evidence to show that there is a threat to extinction for an Appendix I listing, or that they may become threatened with extinction unless such species are subject to strict regulation for an Appendix II listing. Specifically, they felt that no scientific data have been presented demonstrating the degree of extinction and the presence of threats from trading for each of the more than 200 species of freshwater mussels. Furthermore, they stated that listing all the species of this taxon because some are potentially threatened by collectors could also be similarly applied to all other groups of species, which would pose a serious obstacle to the effective use of living resources. They indicated that it would be inappropriate to enforce such regulations without justifiable reasons. The Tennessee Shell Company, Inc. expressed concern for the plight of freshwater mussels in general, citing such threats as water pollution, cold or hot water discharges into mussel habitat, sediment deposition, dredging, bridge construction, natural die-offs, etc. They offered support of efforts directed at the protection and conservation of freshwater mussels from habitat destruction resulting from these kinds of hazards. The Missouri Department of Conservation generally supported the listing of Unionid mussels in CITES Appendices, with the exception of four species that are of commercial value. After considering comments received, and the level of trade information available, along with the difficulties of species identification and the separation of look-alikes, the Service has proposed that the Appendices to CITES be revised by: 1. Transferring Epioblasma sulcata (= obliquata ) perobliqua , and Lampsilis satura from Appendix I to Appendix II; 2. Labeling Epioblasma sampsoni (now in Appendix I) as pe (probably extinct); 3. Deleting all the species now included in Appendix II, since they will be included in the following broader listing; and 4. Including all other North American populations of mussels in the family Unionidae in Appendix II, with the exception of the shells and the artificial pearls presumed to contain blanks from the taxa listed below. Amblema plicata, Ellipsaria lineolata, Fusconaia ebena, F. flava, Ligumia recta, Megalonaias nervosa, Obliquaria reflexa, Pleurobema cordatum, Quadrula apiculata, Q. metanevra, Q. nodulata, Q. pustulosa, Q. quadrula, and Tritogonia verrucosa. The Service believes that these species are easily distinguishable from the species listed as endangered or threatened under the Endangered Species Act.
