FR940817-2-00067 FR940817-2-00043 B. Comments on Vehicle Emissions Issues EPA provided an opportunity for the public to submit written comments. 36 Many comments were received from a wide variety of interests, including refiners, automakers, emission control manufacturers, states committees, environmental and public interest groups and private citizens. Taken together, the comments touched on every aspect of Ethyl's application. The following is a summary of the comments. 36 As mentioned previously, the comments received concerning Ethyl's remanded waiver application are available in public docket A&hyph;93&hyph;26. Four automakers (Ford Motor Company (Ford), General Motors Corporation (GM), Toyota Technical Center, U.S.A., Inc. (Toyota), and Chrysler Motors Corporation (Chrysler)), the American Automobile Manufacturers Association (AAMA), and the Manufacturers of Emission Controls Association (MECA) all recommended denial of Ethyl's request and expressed several concerns with regard to the addition of MMT to unleaded gasoline. First, they noted that the use of MMT will cause an increase in HC emissions. Most indicated that the more stringent emissions standards that began taking effect in model year 1994 will make any increase in HC emissions particularly troublesome. Further, they stated that newer technology vehicles will likely be equipped with catalysts which are nearer the engine (more ``closely coupled'') and that such close coupling, they stated, results in higher catalyst temperatures that may make the catalyst more prone to the deposition of manganese. These commenters indicated that deposition of manganese compounds on the surface of the catalyst would impair the catalytic breakdown of emissions from the engine, thereby decreasing catalyst effectiveness. Additionally, they were concerned that MMT, even at the 1/32 gpg Mn concentration requested, would plug catalysts and thus reduce the surface area of the catalyst available to break down emissions from the engine, especially in the case of vehicles operated under driving conditions which result in higher temperatures such as heavy load or high speed. Under such conditions, it was pointed out, the vehicle may be more prone to deposition of manganese. Ethyl indicated that the assertions that it must ``conclusively'' demonstrate the absence of negative effects is not required by the section 211(f)(4) standard. Ethyl believes that it need only demonstrate, by a preponderance of evidence, that the additive will not cause or contribute to the failure of emission control devices to comply with applicable emission standards, and, further, it believes that it has made this showing. Ethyl also stated that the EPA test program proposed at its October 1992 workshop involving the accumulation of 65,000 test miles, would be sufficient for purposes of gauging the effect of MMT on emissions. Ethyl commented that it followed this proposal in the 1992/93 test fleet, although mileage accumulation has continued beyond 65,000 miles for three of the eight model year vehicles tested without new emission results different from the trends established through 65,000 miles. With respect to the automakers' concerns about effect of MMT on newer emission technology such as close-coupled catalysts, Ethyl indicated that the use of the 1993 Transitional Low Emission Vehicle (TLEV) Honda Civic in its most recent test program was intended so as to introduce a vehicle which has the most physically possible close-coupled emission technology (i.e., one connected directly to the exhaust manifold). Despite such close-coupling, Ethyl indicated that the differences in hydrocarbon emissions between clear and MMT-fueled 1993 TLEV Honda Civics was minimal. Ethyl also indicated that this concern about close-coupled catalysts completely ignores that Ethyl tested two 1988 models and three 1993 models equipped with close- coupled catalysts without showing any significant adverse effects on emissions. Toyota submitted data on catalysts and oxygen sensors from in-use customer vehicles from Canada where MMT is used as a fuel additive. Toyota believes that these catalysts and oxygen sensors indicate that exhaust emissions of hydrocarbons and carbon monoxide are higher from catalysts/oxygen systems collected in Canada than comparable catalyst/oxygen systems from U.S. vehicles. Also Toyota submitted photographs of a catalyst taken from a high mileage Canadian Hilux pickup truck which showed plugging of the catalyst passages. Ethyl's response to Toyota's catalyst/oxygen system data is that it is not clear from the description of the Toyota test results precisely what can be concluded from the test program. Ethyl stated that, without a detailed vehicle history, there is no basis to conclude that MMT had an effect on the catalyst/oxygen system data.
