FR940906-0-00064 FR940906-0-00019 Round weight or round-weight equivalent means: (1) For groundfish or halibut _the weight of fish calculated by dividing the weight of the primary product made from that fish by the standard product recovery rate as determined using the best available evidence on a case-by-case basis. (2) For Bering Sea and Aleutian Islands area crab processed by catcher/processors _scale weight of a subsample multiplied by the number of subsamples comprising the retained catch. (3) For Bering Sea and Aleutian Islands area crab processed by mothership processor vessels or shoreside processors _scale weights of retained catches. Shoreside processor or shoreside processing facility means any person that receives unprocessed fish, except catcher/processors, mothership processor vessels, restaurants, or persons receiving fish for use as bait or personal consumption. Standard exvessel price means the exvessel price for species harvested in Research Plan fisheries, calculated annually by NMFS for each species or species group, from exvessel price information for all product forms, used in determining fee assessments. Tanner crab means Chionoecetes species or hybrids of these species. §677.3 Relation to other laws. (a) The relation of this part to other laws is set forth in §620.3 of this chapter and paragraphs (b) through (c) of this section. (b) Domestic fishing for groundfish. Regulations governing the conservation and management of groundfish in the Gulf of Alaska and the Bering Sea and Aleutian Islands management area are set forth at parts 672 and 675 of this chapter, respectively. The conservation and management of groundfish in waters of the territorial sea and internal waters of the State of Alaska are governed by Alaska Administrative Code at 5 AAC Chapter 28 and Alaska Statute at A.S. 16. (c) King and Tanner crab fishing. The conservation and management of king crab and Tanner crab in the Bering Sea and Aleutian Islands area are governed by Alaska Statutes at A.S. 16 and Alaska Administrative Code at 5 AAC Chapters 34, 35, and 39; and at part 671 of this chapter. §677.4 Permits. (a) General. In addition to the permit and licensing requirements at §301.3 of this title and 672.4, 675.4, and 676.13 of this chapter, all processors of fish from Research Plan fisheries must have a Federal Processor Permit issued by the Regional Director under this section. Such permits shall be issued without charge. (b) Application. The permit required under paragraph (a) of this section may be obtained by submitting to the Regional Director a completed Federal Processor Permit Application (Form FPP&hyph;1; see figure 1 to part 677) containing the following information: (1) The semiannual period for which the permit is requested. (2) The Research Plan fishery or fisheries for which the permit is requested. (3) If the application is for an amended permit, the current Federal Processor Permit number and an indication of the information that is being amended. (4) The processor owner's name or names, business mailing address, telephone number, and FAX number. (5) If the processor is a shoreside processor, the plant's name, business mailing address, ADF&G Processor Code, telephone number, and FAX number. (6) If the processor is a vessel, the vessel's name, home port, net tonnage, length overall, U.S. Coast Guard number, telephone number, FAX number, INMARSAT (satellite communications) number, and ADF&G number. (7) The applicant's name, signature, and date. (c) Issuance. (1) Permits required under this section will be issued semiannually by the Regional Director. (2) The Regional Director will issue a permit required under paragraph (a) of this section upon receipt of a complete application, if all Research Plan fees due are paid. Upon receipt of an incomplete or improperly completed application, or if Research Plan fees are not paid, the Regional Director will notify the applicant of the deficiency. No permit will be issued to an applicant until a complete application is submitted and all fees are paid. (d) Notification of change. Any person who has applied for and received a permit under this section must notify the Regional Director, in writing, of any change in the information provided under paragraph (b) of this section within 10 days of the date of that change. (e) Duration. The permit issued by the Regional Director will continue in full force and effect for the period January 1 through June 30, or July 1 through December 31, of the year for which it is issued, or until it is revoked, suspended, or modified under part 621 (Civil Procedures) of this chapter. (f) Alteration. No person may alter, erase, or mutilate any permit issued under this section. Any permit that has been intentionally altered, erased, or mutilated is invalid. (g) Transfer. Permits issued under this section are not transferable or assignable. Each permit is valid only for the processor for which it is issued. The Regional Director must be notified of a change in ownership, pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section. (h) Inspection. The permit issued under this section must be maintained on the processor vessel or at the shoreside processor. The permit must be available for inspection upon request by an authorized officer or any employee of NMFS, ADF&G, or the Alaska Department of Public Safety designated by the Regional Director, Commissioner of ADF&G, or Commissioner of the Alaska Department of Public Safety. (i) Sanctions. Procedures governing permit sanctions are found at subpart D of 15 CFR part 904. (j) Disclosure. NMFS will maintain a list of permitted processors that may be disclosed for public inspection. §677.5 Recordkeeping and reporting. (a) Applicability. Any processor that retains fish from a Research Plan fishery is responsible for compliance with the applicable recordkeeping and reporting requirements of this part. (b) General requirements. Any form, record, or report that is required to be submitted or provided to the Regional Director must be addressed or delivered to the National Marine Fisheries Service, P.O. Box 21668, Juneau, AK 99802. Submissions must be complete, legible, and in English. §677.6 Research Plan fee. (a) Fee percentage. The fee percentage will be set annually under procedures at §677.11, such that the total fees equal the lesser of the following: (1) The cost of implementing the Research Plan, including nonpayments, minus any other Federal funds that support the Research Plan and any existing surplus in the North Pacific Fishery Observer Fund; or (2) Two percent of the exvessel value of all Research Plan fisheries.
