FR940603-2-00017 FR940603-2-00014 DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE Department of the Air Force Solid Waste Management Facility, Andersen AFB, Guam; Notice of Availability Draft Environmental Impact Statement The United States Air Force announces the availability of a Draft Environmental Impact Statement for the construction of a new solid waste management facility at Andersen Air Force Base, Guam. The new facility will provide for recycling, composting, and disposal of asbestos, rubble (hardfill), and municipal solid waste. The purpose of the proposed action is to manage the solid waste generated by Andersen AFB (12,000 tons per year) after the existing on-base unlined landfill reaches capacity in approximately 2 years. The preferred alternative for municipal solid waste disposal is vertical expansion of the existing landfill. The proposed action is considered an interim measure, designed not to exceed 10 years, to accommodate Air Force needs until an island-wide solid waste management system can be implemented; however, the proposed action does have the capability for limited extension in the event that an island-wide system does not become available at the end of 10 years. Specifically, it is proposed that a new landfill be constructed on top of the existing one in such a manner that the liner system for the new facility will serve as a cap for the old facility. Provisions will be made for the collection, removal, and treatment of leachate, and for groundwater monitoring. Other alternatives considered include: a new landfill constructed at one of seven alternate sites on Andersen AFB, use of the Government of Guam Ordot Landfill, use of a proposed Government of Guam waste-to-energy facility, future use of an island-wide Government of Guam and Department of Defense landfill, incineration on base, use of the Navy landfill at the Apra Harbor Complex, and no action. Two major environmental issues affect the selection of a preferred alternative. First, the majority of Andersen Air Force Base overlies the Northern Guam Lens, which has been designated a sole source aquifer under the Safe Drinking Water Act. The Guam Environmental Protection Agency has established a groundwater protection zone that constrains activities in areas overlying the aquifer or serving as recharge zones. Second, the forested area along the cliffline on the east, north, and west boundaries of Andersen Air Force Base is habitat for endangered species. The primary endangered species of concern are the Mariana crow and the Mariana fruit bat. The principal threat to these species is predation on eggs and young by an introduced species, the brown tree snake. The proposed action includes engineering controls (a double liner with leachate collection, removal, and treatment) to minimize the likelihood of impacts to the aquifer. Furthermore, by capping the existing landfill, the proposed action will reduce the production of leachate from previously landfilled materials. Potential effects on the biota, and endangered species in particular, are unlikely because the proposed action will take place at a site that is already disturbed and has minimal habitat value. The United States Air Force invites comments and suggestions from all interested parties on the findings of the Environmental Impact Statement, and has tentatively scheduled a public hearing for May 1994. Notice of the exact time and place of the hearing will be published in the news media. If concerned persons are not able to attend the public hearing, written comments and suggestions will be accepted. To ensure that the Air Force will have sufficient time to fully consider public contributions, written comments must be received no later than forty-five (45) days from the publication of today's notice. Comments or requests for further information concerning this Environmental Impact Statement should be addressed to Mr. Roy N. Tsutsui, Chief, Environmental Flight, Andersen AFB, Guam, 633 CES/CEV, Bldg. 18001, Unit 14007, APO, AP 96543&hyph;4007; Phone: (671) 366&hyph;2101. List of Subjects Environmental Protection, Environmental Impact Statement, U.S. Air Force, Anderson AFB, Guam, Notice of Availability, Solid waste. Patsy J. Conner, Air Force Federal Register Liaison Officer. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;13525 Filed 6&hyph;2&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3190&hyph;01&hyph;P
