FR940825-1-00113 FR940825-1-00009 A Tribe will generally not be required to divest itself of ownership of any regulated entities to address this problem. Instead, for example, the Tribe could create an independent organization to regulate Tribal entities subject to CAA regulatory requirements. 13 Similar arrangements could be established using existing Tribal organizations. 13 While States also are both the regulator and regulated entity, state government organization is typically one in which the State agency operating the regulated entity is not the same State agency that has primary regulatory authority. Thus, this separation of functions helps avoid potential conflicts of interest. This discussion is intended to alert Tribes at an early date about a potential bar to regulatory program assumption that must be resolved. For example, section 110 of the CAA sets out some of the basic requirements that SIPs must meet to assure attainment and maintenance of the NAAQS. Section 110(a)(2)(E)(ii) of the Act directs that SIPs must provide requirements that the State comply with the requirements applicable to State boards under section 128. Section 128, in turn, provides that each SIP shall contain requirements that: (1) Any board or body which approves permits or enforcement orders under [the CAA] shall have at least a majority of members who represent the public interest and do not derive any significant portion of their income from persons subject to permits or enforcement orders under [the CAA], and (2) Any potential conflicts of interest by members of such board or body or the head of an executive agency with similar powers be adequately disclosed. EPA does not intend to limit Tribal flexibility in creating structures which will ensure adequate separation of the regulator and regulated entity. Instead, EPA will evaluate whether the Tribal submittal will ensure adequate separation of the regulator and regulated entity on a case-by-case basis in the context of the statutory and regulatory requirements applicable to the CAA program for which a Tribe is seeking approval. 5. Tribal consortia Each member of a Tribal consortium must meet the eligibility qualifications described above. However, members of a consortium may rely on the expertise and resources of the consortium in demonstrating that the Tribe meets the capability requirement described above. For example, some members of a consortium may have more technical expertise and environmental management experience than other members. A Tribe with less resources and expertise may rely on the combined resources of the consortium in demonstrating that the Tribe is ``reasonably expected'' to be capable of carrying out the functions to be exercised. However, a Tribe relying on a consortium in this manner must provide reasonable assurances that the Tribe has responsibility for carrying out necessary functions in the event the consortium fails to. B. Provisions for Which Tribal Implementation is Appropriate 1. Tribal Implementation is Generally Appropriate Part III.A discussed the eligibility requirements that a Tribe must meet in order to be treated as a State under the Clean Air Act. There is a separate question of whether it is appropriate to treat eligible Tribes in the same manner as States for all provisions under the Act, or whether only certain provisions lend themselves to such an approach. The Act provides that the Administrator shall promulgate regulations: specifying those provisions of [the CAA] for which it is appropriate to treat Indian tribes as States. Section 301(d)(2). The Act further provides, [i]n any case in which the Administrator determines that the treatment of Indian tribes as identical to States is inappropriate or administratively infeasible, the Administrator may provide, by regulation, other means by which the Administrator will directly administer such provisions so as to achieve the appropriate purpose. Section 301(d)(4). Thus, read together, the Act delegates to the Administrator broad discretion in determining those provisions of the Clean Air Act for which Tribes should be treated in the same manner as States and those provisions for which such treatment would be inappropriate or infeasible. It is EPA's basic position, proposed here, that treatment of Tribes in the same manner as States is appropriate for all programs under the Act with the exception of only a few provisions (those for which EPA has determined that it is infeasible or otherwise inappropriate to treat States and Tribes in the same manner). EPA proposes to be inclusive in identifying the provisions of the Act for which it is appropriate to treat Tribes in the same manner as States so as to maximize the opportunities for Tribal participation in CAA programs. In light of this basic approach, today's proposed rule provides that Tribes will generally be treated in the same manner as States for all the provisions of the Clean Air Act, and specifies the limited exceptions to this approach. EPA is proposing to treat Tribes in the same manner as States for all of the remaining provisions of the statute not identified as exceptions in the discussion below. Today's action also addresses alternative means to achieve the intended purpose of the Act, where EPA believes such provisions are necessary in light of a proposed exception. Section 301(d)(4).
