FR940304-2-00182 FR940304-2-00099 DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY Treasury Advisory Committee on Commercial Operations of the U.S. Customs Service AGENCY: Departmental Offices, Treasury. ACTION: Notice of meeting. SUMMARY: This notice announces the dates and locations of the next meetings and the agendas for consideration by the Treasury Advisory Committee on Commercial Operations of the U.S. Customs Service. DATES: The next meeting of the Treasury Advisory Committee on Commercial Operations of the U.S. Customs Service will be held on April 7&hyph;8 in Chicago, Illinois. The April 7 portion of the meeting will be held at approximately 3:30 p.m. in a U.S. Customs Service conference room at O'Hare Airport. The April 8 business meeting of the Committee will be held at 9 a.m. at Motorola Corporation, Motorola Campus, 1297 East Algonquin Road, Schaumberg, Illinois. The April 7 portion of the meeting, which will consist solely of briefings by Customs officials regarding a pending study of Customs reorganization, will be closed. The portion of the April 8 meeting that will consist of a general discussion by Committee members of proposals for Customs reorganization, and their recommendations, will also be closed. A subcommittee of the Advisory Committee will meet informally with representatives of the U.S. Customs Service reorganization team in the offices of Michael H. Lane, chairman of the reorganization team, at Customs Headquarters on March 21, 1994 to prepare for the discussion of reorganization at the Chicago session on April 7 and 8. This informal subcommittee meeting will also be closed. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Dennis M. O'Connell, Director, Office of Tariff and Trade Affairs, Office of the Assistant Secretary (Enforcement), room 4004, Department of the Treasury, 1500 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20220. Tel.: (202) 622&hyph;0220. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: I hereby determine pursuant to 5 U.S.C. app. 2, 10(d) and Treasury Order No. 101&hyph;05 that the premature disclosure of the pending study and any proposals regarding the Customs Service's reorganization, would be likely to significantly frustrate the implementation of a proposed plan to reorganize the Customs Service. Therefore, it is in the public's interest that specific portions of the Committee's next meetings regarding the study and any proposals be closed as permitted by 5 U.S.C. 552b(c)(9)(B). The Customs Reorganization Team has been soliciting and analyzing ideas for reorganizing the Customs Service to improve its efficiency and the quality of its service. These ideas are highly inchoate and have not received the endorsement of the Commissioner of Customs or the Treasury Department. The premature disclosure of this information would likely initiate speculation about site closings or site reductions resulting in precipitous actions by Customs Service employees and contractors as well as local residents and businesses. The premature disclosure of a proposal to close a site may cause site employees to relocate or resign and local contractors to eliminate services, thus frustrating the Customs Service's ability to later keep a site open when a reorganization plan is implemented. The preliminary agenda to be considered during the meetings on April 7 and 8, 1994 is as follows: April 7, 1994: 3:30 p.m.: Customs Reorganization Team Findings (Closed Session). April 8, 1994. I. Closed Session (9 a.m.). 1. Customs Reorganization Team Findings. II. Open Session (Approximately 11 a.m.). 1. North American Free Trade Agreement Implementation. 2. Customs Modernization Act Implementation. 2. Briefing and Discussion of U.S. Textile Program after the Uruguay Round with Ms. Rita Hayes, Deputy Assistant Secretary for Textiles, Apparel and Consumer Goods Industries, U.S. Department of Commerce. With the exception of the closed portion indicated, the April 8 meeting is open to the public. However, it is necessary for any person other than an Advisory Committee member who wishes to attend the meeting to give advance notice. In order to be admitted to the meeting, contact Ms. Theresa Manning at (202) 622&hyph;0220 no later than April 1, 1994. Details and confirmation of meeting room and time may be obtained from Ms. Manning. Dated: March 1, 1994. John P. Simpson, Deputy Assistant Secretary (Regulatory, Tariff and Trade Enforcement). [FR Doc. 94&hyph;5022 Filed 3&hyph;3&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4810&hyph;25&hyph;M
