FR940505-1-00377 FR940505-1-00012 ( ii ) The amount of adhesives, sealants, and adhesive primers used and the VOC content of such products; and ( iii ) The amount of solvents used and the VOC content of such solvents. ( 2 ) Such records shall be retained in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (d)(5) of this section. (D) Solvent welding operations used in the manufacturing of medical devices. (E) Plaque laminating operations where adhesives are used to bond a clear, polyester acetate laminate to wood with lamination equipment installed prior to July 1, 1992. Any person seeking to claim this exemption shall notify EPA in writing that a complying adhesive is not available. (F) Manufacturing operations of the following products: diving suits, rubber bladders, inflatable boats, life preservers, or other products designed for immersion in water or fuels. The adhesive products used by these operations must be labelled: For the Bonding of Immersible Products Only (ii) The provision of this section shall not apply to aerospace components. (iii) The provisions of this section shall not apply to any adhesive or sealant that contains less than 20 g/L of VOC per liter of adhesive or sealant, less water and less exempt compounds, as applied. (iv) Paragraph (d)(5) of this section shall not apply to facilities with a combined use of adhesives, sealants, adhesive primers, and solvents used in a total volume of less than 20 gallons on a calendar year basis. Any facility claiming this exemption must have information available, such as purchase orders, that will allow for the verification of facility usage. (v) Until January 1, 1997, the provisions of paragraphs (d)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section shall not apply to any facility using 3 gallons per day or less of adhesive used exclusively for thin metal laminating operations, provided that the adhesive contains less than 600 grams of VOC per liter of adhesive, less water and less exempt compounds, as applied. (5) Reporting and Recordkeeping . Any source within the affected area that uses greater than 20 gallons of adhesive and/or sealant product per year subject to paragraphs (d)(3)(i)(A)&hyph;(C) of this section shall comply with the following requirements: (i) Maintain a current file of each adhesive, sealant, adhesive primer, and solvent in use and in storage. The file shall provide all of the data necessary to evaluate compliance and shall include, but not be limited to, the following information, as applicable: (A) A data sheet or material list giving material name, manufacturer identification, and material application; (B) Any catalysts, reducers, or other components used and the mix ratio; and (C) The VOC content limit or vapor pressure limit from paragraph (d)(3) of this section and the actual VOC content, as applied, or vapor pressure of the adhesive, sealant, primer, or solvent. (ii) Maintain records of the monthly volume of each adhesive, sealant, primer, or solvent used. (iii) Any person using an emission control system as a means of complying with this section shall maintain daily records of key system operating and maintenance procedures which will demonstrate continuous operation and compliance of the emission control device during periods of emission-producing activities. Key system operating parameters are those necessary to ensure compliance with VOC content of coating requirements such as temperatures, pressures, and flowrates. (iv) All records shall be maintained for at least five years and shall be available for inspection and provided to EPA upon request. (6) Test Methods . For the purpose of this section, the following test methods shall be used: (i) VOC content . (A) The VOC content of aerosol adhesives and sealants shall be determined by EPA Method 24 (40 CFR part 60, appendix A); (B) The VOC content of aerosol adhesives or aerosol adhesive primers shall be determined using South Coast Air Quality Management District (SCAQMD) Test Method 305 for Aerosol Coatings; (C) The VOC content of emissions shall be determined by EPA Method 18 (40 CFR part 60, appendix A); and (E) The exempt compound content of coatings shall be determined by ASTM Test Method D&hyph;4457&hyph;85. (ii) Determination of collection efficiency of emission control systems . (A) Capture efficiency . The efficiency of the collection device of an emission control system, as specified in paragraph (d)(3)(iv) of this section, shall be determined by the EPA method described at §52.741(a)(4)(iii). (B) Destruction or removal efficiency . The efficiency of the control device, as specified in paragraph (d)(3)(iv) of this section, shall be determined by the EPA method described at §52.741(a)(4)(iv). The VOC content measured and calculated as carbon in the control device exhaust gases shall be determined by EPA Method 25 or 25A (40 CFR part 60, appendix A). (iii) The active and passive solvent losses from spray gun cleaning systems shall be determined using SCAQMD's ``General Test Method for Determining Solvent Losses from Spray Gun Cleaning Systems,'' dated October 3, 1989. The test solvent for this determination shall be any lacquer thinner with a minimum vapor pressure of 105 mm of Hg at 20 ○C, and the minimum test temperature shall be 15 ○C. (iv) The test method used to determine plasticizer content and flexible vinyls shall be ASTM Method E260&hyph;73, ``General Gas Chromatography Procedures.'' (e) Can and Coil Coating Operations. (1) Applicability . This section shall apply to all metal container, metal closure, and metal coil coating operations within the affected area except as specified in paragraph (e)(4) of this section. For the purposes of this section, the affected area is the Sacramento Metro Area for ozone as described at 40 CFR 81.305. (2) Definitions . For the purposes of paragraph (e) of this section, the following definitions shall apply. All terms not defined herein shall have the meaning given them in §52.2950. Closure means any component which is used to close or seal a filled can, jar, or bottle. Coating applicator means an apparatus used to apply a surface coating. Coating line means an operation or process for applying, drying, or baking and/or curing surface coating, together with associated equipment, including a coating applicator, flash-off area, and oven. Coil means any flat metal sheet or strip that is rolled or wound in concentric rings. Container means any metal can, drum, pail, or tube.
