FR940810-2-00118 FR940810-2-00074 SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION [Release No. IC&hyph;20440; 812&hyph;8936] Connecticut Mutual Financial Services Series Fund I, Inc. et al. August 3, 1994. agency: Securities and Exchange Commission (the ``SEC'' or the ``Commission''). action: Notice of Application for exemptions under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the ``1940 Act''). applicants: Connecticut Mutual Financial Services Series Fund I, Inc. (the ``Fund''), G.R. Phelps & Co., Inc. (``G.R. Phelps''), and certain life insurance companies (``Participating Insurance Companies'') and their separate accounts (``Separate Accounts''). relevant 1940 act sections and rules: Order requested under Section 6(c) of the 1940 Act for exemptions from Sections 9(a), 13(a), 15(a), and 15(b) of the 1940 Act and Rules 6e&hyph;2(b)(15) and 6e&hyph;3(T)(b)(15) under the 1940 Act. summary of application: Applicants seek an order to the extent necessary to permit shares of the Fund to be sold to, and held by, variable annuity and variable life insurance separate accounts of both affiliated and unaffiliated life insurance companies. filing dates: The application was filed on April 12, 1994 and will be amended during the notice period to reflect certain comments of the SEC staff. hearing or notification of hearing: An order granting the application will be issued unless the Commission orders a hearing. Interested persons may request a hearing by writing to the Commission's Secretary and serving the Applicants with a copy of the request, personally or by mail. Hearing requests should be received by the Commission by 5:30 p.m. on August 29, 1994, and should be accompanied by proof of service on the Applicants in the form of an affidavit or, for lawyers, a certificate of service. Hearing requests should state the nature of writer's interest, the reason for the request, and the issues contested. Persons who wish to be notified of a hearing may request notification by writing to the Commission's Secretary. addresses: Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549. Applicants, c/o Robert Vegliante, Esq., 140 Garden Street, Mail Stop 326, Hartford, Connecticut 06154. for further information contact: C. Christopher Sprague, Senior Counsel, at (202) 942&hyph;0670, or Michael V. Wible, Special Counsel, at (202) 942&hyph;0670, Office of Insurance Products, Division of Investment Management. supplementary information: The following is a summary of the application; the complete application is available for a fee from the Commission's Public Reference Branch. Applicants' Representations 1. The Fund is a Maryland corporation registered under the 1940 Act as an open-end, diversified management investment company. G.R. Phelps is the investment adviser for the Fund. The Fund currently consists of six separate portfolios, (individually a ``Portfolio'' and collectively, the ``Portfolios''): The Money Market Portfolio, the Government Securities Portfolio, the Income Portfolio, the Total Return Portfolio, the Growth Portfolio, and the International Equity Portfolio. Each Portfolio has its own investment objective, or objectives, and policies. Presently, shares of the Fund are sold to Connecticut Mutual Life Insurance Company (``CML'') to be credited, as appropriate, to its Panorama Separate Account, CML Variable Annuity Account A, CML Variable Annuity Account B, and CML Accumulation Annuity Account E. Each of these separate accounts established by CML funds benefits under variable annuity contracts issued by CML. Shares of the Fund are also sold to C.M. Life Insurance Company (``C.M. Life''), a wholly-owned subsidiary of CML, to be credited to its Panorama Plus Separate Account to fund benefits under variable annuity contracts issued by C.M. Life. 2. Shares of the Fund, may, in the future, be sold to other separate accounts established by CML or C.M. Life or to other issuers of variable annuity or variable life insurance contracts. Specifically, the Fund intends to offer its shares to separate accounts of any interested insurance company, including insurance companies unaffiliated with CML, in order to fund variable annuity contracts, single premium variable life insurance contracts, scheduled premium variable life insurance contracts, and/or flexible premium variable life insurance contracts (referred to collectively as ``variable contracts''). Such Participating Insurance Companies will establish their own Separate Accounts and will design their own variable contracts.
