FR941021-0-00127 FR941021-0-00020 (1) The equipment shall be appropriately identified in the award or otherwise made known to the recipient in writing. (2) DOE shall issue disposition instructions within 120 calendar days after receipt of a final inventory. The final inventory shall list all equipment acquired with award funds and federally-owned equipment. If DOE fails to issue disposition instructions within the 120 calendar day period, the provisions of §600.134(g)(1) apply. (3) When DOE exercises its right to take title, the equipment shall be subject to the provisions for federally-owned equipment. §600.135 Supplies and other expendable property. (a) Title to supplies and other expendable property shall vest in the recipient upon acquisition. If there is a residual inventory of unused supplies exceeding $5000 in total aggregate value upon termination or completion of the project or program and the supplies are not needed for any other federally-sponsored project or program, the recipient shall retain the supplies for use on non-Federal sponsored activities or sell them, but shall, in either case, compensate the Federal Government for its share. The amount of compensation shall be computed in the same manner as for equipment. (b) The recipient shall not use supplies acquired with Federal funds to provide services to non-Federal outside organizations for a fee that is less than private companies charge for equivalent services, unless specifically authorized by Federal statute as long as the Federal Government retains an interest in the supplies. §600.136 Intangible property. (a) The recipient may copyright any work that is subject to copyright and was developed, or for which ownership was purchased, under an award. DOE reserves a royalty-free, nonexclusive and irrevocable right to reproduce, publish, or otherwise use the work for Federal purposes, and to authorize others to do so. (b) Recipients are subject to applicable regulations governing patents and inventions, including government-wide regulations issued by the Department of Commerce at 37 CFR Part 401, ``Rights to Inventions Made by Nonprofit Organizations and Small Business Firms Under Government Grants, Contracts and Cooperative Agreements.'' (c) DOE has the right to: (1) Obtain, reproduce, publish or otherwise use the data first produced under an award. (2) Authorize others to receive, reproduce, publish, or otherwise use such data for Federal purposes. (d) Title to intangible property and debt instruments acquired under an award or subaward vests upon acquisition in the recipient. The recipient shall use that property for the originally-authorized purpose, and the recipient shall not encumber the property without approval of DOE. When no longer needed for the originally authorized purpose, disposition of the intangible property shall occur in accordance with the provisions of §600.134(g). §600.137 Property trust relationship. Real property, equipment, intangible property and debt instruments that are acquired or improved with Federal funds shall be held in trust by the recipient as trustee for the beneficiaries of the project or program under which the property was acquired or improved. Recipients shall record liens or other appropriate notices of record to indicate that personal or real property has been acquired or improved with Federal funds and that use and disposition conditions apply to the property. Procurement Standards
