FR941206-2-00112 FR941206-2-00076 [Release No. 34&hyph;35022; File No. SR&hyph;PHILADEP&hyph;91&hyph;03] Self-Regulatory Organizations; Philadelphia Depository Trust Company; Order Approving a Proposed Rule Change Establishing Procedures Whereby PHILADEP Interfaces With The Depository Trust Company's Same-Day Funds Settlement Services November 29, 1994. On December 3, 1991, the Philadelphia Depository Trust Company (``PHILADEP'') filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``Commission'') a proposed rule change (File No. SR&hyph;PHILADEP&hyph;91&hyph;03) under Section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act'') 1 to codify PHILADEP's accommodation procedures whereby a PHILADEP participant can gain access to same-day funds settlement (``SDFS'') services provided by The Depository Trust Company (``DTC''). Notice of the proposal was published in the Federal Register on May 28, 1993. 2 No comment letters were received. On September 27, 1994, PHILADEP amended the proposal in the following respects: 3 (i) PHILADEP seeks to increase the number of transactions 4 that may be processed in the system to one hundred (100) per day as opposed to the limitation of fifty (50) per day that was set forth in the notice of proposed rule change and (ii) PHILADEP will approve a transaction once the participant acknowledges the transaction and approves it unless the PHILADEP Interface Department determines that the participant needs to make a prepayment or pledge additional collateral to its account at PHILADEP to ensure that the transaction will not cause the participant to exceed its net debit cap or collateralization control. 5 These amendments are technical in nature and do not require republication of notice and filing. For the reasons discussed below, the Commission is approving the proposed rule change subject to the following limitations: (i) PHILADEP's program is limited to one PHILADEP participant and, (ii) the number of transactions that may be processed is limited to one hundred per day. 6 1 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1) (1988). 2 Securities Exchange Act Release No. 32347 (May 21, 1993), 58 FR 31058. 3 Letter from Keith Kessel, Compliance Officer, PHILADEP, to Peter Geraghty, Staff Attorney, Division of Market Regulation, Commission (September 21, 1994). 4 Infra note 6. 5 The third amendment clarifies the language in the notice of proposed rule change describing the above-referenced procedure. The amendment produces the same effect of requiring the participant to advance more funds or collateral before PHILADEP will accept or acknowledge the deposit. 6 For calculation purposes, a transaction is a securities delivery made to or from the participant's PHILADEP SDFS account whether free or against payment. I. Description To accommodate a PHILADEP participant that desires to settle its SDFS transactions through the facilities of a securities depository registered with the Commission, PHILADEP has become a participant in DTC's SDFS system. Consequently, PHILADEP will be the conduit for its participant's SDFS transactions. PHILADEP, as a participant in DTC's SDFS, will be required to make a deposit to DTC's SDFS Fund. PHILADEP will collect the SDFS Fund deposit from the participant taking part in PHILADEP's SDFS system. PHILADEP has no beneficial interest in any SDFS transactions and will not initiate any such transactions for its own account. Therefore, the extent of activity and concomitant collateral necessary to be posted to support such activity pursuant to the PHILADEP/DTC agreement will be collected directly from the PHILADEP participant generating the SDFS activity. In addition, the settlement debits and credits created by the activity in PHILADEP's account at DTC will be collected from or paid to the PHILADEP participant. DTC will charge PHILADEP its normal SDFS service fees, and PHILADEP will pass these fees to its participant making use of the linked service. This participant must execute a separate agreement with PHILADEP explicitly agreeing to abide by PHILADEP's relationship with DTC in connection with the provisions of SDFS services. Specifically, PHILADEP requires its participant to abide by DTC's rules and procedures governing the SDFS system. For example, DTC's SDFS security eligibility rules, instruction forms, processing cut-off windows, and risk controls are all directly incorporated as requirements to be followed by PHILADEP and its participant. PHILADEP's participant is provided with copies of DTC's SDFS procedures manual and is instructed to follow these procedures. Interdepository delivery orders cannot occur unless PHILADEP has an adequate SDFS securities position at DTC. To enhance further the risk reduction measures built into DTC's SDFS system ( e.g., ) net debit caps and collateralization controls), PHILADEP has established additional safeguards consistent with DTC's SDFS procedures with respect to its participant using the SDFS system. Each SDFS transaction authorization request on a delivery to be received from DTC is directed by PHILADEP's Interface Department to the PHILADEP participant for verification and approval or cancellation of the request. 7 If the participant acknowledges the transaction and approves it, 8 PHILADEP will verify that the transaction will not cause PHILADEP to exceed its net debit cap or collateralization controls at DTC, and concomitantly will not cause the participant at PHILADEP to exceed its net debit cap and collateralization controls at PHILADEP. 9 Only if the participant has sufficient funds and collateral in its account will PHILADEP authorize the delivery to be completed and credit the securities to the participant's account. If the participant has insufficient funds or collateral in its account, the transaction will recycle, and PHILADEP will contact the participant and allow the participant to post additional funds or collateral to permit the transaction to complete processing. 10 7 The participant must indicate a reason when cancelling a transaction. 8 The process of a participant acknowledging a transaction and approving it is known as receiver authorized delivery. 9 Because PHILADEP's account at DTC is an omnibus account and PHILADEP's program is limited to one PHILADEP participant, PHILADEP's net debit cap and collateralization requirement at DTC is the net debit cap and collateralization requirement for the participant in PHILADEP's program. 10 As an absolute protection from intraday settlement risk, PHILADEP in most instances will require its participant to have or deliver 100% of the funds to its account before PHILADEP authorizes the receipt of SDFS securities.
