FR940216-0-00267 FR940216-0-00010 Subpart F_Attest Engagements §80.125 Attest engagements. (a) Any refiner, importer, and oxygenate blender subject to the requirements of this subpart F shall engage an independent certified public accountant, or firm of such accountants (hereinafter referred to in this subpart F as ``CPA''), to perform an agreed-upon procedures attestation engagement of the underlying documentation that forms the basis of the reports by §§80.75 and 80.104. (b) The CPA shall perform the attestation engagements in accordance with the Statements on Standards for Attestation Engagements. (c) The CPA may complete the requirements of this subpart F with the assistance of internal auditors who are employees or agents of the refiner, importer, or oxygenate blender, so long as such assistance is in accordance with the Statements on Standards for Attestation Engagements. (d) Notwithstanding the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section, any refiner, importer, or oxygenate blender may satisfy the requirements of this subpart F if the requirements of this subpart F are completed by an auditor who is an employee of the refiner, importer, or oxygenate blender, provided that such employee: (1) Is an internal auditor certified by the Institute of Internal Auditors, Inc. (hereinafter referred to in this subpart F as ``CIA''); and (2) Completes the internal audits in accordance with the Codification of Standards for the Professional Practice of Internal Auditing. (e) Use of a CPA or CIA who is debarred, suspended, or proposed for debarment pursuant to the Governmentwide Debarment and Suspension Regulations, 40 CFR Part 32, or the Debarment, Suspension, and Ineligibility Provisions of the Federal Acquisition Regulations, 48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4, shall be deemed in noncompliance with the requirements of this section. (f) The following documents are incorporated by reference: the Statements on Standards for Attestation Engagements, Codification of Statements on Auditing Standards, written by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, Inc., 1991, and published by the Commerce Clearing House, Inc., Identification Number 059021, and the Codification of Standards for the Professional Practice of Internal Auditing, written and published by the Institute of Internal Auditors, Inc., 1989, Identification Number ISBN 0&hyph;89413&hyph;207&hyph;5. These incorporations by reference were approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies of the Statements on Standards for Attestation Engagements may be obtained from the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, Inc., 1211 Avenue of the Americas, New York, New York 10036, and copies of the Codification of Standards for the Professional Practice of Internal Auditing may be obtained from the Institute of Internal Auditors, Inc., 249 Maitland Avenue, Altamonte Springs, Florida 32701&hyph;4201. Copies may be inspected at the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Office of the Air Docket, 401 M Street, SW., Washington, DC., or at the Office of the Federal Register, 800 North Capitol Street, NW., suite 700, Washington DC. §80.126 Definitions. The following definitions shall apply for the purposes of this subpart F: (a) Averaging compliance records shall include the calculations used to determine compliance with relevant standards on average, for each averaging period and for each quantity of gasoline for which standards must be achieved separately. (b) Credit trading records shall include worksheets and EPA reports showing actual and complying totals for oxygen and benzene; credit calculation worksheets; contracts; letter agreements; and invoices and other documentation evidencing the transfer of credits. (c) Designation records shall include laboratory analysis reports that identify whether gasoline meets the requirements for a given designation; operational and accounting reports of product storage; and product transfer documents. (d) Oxygenate blender records shall include laboratory analysis reports; refiner, importer and oxygenate blender contracts; quality assurance program records; product transfer documents; oxygenate purchasing, inventory, and usage records; and daily tank inventory gauging reports, meter tickets, and product transfer documents. (e) Product transfer documents shall include documents that reflect the transfer of ownership or physical custody of gasoline or blendstock, including invoices, receipts, bills of lading, manifests, and pipeline tickets. (f) A tender means the physical transfer of custody of a volume of gasoline or other petroleum product all of which has the same identification (reformulated gasoline, conventional gasoline, RBOB, and other non-finished gasoline petroleum products), and characteristics (time and place of use restrictions for reformulated gasoline). (g) Volume records shall include summaries of gasoline produced or imported that account for the volume of each type of gasoline produced or imported. The volumes shall be based on tank gauges or meter reports and temperature adjusted to 60 degrees Fahrenheit. §80.127 Sample size guidelines. In performing the attest engagement, the auditor shall sample relevant populations to which agreed-upon procedures will be applied using the methods specified in this section, which shall constitute a representative sample. (a) Sample items shall be selected in such a way as to comprise a simple random sample of each relevant population; and (b) Sample size shall be determined using one of the following options: (1) Option 1. Determine the sample size using the following table:
