FR940606-1-00029 FR940606-1-00008 The proposed standards for depainting contains exemptions for parts stripping, spot stripping, and decal removal, each of which requires certain records to be maintained. For parts stripping, records must be maintained for each model of aerospace vehicle of the parts normally removed from the vehicle. For spot stripping and decal removal, annual records must be maintained of the number of aircraft stripped, the volume of organic HAP-containing chemical stripper used for spot stripping and decal removal, the average number of gallons of organic HAP-containing stripper used per aircraft, and all supporting data and calculations. For inorganic HAP emissions from depainting operations, either particulate filters or baghouses (equipped with either bag or cartridge filter media) would be used to achieve compliance. Records must be maintained of the filter manufacturer's recommended pressure drop limits and the readings of the pressure drop across the filter taken once each shift during which the depainting process is in operation. Also, records must be maintained of the particulate control efficiency of each filter and all test results, data, and calculations used to determine the control efficiency. d. Chemical milling maskant application operation. The EPA is proposing different levels of recordkeeping requirements depending on how the organic HAP and VOC content levels are being met. For chemical milling maskants that are individually compliant with the organic HAP and VOC content levels, records of the volume-weighted average masses of organic HAP and VOC emitted as applied must be kept. In addition, all data and calculations used to determine these values and the monthly volume of each chemical milling maskant formulation used each month must be maintained. If averaging among compliant and non-compliant chemical milling maskants is used to achieve compliance, then the proposed standards would require that up-to-date records of daily volume-weighted average mass of organic HAP and VOC contained in the chemical milling maskants as applied be maintained. This information would include all data and calculations used in determining these daily values, such as formulation data and Method 24 test results. As for primer and topcoat application operations, if a control device is used, up-to-date records must be kept on the control device. Each owner or operator would be required to keep records of the equipment monitoring parameter measurements specified in the proposed rule. For an incinerator other than a catalytic incinerator, continuous records must be maintained of the firebox temperature (or temperature in the ductwork immediately downstream of the firebox). For a catalytic incinerator, continuous records must be maintained of the gas stream temperature immediately before and after the catalyst bed. For both types of incinerators, records must be maintained of the overall control efficiency and all test results, data, and calculations used in determining the overall control efficiency. For carbon adsorbers, records must be maintained of the overall control efficiency, all test results, data, and calculations used in determining the overall control efficiency, and the length of the rolling material balance period and all of its supporting data and calculations used to determine the rolling period. e. Handling and storage of waste. Each owner or operator would be required under the proposed standards to keep an up-to-date record of each waste stream generated at the facility, identification of which wastes are subject to RCRA and which are not, and documentation supporting those determinations. 2. Reporting Requirements The proposed rule would require four basic types of reports: (1) Initial notification, (2) notification of compliance status, (3) periodic reports, and (4) other reports. In addition, the proposed rule would require that the results of any performance test required under §63.7 of the General Provisions to 40 CFR part 63, subpart A, be reported no later than 30 days after the completion of the test. 8 A permit application as required under 40 CFR part 70 may be used in lieu of the initial notification provided the same information is contained in the permit application as required for the initial notification. 8 Ibid. As stated above, the proposed standards adopt the reporting requirements contained in §63.9(a) through §63.9(e) and §63.9(h) through §63.9(j) and 63.10 (a), (b), (d), and (f) of 40 CFR part 63, subpart A. However, the time period allowed for the Administrator to notify the owner or operator in writing of approval or disapproval of the request for an adjustment to a particular time period or postmark deadline submitted under §63.9(i) has been changed to within 30 calendar days of receiving sufficient information to evaluate the request, rather than 15 calendar days as provided for in §63.9(i)(3). Sections 40 CFR 63.9 and 63.10 of the General Provisions identify the type of generic information to be included in the initial notification, notification of compliance status, and other reports and, therefore, this information is not repeated in this preamble. The following paragraphs summarize the additional information specific to the aerospace rule that should be included in the notification of compliance status and the type of information to be included in the periodic reports.
