FR941011-2-00009 FR941011-2-00002 Retrievability: Retrievable by name of confidential informant, investigative operative, or special agent. Safeguards: Computer files are password protected and other records are kept in limited-access areas during duty hours and in locked offices during nonduty hours. Retention and disposal: Confidential informant and investigative operative information is kept for 5 years after the date it is put into inactive status. It is then destroyed. Undercover identification documents are kept until the agency determines them to be outdated. They are then destroyed. System manager and address: Assistant Inspector General for Investigations, Office of Inspector General, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250&hyph;2317. Notification procedure: Inquiries and requests should be addressed to the Director, Information Management Division, Policy Development and Resources Management, Office of Inspector General, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250&hyph;2309. Record access procedures: To request access to information in this system write to the Director, Information Management Division, Policy Development and Resources Management, Office of Inspector General, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250&hyph;2309. Contesting record procedures: To contest information in this system, send request to the Assistant Inspector General for Policy Development and Resources Management, Office of Inspector General, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250&hyph;2310. Systems exempted from certain provisions of the Act: Pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a(j)(2), this system of records has been exempted from all provisions of the Privacy Act of 1974, 5 U.S.C. 552a, as amended, except subsections (b), (c) (1) and (2), (e)(4) (A) through (F), (e)(6), (7), (9), (10) and (11), and (i). Pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 552a (k)(2) and (k)(5), this system has been exempted from the following provisions of the Privacy Act of 1974, 5 U.S.C. 552a: subsections (c)(3), (d), (e)(1), (e)(4) (G), (H) and (I), and (f). USDA/OIG&hyph;3 System name: Investigative Files and Automated Investigative Indices System, USDA/OIG. System location: Physical files are kept in the OIG headquarters office in the Agriculture Administration Building, 14th Street and Independence Avenue SW, Washington, DC 20250&hyph;2307, and in the OIG regional offices and Investigations suboffices listed in the system of records designated USDA/OIG&hyph;1. The OIG regional offices and Investigations suboffices maintain physical files containing the report of investigation and the workpapers for each case investigated by that office. The headquarters files contain a copy of every investigative report, but no workpapers and not necessarily the copies of all correspondence in all cases. Older investigative files may be stored in Federal Records Centers or on microfiche, microfilm, or electronic image filing systems. Therefore, delays in retrieving this material can be expected. Selected portions of records have been computerized_see section 1 of ``Categories of records'' below. These records, used as a research tool, are accessible by computer terminals located in each OIG office. These records are maintained on a computer in the Agriculture Administration Building. Categories of Individuals covered by the system: The individual names in the OIG index fall into one or more of the following categories: Subjects. These are individuals against whom allegations of wrongdoing have been made. In some instances, these individuals have been the subjects of investigations conducted by OIG to establish whether allegations were true. In other instances, the allegations were deemed too frivolous or indefinite to warrant inquiry. Principals. These are individuals who are not named subjects of investigative inquiries, but may be responsible for potential violations. For example, the responsible officers of a firm alleged to have violated laws or regulations might be individually listed in the OIG index.
