FR940112-0-00130 FR940112-0-00024 §500.4 Statement of identity. (a) The principal display panel of a consumer commodity shall bear a specification of the identity of the commodity. (b) Such specification of identity shall comprise a principal feature of the principal display panel, shall be in such type size and so positioned as to render it easily read and understood by the consumer, and shall be in lines generally parallel to the base on which the package or commodity rests as it is designed to be displayed. (c) Such specification of identity shall be in terms of: (1) The name now or hereafter specified in or required by any applicable Federal law or regulation; or in the absence thereof, (2) The common or usual name of the commodity; or in the absence thereof, (3) The generic name or in other appropriately descriptive terms such as a specification which includes a statement of function. (d) The specification of identity shall not be false, misleading, or deceptive in any respect. Ingredients or components which are not present in the commodity in a substantial or significantly effective amount may not be mentioned in the specification of identity; except that a component present in a formulation in substantial and effective amounts, but not present in the final product due to conversion or transformation into a different entity (which different entity is present in the final product), may be mentioned in the specification of identity. §500.5 Name and place of business of manufacturer, packer or distributor. (a) The label of a consumer commodity shall specify conspicuously the name and place of business of the manufacturer, packer, or distributor. Where the consumer commodity is not manufactured by the person whose name appears on the label, the name shall be qualified by a phrase that reveals the connection such person has with such commodity; such as ``Manufactured for XXX ,'' ``Distributed by XXX ,'' or any other wording that expresses the facts. (b) The requirement for declaration of the manufacturer, packer, or distributor shall in the case of a corporation be deemed to be satisfied only by the actual corporate name, which may be preceded or followed by the name of the particular division of the corporation. In the case of an individual, partnership, or association, the name under which the business is conducted shall be used. (c) The statement of the place of business shall include the street address, city, State, and Zip Code; however, the street address may be omitted if it is shown in a current city directory or telephone directory. (d) If a person manufactures, packs, or distributes a consumer commodity at a place other than his principal place of business, the label may state the principal place of business in lieu of the actual place where such consumer commodity was manufactured or packed or is to be distributed, unless such statement would be misleading. (e) Standard abbreviations may be used in complying with the requirements of this section. §500.6 Net quantity of contents declaration, location. (a) The label of a consumer commodity shall bear a declaration of the net quantity of contents separately and accurately stated on the principal display panel. (b) The declaration of net quantity shall appear as a distinct item on the principal display panel, shall be separated (by at least a space equal to the height of the lettering used in the declaration) from other printed label information appearing above or below the declaration and, shall not include any term qualifying a unit of weight or mass, measure, or count such as ``jumbo quart,'' ``giant liter,'' ``full gallon,'' ``when packed,'' ``minimum,'' or words of similar import. The declaration of net quantity shall be separated (by at least a space equal to twice the width of the letter ``N'' of the style of type used in the net quantity statement) from other printed label information appearing to the left or right of the declaration. However, the ``e'' mark shall not be considered to be a qualifying word or phrase and may be used as part of the statement of the net quantity of contents where warranted. When used, the ``e'' mark shall be at least 3 millimeters (approximately 1/8 in) in height. The declaration of net quantity of contents shall be placed on the principal display panel within the bottom 30 percent of the area of the label panel in lines generally parallel to the base on which the package or commodity rests as it is designed to be displayed: Provided, that: (1) On consumer commodities having a principal display panel of 5 square inches (32.2 cm 2 ) or less, the requirement for placement within the bottom 30 percent of the area of the label panel shall not apply when the declaration of net quantity of contents meets the other requirements of this part, and (2) The requirements as to separation, location, and type size, specified in this part are waived with respect to variety and combination packages as defined in this part. §500.7 Net quantity of contents, method of expression. The net quantity of contents shall be expressed in terms of weight or mass, measure, numerical count, or a combination of numerical count and weight or mass, size, or measure so as to give accurate information regarding the net quantity of contents thereof, and thereby facilitate value comparisons by consumers. The net quantity of contents statement shall be in terms of fluid measure if the commodity is liquid, or in terms of weight or mass if the commodity is solid, semi-solid, or viscous, or a mixture of solid and liquid. If there is a firmly established general consumer usage and trade custom of declaring the contents of a liquid by weight or mass, or a solid, semi-solid, or viscous product by fluid measure, numerical count, and/or size, or (as in the case of lawn and plant care products) by cubic measure, it may be used, when such declaration provides sufficient information to facilitate value comparisons by consumers. The declaration may appear in more than one line of print or type. §500.8 Units of weight or mass and measure. (a) Statements of weight or mass shall be in terms of both avoirdupois pound and ounce and SI metric kilograms, grams, or milligrams. (Examples of avoirdupois/metric declarations: ``Net Wt 15 oz (425 g)'' or ``Net Wt 11/2 lbs (680 g)'' or `` 2.5 oz (70.8 g)''; examples of metric/avoirdupois declarations: ``Net Mass 425 g (15 oz)'' or ``Net Mass 680 g (11/2 lbs)'' or ``100 g e (3.5 oz).'')
