FR940926-0-00043 FR940926-0-00010 H. Benefits In the NPRM, NHTSA addressed the proposal's benefits with respect to CNG vehicles. The notice did not directly address the benefits of regulating the CNG fuel containers. NHTSA received no comments directly addressing the benefits of regulating CNG containers. Brunswick criticized the proposal, believing that it would place carbon fiber containers at a competitive disadvantage. Brunswick stated that the proposed single burst factor would provide less benefits than if the agency adopted NGV2. 9 9 Because NHTSA is adopting Brunswick's request for multiple safety factors, that commenter's concern about a single safety factor is moot. NHTSA anticipates that the number of CNG fuel vehicles will increase greatly in the near future, in light of directives by the Clinton Administration 10 and legislation by Congress to develop vehicles powered by cleaner burning fuels. This final rule will increase the safety of this growing population of vehicles. 10 Executive Order 12844 increased by 50 percent the number of alternatively fueled vehicles to be acquired by the Federal Government from 1993 through 1995. (April 21, 1993) In addition, in 1993, the President established the Federal Fleet Conversion Task Force to accelerate the commercialization and market acceptance of alternative fueled vehicles throughout the country. I. Costs In the NPRM, NHTSA stated that each container would cost $600. The agency further stated that the container testing costs would range from approximately $4,050 to $8,600 for each model of container. NGVC, NGV Systems, PST, Brunswick, ARC, Thomas Built, and Flxible addressed the costs of the proposal with respect to CNG containers. NGVC and the CNG container manufacturers stated that the proposal, especially given the single safety factor in the burst test requirements, significantly understated the costs of the rulemaking. Brunswick stated that container manufacturers would incur significant costs since they would have to redesign and requalify their currently designed tanks. As a result, it believed that the CNG containers would be more expensive and heavier. It estimated that the proposal would increase costs between 10 percent and 55 percent, depending on the material and method of construction. Brunswick further stated that this proposal would add many millions of dollars on an industry-wide basis. NGVC commented that the qualification tests could cost $20,000 for each model of container since many tests will be required on prototype containers. It stated that some manufacturers estimate that the design, manufacture, and qualification costs could approach $150,000 per container model, a figure that greatly exceeded NHTSA's estimate of $74,000. NHTSA believes that the basis for the comments about the costs of this rulemaking have been largely eliminated except in connection with carbon fiber tanks. The comments were based on the proposal for a single safety factor of 3.5 for all types of tanks. As noted above, the agency has decided to specify multiple safety factors that are consistent with NGV2 except in the case of the factors for carbon fiber containers. Since all the container manufacturers commenting on the proposal either already certify to or can comply with NGV2 without any design changes, the cost to manufacturers will be minimal for noncarbon fiber tanks. V. Rulemaking Analyses A. Executive Order 12866 and DOT Regulatory Policies and Procedures NHTSA has considered the impact of this rulemaking action under Executive Order 12866 and the Department of Transportation's regulatory policies and procedures. This rulemaking document was not reviewed under E.O. 12866, ``Regulatory Planning and Review.'' This action has been determined to be ``nonsignificant'' under the Department of Transportation's regulatory policies and procedures. NHTSA has estimated the costs of the amendments in a Final Regulatory Evaluation (FRE) which is included in the docket for this rulemaking. As discussed in that document, NHTSA estimates that the cost for the pressure cycling, burst, and bonfire testing will range from $9,000 to $21,725 per container size and type. In addition, the cost of the containers used in the test is estimated to range from $1,800 to $6,600. Since the safety factors in the burst test applicable to carbon fiber containers are more stringent than those in NGV2, the cost of those containers will increase. Based on comments by Brunswick and other information, the switch from carbon fiber containers meeting a 2.25 safety factor to carbon fiber containers meeting the factors adopted in this final rule will increase the container cost and the lifetime fuel costs about 8.75 percent for vehicles equipped with Type 2 containers. Those costs would be range from $115 for passenger cars to $602 for heavy trucks. The switch would increase costs about 37.1 percent for vehicles equipped with Type 3 and Type 4 containers, resulting in a cost increase ranging from $496 for cars to $2,560 for heavy trucks. B. Regulatory Flexibility Act NHTSA has also considered the effects of this rulemaking action under the Regulatory Flexibility Act. Based upon the agency's evaluation, I certify that this rule will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. Information available to the agency indicates that businesses manufacturing CNG fuel containers are not small businesses. C. Executive Order 12612 (Federalism) NHTSA has analyzed this rulemaking action in accordance with the principles and criteria contained in Executive Order 12612. NHTSA has determined that the rule will not have sufficient Federalism implications to warrant the preparation of a Federalism Assessment. No state has adopted requirements regulating CNG containers. D. National Environmental Policy Act In accordance with the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, NHTSA has considered the environmental impacts of this rule. The agency has determined that this rule will have no adverse impact on the quality of the human environment. On the contrary, because NHTSA anticipates that ensuring the safety of CNG vehicles will encourage their use, NHTSA believes that the rule will have positive environmental impacts. CNG vehicles are expected to have near-zero evaporative emissions and the potential to produce very low exhaust emissions as well. E. Civil Justice Reform This final rule does not have any retroactive effect. Under 49 U.S.C. 30103, whenever a Federal motor vehicle safety standard is in effect, a State may not adopt or maintain a safety standard applicable to the same aspect of performance which is not identical to the Federal standard, except to the extent that the State requirement imposes a higher level of performance and applies only to vehicles procured for the State's use. 49 U.S.C. 30161 sets forth a procedure for judicial review of final rules establishing, amending or revoking Federal motor vehicle safety standards. That section does not require submission of a petition for reconsideration or other administrative proceedings before parties may file suit in court. List of Subjects in 49 CFR Part 571
