FR940804-2-00152 FR940804-2-00083 (i) Total par value traded; (ii) Total number of compared transactions; and (iii) Total number of issues traded ( i.e., the number of different CUSIP numbers that were involved in compared transactions on that day). In addition to the aggregate data, the daily report will contain price and volume information about certain municipal securities that were ``frequently traded'' on that day. The Board believes that it would be appropriate to report issue-specific information only if four or more transactions in the issue are reported as compared on a given day. Using this threshold and based on recent levels of market activity, the Board anticipates that the daily list of frequently traded issues normally will range between 80 to 350 issues, with an average of about 180 issues each day. The size and composition of the list obviously would vary from day to day, depending upon market activity in specific cases. The information in the daily report about each ``frequently traded'' security will include: (i) The CUSIP number and security's description; (ii) The total number of transactions in the security and total volume traded; (iii) The highest and lowest prices of transactions in the security; and (iv) ``Average price'' information, i.e. , the number of transactions in the security involving par values between $100,000 and $1,000,000 inclusive, and the average price of those transactions. The Board will provide a statement to be included in the report pointing out that (a) the daily report represents only those inter-dealer transactions that have been submitted for comparison and that actually were compared on the previous day and (b) reported prices are affected by various factors such as transaction size. This statement is intended to ensure that readers unfamiliar with the municipal securities market do not misinterpret the daily report. Price Computation. Municipal securities transactions are sometimes executed on a dollar price basis and sometimes executed on a yield basis. The Board has chosen to use dollar price as the uniform expression of ``price'' in the daily report to simplify reporting procedures. In cases where dollar price is submitted for comparison, that dollar price, as compared by the comparison system, will be used in the daily report. In certain cases the security ``price'' for the daily report will need to be computed from other submitted data. For example, current procedures required for automated comparison allow the submission of par value and ``final money'' (total dollar amount of the transaction) to achieve comparison. The proposed Rule G&hyph;14 Transaction Reporting Procedures provide that the dealers will submit the amount of accrued interest in the trade to allow for computation of dollar price in these cases. The following formula will be used: Dollar price = (Final money_Accrued interest) / Par value For ``when, as if issued'' trades submitted for comparison on a yield basis, final money will be computed and a dollar price similarly derived if a settlement date is known. For yield transactions whose settlement date is not known, an assumed settlement date will be used. The assumed settlement date will be 20 business days from the first trade date on which that issue is submitted for comparison. On the daily report, a note will be added to the trade information stating that an assumed settlement date was used to compute the dollar price in the trade and showing the date used. Once the actual settlement date is known to NSCC, it will be used and noted as such when the issue is next included on a daily report. Fees and Costs. Subscription fees, estimated production costs for the daily report, and further technical details of the pilot program will be provided in a subsequent filing prior to beginning operation of the facility. Surveillance and Enforcement Uses of Pilot Program Information. In addition to public reporting, the proposed rule change would make transaction data available to the regulatory organizations charged with enforcing Board rules. Commenting on the need for better information in this area, the Commission's staff stated: In the Staff's view, a central flaw in the present regulatory system is the lack of an integrated audit trail in the municipal securities market of the type that exists in the stock and options markets. Because of the limited pricing information available in the secondary market for many thinly traded municipal securities, it is extremely difficult for the NASD to assess the fairness of the prices being charged retail customers by municipal securities broker-dealers. The Staff believes that the MSRB, the NASD, and the banking agencies should work to create a cost-effective trade reporting system that will provide the regulators with an integrated audit trail of municipal securities and result in improved surveillance for all segments of the market. The development of such an audit trail would increase the NASD's ability to examine and enforce the existing customer protection rules of the Commission and the NASD. 11 11 Staff Report, supra note 4, and 37. The transaction reporting pilot program will result in a centralized data base of trade information that is expected to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of inspection for compliance with and the enforcement of Board rules. All compared trades will be made available to these regulatory organizations, including those that compare after trade date and those not frequently traded. Comprehensive information will be made available, including identification of parties to each trade and the prices of all securities traded. The information to be made available through the pilot program will enable enforcement agencies to identify transaction patterns to detect market manipulation and other anomalies. It will also assist regulators in determining the market value of securities as they assess compliance with the Board's rule G&hyph;30 on fair and reasonable prices and commissions. The Board is working with the NASD and the bank regulatory organizations to ensure that the pilot system's outputs will meet their requirements for surveillance of the municipal securities market and enforcement of the Board's rules. The Board plans to evaluate expansion of the pilot program as experience is gained and comments on program operations are received from information users and the industry. The Board's first consideration will be how the daily report and surveillance mechanisms could be improved by including institutional customer transaction data and information on the time of trade. During this evaluation, the Board's goal will be not only to enhance the information contained in the daily report, but also to find cost-effective methods for providing even greater levels of transparency to the market, particularly with respect to customer transactions and the dissemination of transaction price information on a more contemporaneous basis. Effect of Proposed Rule Change upon Dealers. Dealers should experience minimal operational impact from the proposed rule change, since, as mentioned above, they are now required, pursuant to the Board's rule G&hyph;12(f)(i), to use the facilities of a registered clearing agency for the automated comparison of transactions. The transaction data submitted by dealers for comparison will be used by the transaction reporting pilot program. Thus, under the proposed program, dealers would not have to submit transaction data to a separate reporting system and should not incur additional operational costs. (b) Statutory Basis The Board believes the proposed rule change is consistent with Section 15B(b)(2)(C) of the Act, which requires, in pertinent part, that the Board's rules be designed:
