FR941003-0-00086 FR941003-0-00015 Monday October 3, 1994 Part IV Department of Transportation Federal Aviation Administration 14 CFR Parts 27 and 29 Airworthiness Standards; Crash Resistant Fuel Systems in Normal and Transport Category Rotorcraft; Final Rule Federal Register ␣/␣Vol. 59, No. 190␣/␣Monday, October 3, 1994␣/␣Rules and Regulations DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION Federal Aviation Administration 14 CFR Parts 27 and 29 [Docket No. 26352 Amdts. 27&hyph;30, 29&hyph;35] RIN 2120&hyph;AC68 Airworthiness Standards; Crash Resistant Fuel Systems in Normal and Transport Category Rotorcraft AGENCY: Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), DOT. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: These amendments add comprehensive crash resistant fuel system design and test criteria to the airworthiness standards for normal and transport category rotorcraft. Application of these standards will minimize fuel spillage near ignition sources and potential ignition sources and, therefore, will improve the evacuation time needed for crew and passengers to escape a post-crash fire (PCF). Implementation of these amendments will minimize the PCF hazard saving lives and substantially reducing the severity of physiological injuries sustained from PCF's in otherwise survivable accidents. EFFECTIVE DATE: November 2, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mr. Mike Mathias, Regulations Group, ASW&hyph;111, Rotorcraft Directorate, Aircraft Certification Office, FAA, Fort Worth, Texas 76193&hyph;0111, telephone number (817) 624&hyph;5123. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background These amendments are based on a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (NPRM) No. 90&hyph;24, issued September 27, 1990 (55 FR 41000, October 5, 1990). A correction to the NPRM was published on December 11, 1990 (55 FR 50931). Post-crash fires (PCF's) are the primary cause of fatalities and injuries in otherwise survivable impacts resulting from rotorcraft accidents. It is estimated that 5 percent of the occupants in survivable rotorcraft accidents are killed or injured by PCF's annually. These types of fatalities and traumatic injuries will be substantially reduced by the implementation of the design and test criteria of this amendment. Nearly all PCF's are caused by crash-induced fuel leaks that quickly come in contact with ignition sources during or after impact. The fuel containment and hazard elimination provisions contained in this amendment will, in the majority of cases, give occupants the time necessary to escape a survivable crash before a post-crash fire (PCF) could become life threatening. A crash resistant fuel system (CRFS) would not be expected to prevent all fires; however, a CRFS would, in the majority of survivable accidents, either prevent a PCF or delay the massive fire, or fireball, long enough to allow the occupants to escape. These standards have been validated by military safety statistics as significantly minimizing the PCF hazard and its associated fatalities and injuries. Discussion of Comments General Thirteen commenters, including representatives from small and large U.S. helicopter manufacturers, foreign airworthiness authorities, and foreign helicopter manufacturers, commented on the NPRM. All commenters agree with the FAA that CFRS installations will improve occupant survivability in parts 27 and 29 rotorcraft. The majority of commenters fully support all of the proposals. No commenter opposes adoption of the proposed amendments. One commenter proposes adoption of more stringent standards, and several commenters offer other counterproposals and recommendations for specific proposals. General Comments on the Proposals Unless specifically noted otherwise, the comments and responses apply to both proposed §§27.952 and 29.952, since the requirements in both are identical. The Use of the Term ``Flammable Fluid'' Flammable fluids other than fuel should not be included in the amendments, since all on-board light and heavy oil systems are affected. Accordingly, the commenter proposes that ``flammable fluid'' be changed to ``fuel.'' The FAA agrees with this comment, and appropriate changes have been made. Accuracy of the Economic Analysis One commenter questions the accuracy of the economic analysis but offers no specific recommendations or corrections. The FAA has reevaluated the analysis and found no changes were necessary based on this comment. Rigidity of the Proposals A commenter states that the proposed amendments are ``too rigid'' in their approach and limit the designers' choices. The FAA disagrees. Although the 50-foot drop height and certain strength requirements are specific, these and most of the other requirements do not mandate specific designs. Objective rules allow flexibility in showing compliance. An example of this flexibility is that bladders are not mandated; the rule specifies only freedom from leakage after impact. The amendments are intended to be as flexible as possible to allow design innovation while at the same time requiring a specific safety standard for a CRFS. Level of Detail in the Proposals A commenter states that the amendments include some very detailed requirements that are more appropriate for a Technical Standard Order (TSO). The FAA agrees that some of the details proposed for paragraphs 27.952 (e) and (f) and 29.952 (e) and (f) should not be regulatory requirements, are more appropriate for an advisory circular, and should not be part of the proposed standard. Therefore, those details have been removed and placed in the draft advisory material. However, the FAA disagrees with the commenter that the level of detail either in the proposals or in the advisory material would necessitate a CRFS TSO.
