FR940505-1-00066 FR940505-1-00012 EPA requests comment on whether the bump-up is an appropriate solution or whether the advantages of attainment by an earlier date justify the imposition of the measures necessary for 1999 attainment. g. Attainment demonstrations. As discussed in Section III.H.5.a, EPA believes that the set of measures proposed in this NPRM, in conjunction with adopted State and local measures, will bring the Sacramento area into attainment with the ozone standard by 1999 or 2005. This projection is based on extensive computer simulations of ozone formation performed using the Urban Airshed Model. 4. Ventura Ozone a. Reduction requirements. Anthropogenic emissions in Ventura in 1990 totaled approximately 105 tons per day of VOC and 86 tons per day of NO X . The existing air pollution regulations controlling these emissions are among the most stringent in the country. In addition, many of the CARB and VCACPD regulations prescribe future compliance requirements that are still more stringent, and the existing CARB standards on new engines and equipment will deliver increasing reductions each year as a result of fleet turnover. Sections II.B and III.H of this NPRM discuss the adopted CARB and VCAPCD rules and EPA's assignment of credit to the rules as part of the FIP/SIP attainment demonstration. Unfortunately, projected emission reductions from many of these State and local measures are offset by continued growth in the area's population and activity levels. Consequently, in the absence of further SIP or FIP measures, emissions in Ventura are projected to be 98 tons per day VOC and 75 tons per day NO X by the year 2005. EPA, CARB, and VCAPCD have performed extensive meteorologic analysis and airshed modeling of ozone formation in the area. This modeling suggests that various combinations of VOC and NO X reductions can achieve attainment with the ozone standard. As discussed in Section III.H.3, EPA is using reduction targets of 40 percent VOC and 40 percent NO X from the 1990 base-year emissions levels. Therefore, the SIP and FIP controls must achieve, by 2005, emission levels of 57 tons per day VOC and 46 tons per day NO X . b. SIP rules. Irrespective of EPA's FIP obligation, California and Ventura County are required to submit an ozone attainment SIP in November 1994. As part of this and previous SIP efforts, CARB and VCAPCD are continually adopting and modifying regulations to reduce NO X and VOC emissions. EPA is not proposing to act on any SIP improvements as part of this NPRM, but will do so on a case-by-case basis in separate actions. For purposes of the attainment demonstration in this NPRM, EPA is generally not assigning emission reduction credit to measures until they are fully adopted in enforceable form. EPA urges the responsible State and local agencies to complete rule development and submit rules for SIP approval as soon as they are fully adopted. This will allow EPA to approve the regulations and substitute the locally developed measures for FIP rules. c. FIP rules. The set of FIP measures proposed for implementation in Ventura relies largely on those regulations discussed in Section III.B as elements common to all three FIP areas. For mobile sources, this includes regulations for motor vehicles and I/M, nonroad vehicle and engine controls, forthcoming national regulations for locomotives, and strategies to reduce the ambient impact of ship traffic along the coast. For stationary sources, it includes regulations for solvent cleaning operations, wood products coatings, service stations, waste burning, and fugitive emissions, as well as the statewide measures and the emission cap programs. One FIP measure peculiar to Ventura affects emissions from ocean-going ships transitting up and down the Ventura coastline. In Section III.D.5.e.(4) of this NPRM, EPA discusses rerouting the Santa Barbara shipping channel farther from the coast, and a fee system designed to encourage ships to travel outside of the Channel Islands. d. Attainment demonstration. As discussed in Section III.H., EPA believes that the set of measures proposed in this NPRM, along with adopted State and local measures, will bring Ventura County into attainment with the ozone standard by 2005. This projection is based on extensive computer simulations of ozone formation performed using the Urban Airshed Model. e. Alternative attainment date discussion. Section 181(a)(1) of the Act requires that ozone SIPs demonstrate attainment as expeditiously as practicable but not later than, in the case of Ventura, 2005. As a result, EPA has attempted to identify practicable measures that could achieve attainment by an earlier date. For illustrative purposes, EPA focused this investigation on a target attainment date of 2000. EPA is not, however, proposing this attainment date or the following strategies in this NPRM. In today's NPRM, EPA is proposing two attainment options for the Sacramento area. 1999 is proposed because Sacramento is currently classified as a ``Serious'' ozone area, and 2005 is proposed because EPA is recommending reclassifying Sacramento to a ``Severe'' area. As discussed in paragraph III.B.3.e of this NPRM, EPA believes that attainment in Sacramento by 1999 would require unacceptably harsh control measures, and therefore prefers the 2005 option. Since Ventura's ozone problem is worse than Sacramento's (e.g., EPA is projecting that a 30% reduction of NO X emissions is needed for attainment in Sacramento while a 40% reduction is needed in Ventura), it is not surprising that attainment in Ventura by 2000 would also prove to be impracticable. Many of the mobile source FIP controls for the 2005 attainment demonstration are proposed for near-term implementation in Ventura, and will achieve substantial emission reductions by 2000. These include an enhanced inspection and maintenance program, national standards for nonroad vehicles and engines, offroad recreational vehicle standards, motorcycle standards, and a parking cash-out program. The difficulty in achieving full attainment by that date, however, is that many of the proposed mobile source strategies rely on engine and vehicle turn-over to reduce emissions. Tight emission standards for new onroad vehicles, for example, are not effective while people are still driving older cars. By 2000, new emission standards affecting heavy duty onroad and nonroad engines and locomotives will just barely begin to be felt in new engine purchases. In trying to identify practical measures for attainment in Ventura by 2000, EPA has considered control strategies similar to those proposed to bring Sacramento into attainment by 1999. These include the following: Onroad heavy duty trucks. EPA could accelerate replacement of old high-emitting onroad heavy duty truck engines by requiring local truck fleet owners to register and sticker their equipment to assure compliance with tight emission standards. Nonroad growth cap. EPA could propose that growth in the nonroad heavy duty category be capped such that emissions not exceed 1995 projected levels. Accelerate shipping fee system. EPA could accelerate the fee system designed to encourage shipping companies to reroute their shipping activities beyond the Channel Islands.
