FR940602-2-00179 FR940602-2-00094 (5) Examine the feasibility of using land exchanges to accommodate recreation residence and/or the proposed use. B. Other Resource Impacts. Show how recreation residence occupancy is compatible or in conflict with other National Forest System resources. Consider the applicability of section 106 of the National Historic Preservation Act and other Federal and State laws which may have an effect on these resources. c. Environmental Impacts. Discuss the environmental impacts of continued recreation residence use, together with the impacts of any improvements necessary for their continued use, compared with the impacts of the proposed use. Examine the environmental, economic, and social impacts of recreation residence use, the proposed use, and alternative public uses, particularly any necessary construction. 4. Decision Issuance and Documentation. a. If the project analysis results in a finding that continued recreation residence use will not conflict with the proposed alternative public use, issue a decision to amend the Forest plan, and modify existing permits as appropriate. Issue new term permits for the applicable lots following permit expiration. The decision document shall summarize the conclusions regarding recreation residence use and provide a basis for the issuance of new permits. b. If the project analysis results in a finding that (1) the recreation residence use is in some degree inconsistent with the Forest plan but that continued use does not conflict with the proposed alternative public use, or (2) that the proposed use can accommodate some or all of the recreation residence use, issue a decision to amend the Forest plan and modify existing permits as appropriate. Issue new term permits for the applicable lots following permit expiration. The decision document shall summarize the conclusions regarding continued recreation residence use and delineate, as appropriate, which permits will not be continued and which will receive new term permits. c. If the project analysis results in a finding that recreation residence use remains inconsistent with the Forest plan and is not compatible with the proposed use, issue a decision that the recreation residences lots are to be removed and the lots converted to the proposed use. d. In addition to other requirements specified in FSH 1909.15, the decision document shall include the following: (1) The estimated time of conversion. (2) The reasons the recreation residence use is or is not compatible with the proposed use. (3) The reasons why the proposed use was chosen over others. (4) A summary of alternatives to the conversion, including the possibility of combining or sharing use with recreation residence use; adjusting lots or locations of improvements to better accommodate common or shared uses; and alternatives suggested by affected holders and other interested members of the public. (5) The reasons any conflict between the recreation residences and the proposed use cannot be resolved. (6) Cost effectiveness of the proposed use. 5. Decision Notification. a. Notify holders and any interested parties of the decision and provide copies of the project analysis, NEPA documentation, any Forest plan amendment, and decision document as soon as possible after the decision along with notice of appeal rights under 36 CFR part 217 or part 251, subpart C. b. When lots will be converted to the proposed use and new permits will not be issued upon expiration of the present permits, provide with the decision notification: (1) Ten years or more notice that the lots will be converted to the proposed use (FSM 2721.23a). Normally, use the same conversion date for all affected holders in a particular group or tract. (2) Notice that the holder should refrain from making costly repairs, improvements, or expenditures except those that are necessary to protect holder and public health or safety. (3) Notice of whether in-lieu lots will or will not be made available, although the location of those in-lieu lots may not be known until permit expiration approaches. (4) Notice that fees will be adjusted in accordance with FSH 2709.11, section 33.2. 6. Project Analysis Decision Review. Two years prior to permit expiration (usually the 18th permit year), Forest Supervisors shall review project analysis decisions affecting those permits that are more than five years old to determine if there have been any changes in resource conditions that require reconsideration of the decision. For all reviews, the following apply: a. Reviews shall be objective, comprehensive, and in writing. New information, changed resource conditions, and new or changed land allocations made through the forest planning process shall be reviewed to determine if a new project analysis and/or additional NEPA compliance is needed. b. When initiating the review, notify affected holders and interested publics in writing and provide opportunity for involvement in accordance with Forest Service public involvement procedures. c. If review indicates that conditions have not changed, implement the decision. d. If review indicates that conditions have changed, initiate a new project analysis, including NEPA compliance, to determine future use of the lot(s). e. Notify affected holders and interested publics in writing of review findings, including notice that the result of the review is not appealable (36 CFR 251.83). 41.23c_Permit Decision Process. Exhibit 01 depicts the procedure to be followed in determining whether the recreation residence authorization should be continued. BILLING CODE 3410&hyph;11&hyph;M E:GRAPHICSEN02JN94.004 BILLING CODE 3410&hyph;11&hyph;C
