FR941230-0-00081 FR941230-0-00017 A minority report was submitted by five Council members in opposition to the bag limit reduction in the regulatory amendment. Their comments also were referenced in a subsequent Council letter that requested a seven-fish bag limit in lieu of the more conservative bag limits proposed in the regulatory amendment (i.e., they requested that the portions of the recommended regulatory amendment that pertained to bag limit reductions be rescinded). This letter was objected to by two separate minority reports, signed by one and five Council members, respectively. In addition, comments were received from 31 entities, including three from charter vessel and headboat associations, one from a commercial seafood association, one from a local government agency, and 26 from other members of the public. Specific responses follow each comment. Bag Limit Reduction Comment: The minority report opposing the regulatory amendment claimed that several Council members initially misunderstood the motion they voted for (including a five-fish red snapper bag limit) and thought instead they were voting for a six-fish bag limit. The minority report also claims that a motion to reconsider the vote approved by a majority of the Council failed because some Council members thought they were voting again on the proposal (instead of a motion to reconsider). Additionally, they stated the approved regulatory amendment provisions were voted on with inadequate discussion. Response: All motions at the Council meeting were adequately displayed on a screen for review and consideration prior to voting. The record shows that the vote for the more conservative bag limits was preceded by a vote to call the question. Passage of that vote to call the question indicates the majority of the Council evidently felt that the discussion of several alternatives was adequate. Failure of a subsequent motion to reconsider the bag limits also indicate the majority of the Council was aware of its actions. Review of the administrative record indicates that the Council's vote was procedurally correct. Comment: The Council's letter that recommended a seven-fish bag limit also requested rescission of the more conservative bag limit proposal. Three of the public comments contested the decision by NMFS not to withdraw the proposed rule in response to the Council's vote on November 16, 1994. Response: The framework procedure under the FMP sets out the process for annual management measure adjustments, under which the Council's original recommendation had already been forwarded for publication. The Council was advised by NOAA General Counsel at its November 1994 meeting that its new recommendation for the red snapper management regime in 1995 could be submitted as a comment on the proposed rule. NMFS fully considered the Council's recommendations before taking final action on the rule. The Council's letter is responded to herein.
