FR941004-2-00115 FR941004-2-00068 8. Trade in Hunting Trophies of Species Listed in Appendix I No document has been received from the CITES Secretariat. The United States continues to support implementation of Resolution Conf. 2.11 by all Parties. 9. Exports of Leopard Hunting Trophies and Skins No document has been received from the CITES Secretariat yet. However, the United States opposes any increases in quotas without adequate supporting data. The Service does not know whether this document will involve only a report on exports, or whether it will be similar to Resolution Conf. 8.10, which refers to the trade in leopard skins, including hunting trophies, under a quota system approved by the COP. Trade in leopard skins for noncommercial purposes is allowed under CITES Resolution Conf. 8.10, which recognizes killing in defense of life and property and to enhance the survival of the species. 10. Interpretation and Application of Quotas No document has been received from the CITES Secretariat yet; no position is possible at this time. 11. Trade in Specimens of Species Transferred to Appendix II Subject to Annual Export Quotas No document has been received from the CITES Secretariat yet; no position is possible at this time. In the past, this agenda item has involved a report noting compliance with provisions of quota systems. 12. Trade in Rhinoceros Specimens No document has been received from the CITES Secretariat yet; no position is possible at this time. The United States continues to be an advocate for strong enforcement of the Convention, and use of all possible measures to encourage countries to effectively implement the Convention. The United States continues to support decisions of the Standing Committee that illegal trade in rhinoceros specimens undermines the effectiveness of CITES. 13. Conservation of Rhinoceros in Asia and Africa No document has been received from the CITES Secretariat yet; no position is possible at this time. The United States continues to be supportive of efforts to benefit the conservation of rhinoceros species in Asia and Africa, while realizing that such conservation efforts are seriously undermined by any trade in rhinoceros specimens in contravention of the Convention. 14. Trade in Tiger Specimens No document has been received from the CITES Secretariat yet; no position is possible at this time. The United States continues to be an advocate for strong enforcement of the Convention, and use of all possible measures to encourage countries to effectively implement the Convention. The United States continues to support decisions of the Standing Committee that illegal trade in tiger specimens undermines the effectiveness of CITES. The United States is also exploring the possibility of having a special evening program on tiger conservation during the Conference. 15. Illegal Trade in Whale Meat The United States requested that this item be included on the agenda for COP9, and will submit a paper to the CITES Secretariat for transmission to the Parties prior to COP9. There was extensive discussion at the May, 1994 meeting in Mexico of the International Whaling Commission (IWC) regarding illegal international trade in whale meat, including involvement by CITES Parties. All whales subject to the IWC moratorium on commercial harvest are listed in CITES Appendix I. A resolution was adopted by IWC (introduced by the United States and other Parties) on this topic, and the issue is discussed in the IWC Infractions Report. The Service submitted the information in the IWC Infractions Report on international trade in whale meat to the CITES Secretariat. The United States is concerned that illegal trade in whale meat undermines the effectiveness of CITES for whale species, and will submit a paper on this topic for discussion at COP9. Several IWC member countries raised concerns at the IWC meeting that it was inappropriate to discuss trade in whale specimens outside of CITES. While a CITES COP is the appropriate venue for such discussions, the U.S. paper will encourage IWC to continue to explore this issue, and to report on progress to both the CITES Standing Committee and COP10. 16. Trade in Shark Products The United States requested that this item be included on the agenda for COP9, and will submit a paper to the CITES Secretariat for transmission to the Parties prior to COP9. The United States will request in that paper that this agenda item be renamed ``Trade in Shark Parts and Products'', in order to more accurately frame the debate. It is not the intent of that document to discuss shark management regimes, including catch quotas, minimum sizes, time and area closures, or gear restrictions. As was discussed in the January 27, 1994 Federal Register notice, the United States considered whether or not to submit a proposal to COP9 to include several taxa (families or genera) of sharks in Appendix II. There is limited information about a recent increase in international trade in shark parts and products, particularly in fins for the food market. The United States considered there to be insufficient scientific and trade data on which to base a listing proposal. The United States believes that this is an important issue for the Parties to discuss. The United States is considering requesting that the Animals Committee be called upon to recommend methods and processes for assessing the biological and trade status of shark species in international trade. The paper that the United States will submit may request action by the Animals Committee. The intent of the United States in asking that this issue be discussed by the Conference of the Parties is twofold: (1) To encourage discussion of how best to collect data on international trade in shark parts and products, particularly how to document catches by species; and (2) to collect data that will provide the best information about the impact of international trade (including introduction from the sea) in shark parts and products on both shark populations and the ecosystems on which they depend. 17. Trade in Plant Specimens (a) Nursery registration for artificially propagated Appendix I species. See Doc. 9.30_Nursery Registration for Artificially Propagated Appendix I Species.
