FR940407-1-00045 FR940407-1-00012 B. Annual Cost of the Capital Components Determining the cost of the regulated firm's senior capital ( i.e. , debt and preferred stock) and common-stock equity is the second step in estimating the WACC. The costs of each of these components are then applied to the capital structure ( i.e. , each is weighted on the basis of the proportion of the value of the total capital outstanding that each represents) in order to determine the WACC. 1. Cost of Senior Capital. There are usually few problems encountered in computing the cost of senior capital with precision. Regulatory commissions traditionally compute cost of senior capital on the basis of embedded (actual historical) cost. This is done by first computing the actual total annual fixed charges on long-term debt, including any amortized discount or premium and issuance expense, and the actual total annual dividend requirements on the preferred (and preference) stock for all issues on a dollar basis. These dollar figures are then converted to a percentage by dividing the actual total annual fixed charges on long-term debt by the actual total value of long-term debt outstanding, and the actual total annual preferred stock dividend requirements by the actual total value of preferred stock outstanding for all issues. If a future (rather than a historical) test year is used (as the FMC does), the cost of senior capital is calculated on the basis of: (1) The embedded cost for the existing long-term debt and preferred stock, and (2) the current cost for any new long-term debt and preferred stock that the regulated firm anticipates issuing on or before the final day of the projected test year. The embedded cost is used to calculate the cost of existing senior capital in order to determine what the senior capital will cost the firm today, in view of the fact that the majority of it was issued at prior points in time, and under bond and stock market conditions that could have differed substantially compared to those prevailing today. The objective is not to determine what the existing senior capital would cost if issued today. Rather, the embedded debt cost measures precisely what the regulated firm needs to satisfy its contractually required interest payments to those holding existing long-term debt, and preferred-dividend payments to those holding existing preferred stock. The current cost of bonds and preferred stock is, therefore, estimated only to measure the cost to the regulated firm when such senior securities are to be issued in the near future. 2. Cost of Common-Stock Equity Capital. The most critical problem in determining the WACC is that of estimating the cost of common-stock equity capital. The objective is to determine how much the regulated firm is required to earn in order to be able to entice investors into purchasing and holding its common-stock equity. A precise answer to this question is difficult to arrive at due to the absence of any expressed or fixed agreement as to the level of dividends that are to be paid by the regulated firm to its common-stock equityholders. Dividend payments, on the one hand, depend upon the profits of the regulated company. The allowable amount of profits, on the other hand, is the object of a rate investigation and hearing. A regulator, in allowing a fair rate of return, does not, therefore, have any predetermined gauge as to the level of profit and common-stock equity dividends required by investors. There are five major methods used to estimate the cost of common-stock equity capital: DCF, RP, CAPM, 26 Market-to-Book Ratio (``MBR''), and Comparable Earnings (``CE''). 27 The DCF, CAPM, RP, and MBR methods are market-based approaches that emphasize the standard of capital attraction articulated in Hope and Bluefield by examining investors' expectations of the regulated firm's profits, dividends, and market prices. The CE method emphasizes the comparable earnings standard specified by those cases by estimating the return on book common-stock equity of firms having risk similar to that of the regulated firm under consideration. The five methods are reviewed in turn. 26 The CAPM is actually a specific type of RP model. 27 The CE method is used by regulatory commissions traditionally to calculate the regulated firm's cost of common-stock equity capital. This approach differs significantly from the comparable earnings test currently used by the FMC, which estimates the rate of return on total invested capital ( i.e. , on long-term debt and common-stock equity) of the regulated carrier under consideration.
