FR940513-0-00065 FR940513-0-00018 For purposes of the fractions rule, overall partnership income is the amount by which the aggregate items of partnership income and gain for the taxable year exceed the aggregate items of partnership loss and deduction for the year. Overall partnership loss is the amount by which the aggregate items of partnership loss and deduction for the taxable year exceed the aggregate items of partnership income and gain for the year. In general, all items of partnership income, gain, loss, and deduction that increase or decrease the partners' capital accounts under ยง1.704&hyph;1(b)(2)(iv) are taken into account in computing overall partnership income or loss. The proposed regulations exclude allocations of certain items_generally by disregarding those items in computing overall partnership income or loss and the partners' allocable shares of overall partnership income or loss. In some situations, however, items are disregarded only until an allocation is actually made. The purpose of the exclusions is to allow ordinary economic business allocations (such as preferred returns), to avoid technical violations arising due to the requirements of section 704(b), and to avoid foot-faults. III. Public Comments and Clarifying Changes A. Manner in Which the Fractions Rule Is Applied One commentator requested clarification regarding the prospective application of the fractions rule, especially with respect to allocations that are taken into account only when an allocation is made. The final regulations clarify that a partnership generally does not qualify for the fractions rule exception for any taxable year of its existence unless it satisfies the fractions rule_both on a prospective and actual basis_for every year. The regulations also clarify that if the partnership violates the fractions rule by reason of an allocation that the regulations provide is ``disregarded'' or ``not taken into account'' until an actual allocation is made, the partnership is treated (subject to the anti-abuse rule) as violating the fractions rule only for the taxable year of that actual allocation and subsequent taxable years. The final regulations also add an example illustrating this wait-and-see approach. B. Section 704(c) Allocations The proposed regulations provide that tax items allocable under section 704(c) (or ยง1.704&hyph;1(b)(2)(iv)( f )( 4 )), are not included in computing overall partnership income or loss. The final regulations clarify that those types of tax allocations may nonetheless be relevant in determining if the partnership violates the anti-abuse rule. C. Exclusion of Reasonable Preferred Returns and Guaranteed Payments Under the exception for reasonable preferred returns, items of income and gain allocated with respect to a reasonable preferred return for capital are disregarded in computing overall partnership income or loss for purposes of the fractions rule. Reasonable guaranteed payments for capital or services also are disregarded. However, to qualify for the exception, the income allocation (or the deduction of the guaranteed payment) generally must not precede the making of the related cash payment. The final regulations adopt a commentator's recommendation that the exception for reasonable preferred returns should apply not only to allocations effected with items of income or gain, but also to allocations effected with overall partnership income. In implementing this change, the regulations refer to ``an allocation of what would otherwise be overall partnership income.'' (This technical refinement also was made to several parts of the regulation that previously referred to allocations of overall partnership income.) This is necessary because the exclusion of an allocated item from the computation of overall partnership income or loss for purposes of the fractions rule means that the item is not overall partnership income or overall partnership loss. Although the exception for reasonable preferred returns contained in the proposed regulations applies only to those allocations made to a QO, the final regulations apply the exception to all partners. Without this change, a partnership that paid a reasonable preferred return to both its QO and taxable partners arguably could disregard the allocations to its QO partners in computing overall partnership income or loss, but at the same time, take the corresponding allocations to its taxable partners into account in computing overall partnership income or loss. Although the anti-abuse rule of the proposed regulations does not permit the excessive allocation of income or gain to the QO partners that would result if this argument were accepted, the final regulations clarify this issue. A similar change was not called for with respect to guaranteed payments because guaranteed payments to taxable partners automatically are excluded from overall partnership income or loss. The proposed regulations generally provide that a material distribution is a return of capital if it is not attributable to the partnership's cash flow from its business operations. Concern was expressed that under this rule certain returns on capital might inappropriately be characterized as a return of capital. There also was a separate concern that this rule inappropriately implied that distributions of operating cash flow would generally not be respected as a return of capital. To address these concerns and to reflect that capital may be returned from a number of different sources, the final regulations provide that a designation of distributions in a written partnership agreement generally will be respected in determining a partner's unreturned capital so long as the designation is economically reasonable. Although the regulations do not specify when the designation must be made, timing may be relevant in determining whether the designation is reasonable.
