FR940104-1-00012 FR940104-1-00003 Further, this commenter indicates that the proposed 6-month compliance time to accomplish the inspection was unnecessarily stringent in light of the age of the service bulletins. From this comment, the FAA infers that the commenter requests an extension to the compliance time, although the commenter does not specify an alternative. The FAA concurs that the compliance time may be extended somewhat. The FAA has determined that extending the compliance time by 6 additional months will not adversely affect safety, and will allow the inspection to be performed at a base during regularly scheduled maintenance where special equipment and trained maintenance personnel will be available. It will also provide additional time to accomplish the additional modification proposed in this action. Therefore, paragraphs (a) and (b) of this supplemental NPRM have been revised to require that the inspection be accomplished within 12 months. Since certain of these changes expand the scope of the originally proposed rule, the FAA has determined that it is necessary to reopen the comment period to provide additional opportunity for public comment. The FAA estimates that 44 airplanes of U.S. registry would be affected by this proposed AD, that it would take approximately 8 work hours per airplane to accomplish the modifications and inspections, and that the average labor rate is $55 per work hour. Required parts would be nominal in cost. Based on these figures, the total cost impact of the proposed AD on U.S. operators is estimated to be $19,360, or $440 per airplane. This total cost figure assumes that no operator has yet accomplished the proposed requirements of this AD action. The regulations proposed herein would not have substantial direct effects on the States, on the relationship between the national government and the States, or on the distribution of power and responsibilities among the various levels of government. Therefore, in accordance with Executive Order 12612, it is determined that this proposal would not have sufficient federalism implications to warrant the preparation of a Federalism Assessment. For the reasons discussed above, I certify that this proposed regulation (1) is not a ``significant regulatory action'' under Executive Order 12866; (2) is not a ``significant rule'' under the DOT Regulatory Policies and Procedures (44 FR 11034, February 26, 1979); and (3) if promulgated, will not have a significant economic impact, positive or negative, on a substantial number of small entities under the criteria of the Regulatory Flexibility Act. A copy of the draft regulatory evaluation prepared for this action is contained in the Rules Docket. A copy of it may be obtained by contacting the Rules Docket at the location provided under the caption ADDRESSES. List of Subjects in 14 CFR Part 39 Air transportation, Aircraft, Aviation safety, Safety. The Proposed Amendment Accordingly, pursuant to the authority delegated to me by the Administrator, the Federal Aviation Administration proposes to amend 14 CFR part 39 of the Federal Aviation Regulations as follows: PART 39_AIRWORTHINESS DIRECTIVES 1. The authority citation for part 39 continues to read as follows:
