FR941207-0-00021 FR941207-0-00002 p. A new sentence is added after the first sentence in paragraph (f)(2); q. Paragraph (f)(4) is revised; r. Paragraphs (k)(1) and (k)(3) are revised; s. Paragraph (k)(4) is removed; t. The first sentence of paragraph (l) is amended by adding the words ``or renewed'' after the word ``into''; u. The introductory text of paragraph (m)(1) is revised; v. Paragraph (m)(1)(vii) is removed and reserved; w. The first sentence of paragraph (n)(3) is revised; x. Paragraph (n)(4) is revised; y. Paragraph (o)(1) is revised; z. The introductory text of paragraph (o)(2) is amended by removing the words ``reporting the information identified'' and adding the words ``the reporting requirements'' in their place. The revisions and additions read as follows: §250.30 State processing of donated foods. * * * * * (b) Permissible contractual arrangements. *␣*␣* (2) *␣*␣* (ii) When selling end products through a distributor, such sales shall be in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section. * * * * * (c) Requirements for processing contracts. (1) *␣*␣* However, processing contracts may give contracting agencies the option of extending contracts for two 1-year periods, provided that any changed information must be updated before any contract extension is granted, including the information in paragraphs (c)(3), (c)(4)(ii), and (c)(4)(viii)(B) of this section. The processor must have performed to the satisfaction of the contracting agency during the previous contract year, submitted all required reports and any corrections to such reports up to the time that contract extension occurs, and submitted its certified public accountant report as required under paragraph (c)(4)(xi) of this section before the contract may be extended. *␣*␣* * * * * * (4) *␣*␣* (ii) A description of each end product, the quantity of each donated food and the identification of any other ingredient which is needed to yield a specific number of units of each end product (except that the contracting agency may permit the processor to specify the total quantity of any flavorings or seasonings which may be used without identifying the ingredients which are, or may be, components of flavorings or seasonings), the total weight of all ingredients in the batch formula, the yield factor for each donated food, and any pricing information provided by the processor in addition to that required in paragraph (c)(4)(iii) of this section as requested by the contracting agency and a thorough explanation of what this additional pricing information represents. *␣*␣* (iii) The contract value of each donated food to be processed and, where processing is to be performed only on a fee-for-service basis as defined in §250.3, the fee-for-service; * * * * * (vii) A provision that end products containing donated foods that are not substitutable under paragraph (f) of this section shall be delivered only to eligible recipient agencies and that end products containing both substitutable and non-substitutable donated foods may be delivered and sold in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (d) and (e) of this section; * * * * * (xiii) A provision that the fee-for-service or value pass-through system to be used for the sale of end products to recipient agencies shall be described and be consistent with paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section. * * * * * (xvii) A provision that the processor shall provide pricing information summaries and updated pricing information summaries as required in paragraphs (d)(3) and (e)(2) of this section. (xviii) A provision that the processor shall maintain documentation which demonstrates that the level of the processor's commercial production has not been reduced, as required in paragraph (f)(1)(iii) of this section. (d) End products sold by processors. (1) When recipient agencies pay the processor for end products, such sales shall be under: (i) A refund system as defined in §250.3 and in accordance with paragraph (k) of this section; or (ii) A discount system which provides the price of each unit of end product purchased by eligible recipient agencies to be discounted by the stated contract value of the donated foods contained therein; or (iii) An alternative value pass-through system under which the value of the donated food contained in each unit of end product shall be passed to the recipient agency and which has been approved by FCS at the request of the distributing agency. Any alternative value pass-through system approved under this paragraph must comply with the sales verification requirements specified in §250.19(b) of this part, or an alternative verification system approved by FCS. The Department retains the authority to inspect and review all pertinent records including records pertaining to the verification of a statistically valid sample of sales. FCS may consider the paperwork and resource burden associated with alternative value pass-through systems when considering approval and reserves the right to deny the approval of systems which are labor-intensive and provide no greater accountability than those systems permitted under paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section. (2) When a processor delivers end products produced under a fee-for-service contract, the processor shall separately identify on the bill for the recipient agency the agreed-upon fee-for-service and any delivery costs. (3) Processors shall provide pricing information summaries to contracting agencies and contracting agencies shall provide this information to recipient agencies as soon as possible after contract approval. If this pricing information changes during the contract period, processors shall provide updated pricing information to the contracting agency 30 days prior to the effective date of the change, which, in turn, shall provide this updated information to eligible recipient agencies. (e) End products sold by distributors. (1) When a processor transfers end products to a distributor for delivery and sale to recipient agencies, such sales shall be under: (i) A refund system as defined in §250.3 and in accordance with paragraph (k) of this section; or (ii) A hybrid system which provides a refund for the contract value of the donated food shall be provided to the distributor in accordance with paragraph (k) of this section and the price of each unit of end product purchased by eligible recipient agencies through a distributor shall be discounted by the contract value of the donated foods contained therein; or (iii) An alternative value pass-through system under which the contract value of the donated food contained in each unit of end product shall be passed on to the recipient agency and which has been approved by FCS in accordance with paragraph (d)(1)(iii) of this section; or (iv) When a processor arranges for delivery of processed end products produced under fee-for-service contracts by distributors, the products shall be delivered and invoiced using one of the following procedures: (A) The recipient agency is billed by the processor for the fee-for-service and the distributor bills the recipient agency for the storage and delivery of the end products; or (B) The processor arranges for the delivery of end products through a distributor on behalf of the recipient agency. In this system, the processor's invoice must include both the fee-for-service and the distributor's charges as separate, clearly identifiable charges. (2) Processors shall provide pricing information summaries to contracting agencies and contracting agencies shall provide this information to recipient agencies as soon as possible after contract approval. If this pricing information changes during the contract period, the processor shall provide updated pricing information to the contracting agency, which, in turn, shall provide this information to the eligible recipient agencies. (f) Substitution of donated foods with commercial foods. (1) *␣*␣* (i) Only butter, cheese, corn grits, cornmeal, flour, macaroni, nonfat dry milk, peanut butter, peanut granules, roasted peanuts, rice, rolled oats, rolled wheat, shortening, vegetable oil, and spaghetti may be substitutable as defined in §250.3 and such other food as FCS specifically approves as substitutable under paragraph (f)(4) of this section (substitution of meat and poultry items shall not be permitted), * * * * * (iii) Processors shall maintain documentation that they have not reduced their level of commercial production because of participation in the State processing program.
