FR940707-2-00174 FR940707-2-00095 The Sample ITSFEA Compliance Procedures requires a ``Statement of Compliance by Associated Persons'' as described in ITSFEA Form 2 (``Form 2''). 10 Form 2 outlines a sample ``Statement of Compliance'' which should be read and signed by all associated persons at the time they join the member organization and at least annually thereafter. 10 A copy of the BSE's ``Statement of Compliance by Associated Persons'' was filed with the proposed rule change. The Sample ITSFEA Compliance Procedures also require a ``Statement of Compliance by Senior Reporting Member'' as described in ITSFEA Form 3 (``Form 3''). 11 Form 3 provides that each member organization must designate a Senior Reporting Member to be responsible for implementing all necessary policies and procedures on behalf of the member organization. 12 This person shall sign a Statement of Compliance on behalf of the member organization and submit such certification to the Exchange at the time the firm files its year-end FOCUS Report (Form X&hyph;17A&hyph;5). 11 A copy of the BSE's ``Statement of Compliance by Senior Reporting Members'' was filed with the proposed rule change. 12 This includes, inter alia , the filing of all appropriate information and the review of all employee accounts. The Sample ITSFEA Compliance Procedures provide additional guidance regarding account review and review of proprietary or associated person trading. For example, under the Sample ITSFEA Compliance Procedures, a member organization shall review, at least quarterly, all account statements and/or trade confirmations for accounts in which associated persons have a direct or indirect financial interest or make investment decisions and a written record of such review shall be maintained for three years. The Sample ITSFEA Compliance Procedures also provide, inter alia , that when conducting a review of proprietary or associated person trading, the timing or unusual nature of a transaction shall be considered. III. Discussion and Conclusion The Commission believes that the proposed rule change is consistent with section 6(b) of the Act, in general, and section 6(b)(5) of the Act, in particular, 13 in that it is designed to prevent fraudulent and manipulative acts and practices and promote just and equitable principles of trade. The proposal will accomplish this by setting standards and bringing consistency to member practices to prevent the misuse of material, non-public information. 13 15 U.S.C. 78f(b)(5) (1988). Broker-dealer Chinese Walls predate section 15(f) of the Act and have evolved to include policies and physical apparatus designed to prevent the improper or unintended dissemination of market sensitive information from one division of a multi-service firm to another. The Chinese Wall procedures also have developed trading reviews designed to prevent and detect illegal trading. Prior to the existence of section 15(f), however, the policies and procedures varied from one broker-dealer to the next, ranging from very tight, centralized control of information and review to little or no review or follow-up. The Division, in its Report, stated that broker-dealer oversight with regard to section 15(f) is an important issue and is best effectuated by SRO examinations and regulation subject to Commission oversight. 14 The Commission believes that the BSE's proposal adequately addresses the concerns raised in the Division's Report and that it should help to prevent the misuse of material, non-public information by brokers and dealers. 14 See Report, supra note 8 at 23. Specifically, the Commission believes that the policies and procedures set forth in Chapter II, Section 37(a) of the BSE Rules and the corresponding Supplementary Material provisions will serve to ensure that BSE members establish, maintain and enforce policies to prevent the misuse of material, non-public information, thereby helping to assure that BSE members are in compliance with section 15(f) of the Act. First, the requirement that all associated persons be advised in writing of the prohibition against the misuse of material, non-public information as defined in the Rule, and the requirement that member organizations and persons associated with them sign attestations affirming their awareness of, and agreement to abide by, the aforementioned prohibitions will serve to heighten awareness of associated persons of this prohibition. Second, the requirements that member organizations maintain copies of trade confirmations and monthly account statements for each account in which an associated person has a direct or indirect financial interest or makes investment decisions and that such brokerage accounts be reviewed by the member organization will assist Exchange and Commission review of those records and make any fraudulent acts easier to deter and detect. Third, the requirement that an associated person disclose to the member organization whether he, or any person in whose account he has a direct or indirect financial interest, or for which he makes investment decisions, is an officer, director or 10% shareholder in a company whose shares are publicly traded, and the requirement that transactions in the stock (or option thereon) of such company be reviewed to determine whether the transaction may have involved a misuse of material, non-public information, will assist the Exchange and the Commission in the detection and deterrence of the misuse of material, non-public information. The Commission believes that it is consistent with the Act for the BSE Rules to require that only members who file their FOCUS reports annually with the Exchange submit, along with their FOCUS Reports, an attestation of their compliance with the BSE Rule. In this regard, the Commission notes that members that file FOCUS Reports on a more frequent basis are subject to more frequent periodic audits by the Exchange. During these audits, the Exchange will review the procedures maintained by such members pursuant to the BSE's Rule. Members who file FOCUS Reports on an annual basis, however, are subject to audits on a more infrequent basis. Accordingly, the Commission believes that the requirement that these members file an annual attestation that they are in compliance with the BSE Rule will serve as a continuing reminder of the obligations of this rule. This should result in more internal compliance checks by members and, therefore, assist the Exchange in the administration of the BSE Rule without compromising the effectiveness of the rule or adherence to section 15(f) of the Act. The Commission believes that Supplementary Material .02 of Chapter II, Section 37 of the BSE Rule, which defines ``associated persons'' or ``person associated with a member'' is consistent with the Act. Currently, the Exchange, in enforcing its rules, applies the definition of ``person associated with a member'' or ``associated person of a member'' contained in section 3(a)(21) of the Act. The proposal adopts this definition into the Exchange's rules. Finally, the Commission believes that the designation of a senior reporting member to be responsible for implementing all necessary ITSFEA policies and procedures is appropriate to help ensure member firm compliance with the ITSFEA requirements of the Act. For the reasons stated above, it is therefore ordered, pursuant to section 19(b)(2) of the Act, 15 that the proposed rule change (SR&hyph;BSE&hyph;93&hyph;19) is hereby approved. 15 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(2) (1988). For the Commission, by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. 16 16 17 CFR 200.30&hyph;3(a)(12) (1991). Jonathan G. Katz, Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;16419 Filed 7&hyph;6&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
