FR940511-2-00188 FR940511-2-00119 Federal Highway Administration Environmental Impact Statement; Davidson County, TN AGENCY: Federal Highway Administration (FHWA), DOT. ACTION: Notice of intent. SUMMARY: The FHWA is issuing this notice to advise the public that an environmental impact statement will be prepared for a proposed project in Nashville Tennessee. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mr. Wright B. Aldridge, Jr., Planning, Environment and Research Engineer, Federal Highway Administration, 249 Cumberland Bend Drive, Nashville, TN 37228; Telephone (615) 736&hyph;7106. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The FHWA, in cooperation with the Tennessee Department of Transportation and the City of Nashville will prepare an environmental impact statement (EIS) on a proposal to improve access through the Nashville Central Business District, extending from Interstate Route (I&hyph;40) and Demonbreun Street to Interstate Routes 24/65 (I&hyph;24/65) and Shelby Avenue in Nashville, Tennessee. The proposed improvement would primarily use existing streets and would include the reconstruction of existing or construction of new structures over both the CSX Railroad and the Cumberland River, replacing the existing Demonbreun Street Viaduct and the Shelby Avenue Bridge, depending upon the choice of proposed alternatives. Improvements to the corridor are considered necessary to provide for both present and projected traffic needs. Options under consideration include (1) widening the existing corridor which includes the Demonbreun Street Viaduct, Demonbreun Street and the Shelby Avenue Bridge, and (2) utilizing other corridors south of the existing alignment and constructing new structures over the River and Rialroad. A total of four build alternatives are being considered. Letters describing the proposed action and soliciting comments were sent to appropriate federal, state and local agencies on April 12, 1994. A public meeting soliciting comments on the included alternatives was held on March 3, 1994. A public hearing will be held at a future date. Public notice will be given of the time and place of this hearing. The Draft EIS will be available for public and agency review and comment. These activities are providing input regarding the scope of the EIS. To ensure that the full range of issues to this proposed action are addressed and all significant issues identified, comments and suggestions are invited from all interested parties. Comments and suggestions concerning the proposed action and the EIS should be directed to the FHWA at the address provided above. (Catalogue of Federal Domestic Assistance Program Number 20.205, Highway Research, Planning and Construction. The provisions of Executive Order 12372 regarding state and local clearinghouse review of federal and federally assisted programs and projects apply to this program.) Issued on: April 25, 1994. Wright B. Aldridge, Jr., Planning, Environment and Research Engineer, Tennessee Division, Nashville, Tennessee. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;11316 Filed 5&hyph;10&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;22&hyph;M
