FR940124-0-00035 FR940124-0-00003 ยง907.21 Supporting documentation. The following supporting documentation shall be submitted to HUD with the proposed homeownership plan, as appropriate for the particular plan: (a) Value of property. An estimate of the fair market value of the property, including the range of fair market values of individual dwellings, with such information as HUD finds sufficient to support the estimate. (b) Condition of property. An assessment of the physical condition of the property, based on the standards specified in ยง907.6. (c) Workability of plan. A statement demonstrating the practical workability of the plan, based on analysis of data on such elements as purchase prices, costs of repair or rehabilitation, homeownership costs, need for maintenance or capital reserves, family incomes, availability of financing, and the extent to which there are eligible residents who are expected to be interested in purchase. (See ยง907.4(a).) (d) Capability of Housing Authority. Information to substantiate the commitment and capability of the Housing Authority and any other entity with substantial responsibilities for implementing the plan. (e) Consultation activities. A description of resident consultation activities carried out pursuant to ยง907.5 before submission of the plan, with a summary of the views and recommendations of residents and copies of any written comments that may have been submitted to the Housing Authority by individual residents and resident organizations, and any other individuals and organizations. (f) Housing Authority certification. The Housing Authority's certification that it will administer the plan on a nondiscriminatory basis, in accordance with the Fair Housing Act and implementing regulations and any other applicable statutes, regulations, or Executive Orders related to fair housing and equal opportunity, and that it will affirmatively further fair housing. The Housing Authority will also assure compliance with those requirements by any other entity that may assume substantial responsibilities for implementing the plan. (g) Legal opinion. An opinion by legal counsel to the Housing Authority, stating that counsel has reviewed the plan and finds it consistent with all applicable requirements of Federal, State, and local law, including regulations as well as statutes. In addition, counsel must identify the major legal requirements that remain to be met in implementing the plan, if approved by HUD as submitted, indicating an opinion about whether those requirements can be met without special problems that may disrupt the timetable or other features contained in the plan. (h) Resolution. A resolution by the Housing Authority's Board of Commissioners, evidencing its approval of the plan. (i) Other information. Any other information that may reasonably be required for HUD review of the plan. HUD approval is not required for documents to be prepared and used by the Housing Authority in implementing the plan (such as contracts, applications, deeds, mortgages, promissory notes, and cooperative or condominium documents), if their essential terms and conditions are described in the plan. Consequently, those documents need not be submitted as part of the plan or the supporting documentation. Dated: January 12, 1994. Henry G. Cisneros, Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;1528 Filed 1&hyph;21&hyph;94; 10:00 am] BILLING CODE 4210&hyph;32&hyph;P
