FR940804-0-00089 FR940804-0-00023 Paragraph (d)(3) states the rule that complaints retained for investigation under paragraphs (d)(1) and (d)(2) will be investigated and processed under section 504, title II, or both, as applicable, and will not be considered to be dual filed under title I. Section XX .7 Processing of Charges of Employment Discrimination Filed With the EEOC Section XX .7 outlines the procedures that the EEOC will take in determining whether to process a charge or to refer it to another agency. Section .7(a)(1) requires the EEOC, as a first step, to determine whether it has jurisdiction over the charge. If the EEOC has jurisdiction, it shall process the charge in accordance with its customary title I procedures, including notification of the respondent. Paragraph (a)(2) sets forth the procedures that apply when the EEOC determines that it does not have jurisdiction over the charge. Under such circumstances, the charge will be promptly forwarded to the Civil Rights Division for referral to the appropriate agency, or retention by the Department for processing, as applicable. Paragraph (b)(1) of § XX .7 states the basic rule applicable to charges filed with the EEOC, that is, when the EEOC determines that it has jurisdiction over the charge under title I, it shall retain the charge. Because EEOC processing of a charge filed with the EEOC is consistent with the charging party's expectations when filing the charge, no notice letter to the charging party, similar to the letter required to be sent to complainants under paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of § XX .6, is required. Paragraph (b)(2) has been newly added to the final rule. It provides that the EEOC shall refer to a section 504 agency for further action, as appropriate, any cause finding against a recipient that has failed conciliation and that the EEOC has declined to litigate. By providing for agency review under these circumstances, paragraph (b)(2) should promote the ADA's statutory goal of preserving section 504 remedies, while the requirement that section 504 agencies give due weight to EEOC findings should eliminate any need for duplicative agency action. Section XX .8 Processing of Complaints or Charges of Employment Discrimination Filed With Both the EEOC and a Section 504 Agency Section XX .8 sets forth the procedures that the EEOC and section 504 agencies shall follow in processing complaints or charges of employment discrimination that have been dual filed with both the EEOC and a section 504 agency. Paragraph (a) of § XX .8 sets forth the procedures applicable to complaints or charges of employment discrimination that are dual filed with both a section 504 agency and the EEOC, both of which have jurisdiction over the complaint or charge. Under those circumstances, the rule follows the general pattern established by the title VI/title VII regulation, and requires the EEOC to process charges that solely allege employment discrimination against an individual when the individual has not elected section 504 agency processing. Section 504 agencies will process all complaints that allege: (i) discrimination in both employment and other practices or services of the respondent; (ii) a pattern or practice of employment discrimination; or (iii) discrimination solely against an individual, when the individual has elected section 504 agency processing. This allocation of responsibility for complaint processing is the same as the allocation of responsibility for processing complaints originally filed solely with a section 504 agency under § XX .6. However, as discussed below, paragraph (e) of § XX .8 sets forth exceptions to this general scheme for special circumstances. Paragraph (b) requires complaints or charges to be referred to the Civil Rights Division if both the EEOC and the section 504 agency determine that they do not have jurisdiction over the complaint or charge. The Civil Rights Division is then responsible for making the appropriate referral to a section 504 or designated agency. Paragraph (c) requires the EEOC and each agency with jurisdiction under section 504 to develop procedures for determining whether complaints or charges of discrimination have been filed with the EEOC and with one or more agencies. It is anticipated that the Department, the Commission, and the section 504 agencies will work together to develop materials, such as a uniform filing form (or uniform portion of a filing form) that will facilitate coordination in processing employment complaints. Although some commenters requested that these procedures be stated in the final rule, it was decided that this activity is more appropriately conducted at a sub-regulatory level, which will permit more flexibility in developing efficient procedures. In addition, because the rule has been restructured to follow the title VI/title VII regulation rather than the ``first-filed'' approach, there is less need to determine whether a complaint or charge has been filed with more than one agency. For example, under the title VI/title VII model, the EEOC will become the primary agency processing complaints or charges that solely allege discrimination against an individual. Therefore, there is no need to determine whether these complaints or charges have been dual filed in order to establish responsibility for processing. In addition, the notice letter required to be sent to section 504 complainants prior to such a referral should provide an efficient mechanism for determining whether a charge has also been filed with the EEOC because it could be used to require complainants to reveal whether they had filed a complaint or charge with another agency.
