FR940913-2-00070 FR940913-2-00051 DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR Fish and Wildlife Service Rocky Mountain Arsenal National Wildlife Refuge Comprehensive Management Plan AGENCY: Fish and Wildlife Service, Interior. ACTION: Notice of intent to prepare an environmental impact statement. SUMMARY: Pursuant to the Rocky Mountain Arsenal National Wildlife Refuge Act of 1992, the Refuge Manager of the Rocky Mountain Arsenal National Wildlife Area, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (Department of Interior) gives notice of the agency's intent to prepare an environmental impact statement on the Rocky Mountain Arsenal National Wildlife Refuge Comprehensive Management Plan, Adams County, Colorado. DATES: Comments concerning the scope of the analysis should be received in writing by October 13, 1994. ADDRESSES: Send written comments to Dave Shaffer, Rocky Mountain Arsenal National Wildlife Refuge, Building 613, Commerce City, Colorado 80022&hyph;1748. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Dave Shaffer, Plan Coordinator, (303) 289&hyph;0232. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Rocky Mountain Arsenal National Wildlife Refuge Act of 1992 (Public Law 102&hyph;402) established the Rocky Mountain Arsenal as a National Wildlife Refuge following environmental cleanup, and provided authority for the Fish and Wildlife Service to manage the area as if it were a National Wildlife Refuge during the cleanup process. Pursuant to the Department of Interior's Departmental Manual implementing the National Environmental Policy Act, an Environmental Impact Statement will be prepared for all master plans for major new installations of the Fish and Wildlife Service. The Plan will guide the development of the Rocky Mountain Arsenal National Wildlife Refuge. Ray Rauch, Refuge Manager, will be the responsible official. Federal, state and local agencies, individuals, or organizations who may be interested in or affected by the decision regarding the Plan are invited to participate in the scoping process. Public involvement in the planning process will be sought by 1) sending planning updates and requests for comments to agencies, organizations, and individuals, and 2) holding open house/public comment forums in the Denver metropolitan area. Scoping meetings will be held on September 12, 13, and 14. Locations and times for the scoping meetings will be announced in the local news media and in a newsletter. The analysis is expected to take about 12 months. A draft environmental impact statement should be available for public review and comment by May, 1995. The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service believes it is important to give reviewers notice at this early stage of guidance provided by several court rulings related to public participation in the environmental review process. Reviewers of draft environmental impact statements must structure their participation in the environmental review of the proposal so that it is meaningful and alerts an agency to the reviewer's position and contentions. Judicial review may waive or dismiss objections that could have been raised at the draft environmental impact statement stage, but that were not raised until after completion of the final environmental impact statement. Dated: September 6, 1994. Terry Terrell, Acting Regional Director, Region 6, Denver, Colorado. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;22561 Filed 9&hyph;12&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4310&hyph;55&hyph;M
