FR940613-0-00147 FR940613-0-00018 Section 292.24␣Determination of Compliance and Noncompliance Under the proposed rule, this section provided an optional compliance determination process so that the landowner could obtain assurance from the Ranger that existing or proposed uses of their land are compatible with the Act and thus would not be acquired by the Secretary without their consent. A notice of noncompliance would mean that a proposed or actual land use does not comply with the standards in §292.23 and thus, could potentially trigger the initiation of the Secretary's land acquisition authority, as authorized by the Act. This section also proposed a process for reviewing a compliance or noncompliance decision. Comment: Noncompliance results in condemnation. One reviewer thought that the system to determine compliance or noncompliance was flawed because a finding of noncompliance resulted in condemnation. Response. Condemnation is one option that may be considered in the event of a noncompliance determination. However, it is not the only option. The proposed rule clearly states that if the Forest Service makes a noncompliance determination, it will offer suggestions on how the land use or development could be modified to avoid this result. As noted previously, condemnation is not the tool of choice to enforce compliance with the standards of this rule_it is the last resort. In administering the HCNRA, the Forest Service position has been, and will continue to be, one which favors discussion, negotiation, and cooperation with landowners to reach mutually satisfactory objectives wherever possible. Comment: Written petition. Three reviewers requested that the procedure to appeal a determination of compliance or noncompliance be modified to exclude ``other interested parties.'' These reviewers felt that the petition process provided by this rule should be strictly limited to the Forest Service and the affected landowner and that the involvement of outside parties would unnecessarily complicate and prolong the process. Another reviewer supported the petition process as set out in the proposed rule. Response. The Department agrees with the reviewers that requests for reviews of compliance and noncompliance determinations involving ``other interested parties'' could be unnecessarily cumbersome and time consuming and that the review process should be limited to those directly affected, i.e. the landowner whose property was the subject of the determination. Accordingly, in the final rule, paragraph (c) of §292.24 has been revised to limit petitions for review to affected landowners. Comment: Acquiescence to local zoning ordinances and administration. One reviewer felt that the compliance/noncompliance determination procedure should be discarded in favor of a system in which proposals for use and development of private land in the HCNRA would be channeled through the existing local mechanisms provided under the Wallowa County Land Use Development Ordinance and the Wallowa County Comprehensive Land Use Plan. In this alternative, the HCNRA Ranger's role would be limited to that of an interested party who would be able to testify in favor of or in opposition to a proposed use or development. However, if the Ranger opposed the proposal, it would be his or her burden to prove that the proposal is contrary to the County Ordinance and Plan. According to this reviewer, it is only through this mechanism that the standard of local citizen involvement required by state and local law would be satisfied. Response. This alternative is not one that the Department can implement and remain consistent with its responsibilities under the HCNRA Act. The federal interest must be protected and cannot be dependent upon, or subservient to, state and local zoning decisions. In effect, this alternative would relegate the Forest Service to the status of an interested party whose comments would be considered by the County in the context of a pending development or use proposal. Forest Service comments would not be binding on the commission, nor would they necessarily even be persuasive. It is difficult to comprehend how the Forest Service could carry out its responsibilities under the HCNRA Act and effectively ensure that activities on the private lands not impair the values for which Congress established the HCNRA under this system. It is the hope of the Department that the procedures currently in place at the state and local level will suffice to condition, restrict, or preclude many incompatible uses or developments in the HCNRA. The standards adopted by the final rule are from local zoning ordinances and applicable laws that already adequately protect the HCNRA. The County's disposition of pending development proposals should, in most cases, result in decisions that are compatible with the purposes of the HCNRA Act. However, in the event uses or developments are incompatible, or in the event that the County Ordinances and Plan are amended in such a way as to lessen the restrictions on private lands which would thereby increase the potential threat to the HCNRA, then the Forest Service must have the ability to enforce the standards needed to protect the HCNRA. The rule as proposed provides this protection. Therefore, no change was made to §292.24 in response to this comment.
