FR940825-1-00012 FR940825-1-00002 C. Mastic and caulking materials applied to provide flexible seals between components of exterior wall construction. D. Roof covering materials as prescribed in section f.1.(b). 2. Exterior Walls. (a) Exterior walls of ATCTs shall be noncombustible. Exception: Exterior nonloadbearing walls of existing ATCTs may be constructed of combustible materials if the structural elements of the ATCT are protected. (b) Exterior walls of ATCTs shall be protected from weather damage. 3. Exterior Opening Protectives. (a) Approved protected construction shall be provided for every opening that is less than 15 feet vertically above the roof of an adjoining building and within a horizontal fire separation distance of 15 feet of an adjacent building, unless the building's roof construction affords a fire resistance rating of not less than one hour. 4. Fire Separation Assemblies. (a) Fire separation assemblies installed to enclose exits, floor openings, vertical shafts, and for separation of hazardous areas shall be constructed of approved materials consistent with the limitations for the type of construction and shall have not less than the fire resistance rating prescribed by section f.1.(b). (b) Openings in exit enclosures other than unexposed exterior openings shall be limited to those necessary for exit access to the enclosure from normally occupied spaces and for egress from the enclosure. All opening protectives in fire separation assemblies shall have the minimum fire resistance rating as prescribed in section f.9. (c) All vertical fire separation assemblies shall extend from the top of the fire resistance rated floor assembly below to the underside of the slab or deck above and shall be securely attached thereto. These walls shall be continuous through all concealed spaces such as the space above a suspended ceiling. The supporting construction shall be protected to afford the required fire resistance rating of the fire separation assembly supported. All hollow vertical spaces shall be firestopped at every floor level as required in section f.11. Exception: Interstitial (crawl space) subjunction (immediately below the cab) levels do not require fire separation assemblies provided the ATCT meets the other criteria established in this standard (e.g., fire resistance rated protectives, fire detection and alarm systems). (d) Where exterior walls serve as a part of a required fire resistance rated enclosure, such walls shall comply with the requirements of section f.2 of exterior walls and the fire resistance rated enclosure requirements shall not apply. 5. Vertical Shafts. (a) Vertical shafts include stairways; HVAC, mechanical, electrical, and plumbing chases; elevators; and dumbwaiters. (b) Vertical shafts and their enclosures shall be constructed of materials permitted by f.1 for the type of construction of the ATCT. Vertical shaft walls which are exterior walls shall be constructed of materials approved for exterior walls. (c) All vertical shafts in ATCTs shall be enclosed with fire separation assemblies having at least a 2-hour fire resistive rating. Exception: Vertical shafts connecting fewer than four (4) stories may be enclosed by 1-hour rated construction. (d) A vertical shaft that does not extend to the underside of the roof deck shall be enclosed at the top with a fire separation assembly having a fire resistance rating of not less than that required for the shaft enclosure walls. (e) Shafts which do not extend to the bottom of the ATCT shall be enclosed at the lowest ATCT level with a fire separation assembly (e.g., fire resistant construction) having a fire resistance rating of not less than that required for the shaft enclosure walls, or the shaft shall terminate in a room having an occupancy related to the purpose of the shaft. The room shall be separated from the remainder of the ATCT by fire separation assemblies having a fire resistance rating with openings protected as prescribed in section f.9. (f) Every shaft opening shall be protected by a normally closed, self-closing, or automatic closing door, cover, hatch, removable section, damper, or other device arranged to meet the requirements of f.9 or f.10. 6. Elevators and Dumbwaiters. Elevators and dumbwaiters shall conform to the requirements of the Safety Code for Elevators and Escalators (ASME A17.1 for new elevators and dumbwaiters and ASME/ANSI A17.3 for existing elevator and dumbwaiters) American Society of Mechanical Engineers and the American National Standards Institute, New York, New York. Exception: For existing elevators, Phase II emergency in-car operation shall not be required. 7. Fire Partitions. (a) Fire partitions for new ATCTs shall be noncombustible and have the minimum fire resistance rating prescribed by section f.1.(b) for the type of construction. Exception: Existing partitions may be of combustible construction provided the ATCT meets the other criteria established in this standard (e.g., fire resistance rated protectives, fire detection and alarm systems).
