FR940811-1-00012 FR940811-1-00006 Consistent with the attainment demonstration described above, the SIP requires that all affected stationary sources must be in full compliance with the applicable RACT requirements by December 10, 1993. However, if a physical alteration of the stationary source is necessary to achieve compliance, the SIP requires that construction of the alteration must commence by February 15, 1994, and must be completed by November 30, 1994. Compliance with these RACT requirements must be demonstrated using the applicable EPA Reference Test Methods. Puerto Rico has an enforcement program that will ensure that these RACT requirements are adequately enforced. There are civil penalties for noncompliance with the Regulation containing these RACT requirements. RACT for stationary point sources is also enforced by PREQB through federally enforceable permit conditions. In addition to the RACT requirements for stationary sources, the SIP contains enforceable commitments by PREQB to achieve various RACM requirements. To implement these measures, PREQB has signed an MOU with the Puerto Rico Department of Transportation, the Puerto Rico Electric Power Authority, the Municipality of Guaynabo, and the Port Authority that contain details for how each of these entities will meet these RACM commitments. The commitments to implement the RACM requirements are in the SIP itself, and thus are enforceable as requirements of the SIP. In addition, the MOU, having gone through public review and comment, will be incorporated into the SIP by reference, and are effective as of the date each was signed. The attainment demonstration, which shows attainment of the PM 10 NAAQS by December 31, 1994, uses emissions reductions based on some of these RACM measures, and thus EPA expects them to be implemented by that date. Once incorporated into the approved SIP, the requirements of the MOU may not be changed except by a revision to the SIP submitted to and approved by EPA. Puerto Rico's revisions to the regulations include a new definition for ``PM 10 '' in Rule 102. Although test methods are not contained in Puerto Rico's definition of ``PM 10 '' as they are in 40 CFR 51.100 (qq), EPA proposes to approve Puerto Rico's definition of ``PM 10 ,'' since the relevant test methods are found in other provisions of the regulations. H. Contingency Measures As provided in section 172(c)(9) of the Act, all moderate PM 10 nonattainment area SIP's that demonstrate attainment must include contingency measures (see generally 57 FR 13543&hyph;44). These measures must be submitted by November 15, 1993 for the moderate PM 10 nonattainment areas. Contingency measures should consist of other available measures that are not part of the area's control strategy. These measures must take effect without further action by the State or EPA, upon a determination by EPA that the area has failed to make RFP or attain the PM 10 NAAQS by the applicable statutory deadline. The Municipality of Guaynabo PM 10 nonattainment area SIP contains the following six contingency measures and are included in Rule 423(D): 1. Puerto Rico Department of Transportation shall collect data on silt content and dust loadings for highways in the Municipality of Guaynabo for better estimating PM 10 emissions following EPA's ``Compilation of Air Pollution Emission Factors'' (AP&hyph;42) procedures. 2. The Municipality of Guaynabo shall require vegetation, chemical stabilization, or other abatement of wind erodible soils. 3. Diesel fuel oil with a sulfur in fuel less than 0.3 percent shall be used by all vessels operating in San Juan Bay. 4. No visible emissions from any vessel shall be permitted in the San Juan Bay except as provided in Rule 403 of the regulations. 5. The Port Authority shall implement a street cleaning program or other program to prevent dust from collecting on paved surfaces in their jurisdiction. 6. The Municipality of San Juan must revise the dust and fire abatement programs at its sanitary landfill in order to establish additional pollution control strategies. The SIP provides that each of these measures can take effect without further action by Puerto Rico or EPA should EPA determine that the Municipality of Guaynabo PM 10 nonattainment area has failed to achieve RFP or to attain the PM 10 NAAQS by December 31, 1994. After review of the contingency measures described above, EPA is proposing to approve the Municipality of Guaynabo PM 10 nonattainment area contingency measures. I. PM 10 Precursors The Act states that ``control requirements applicable to major stationary sources of PM 10 must also apply to major stationary sources of PM 10 precursors except where the Administrator determines that such sources do not contribute significantly to PM 10 levels which exceed the NAAQS in the area.'' Based on filter analyses of the Guaynabo nonattainment area, the relatively minor contribution of precursors to overall nonattainment, and the effectiveness of the state's RACT/RACM strategies, EPA has determined that no direct controls of PM 10 precursors are needed for attainment. Nonetheless, Puerto Rico has chosen to include a provision for NSR purposes wherein the requirements for PM 10 precursors apply unless EPA and PREQB determine otherwise. Note that while EPA is making a general finding for this area, this finding is based on the current character of the area including, for example, the existing mix of sources in the area. It is possible, therefore, that future growth could change the significance of precursors in the area. The EPA intends to issue future guidance addressing such potential changes in the significance of precursor emissions in an area. IV. Summary EPA is proposing to approve the plan revision submitted on November 14, 1993 by Puerto Rico for the Municipality of Guaynabo PM 10 nonattainment area. Specifically, EPA is proposing to approve the emissions inventory, the control strategy including RACM and RACT, the demonstration that the Municipality of Guaynabo PM 10 nonattainment area will attain the PM 10 NAAQS by December 31, 1994 and maintain the PM 10 NAAQS through 1999, the NSR permit provisions and the contingency measures. EPA determined that PM 10 precursor controls are not needed for attainment. EPA proposes to approve this SIP submittal in relation to its satisfying all Act requirements, therefore addressing the findings made by EPA on December 16, 1991 and January 15, 1993. EPA is requesting comments on all aspects of this proposal. EPA will consider all comments received before taking final action.
