FR940202-2-00153 FR940202-2-00072 The Program Narrative (Section 2) may not exceed 20 type-written double-spaced pages. The Budget and accompanying explanation may not exceed 3 pages. Abbreviated resumes are requested. Please do not permanently bind your proposal, in case additional copies must be made. The criteria noted below, which are based on the guidelines and requirements contained in this Notice, will be used to select applicants for awards. Each criteria will be considered up to the percentage of the total proposal as noted: (a) Quality (65%) Plan (30%): The proposal narrative (Section 2, a&hyph;h) describes a high quality public safety-focussed service initiative with: _Direct and demonstrable outcomes; _Feasible project implementation plans and realistic timetables, which were developed with input from the community; _A range of service activities appropriate to community needs and participant backgrounds and skills. Discussion of proposed service activities should include description of specific assignments; _Recruitment and selection plans that will attract a qualified and diverse group of participants, including community residents; _Plans to involve additional community volunteers of all ages who are not receiving stipends in project service activities; _Evaluation reports, if available, that support the proposed program; and _Self-assessment techniques to monitor performance against objectives. Sponsor and Partnership (35%): The applicant organization evidences: _Selection of a well-qualified project director and supervisors for participants; _Experience in operating public safety and/or community service initiatives; _Track record demonstrating capacity to organize and facilitate partnership of participating agencies and organizations; and _Ability to conduct fiscal affairs of program. In addition, the proposal identifies a broad-based working partnership of agencies and organizations to carry out public safety-related service activities that: _Includes appropriate public and private agencies and organizations with track records of operating public safety programs and youth and community service efforts. If local law enforcement agencies/organizations are not included, proposal must explain why the participation of law enforcement is not necessary; _Includes residents of communities in which program will be based; _Evidences specific commitments from participating entities to contribute to and cooperate with activities initiated by community partnership; _Identifies tasks and roles to be carried out by partnership members during project planning phase (prior to summer) and during operating phase; and _Defines procedures for the effective operation of a practical working partnership. (b) Cost Effectiveness (15%) The proposal evidences a cost effective approach to the use of Corporation and other Federal funds and non-Federal resources (cash, in-kind and human). Specifically: _The budget is reasonable for the proposed service activities and the identified community needs; _The match requirement is achieved. Additional match that enhances the cost effectiveness of the proposal is strongly encouraged; _The extent and type of matching funds and other resources from other public (including Federal) agencies and private sources will be considered; and _Linkages with other federally funded programs are encouraged. (c) Sustainability (10%) The quality and feasibility of plans to sustain especially effective elements of program activity following the completion of the summer program without additional Corporation funding will be considered.
