FR940525-1-00042 FR940525-1-00007 1. Items With a 100 Percent Conversion Factor. A 100 percent conversion factor applies to direct credit substitutes, which include guarantees, or equivalent instruments, backing financial claims, such as outstanding securities, loans, and other financial obligations, or backing off-balance sheet items that require capital under the risk-based capital framework. These direct credit substitutes include, for example, financial standby letters of credit, or other equivalent irrevocable undertakings or surety arrangements, that effectively guarantee repayment of financial obligations such as: commercial paper, tax-exempt securities, commercial or individual loans or other debt obligations, or standby or commercial letters of credit. As described in section II.B.6 of this appendix A, purchases of subordinated securities or of servicing rights may give rise to a direct credit substitute. The full amount of a bank's exposure under a direct credit substitute is converted at 100 percent and the resulting credit equivalent amount is assigned to the risk category appropriate to the obligor or, if relevant, the guarantor or the nature of the collateral. * * * * * Therefore, the distinguishing characteristics of a financial standby letter of credit for risk-based capital purposes is the combination of irrevocability with the notion that funding is triggered by some failure to repay or perform on a financial obligation. Thus, any commitment (by whatever name) that involves an irrevocable obligation to make a payment to the customer or to a third party in the event the customer fails to repay an outstanding debt obligation will be treated, for risk-based capital purposes, as a financial standby letter of credit and the full amount of the bank's exposure under the letter of credit will be assigned a 100 percent conversion factor. (Performance-related standby letters of credit are assigned a conversion factor of 50 percent.) A bank that has conveyed a risk participation 35 in a direct credit substitute to a third party should convert the full amount of its exposure under the direct credit substitute at a 100 percent conversion factor without deducting the risk participations conveyed. However, portions of direct credit substitutes that have been conveyed as risk participations to U.S. depository institutions and OECD banks may then be assigned to the 20 percent risk category that is appropriate for claims guaranteed by U.S. depository institutions and OECD banks, rather than to the risk category appropriate to the account party obligor. 36 A bank acquiring a risk participation in a direct credit substitute or bankers acceptance should convert the full amount of its exposure under the participation at 100 percent and then assign the credit equivalent amount to the risk category that is appropriate to the account party obligor or, if relevant, the guarantor or the nature of the collateral. 35 That is, participations in which the originating bank remains liable to the beneficiary for the full amount of the direct credit substitute if the party that has acquired the participation fails to pay when the instrument is drawn upon. 36 Risk participations with a remaining maturity of one year or less that are conveyed to non-OECD banks are also assigned to the 20 percent risk weight category. In the case of direct credit substitutes that are structured in the form of a syndication as defined in the instructions for the preparation of the Consolidated Reports of Condition and Income (that is, where each bank is obligated only for its pro rata share of the risk and there is no recourse to the originating bank), each bank will only include its pro rata share of its exposure under the direct credit substitute in its risk-based capital calculation. Sale and repurchase agreements and asset sales with recourse, if not already included on the balance sheet, and forward agreements are also converted at 100 percent. Accordingly, the entire amount of any assets transferred with recourse that are not already included on the balance sheet, including pools of one-to-four family residential mortgages, is to be converted at 100 percent and assigned to the risk category appropriate to the obligor or, if relevant, the guarantor or the nature of the collateral. In certain recourse transactions (including those that are reported as financings on a bank's balance sheet) the amount of the bank's contractual liability may be limited to an amount less than the full effective risk-based capital requirement for the assets being transferred with recourse. In such cases, the amount of capital that must be maintained against the transaction is limited to the maximum amount of possible loss under the recourse provision. So-called ``loan strips'' and similar arrangements involving short-term loans sold by a bank without direct recourse but subject to long-term loan commitments by the bank are accorded the same treatment for risk-based capital purposes as assets sold with recourse. The definition of the term ``recourse'' is set forth in section II.B.6 of this appendix A. Forward agreements are legally binding contractual obligations to purchase assets with drawdown which is certain at a specified future date. These obligations include forward purchases, forward deposits placed, and partly paid shares and securities but do not include forward foreign exchange rate contracts or commitments to make residential mortgage loans. * * * * * DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY Office of Thrift Supervision 12 CFR Chapter V
