FR940805-2-00057 FR940805-2-00036 Agreement Containing Consent Order To Cease and Desist In the matter of Gorayeb Seminars, Inc., a corporation, Gorayeb Learning Systems, Inc., a corporation, and Ronald B. Gorayeb, individually and as an officer of said corporations. The Federal Trade Commission having initiated an investigation of certain acts and practices of Gorayeb Seminars, Inc., a corporation, Gorayeb Learning Systems, Inc., a corporation, and Ronald B. Gorayeb, individually and as an officer of said corporations (``proposed respondents'' or ``respondents''), and it now appearing that proposed respondents are willing to enter into an agreement containing an order to cease and desist from the use of the acts and practices being investigated, It is hereby agreed, By and between Gorayeb Seminars, Inc., Gorayeb Learning Systems, Inc., their duly authorized officers, and Ronald B. Gorayeb, individually and as an officer of said corporations, and their attorney, and counsel for the Federal Trade Commission that: 1. Proposed respondent Gorayeb Seminars, Inc., is a New Jersey corporation, with its principal office or place of business at 101 Roundhill Drive, Rockaway, New Jersey, 07866. 2. Proposed respondent Gorayeb Learning Systems, Inc., is a New Jersey corporation, with its principal office or place of business at 101 Roundhill Drive, Rockaway, New Jersey 07866. 3. Proposed respondent Ronald B. Gorayeb is the President, Secretary, and sole director and shareholder of said corporations. He formulates, directs, and controls the acts and practices of said corporations and his address is the same as that of said corporations. 4. Proposed respondents admit all the jurisdictional facts set forth in the attached draft complaint. 5. Proposed respondents waive: (a) Any further procedural steps; (b) The requirement that the Commission's decision contain a statement of findings of fact and conclusions of law; and (c) All rights to seek judicial review or otherwise to challenge or contest the validity of the order entered pursuant to this agreement; and (d) Any claim under the Equal Access to Justice Act, 5 U.S.C. 504. 6. This agreement shall not become part of the public record of the proceeding unless and until it is accepted by the Commission. If this agreement is accepted by the Commission, it, together with the attached draft complaint, will be placed on the public record for a period of sixty (60) days and information in respect thereto publicly released. The Commission thereafter may either withdraw its acceptance of this agreement and so notify the proposed respondents, in which event it will take such action as it may consider appropriate, or issue and serve its complaint (in such form as the circumstances may require) and decision, in disposition of the proceeding. 7. This agreement is for settlement purposes only and does not constitute an admission by proposed respondents of facts, other than jurisdictional facts, or of violations of law as alleged in the draft of the complaint here attached. 8. This agreement contemplates that, if it is accepted by the Commission, and if such acceptance is not subsequently withdrawn by the Commission pursuant to the provisions of ยง2.34 of the Commission's Rules, the Commission may, without further notice to the proposed respondents: (a) Issue its complaint corresponding in form and substance with the attached draft complaint and its decision containing the following Order to cease and desist in disposition of the proceeding; and (b) make information public in respect thereto. When so entered, the Order to cease and desist shall have the same force and effect and may be altered, modified or set aside in the same manner and within the same time provided by statute for other orders. The Order shall become final upon service. Delivery by the U.S. Postal Service of the complaint and decision containing the agreed-to Order to proposed respondents' address as stated in this agreement shall constitute service. Proposed respondents waive any right they may have to any other manner of service. The complaint may be used in construing the terms of the Order, and no agreement, understanding, representation, or interpretation not contained in the Order may be used to vary or contradict the terms of the Order. 9. Proposed respondents have read the attached draft complaint and the following Order. Proposed respondents understand that once the Order has been issued, they will be required to file one or more compliance reports showing that they have fully complied with the Order. Proposed respondents further understand that they may be liable for civil penalties in the amount provided by law for each violation of the Order after it becomes final. Order Definition For the purposes of this Order, ``competent and reliable scientific evidence'' shall mean those tests, analyses, research, studies, or other evidence based on the expertise of professionals in the relevant area, that has been conducted and evaluated in an objective manner by persons qualified to do so, using procedures generally accepted in the profession to yield accurate and reliable results.
