FR941028-2-00182 FR941028-2-00109 •EMS personnel should be included in a comprehensive PPD screening program and should receive a baseline PPD test and follow-up testing as indicated by the risk assessment. They should also be included in the follow-up of contacts of a patient with infectious TB.* *The Ryan White Comprehensive AIDS Resource Emergency Act of 1990, P.L. 101&hyph;381, mandates notification of EMS personnel after they have been exposed to infectious pulmonary TB (42 U.S.C. 300ff&hyph;82. 54 FR 13417 [March 21, 1994]). b. Hospices. •Hospice patients who have confirmed or suspected TB should be managed in the manner described in this document for management of TB patients in hospitals. General-use and specialized areas (e.g., treatment or TB isolation rooms) should be ventilated in the same manner as described for similar hospital areas. c. Long-term care facilities. •Recommendations published previously for preventing and controlling TB in long-term care facilities should be followed ( 60 ). •Long-term care facilities should also follow the recommendations outlined in this document. d. Correctional facilities. •Recommendations published previously for preventing and controlling TB in correctional facilities should be followed ( 61 ). •Prison medical facilities should also follow the recommendations outlined in this document. e. Dental settings. In general, the symptoms for which patients seek treatment in a dental-care setting are not likely to be caused by infectious TB. Unless a patient requiring dental care coincidentally has TB, it is unlikely that infectious TB will be encountered in the dental setting. Furthermore, generation of droplet nuclei containing M. tuberculosis during dental procedures has not been demonstrated ( 62 ). Therefore, the risk for transmission of M. tuberculosis in most dental settings is probably quite low. Nevertheless, during dental procedures, patients and dental workers share the same air for varying periods of time. Coughing may be stimulated occasionally by oral manipulations, although no specific dental procedures have been classified as ``cough-inducing.'' In some instances, the population served by a dental-care facility, or the HCWs in the facility, may be at relatively high risk for TB. Because the potential exists for transmission of M. tuberculosis in dental settings, the following recommendations should be followed: •A risk assessment (Section II.B) should be done periodically, and TB infection-control policies for each dental setting should be based on the risk assessment. The policies should include provisions for detection and referral of patients who may have undiagnosed active TB; management of patients with active TB, relative to provision of urgent dental care; and employer-sponsored HCW education, counseling, and screening. •While taking patients' initial medical histories and at periodic updates, dental HCWs should routinely ask all patients whether they have a history of TB disease and symptoms suggestive of TB. •Patients with a medical history or symptoms suggestive of undiagnosed active TB should be referred promptly for medical evaluation of possible infectiousness. Such patients should not remain in the dental-care facility any longer than required to arrange a referral. While in the dental-care facility, they should wear surgical masks and should be instructed to cover their mouths and noses when coughing or sneezing. •Elective dental treatment should be deferred until a physician confirms that the patient does not have infectious TB. If the patient is diagnosed as having active TB, elective dental treatment should be deferred until the patient is no longer infectious. •If urgent dental care must be provided for a patient who has, or is strongly suspected of having, infectious TB, such care should be provided in facilities that can provide TB isolation (Sections II.E and G). Dental HCWs should use respiratory protection while performing procedures on such patients. •Any dental HCW who has a persistent cough (i.e., a cough lasting "3 weeks), especially in the presence of other signs or symptoms compatible with active TB (e.g., weight loss, night sweats, bloody sputum, anorexia, and fever), should be evaluated promptly for TB. The HCW should not return to the workplace until a diagnosis of TB has been excluded or until the HCW is on therapy and a determination has been made that the HCW is noninfectious. •In dental-care facilities that provide care to populations at high risk for active TB, it may be appropriate to use engineering controls similar to those used in general-use areas (e.g., waiting rooms) of medical facilities that have a similar risk profile. f. Home-health-care settings. •HCWs who provide medical services in the homes of patients who have suspected or confirmed infectious TB should instruct such patients to cover their mouths and noses with a tissue when coughing or sneezing. Until such patients are no longer infectious, HCWs should wear respiratory protection when entering these patients' homes (Suppl. 4). •Precautions in the home may be discontinued when the patient is no longer infectious (Suppl. 1). •HCWs who provide health-care services in their patients' homes can assist in preventing transmission of M. tuberculosis by educating their patients regarding the importance of taking medications as prescribed and by administering DOT.
