FR940831-2-00156 FR940831-2-00106 4.3␣Housing Data Collection Procedures As was done in previous years, Runzheimer collected housing information from a variety of sources. Also as in previous years, Runzheimer research personnel traveled to profiled communities in the allowance areas to observe first hand the comparability of homes in one area versus another and the appropriateness of individual housing units for the profiled income level. In previous surveys, OPM required several additional steps to increase the quantity and quality of housing data collected. These extra steps were again taken this year and included purchasing data from additional real estate listing services, making greater use of assessor's records when other data were not available, and contacting more real estate professionals to obtain additional home sales, rental data, and market trend information. 4.3.1␣Homeowner Data Collection In the homeowner data-gathering phase, Runzheimer obtained sale prices of homes (called ``comparable sales'') in the area that matched the housing profiles. In the communities that were identified (see section 4.2.3), Runzheimer tried to obtain all the comparable sales during the 6-month period prior to the date of the survey. For the winter surveys, the pricing period was July 1993 through February 1994. As was done last year, Runzheimer contacted knowledgeable and helpful real estate professionals in each location and/or used real estate sales data and listing services. The amount of data obtained depended on the number of home sales in the community and the availability of square footage and other information. This in turn depended on the size of the community, the economic conditions, the quality and quantity of the realty data available, and the willingness and ability of local realty professionals and assessor offices to provide data. If the comparable sales data obtained from the first data sources were insufficient, Runzheimer contacted additional data sources in the area to attempt to secure more sales data, if practical. 4.3.2␣Renter Data Collection In some cases, the same realtors and brokers who assisted in our profiling phase were very active in the rental markets as well. When this occurred, Runzheimer obtained current rental rates and fees for our profiled apartments, townhouses and houses from these sources. Runzheimer also contacted rental management firms that operated apartment complexes matching the profile specifications. In large metropolitan areas, such as the Washington, DC, area where rental complexes abound, our housing analysts conducted telephone surveys to obtain current rental information. Rental data were obtained from a variety of sources, e.g., brokers, property managers, newspaper advertisements, and other listings. Analyses of these data revealed what appeared to be two separate rental markets_a broker market and a non-broker market. Rental rates and estimates provided by brokers generally exceeded those obtained from other sources. In each area, the quantity of data obtained from either source-type varied significantly. Therefore, analyzing all of the rental data (both broker and non-broker) together for an area and income level was undesirable. Because OPM has no information on how federal employees who rent generally secure their lodgings, OPM requested that Runzheimer apply equal weights to the broker and non-broker data to compute the overall average rental rate for the area and income level. (See Appendix 9B.) 4.4␣Housing Analysis 4.4.1␣Homeowner Data Analysis One of the most important factors relating to the price of a home is the number of square feet of living space. For each income profile in each allowance area and the Washington, DC, area, Runzheimer computed that average price per square foot for the comparables. Runzheimer used this value times the reference square footage for the profile to determine the average home value for the profile. 4.4.1.1␣Data Trimming OPM requested that Runzheimer continue to apply the special procedures developed during the 1992/1993 surveys. In 1992/1993, based on experience from the previous home-pricing surveys, OPM modified the living-cost model as it applied to the analysis of housing data. The modifications allow the use of housing costs trend data as well as current housing costs in the analysis of owner and renter living costs. These analyses are consistent with section 591.205(b)(3) of title 5, Code of Federal Regulations, and result in improved housing data results. One of the modifications involves ``trimming'' the observations. In past surveys, Runzheimer and OPM noted that a relatively few extreme values (values that were either exceptionally low or high cost) could have a significant influence on the average housing costs observed at an income level within an area. Including these extreme values had the potential to cause results to vary erratically from one year to the next. In situations such as this, statisticians frequently use the median or trim the data in some manner to reduce its volatility. The use of the median home value was not desirable because some areas had relatively sparse data at one or more income levels. This could make the median unstable from one year to the next.
