FR940804-1-00046 FR940804-1-00014 50 CFR Part 17 RIN 1018&hyph;AC65 Endangered and Threatened Wildlife and Plants; Proposed Rule to List Two Plants From Southwestern California as Endangered and Threatened AGENCY: Fish and Wildlife Service, Interior. ACTION: Proposed rule. SUMMARY: The Fish and Wildlife Service (Service) proposes to list Downingia concolor var. brevior (Cuyamaca Lake downingia) as endangered and Limnanthes gracilis ssp. parishii (Parish's meadowfoam) as threatened throughout their respective ranges in southwestern California pursuant to the Endangered Species Act of 1973, as amended (Act). These species occur in vernally moist soils of montane wet meadows, near springs and seeps, or vernal pools within the Peninsular Ranges of southwestern California. These plants are imperiled by a variety of factors including alteration of wetland hydrology, cattle grazing, recreational activities, recreational development, off-road vehicle activity, and competition from exotic plant species. This proposed rule, if made final, would extend protection under the Act to these two plants. Critical habitat is not being proposed at this time. Additional data and information, which may assist the Service in making a final decision on this proposed action, is solicited on the status of these species. DATES: Comments from all interested parties must be received by October 3, 1994. Public hearing requests must be received by September 19, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments and materials concerning this proposal should be sent to the Field Supervisor, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, Carlsbad Field Office, 2730 Loker Avenue West, Carlsbad, California 92008. Comments and materials received will be available for public inspection, by appointment, during normal business hours at the above address. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Ms. Debbie Kinsinger, Botanist, at the above address (telephone 619/431&hyph;9440). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background Downingia concolor var. brevior (Cuyamaca Lake downingia) and Limnanthes gracilis ssp. parishii (Parish's meadowfoam) occur in association with meadows and drainages of the Peninsular Ranges of southwestern California from the Santa Ana Mountains of extreme southwestern Riverside County, south to the Laguna Mountains of southern San Diego County, California. Both plant taxa are restricted to grassy meadows that are vernally wet (wet during the rainy season) with saturated soil conditions and shallow pools for several weeks at a time. Between the ponded areas are drier mounds, called mima mounds. This type of physiography is referred to as a montane meadow-vernal pool association. The largest populations of both taxa are located within the Cuyamaca Valley in the Cuyamaca Mountains of central San Diego County, California. Although the vernal pool and mima mound topography is mostly obliterated, much of the unique, montane, vernal pool flora remains. This flora includes a number of disjunct species that are more frequently associated with vernal pools of coastal San Diego County or central California (e.g., Deschampsia danthonioides (annual hairgrass), Blennosperma nanum (common blennosperma), and Delphinium hesperium ssp. cuyamacae (Cuyamaca larkspur) (Beauchamp 1986a, Winter 1991)). Historically, a depression at the southwestern end of the Cuyamaca Valley formed a small lake that dried up in the summer. This area was referred to as ``Laguna Que Se Seca'' (the lake that dries up) (Allen and Curto 1987). This area and the rest of the valley supported a complex of vernal pools and mima mounds. A dam was built in 1886 at the Boulder Creek outlet of Cuyamaca Lake. The dam created a permanent reservoir known as Cuyamaca Lake. A dike built in 1967 allowed water to be pumped from the reservoir so that the valley could be kept in a flooded condition throughout the summer (Ball et al., unpub. man.). In wet years, the reservoir and dike system allows the entire valley to remain flooded for extended periods (Bauder 1992). Many areas supporting these taxa have been moderately to heavily grazed in the past and some areas continue to be adversely affected by livestock and horses. For example, heavy grazing in the Laguna Mountains since the 1880's has resulted in the increased abundance of introduced annual grasses and forbs, the scarcity of organic matter, and severe gullying and erosion (Sproul 1979). Downingia concolor var. brevior (Cuyamaca Lake downingia) was described by R. McVaugh (1941) based on a collection by L. Abrams at Cuyamaca Lake, Cuyamaca Mountains, San Diego County, California. Beauchamp (1986b) elevated the plant to a subspecies following the suggestions of Thorne (1978). However, Ayers (1993) also recognized this plant as D. c. var. brevior following McVaugh's (1941) treatment of this taxon.
