FR941102-0-00016 FR941102-0-00004 Current and Periodic Reports (Section 16.20) The proposal required banks that had filed registration statements declared effective pursuant to part 16 to file with the OCC periodic and current reports until the banks were eligible to suspend the filing of those reports. This requirement was based on that imposed by section 15(d) of the Exchange Act (15 U.S.C. 78o(d)) on corporations filing Securities Act registration statements with the SEC. The filing of periodic and current reports ensures that current information about an issuer is available for a period after an offering of securities is made. The periodic and current reporting requirements cease the year after the registration statement becomes effective, if the issuer is not otherwise required to register its securities under the Exchange Act. The proposal further provided that a bank need not comply with the periodic and current reports requirements if the bank was a subsidiary of a one-bank holding company and the bank's parent bank holding company filed current and periodic reports pursuant to section 13 of the Exchange Act. Five commenters stated that all banks that are subsidiaries of holding companies that have securities registered under the Exchange Act should be able to rely on holding company Exchange Act filings and bank Call Reports to fulfill the current and periodic report requirements. The final rule permits banks that are subsidiaries of holding companies that have securities registered under the Exchange Act to rely on holding company Exchange Act filings and bank Call Reports to fulfill the current and periodic reports requirements in specified circumstances. A bank need not file current and periodic reports if the bank is a subsidiary of a one-bank holding company, the financial statements of the bank and the parent bank holding company are substantially the same, and the bank's parent bank holding company files periodic and current reports pursuant to section 13 of the Exchange Act. The OCC believes that when these conditions are met, the holding company's current and periodic reports will provide the marketplace with information equivalent to what would be provided if the holding company's subsidiary bank made separate reports. The OCC concluded that any broader exception would not be appropriate because the information provided is used in markets including both sophisticated and unsophisticated investors. In the case of the latter, they may not have sufficient financial expertise to evaluate information that differs substantially from the type and scope of disclosure that would have been contained in current and periodic reports filed by the bank itself.
