FR941117-0-00097 FR941117-0-00011 (ii) Any interference complaints received as a result of operation and how these complaints were investigated and resolved. (g) Confidentiality. Normally, applications and developmental reports are a part of the FCC's public records. However, an applicant or licensee may request that the FCC withhold from public records specific exhibits, reports and other material associated with a developmental authorization. (h) Renewal. Expiring developmental authorizations issued pursuant to this section may be renewed if the carrier_ (1) Shows that further progress in the program of research and development requires additional time to operate under developmental authorization; (2) Complied with the reporting requirements of paragraph (e) of this section; and, (3) Immediately resolved to the FCC's satisfaction all complaints of interference caused by the station operating under developmental authority. ยง22.411 Developmental authorization of 43 MHz paging transmitters. Because of the potential for interference to the intermediate frequency stages of receivers in broadcast television sets and video recorders, 43 MHz paging channels are assigned only under developmental authorizations subject to the requirements of this section, except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section. (a) Carrier responsibility. Carriers so authorized shall operate the 43 MHz paging service under developmental authority for a period of two years. During the two year developmental period, carriers must resolve any broadcast television receiver intermediate frequency interference problems that may occur as a result of operation of the 43 MHz paging transmitter(s). Carriers shall inform subscribers receiving service on the channels assigned under developmental authority during the developmental period that this service could be terminated by the FCC on short notice if such action were to become necessary to eliminate interference. Carriers shall notify the appropriate FCC Field Office, in advance, of the date on which service to subscribers is to begin. (b) Periodic surveys. To determine the extent of any interference to broadcast television receivers resulting from operation of 43 MHz paging stations authorized pursuant to this section, carriers shall conduct semi-annual surveys during the first two years of operation. The first such survey is to begin on the date when service to subscribers commences. For each survey, the carrier shall contact at least 25 television viewers to determine whether they have experienced interference. (1) The carrier shall contact viewers located throughout the geographic area encompassed by a 3 kilometer (2 mile) radius of the 43 MHz paging transmitter antenna site. The carrier must not attempt to obtain a misleading survey by contacting only viewers less likely to be experiencing interference. For example, the carrier must not contact only the viewers located most distant from the paging transmitter antenna site. Instead, the carrier shall contact viewers located near the paging transmitter antenna site. (2) The carrier shall not, in subsequent surveys, contact viewers who were contacted in a previous survey; provided that, in the event that all of the viewers within 3 kilometers (2 miles) have been contacted, viewers located near the paging transmitter antenna site shall be contacted again. (c) Periodic reports. Following each survey, the carrier shall submit to the FCC a written report disclosing and evaluating the extent of any interference. These reports must include: (1) The number of the report (1 to 4); (2) The station call sign; (3) The file number of the application that resulted in the developmental authorization; (4) An exact description of the transmitter location(s); (5) The date(s) and time of day when the survey was conducted; (6) The survey method used (e.g. telephone, on-site, etc.); (7) The names, addresses and telephone numbers of the viewers contacted; (8) If interference resulted from operation of the 43 MHz paging station, a summary of how the interference problem was resolved; (9) The names and telephone numbers of any technical personnel consulted and/or employed to resolve interference problems. (d) Exceptions. The FCC may grant a regular authorization in the Paging and Radiotelephone Service for a 43 MHz paging station in the following circumstances: (1) After the two-year developmental period, provided that broadcast TV interference complaints have been resolved by the carrier in a satisfactory manner. Licensees that hold a developmental authorization for a 43 MHz paging station and wish to request a regular authorization must file an application (FCC Form 401) prior to the expiration of the developmental period. (2) In the case of the assignment of or a transfer of control of a regular authorization of a 43 MHz paging station in the Paging and Radiotelephone Service, provided that the station has been in continuous operation providing service with no substantial interruptions.
