FR940207-2-00163 FR940207-2-00077 [Investment Company Act Rel. No. 20045; 812&hyph;8638] Common Sense Trust, et al.; Application January 31, 1994. AGENCY: Securities and Exchange Commission (``SEC''). ACTION: Notice of Application for Exemption under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (``Act''). APPLICANTS: Common Sense Trust (the ``Trust''); Common Sense Investment Advisers (the ``Adviser''); Common Sense Distributors (the ``Distributor''); American Capital Asset Management, Inc. (the ``Subadviser''); and Smith Barney Shearson Strategy Advisers Inc. (``Smith Barney''); on behalf each existing and future portfolio of the Trust and any other open-end management investment companies established or acquired in the future that are in the same ``group of investment companies'' as that term is defined in rule 11a&hyph;3 under the Act (the ``Funds''). RELEVANT ACT SECTIONS: Exemption requested under section 6(c) from the provisions of sections 2(a)(32), 2(a)(35), 18(f), 18(g), 18(i), 22(c), and 22(d) of the Act, and rule 22c&hyph;1 thereunder. SUMMARY OF APPLICATION: Applicants seek a conditional order that would permit the Funds to issue multiple classes of shares representing interests in the same portfolio of securities, assess a contingent deferred sales charge (``CDSC'') on certain redemptions, and waive the CDSC in certain circumstances. FILING DATE: The application was filed on October 15, 1993, and amended on December 22, 1993 and January 27, 1994. HEARING OR NOTIFICATION OF HEARING: An order granting the application will be issued unless the SEC orders a hearing. Interested persons may request a hearing by writing to the SEC's Secretary and serving applicants with a copy of the request, personally or by mail. Hearing requests should be received by the SEC by 5:30 p.m. on February 28, 1994, and should be accompanied by proof of service on applicants, in the form of an affidavit or, for lawyers, a certificate of service. Hearing requests should state the nature of the writer's interest, the reason for the request, and the issues contested. Persons who wish to be notified of a hearing may request such notification by writing to the SEC's Secretary. ADDRESSES: Secretary, SEC, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549. Applicants, 2800 Post Oak Boulevard, Houston, Texas 77056. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Courtney S. Thornton, Senior Attorney, at (202) 272&hyph;5287, or C. David Messman, Branch Chief, at (202) 272&hyph;3018 (Division of Investment Management, Office of Investment Company Regulation). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The following is a summary of the application. The complete application may be obtained for a fee from the SEC's Public Reference Branch. Applicants' Representations 1. The Trust is a Massachusetts business trust registered under the Act as a diversified, open-end management investment company. The Trust currently offers five separate investment portfolios, none of which have adopted plans of distribution under rule 12b&hyph;1. The Trust offers shares of four of these portfolios to investors at their net asset value plus a sales charge at the time of purchase. Shares of the other portfolio, a money market portfolio, are offered to investors at net asset value without a sales charge. The Trust intends to offer shares in four additional portfolios in the near future, each of which has adopted plans of distribution under rule 12b&hyph;1. 2. The Adviser is a partnership owned equally by American Capital Partner, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Subadviser, and PFS Asset Management, Inc., an affiliate of Primerica Financial Services, Inc. (``Primerica Financial''). The Subadviser and Primerica Financial are indirect wholly-owned subsidiaries of The Travelers Inc. The Adviser provides investment advisory, administrative and management services to the Trust. 3. Pursuant to a sub-advisory agreement with the Adviser, the Subadviser provides investment advisory services to the Adviser and day-to-day management of the assets of the five existing portfolios of the Trust. The Subadviser also will provide day-to-day management services for three of the four new portfolios of the Trust. Smith Barney will provide investment advisory services to the Adviser and day-to-day management services for the other new portfolio of the Trust pursuant to a sub-advisory agreement with the Adviser.
