FR941202-2-00206 FR941202-2-00098 (h) Signature and title of individual(s) accepting responsibility for the content of the report and date of issue; and (i) Clear identification of any results that were performed by a subcontracted laboratory. If appropriate, the laboratory shall certify that the test results meet all requirements of NELAP or provide reasons and/or justification if they do not. Once issued, the laboratory report shall remain unchanged. Any corrections, additions and/or deletions from the original reports shall be supported by supplementary documentation, shall clearly identify its purpose, and shall contain all reporting requirements specified above. 5.11.1.4␣Records Management and Storage (a) All records of an organization that are pertinent to a specified project shall be retained for a minimum of five years unless otherwise designated for a longer period of time in another regulation. The records specified in 5.11.1.1 and 5.11.1.2 above shall be retained. (b) Records that are stored or generated by computers or personal computers (PCs) shall have hard copy and write-protected backup copies. (c) When a procedure or document (e.g., initial calibration records, SOPs, etc.) becomes obsolete or is replaced, the records shall clearly indicate the time period (or sample sets, if applicable) during which the procedure or document was in force. (d) All access to archived information shall be documented. (e) If an organization goes out of business or changes ownership before the time period for records retention has expired, all documentation shall be transferred in whole to the archives of the sponsor (client) of the work or to the new owner as described in Section 4.1.8. 5.11.2␣Sample Custody Tracking and Data Documentation for Laboratory Operations 5.11.2.1␣Sample Receipt, Log In and Storage All records pertinent to sample receipt, log in and storage shall be maintained. In addition, the laboratory shall: (a) Retain all correspondence and/or official conversations concerning the final disposition of rejected samples; (b) Fully document any decision to proceed with the analysis of compromised samples: _The condition of these samples shall be noted in all documentation associated with the sample. _The analysis data shall be appropriately ``qualified as estimated'' on all internal documentation and on the final report. (c) Utilize a permanent, chronological log to document receipt of all sample containers. The following information must be recorded in the laboratory sequential log: _Date of laboratory receipt of sample; _Sample collection date; _Unique laboratory ID code (see 5.10 above); _Field ID code supplied by sample submitter; _Requested analyses, including approved method number, if applicable; _Signature or initials of data logger; _Comments resulting from inspection for sample acceptance rejection; and _Sampling kit code (if applicable).
