FR940110-1-00072 FR940110-1-00006 Another option would be that where funds other than funds provided under the AHP are the predominant source of financing for an AHP-assisted rental housing project and the monitoring activities of such other funding source are sufficient to determine the project's compliance with the requirements of the AHP, as committed to in the AHP application, the monitoring requirement would be deemed to be fulfilled. However, if the monitoring activities of such other funding source are not sufficient to determine the project's compliance with the requirements of the AHP, as committed to in the AHP application, the Bank would be required to monitor the project by conducting inspections, at least on a sample basis, as determined by the Bank, based on the amount of the funds received by the project under the AHP, the type and complexity of the project, or other factors deemed relevant by the Bank. In the alternative, if the monitoring activities of such other funding source are not sufficient to determine the project's compliance with the requirements of the AHP, as committed to in the AHP application, could the Bank rely on monitoring activities of the predominant funding source as long as it is monitoring for compliance with requirements that are substantially similar to the AHP requirements? The Board specifically requests comments on how random sampling could be used to monitor AHP-assisted rental housing projects to determine whether, during the long-term period committed to in the AHP application, the project's units continue to be affordable for and occupied by households with incomes at or below the levels committed to in the AHP application. For example, sampling could involve monitoring a portion of AHP-assisted rental projects at fixed intervals. The sampling method could be devised so that each project is monitored at least once during the long-term period committed to in the AHP application. Alternatively, the sampling method might be structured so that some, but not all, AHP-assisted rental projects are monitored during the long-term period committed to in the AHP application. The Act requires that the AHP regulation must ensure that the AHP will be used only to assist projects for which adequate long-term monitoring is available to guarantee that affordability standards and other requirements of the Act are satisfied. See 12 U.S.C. 1430(j)(9)(C). The Board requests comments as to whether it is appropriate to interpret this requirement in a manner that permits monitoring to be done by sampling that could result in some AHP-assisted rental projects not being monitored during the long-term period committed to in the AHP application. In addition, the Board specifically requests comments on whether there are sampling techniques that would ensure that each project is monitored in satisfaction of the monitoring requirement in the Act. b. Monitoring of special needs projects. Section 960.14(f) of the proposed rule sets forth the requirements for monitoring a project that commits to meet a special need pursuant to proposed ยง960.10(d)(3), either through providing units for persons with a special need or through providing a special service to occupants, as defined in the Bank's AHP implementation plan. If an applicant commits to fund a project that provides owner-occupied or rental housing units for persons with a special need, as defined in the Bank's AHP implementation plan, ยง960.14(f)(1) of the proposed rule requires the Bank or its designee to obtain a certification from the sponsor or the owner upon completion and occupancy of the project that the project's units, or portion thereof, are occupied by persons with such special need. If an applicant in its AHP application commits to fund a project that will provide a continuing special service to its occupants, as defined in the Bank's AHP implementation plan, such as child care, job training, medical care, or other services designed to meet the special needs of occupants, then ยง960.14(f)(1) of the proposed rule provides that the Bank or its designee shall obtain a certification from the sponsor or owner upon completion and occupancy of the project that the special service is being provided to the occupants, as committed to in the AHP application. Section 960.14(f)(2) of the proposed rule provides that, where an applicant in its AHP application commits to fund a housing project that will provide a continuing special service, the Bank or its designee shall monitor the project, as determined by the Bank in its AHP implementation plan, for at least one year from the date of initial full occupancy of the project to verify that the special service continues to be provided to the occupants, as committed to in the AHP application.
