FR941221-2-00109 FR941221-2-00075 III. Discussion The Commission finds that the proposed rule change is consistent with the requirements of the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder applicable to a national securities exchange, and, in particular, with the requirements of Section 6(b). 11 In particular, the Commission believes the proposal is consistent with Section 6(b)(5), which requires that the rules of an exchange be designed to promote just and equitable principles of trade, to prevent fraudulent and manipulative acts, and, in general, to protect investors and the public interest. 11 15 U.S.C. 78f(b) (1988). Specifically, the Commission believes that the rule change to remove the requirement that members must fill public orders limited to the clean-up price, up to a minimum amount of 1000 shares or 5% of the total amount crossed at the clean-up price (whichever is greater), will not significantly impact the execution of public customer orders. While, in most circumstances, the Commission would be concerned about changes to limit order priority, the 1,000 shares or 5% requirement provides scant protection to limit orders at the clean-up price. It is reasonable for the NYSE to remove this narrow benefit to limit orders in order to improve the execution of agency block crosses. 12 Moreover, the requirement that is being removed was imposed only on members representing agency orders on both sides. Its elimination, therefore, should assist public customers in effecting cross transactions on the NYSE, but should not give any special advantage to members of the Exchange in their proprietary trading. In addition, Rule 127 continues to require that there be an opportunity for other market interest to provide a better price to one side of the cross through the procedures contain in NYSE Rule 76. 13 12 Execution of limit orders at prices better than the clean-up price will not be affected by this proposal. 13 See supra note 6. The Commission notes that the removal of the requirement will result in similar treatment of block crosses inside the best bid and offer under NYSE Rule 72(b) (the ``clean cross rule'') and outside the best quote under NYSE Rule 127. 14 The clean cross rule allows a member who has a customer order to buy and a customer order to sell 25,000 shares or more of the same security to cross those orders at a price that is at or within the prevailing quotation, irrespective of pre-existing bids and offers at that price. The clean cross rule, however, ensures that other members may trade with either the bid or offer side of the cross to provide a price that is better than the proposed cross price. Rule 127 will provide similar opportunities for price improvement to agency block crosses executed outside the best NYSE quote. 14 See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 31343 (October 21, 1992), 57 FR 48645 (October 27, 1992) (order approving clean cross rule.) The Commission also believes that relieving members who represent block crosses of the obligation to be responsible for the aftermarket is consistent with the NYSE's rules that place such burdens upon specialists. Rule 127 continues to require that members provide for the reasonable needs of the specialists when effecting block crosses, which is intended to ensure that specialists are able to meet their obligation to maintain fair and orderly markets under Exchange Rule 104. Furthermore, NYSE Rule 127 provides that if there is a disagreement as to the amount of stock the specialist needs to secure an orderly aftermarket, a Floor Official should be consulted. The Commission therefore believes that Rule 127, as amended, should continue to help ensure that an orderly aftermarket will be maintained after executions of block crosses. Finally, the Commission believes it is reasonable for the Exchange to require certain documentation when a member representing agency orders on both sides does not fill at the clean-up price public orders limited to the clean-up price or better. When a member does not offer to give public orders the benefit of the cross price, the Exchange will be able to use the required documentation to monitor the cross transaction and ensure that the transaction was conducted in a fair and orderly manner. IV. Conclusion It is therefore ordered , pursuant to Section 19(b)(2) of the Act, 15 that the proposed rule change (SR&hyph;NYSE&hyph;94&hyph;10) is approved. 15 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(2) (1988). For the Commission, by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. 16 16 17 CFR 200.30&hyph;3(a)(12) 1993). Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary.
