FR941110-0-00129 FR941110-0-00016 Response: We recognize the importance of the need for a fair and impartial hearing whenever an individual used by the facility is accused of resident neglect or abuse, or misappropriation of a resident's property. However, we recognize that all States have administrative procedure acts which allow for resolution of disputed cases of this nature. Thus, we chose to allow the need for these appeals to be addressed by State law. Comment: Some commenters felt the provision to allow 120 days for States to conduct hearings of staff accused of neglect, abuse, or misappropriation of a resident's property was excessive and suggested other dates, while other commenters felt the 120 day period did not allow sufficient time for a State's administrative process to complete the hearing. Response: While we agree that a person accused of resident neglect, abuse, or misappropriation of a resident's property is entitled to swift determination of the accusation, we believe States must be given reasonable time in which to schedule and conduct the hearing process under their administrative procedure acts. Our experience with other related State hearings indicates that 120 days is a reasonable timeframe for scheduling and completing these appeals. Comment: Several commenters suggested we modify the rules so they specify who should be notified when a person accused of neglect, abuse, or misappropriation of a resident's property waives the right to a hearing or when a State hearing finds that such an individual did, in fact, act as accused. In addition, some commenters suggested we specify timeframes for such reporting. Response: In response to these comments, we are rewriting ยง488.335(f) and combining paragraphs (g) and (h) into (g) to clarify the reporting process and to include timeframes for reporting. We are specifying that the State survey agency, which may not delegate this responsibility, must report in writing the finding that an individual neglected or abused a resident or misappropriated a resident's property within 10 working days of the finding to: the individual; the current administrator of the facility in which the incident occurred; the administrator of the facility currently employing the individual, if different; the licensing authority for individuals other than nurse aides; and the nurse aide registry. For nurse aides, these findings must not only be reported to the nurse aide registry but must be included in the nurse aide registry within 10 working days of the finding in accordance with ยง483.156(c)(iv)(D).
