FR940503-1-00043 FR940503-1-00010 The hearing allowed under the proposed rules would provide respondents with several options in presenting relevant evidence, limited by the authority of the Presiding Officer to determine the manner of testimony that is most efficient in resolving an issue. Written and oral testimony are both acceptable, as well as testimony provided by other means. Respondents may offer any facts, statements, explanations, documents, testimony or other exculpatory evidence that is relevant to issues at the hearing. A right of cross-examination is provided, although EPA is considering limiting cross-examination to situations determined appropriate by the Presiding Officer. This form of hearing clearly meets the requirements of section 113(d)(3), and provides respondents with a fair opportunity to present evidence and argument on relevant issues. Given the simple and straightforward nature of the minor violations expected in the program, additional procedures would not significantly reduce the risk of an erroneous imposition of a civil penalty. A right to cross-examine witnesses, as compared to limiting cross examination to situations where deemed appropriate by the Presiding Officer, would allow for additional cross-examination only where the Presiding Officer, a neutral official, had already determined it was inappropriate. A right to cross-examination would increase the accuracy of the hearing only in those limited cases where a Presiding Officer had mistakenly denied crossexamination. EPA expects this kind of mistake would occur infrequently, and a right to cross-examine, therefore, would not significantly increase the accuracy of the proceedings in the great bulk of cases. The Presiding Officer is afforded substantial discretion to tailor the hearing procedures to the individual facts and circumstances of each case. The Presiding Officer, may, for example, hold prehearing conferences, regulate the course of the hearing, including the form and extent of testimony and crossexamination, take official notice of matters, and request a written statement from the parties post-hearing. This flexibility should increase the accuracy of the proceedings, and reduce the value of mandating additional procedures. See Chemical Waste Management, 873 F.2d at 1483. After the hearing, parties may submit written statements to the Presiding Officer, such as recommended findings of fact and conclusions of law, at the discretion of the Presiding Officer. The Presiding Officer then prepares and transmits a recommended decision that is forwarded to the Regional Administrator for issuance of a final decision. There is no administrative appeal to the Administrator, except the Board may review a decision sua sponte. This provides for at least one level of review above the Presiding Officer, and in some cases a second level of review by the Board, establishing a clear mechanism to correct potential errors in the recommended decision. It should also promote consistency within a region, as well as national consistency if and when issues of national importance arise. 12 12 Given the minor nature of the violations at issue, EPA rarely expects review by the Board. Additional procedures, such as a right to comment on the recommended decision, would not significantly add to the accuracy of these procedures. Respondents would already have had a full opportunity to present their position on the issues at the hearing, and could submit proposed findings and conclusions at the request of the Presiding Officer. All of this would be in the administrative record, and available to the Regional Administrator. Additional right to comment would not be expected to be of significant benefit, given the minor nature of the factual and legal issues involved. The government's primary interest, as previously described, is to implement an effective citation program without an unnecessary drain on limited enforcement resources. An effective program calls for issuance of a citation immediately or shortly after detection of a violation, with a final resolution accomplished shortly after issuance of the citation. This will maximize the deterrent effect of the field citation program, and minimize the amount of resources necessary to achieve this goal. The proposed hearing procedures meet these objectives by using simplified and streamlined procedures, with a relatively limited time needed to complete all procedures necessary to a final decision on assessment of a penalty. Since the field citation program fills a gap in EPA's enforcement program, it is reasonable to expect that a large number of citations will be issued in each region, addressing simple, easy to prove violations and assessing small monetary penalties. While the nature of the violations and the penalty should act to limit the number of hearings requested by respondents, it is reasonable to expect that a significant number of hearings may be requested if EPA issues a large number of citations. In that context, any additional procedures run the risk of significantly increasing the administrative burden and length of field citation proceedings. This could quickly make the program inefficient and a drain on government resources, given the small potential penalties and the limited environmental concerns involved for most minor violations.
