FR940428-2-00092 FR940428-2-00052 3. The proposed changes do not involve a significant reduction in a margin of safety. The intent of the existing TS requirements is to ensure the capability to monitor the plant condition during and following an accident so that the operators will have the information necessary to monitor and evaluate the course of the event and take any necessary action. Under the proposed changes this capability will be maintained by ensuring redundancy or diversity and by requiring timely corrective action in the event of inoperable instrumentation. In addition, the proposed changes would avoid unnecessary plant shutdowns by specifying an appropriate level of action in response to inoperable instrumentation. Therefore, the proposed changes do not involve a significant reduction in a margin of safety. The NRC staff has reviewed the licensee's analysis and, based on this review, it appears that the three standards of 10 CFR 50.92(c) are satisfied. Therefore, the NRC staff proposes to determine that the amendment request involves no significant hazards consideration. Local Public Document Room Location: Burke County Public Library, 412 Fourth Street, Waynesboro, Georgia 30830. Attorney for Licensee: Mr. Arthur H. Domby, Troutman Sanders, NationsBank Plaza, suite 5200, 600 Peachtree Street, NE., Atlanta, Georgia 30308. NRC Project Director: David B. Matthews. GPU Nuclear Corporation, et al., Docket No. 50&hyph;219, Oyster Creek Nuclear Generating Station, Ocean County, New Jersey Date of Amendment Request: April 6, 1994. Description of Amendment Request: The proposed amendment changes the Technical Specifications to eliminate the main steam line radiation monitor(s) (MSLRMs) reactor scram and isolation functions of the MSLRMs currently contained in Tables 3.1.&hyph;1 and 4.1&hyph;1 of the Technical Specifications and the associated Bases statements. This action follows the recommendations of the BWR Owners Group (BWROG) in their Safety Evaluation, NEDO&hyph;31400A, previously approved by the NRC Staff on May 15, 1991 by letter to the BWROG. Following is a brief description of the proposed changes: Tech. Spec. 3.1, ``Protective Instrumentation'' Bases is revised to delete reference to the paragraph describing the Main Steam Line (MSL) radiation monitoring functions for indication of excessive fuel failure and initiation of a reactor scram and MSL isolation. Tech. Spec. Table 3.1.1., ``Protective Instrumentation Requirements - A. Reactor Scram Functions,'' is revised to delete line Item No. 7 - ``High Radiation in Main Steam Line Tunnel.'' Tech. Spec. Table 3.1.1., ``Protective Instrumentation Requirements - B. Reactor Isolation Functions,'' is revised to delete line Item No. 6 - ``High Radiation in Main Steam Line Tunnel.'' Tech. Spec. Table 3.1.1., ``Protective Instrumentation Requirements - L. Condenser Vacuum Pump Isolation Function,'' is revised to delete line Item No. 1 - ``High Radiation in Main Steam Line Tunnel.'' Tech. Spec. Table 4.1.1., ``Minimum Check, Calibration and Test Frequency For Protective Instrumentation,'' is revised to delete Instrumentation Channel No. 13 - ``High Radiation in Main Steam Line.'' Basis for Proposed No Significant Hazards Consideration Determination: As required by 10 CFR 50.91(a), the licensee has provided its analysis of the issue of no significant hazards consideration, which is presented below: 1. Operation of the facility in accordance with the proposed amendment would not involve a significant increase in the probability of occurrence or the consequences of an accident previously evaluated. The objective of the MSLRMs is to provide early indication of gross fuel failure. The monitors provide an alarm function, and signals that lead to a scram function and [main steam isolation valve] MSIV isolation functions. The basis for the MSIV isolation on an MSL high radiation signal is to reduce the quantity of fission products transported from the reactor vessel to the condenser in the event of gross fuel failure. No [design basis accident] DBA takes credit for a reactor scram resulting from an MSL high radiation signal. The proposed change removes all trip functions of the MSLRMs. The only modification attendant to this change is the removal of contacts derived from the MSLRM logic to the reactor scram, reactor isolation and offgas system isolation initiation logic. This change does not affect the operation of any equipment having the potential to cause a [control rod drop accident] CRDA. Therefore, the probability of a CRDA is not increased or in any way affected by the proposed change. However, the CRDA analysis does take credit for MSIV isolation. As discussed above, assuming no MSIV isolation in the event of a CRDA, the offsite radiation doses will remain a small fraction of the 10 CFR part 100 Reactor Site Criteria. 2. Operation of the facility in accordance with the proposed amendment would not create the possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any accident previously evaluated. The function of an MSLRM trip is to detect abnormal fission product release and isolate the steam lines, thereby stopping the transport of fission products from the reactor to the main condenser. No credit is taken for the reactor scram function due to the action of these monitors on high radiation in the MSLs in any design basis accident. Removing the MSLRMs MSL isolation trip and its subsequent reactor scram will not affect the operation of other equipment or systems necessary for the prevention or mitigation of accidents. 3. Operation of the facility in accordance with the proposed amendment would not involve a significant reduction in a margin of safety. Eliminating the MSLRM trip functions as analyzed in NEDO&hyph;31400A will result in a potential increase in the margin of safety because of: a. Improvement in the availability of the main condenser for decay heat removal; and, b. Elimination of inadvertent reactor scrams and challenges to safety systems. Therefore, operation of the facility in accordance with the proposed changes will not result in a reduction of safety margin. The NRC staff has reviewed the licensee's analysis and, based on this review, it appears that the three standards of 10 CFR 50.92(c) are satisfied. Therefore, the NRC staff proposes to determine that the amendment request involves no significant hazards consideration. Local Public Document Room Location: Ocean County Library, Reference Department, 101 Washington Street, Toms River, New Jersey 08753. Attorney for Licensee: Ernest L. Blake, Jr., Esquire. Shaw, Pittman, Potts & Trowbridge, 2300 N Street, NW., Washington, DC 20037. NRC Project Director: John F. Stolz.
