FR940805-1-00058 FR940805-1-00013 Rated capacity means the actual number of beds available for regular use, based on compliance with square footage requirements for each occupancy type. Rated capacity does not include spaces, such as protective holding cells, used only on a temporary basis. Releasing authority means the decision-making body and/or individual that has the responsibility to grant, deny and revoke release from a juvenile institution or program of supervision. Renovation means construction within an existing facility which modifies its structure and in which more than 20% of the cost of the proposed building modification results from standards compliance. Reservation means any Federally recognized Indian Tribe's reservation, pueblo or colony, including former reservations in Oklahoma, Alaska Native regions established pursuant to the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1601 et seq. ), and Indian allotments if considered reservation land by the Bureau of Indian Affairs. Safety equipment includes fire fighting equipment, i.e. chemical extinguishers, hoses, nozzles, water supplies, alarm systems, sprinkler systems, portable breathing devices, gas masks, fans, first aid kits, stretchers, and emergency alarms. Safety management review means a review of all construction by the Division of Safety Management to ensure that the facility complies with applicable codes, standards, regulations and guidelines regarding Health and Safety matters. Sallyport means an enclosure to handle either pedestrian or vehicular traffic and is located either in the security perimeter wall or fence of the facility, which has gates or doors at both ends, only one of which opens at a time. This method of entry and exit ensures there will be no breach in the security of the facility. Secure institution means any facility that is designed and operated to ensure that all entrances and exits are under the exclusive control of the facility's staff, thereby preventing an inmate from leaving the facility unsupervised or without permission. Security devices means locks, gates, doors, bars, fences, screens, ceilings, floors, walls, and barriers used to confine and control juveniles/inmates and electronic monitoring equipment, security alarm systems, security light units, auxiliary power supply, and other equipment used to safeguard the facility. Security or custody means the degree of restriction of inmate or juvenile movement within a detention facility, usually divided into maximum, medium and minimum risk levels. Security perimeter means the outer portions of a facility that provide for secure confinement of facility inmates or juveniles. Shift activity log means a system of bound records which record the significant activities of a shift, including emergency and non-emergency activities. Shift relief factor means a mathematic ratio between the number of hours that staff are actually available to work and the number of hours that staffing must be provided. Special management means the confinement of a detainee in an individual cell that is separated from the remainder of the population for the purpose of disciplinary, administrative segregation, protective custody, or medical segregation. Status offender means a youth who has been charged with or adjudicated for an act that under the law of the jurisdiction in which the offense was committed would not be a crime under any circumstances if committed by an adult. Suicide screening means the systematic inquiry and observation of adults and juveniles at the time of booking to attempt to identify individuals who are at risk of suicide. Summer and winter comfort zones means suggested temperature ranges for indoor living and work areas during the summer months are sixty-six to eighty-six degrees Fahrenheit and sixty one to seventy-three degrees Fahrenheit during the winter months. Supervision means guidance or management of detainees, typically without a barrier between detention staff and detainees. Temporary release means a period of time during which a detainee is allowed to leave the facility and go into the community unsupervised by detention personnel for various purposes consistent with the public interest. Trained staff means detention or community residential staff who have completed the orientation training required in these standards.
