FR940630-1-00037 FR940630-1-00011 Discussion of the Proposals Section 23.777␣Cockpit Controls The current requirements of §23.777 address the location of powerplant controls on tandem-seated airplanes. For single-engine airplanes that are designed for a single cockpit occupant, the powerplant controls should be located in the same position as they are for tandem-seated airplanes. Therefore, §23.777(c)(2) would be revised to include single-seated airplanes. Section 23.779␣Motion and Effect of Cockpit Controls Current §23.779(b)(1) provides requirements for ``powerplant controls,'' including direction of travel and effect. This proposal would revise §23.779(b)(1) by adding a new item ``fuel'' to the table. This proposal would require that any fuel shutoff control other than mixture must move forward to open. Section 23.901␣Installation Section 23.901(d)(1), as amended in Amendment 23&hyph;43, requires that each turbine engine installation must be constructed and arranged to result in vibration characteristics that do not exceed those established during the type certification of the engine. This requirement would be revised to add the word ``carcass'' before vibration. This change would restrict analyses to those vibrations that are caused by external excitation to the main engine frame or ``carcass.'' While the word ``carcass'' has not traditionally been used in this context in the United States, it is used in Europe and is proposed here in the interest of harmonization. Section 23.901(d)(2), as amended in Amendment 23&hyph;43, would be revised by deleting the last sentence which reads: ``The engine must accelerate and decelerate safely following stabilized operations under these rain conditions.'' This requirement is already provided for in the first sentence of paragraph (d)(2), which states that the turbine engine must be constructed and arranged to provide ``continued safe operation.'' Paragraph (e) of this section would be revised by adding the word ``powerplant'' in front of ``installation'' to make clear that it pertains to all powerplant installations. Current paragraph (e)(1) would be reformatted to accommodate the added provisions of new paragraph (e)(1)(ii). The current paragraph (e)(1) would be divided into paragraphs (e)(1), (e)(1)(i), and (e)(1)(ii). Paragraph (e)(1) would be revised by adding the word ``installation'' in front of ``instruction'' to make clear which instructions are applicable. Proposed paragraph (e)(1) would end after the word ``under_,'' and paragraphs (e)(1)(i) and (e)(1)(ii) would continue the paragraph. Proposed paragraph (e)(1)(i) would contain the requirement with respect to the engine type certificate currently set forth in paragraph (e)(1). Proposed paragraph (e)(1)(ii) would continue the current requirement with respect to the propeller type certificate, but also would permit the alternative of meeting the requirements of another approved procedure that would provide an equivalent level of safety. This revision is proposed to be consistent with the proposed revisions to §23.905, Propellers, which are discussed below. Section 23.903␣Engines This proposal would revise paragraphs (c) and (g) by adding the headings ``Engine isolation'' and ``Restart capability,'' respectively. Current §23.903 includes headings for paragraphs (a), (b), (d), (e) and (f) that identify the subject of each paragraph. This revision will provide this same identification for paragraphs (c) and (g). The heading of paragraph (f) would be changed from ``Restart capability'' to ``Restart envelope'' since the paragraph addresses the altitude and airspeed envelope for restarting the engines in flight. Section 23.905␣Propellers Section 23.905(a), which requires each propeller to have a type certificate, would be revised to require the propeller to either be type certificated or meet the requirements of another approved procedure that provides an equivalent level of safety. This would allow a propeller to be installed and approved on a U.S. type certificated airplane if that propeller is approved by a procedure that provides a level of safety equivalent to that provided by the FAA type certificate. For example, some foreign propellers, approved as part of the airplane and not having a separate type certificate, could be approved without requiring an exemption to part 23 or obtaining a U.S. type certificate; but the ``equivalent procedure'' is not intended to be limited to a procedure of a foreign authority. This proposal would provide an alternative approval process for propellers without reducing safety. Section 23.906␣Propeller Vibration Current §23.907(a) requires that each ``propeller with metal blades or highly stressed metal components must be shown to have vibration stresses, in normal operating conditions, that do not exceed values'' that are ``safe for continuous operation.'' The proposed revision to paragraph (a) would change the applicability to propellers ``other than a conventional fixed-pitch wooden propeller.'' This change is necessary because all metal and most composite propeller blades are highly stressed and need to be evaluated for vibration. Only propellers with fixed-pitch wooden blades would be exempt from the vibration requirements. Section 23.925␣Propeller Clearance Current §23.925 requires that propeller clearance must be evaluated with the airplane at maximum weight, with the most adverse center of gravity and with the propeller in the most adverse pitch position. To make the requirement consistent with current certification practice, paragraph (a) would be revised to read that propeller clearance must be evaluated with the airplane at the most adverse combination of weight and center of gravity, and with the propeller in the most adverse pitch position. Interested persons should additionally note that the FAA is also proposing a change to §23.925(b). In the Airframe Harmonization notice, the FAA proposes to move the requirements in §23.925(b) for tail wheels, bumpers, and energy absorption devices to §23.497(c), Supplementary conditions for tail wheels, where the structural designer would expect to find such a requirement. Section 23.929␣Engine Installation Ice Protection This proposal would replace the word ``power'' in §23.929 in the phrase ``without appreciable loss of power'' with the word ``thrust.'' The word ``thrust'' is more descriptive of the loss experienced when ice forms on a propeller. Section 23.933␣Reversing Systems This proposal would revise §23.933(a)(1) to agree with the corresponding turbojet and turbofan reversing system airworthiness standards of part 25. The purpose of thrust reversing systems for part 23 airplanes is the same as that for part 25 airplanes. While there is no technical change, in the interest of harmonization part 23 would be changed to read the same as part 25. Also, this proposal would delete the word ``forward'' from paragraph (a)(3) since this word is not necessary. It would correct the typographical error in paragraph (b)(2) to read ``(b)(1)'' instead of ``(a)(1).'' Section 23.955␣Fuel Flow Section 23.955(a) would be revised by deleting the word ``and'' where it occurs between paragraphs (1), (2), (3) and (4). This is a nonsubstantive editorial change. All four paragraphs are independent of each other and equally subordinate to paragraph (a). Section 23.955(a)(3) would be revised by adding the word ``probable'' so that the requirement would read as follows: ``If there is a flow meter without a bypass, it must not have any probable failure mode *␣*␣* '' This addition of the word ``probable'' would clarify the intent of the requirement that only probable failures need be analyzed.
