FR940506-2-00086 FR940506-2-00052 DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICE Administration for Children and Families Statement of Organization, Functions, and Delegations of Authority SUMMARY: Part K, Chapter K (Administration for Children and Families) of the Statement of Organization, Functions and Delegations of Authority of the Department of Health and Human Services (56 FR 42332) is amended to reflect the changes in Chapter KK, The Office of Financial Management 56 FR 42335 as last amended, August 20, 1993. Specifically, to elevate the Financial and Grants Policy Staff to Division level and revise the functional responsibility of the Division of Discretionary Grants. The changes are as follows: 1. Amend KK.10 Organization. Delete this section in its entirety and replace it with the following: KK.10 Organization. The Office of Financial Management (OFM) is headed by a Director who reports to the Director of Program Support and is organized as follows: Director Office of the Director (KKA) Division of Financial and Grants Policy (KKB) Division of Budget and Finance (KKC) Division of Formula, Entitlement, and Block Grants (KKD) Division of Discretionary Grants (KKE) Division of Audit Resolution and Grant Oversight (KKF) 2. Amend KK.20 Functions. Delete paragraph B in its entirety and replace it with the following: B. The Division of Financial and Grants Policy provides management and direction of ACF financial and grants policy activities as they relate to ACF mandatory and discretionary grants programs. Provides expert guidance on financial and grants management policy issues to ACF program and staff components in headquarters and regional offices as well as to external entities such as grantees and officials of other Federal agencies. Maintains liaison and coordination with appropriate HHS organizations to ensure consistency with Departmental financial and grants management policies and procedures. Advises the Director of the Office of Financial Management, the Assistant Secretary of ACF, Program Office Heads and Regional Administrators on significant financial and grants policy initiatives and issues. The Division is responsible for: development and interpretation of financial and grants policy for programs and activities administered by ACF; prepares, coordinates and disseminates action transmittals, information memoranda, and other policy guidance on financial and grants management policy issues; analyzes pending legislation and proposed program or grants regulations to determine financial and/or grants policy implications; reviews policy inquiries and prepares and disseminates definitive policy guidance consistent with Federal, HHS and ACF policies and procedures; directs the distribution and maintenance of ACF's grants management policy manuals and directives; provides training and technical assistance to ACF staff and grantees on proper grants administration; advises on and assists with development of monitoring plans and strategies for ACF programs; reviews all ACF program announcements and other solicitation instruments for compliance with Federal, HHS and agency policies and adherence to applicable laws and regulations; reviews all noncompetitive grant applications to ensure compliance with HHS and ACF policies on competition; disseminates a wide array of financial and grants management information to ACF program and staff offices and seeks ways to enhance the utility of such information and the manner in which it is provided; assists the Assistant Secretary of ACF and the Director of the Office of Financial Management in strategic planning of grant-making activities; directs and/or coordinates management initiatives to improve financial administration of ACF mandatory and discretionary grant programs. 3. Amend KK.20 E. Division of Discretionary Grants to delete the first paragraph in its entirety and replace it with the following: E. Division of Discretionary Grants provides management and technical administration of ACF discretionary grants and cooperative agreements. It serves as the principal office within ACF for ensuring that the business aspects of discretionary grants administration are carried out and monitors programs and grantee performance in these areas: oversees the competitive review process and prepares ranking lists; negotiates grant budgets and special terms and conditions; prepares grant awards, ensuring incorporation of necessary grant terms and conditions; monitors grantee expenditure of funds; prepares reports and analyses on grantees' use of funds; monitors receipt of and analyzes content of financial status reports and other required reports and takes appropriate action based on those reports; processes actions for disallowances or other financial adjustments; review grantee financial management operations; and closes out expired grants. EFFECTIVE DATE: April 28, 1994. Mary Jo Bane, Assistant Secretary for Children and Families. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;10915 Filed 5&hyph;5&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4184&hyph;01&hyph;P
