FR940613-0-00048 FR940613-0-00015 Based on these two occurrences, California claims the right to issue permits for good cause for the future operation of these vehicles up to the limits stated. The FHWA has rejected California's claim because it fails to meet the standard for ``regular or periodic'' use established by Congress in writing the ISTEA. According to the Conference Report on the ISTEA (H.R. Conf. Rep. No. 404, 102d Cong., 1st Sess. 314 (1991)), ``Use of an LCV on only one or two occasions pursuant to a special permit would not provide a basis for satisfactorily certifying grandfather rights or operations under this subsection.'' Clearly the California situation falls within the scope of the congressional guidance. ``Triples'' were allowed twice, for very brief periods 12 years apart, the last being more than 10 years ago. ``Turnpike Doubles'' and ``Rocky Mountain Doubles'' were authorized only once, over 10 years ago, during a single 5-day period. These occurrences do not constitute ``regular or periodic'' use. Connecticut: Vehicle and trailer for carrying poles, lumber, piling, or structural units. No documentation was received in the docket to support the actual operation of this vehicle on or before June 1, 1991. This vehicle was originally included because it appeared to meet the LCV or extra-length multi-unit commercial vehicle requirements. This vehicle is made up of a truck tractor and a dolly unit. Since the weight of a cargo, for example utility poles, is carried partially by the truck tractor and partially by the dolly unit, the argument might be made that this vehicle has two cargo-carrying units. In fact, the load and rear dolly combine to create a de facto semitrailer. Truck tractor-semitrailers are not subject to the freeze. Delaware: Truck tractor-semitrailer-trailer, with a cargo-carrying length of 62 feet. No documentation was received in the docket to support the actual operation of this vehicle on or before June 1, 1991. The initial submission by Delaware, to satisfy the LCV freeze requirements, indicated that the listed combination was allowed by State law wherein each trailing unit could be up to 29 feet long. The 62-foot length was derived by adding 4 feet for interunit spacing to the twin 29-foot dimension. Due to the de-listing of a vehicle combination with twin 29-foot units, the maximum length of any one unit in a multi-unit combination vehicle reverts to 28.5 feet, that allowed by the STAA of 1982. Louisiana: ``Rocky Mountain Double-LCV,'' with a cargo- carrying length of 75 feet. No documentation was received in the docket to support the actual operation of this vehicle on or before June 1, 1991. The initial submission by Louisiana, to satisfy the LCV freeze requirements, indicated the listed combination was allowed by State law wherein each trailing unit could be up to 30 feet long. The 75-foot length was derived by adding the maximum interunit spacing allowed by State regulation of 15 feet to the twin 30-foot dimension. Due to the de-listing of a vehicle combination with twin 30-foot units, the maximum length of any one unit in a multi-unit combination vehicle reverts to 28.5 feet, that allowed by the STAA of 1982. New Hampshire: Truck-trailer combination with a cargo-carrying length of 85 feet. No documentation was received in the docket to support the actual operation of this vehicle on or before June 1, 1991. The initial submission by New Hampshire, to satisfy the LCV freeze requirements, indicated the listed combination was allowed because State law does not prohibit a straight truck of up to 40 feet long from pulling a trailer that may be up to 48 feet long. Due to the de-listing of the described vehicle combination, the maximum cargo-carrying length of any truck-trailer combination on NN highways reverts to 58 feet. This length is derived by subtracting 7 feet for the cab from the 65-foot overall length for this combination allowed by this rule without a requirement to document actual operations. Off the NN, the maximum lengths allowed by State law continue to apply. List of ISTEA Vehicle Operations and Conditions In addition to the lists of vehicle configurations, the ISTEA also required each State to submit a copy of all its statutes, regulations, limitations, and conditions which apply to the operation of each of the LCV's or extra-length vehicles reported as in use on or before June 1, 1991. The content of the States' original responses to this request covered the full range of what could be supplied, both in terms of items covered and volume of material. The diversity of the contents of the responses was so great that the FHWA determined that before any list could be finalized, increased uniformity would be necessary. One of the subheadings for each LCV or extra-length vehicle described in the NPRM was ``Operational Conditions.'' The information in the NPRM was taken directly from the initial State responses to the LCV information request contained in the ISTEA, regardless of content. In those cases where another document was referenced, the FHWA attempted to summarize that document. Because of the differences in State-provided responses, there was little consistency as to coverage or depth. Therefore, in addition to asking for comments, the NPRM also asked the States and all other sources, including industry trade groups, either to reformat existing information, or to provide new information following a suggested format. Those States which allow LCV's or extra-length vehicles were requested to provide the operational condition information in the following subheadings: WEIGHT, DRIVER, VEHICLE, PERMIT, and ACCESS. The information included in the SNPRM reflected the States' and other responses to the NPRM request. The SNPRM included specific vehicle descriptions for 30 States. Comments were received concerning those descriptions for 23 States. The vehicle descriptions included in appendix C to part 658 by this final rule have been modified, where appropriate, by comments received and by the change in categories described earlier. Comments, changes, and corrections made to appendix C information will be discussed by State, by subheadings, in the same order that they appear in appendix C: STATE NAME COMBINATION: LENGTH OF THE CARGO-CARRYING UNITS: MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE GROSS WEIGHT: OPERATIONAL CONDITIONS: WEIGHT: DRIVER: VEHICLE: PERMIT: ACCESS: ROUTES: LEGAL CITATIONS: OTHER COMMENTS:
