FR941216-1-00074 FR941216-1-00012 (f) Conduct mishap investigations in accordance with, but not limited to, provisions of this part. ยง184.6 Compliance with mandatory requirements. (a) During pre-award safety surveys, violations of mandatory requirements contained in this part shall be resolved. The contractor may choose to correct the deficiencies immediately, submit a written letter of intent to correct the deficiencies (which will become binding if awarded the contract), or request acceptance of specifically identified existing conditions or facilities by the purchasing activity. (b) When the contractor cannot comply with the mandatory safety provisions of the contract, the contractor shall develop and submit a request for a waiver through the ACO to the Procuring Contracting Officer (PCO) for final determination. The request shall contain complete information concerning the requirements violated, actions planned to minimize the hazard, and a proposed date for correction of the deficiency. ยง184.7 Site and construction plans. (a) Development and submission of site plans, modifications, construction, and utility drawings pertaining to DoD-owned facilities shall be processed in accordance with the requirements of DoD Directive 6055.9, 1 as implemented by the applicable military service requirements. 1 Copies may be obtained, at cost, from the National Technical Information Service, U.S. Department of Commerce, 5285 Port Royal Road, Springfield, VA 22161. (b) For contractor-owned, contractor-operated (COCO) facilities, the contractor shall submit, through the ACO to the PCO, site and construction plans for all new construction or major modification of facilities for ammunition and explosive activities and for the facilities that may be exposed to A&E hazards if improperly located. The contractor shall provide sufficient copies for the review process. The contractor shall not begin construction or modification of proposed facilities until receiving site and construction plan acceptance from the PCO through the ACO. (c) Modification or rehabilitation plans for existing facilities that are essentially minor, introduce no new hazards, and do not increase the net explosive capacity for which the facility was designed or sited, need not be submitted. The ACO shall make the final determination as to whether a site plan is necessary. (d) Site plans shall comply with the following specifications: (1) Drawings shall be drawn to a scale of 1 inch to 400 feet. Smaller-scale drawings may sometimes be necessary to reflect certain distance and structure relationships within the area surrounding a given project. In such instances, reductions in scale are acceptable. (2) Drawings shall list distances between the facility or location proposed for siting and other establishment facilities, the establishment boundary, public railways and highways, power transmission and other utility lines. (3) All other facilities within the inhabited building distance of the proposed facility shall be identified by a brief description of their function and occupancy. (4) A&E items or hazardous materials to be stored or processed in the facilities shall be described. This includes items such as bombs, rockets, artillery ammunition, liquid propellants, or other items regulated by this part. (5) Site plans shall provide the net explosives weight, number of units and hazard class(es) of ammunition, explosives, liquid and solid propellants and other hazardous materials for the proposed facility, including a breakdown by room or bay. (6) Site plans shall provide the net explosives weight, number of units and hazard class(es) of ammunition, explosives, liquid and solid propellants and other hazardous materials stored or handled in facilities located within inhabited distance of the proposed facility. (7) All facilities whose inhabited building distance arcs include the facility under consideration shall be identified. (8) Site plans shall provide a topographical map with appropriate contours when terrain features are considered to constitute natural barricading, or when topography otherwise influences the layout. (e) Construction plans for the proposed facility shall contain the information in ยง184.7(d)(1) through (d)(8), and the following: (1) Show the personnel limits for the new or modified facility, including a breakdown by room or bay, when appropriate. (2) Give general details regarding dividing walls, vent walls, firewalls, roofs, operational shields, barricades, exits, types of floor finish, fire protection system installations, electrical systems and equipment, ventilation systems and equipment, A&E waste disposal systems, lightning protection systems, static grounding systems, process equipment, and auxiliary support structures, as well as general materials of construction. (3) Include information relative to the types and arrangement of explosive operations or chemical processing equipment. (4) Explain any deviations from pertinent safety requirements due to local conditions. ยง184.8 Pre-award safety survey. (a) When A&E materials and operations are involved in a solicitation, mishaps could adversely affect production capability, production assets, or long lead time products or services essential to DoD program milestones. Therefore, the contractor's capability and preparedness shall be evaluated. Pre-award safety surveys shall be conducted by DoD safety personnel.
