FR940228-0-00029 FR940228-0-00003 Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service 9 CFR Part 78 [Docket No. 93&hyph;044&hyph;2] Official Brucellosis Tests AGENCY: Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, USDA. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: We are amending the brucellosis regulations by adding the D-Tec ® Brucella A test to the list of official tests for determining the brucellosis disease status of test-eligible cattle and bison. We are taking this action because the D-Tec ® Brucella A test has exhibited a high degree of specificity in identifying Brucella abortus antibodies. Adding the D-Tec ® Brucella A test to the list of official tests for brucellosis in cattle and bison will help prevent the spread of the disease by making available an additional means by which animal health personnel may obtain timely and accurate diagnoses of brucellosis. EFFECTIVE DATE: March 30, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Dr. John D. Kopec, Senior Staff Veterinarian, Cattle Diseases and Surveillance Staff, Veterinary Services, APHIS, USDA, room 731, Federal Building, 6505 Belcrest Road, Hyattsville, MD 20782, (301) 436&hyph;6188. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background Brucellosis is an infectious disease of animals and humans caused by bacteria of the genus Brucella. In its principal animal hosts_cattle, bison, and swine_brucellosis is characterized by abortion and impaired fertility. The regulations in 9 CFR part 78 (referred to below as the regulations) govern the interstate movement of cattle, bison, and swine in order to help prevent the spread of brucellosis. Official brucellosis tests are used to determine the brucellosis disease status of cattle, bison, and swine. The regulations stipulate that certain cattle, bison, and swine must, among other requirements, test negative to an official brucellosis test prior to interstate movement. Official brucellosis tests are also used to determine eligibility for indemnity payments for animals destroyed because of brucellosis. In §78.1 of the regulations, the definition of official test lists those tests that have been designated as official tests for determining the brucellosis disease status of cattle, bison, and swine. On September 27, 1993, we published in the Federal Register (58 FR 50290&hyph;50291, Docket No. 93&hyph;044&hyph;1) a proposal to amend the regulations by adding the D-Tec ® Brucella A test to the list of official tests for determining the brucellosis disease status of test-eligible cattle and bison. We solicited comments concerning our proposal for a 30-day comment period ending October 27, 1993. We received one comment by that date, from a veterinary medical association. The commenter supported our proposed rule. Therefore, based on the rationale set forth in the proposed rule, we are adopting the provisions of the proposal as a final rule without change. Executive Order 12866 and Regulatory Flexibility Act This rule has been reviewed under Executive Order 12866. The rule change will not add any costs for agricultural producers. It will, however, benefit farmers and ranchers who, without access to this or the other available diagnostic tests, quarantine or destroy animals on the basis of ``false positive'' reactions to presumptive tests. We estimate that between 200 and 300 animals are unnecessarily slaughtered or quarantined each year after having falsely tested positive on presumptive tests. These losses could be prevented by the use of diagnostic tests. The addition of the D-Tec ® Brucella A test as an official test will prevent losses to farmers and ranchers if they opt to use it. While losses resulting from false positives affect only a few farmers and ranchers each year, this rule could modestly benefit all those entities that avail themselves of the D-Tec ® Brucella A test. This rule is expected to have a beneficial effect on the producer of the D-Tec ® Brucella A test and a negligible negative impact on the only other producer of diagnostic tests. Both producers are small entities. Under these circumstances, the Administrator of the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service has determined that this action will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. Executive Order 12372 This program/activity is listed in the Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance under No. 10.025 and is subject to Executive Order 12372, which requires intergovernmental consultation with State and local officials. (See 7 CFR part 3015, subpart V.)
