FR940128-1-00086 FR940128-1-00006 1. Costs FDA specifically requests comments on: (1) The expected cost to retrofit plants as necessary for the proper operation of HACCP controls (e.g., enhance refrigerator capacity, water supply changes, etc.). (2) The cost of taking corrective actions to respond to critical limit deviations on an annual basis. FDA has estimated an average of $1,000 per firm to take such actions as discarding product, buying new equipment, and changing the processing practice. (3) The cost of training employees. FDA has estimated that there will be a cost per plant of $900 to train an employee to manage HACCP. This will include the cost of training, travel expenses, and loss of several days of productivity for that employee. Not all of these costs may be borne by manufacturers, however, because some training may be sponsored by academia, trade associations, and others. (4) The cost of ensuring that cooking and pasteurizing equipment and processes are achieving the desired safety results (i.e., destroying microbiological pathogens). This ensurance may be obtained by having equipment and processes that are equivalent to those found effective by a processing authority. FDA estimated that this would cost $1,000 per plant in the first year and, on average, half that amount in the following years as processors change their processes and equipment. This cost may be offset, however, by reliance on literature that contains the necessary information from a processing authority. (5) The cost of temperature indicators and thermometers for plants who do not now have this equipment. FDA estimated that the cost would be $1,000 per plant, initially, with replacement as necessary. (6) The cost of creating a HACCP plan from the guidance provided by FDA. FDA estimated that it will take processors with simpler processes 24 hours of managerial time to adapt the guidance into a HACCP plan. FDA estimated that it will take processors with more complex processes 72 hours of managerial time to adapt the guidance into a HACCP plan. (7) FDA requests comment on the recordkeeping burden associated with the proposed sanitation requirements in §123.10 (b) and (c). If possible, such estimates should be provided in terms of hours spent and translated into dollars if staff compensation rates are known. In addition, FDA was unable to provide cost estimates of the following provisions and requests specific comments on these areas: (1) Section 123.10(a)(7), prevention of cross-contamination by the separation of food-contact surfaces; (2) Section 123.10(a)(14), storage at 40 ○F or below; (3) Appendix A.6., cooling after cooking; (4) Appendix B., scombroid toxin forming species; (5) Appendix 1., specifically, the guidance on smoked and smoke-flavored fishery products; (6) Increased short-term recall potential, if any, due to heightened industry awareness; (7) Increasing time spent escorting Federal inspectors, particularly in the initial phases; (8) The cost of restricting catch in certain areas and seasons if processors find it necessary. 2. Benefits (1) FDA is reprinting two tables from the PRIA and requests comments on both the baseline number of illnesses due to seafood and the likelihood that HACCP for processors will reduce those illnesses. The baseline number of illnesses reflects an estimate of all cases (from any source, including recreational harvest, retail, and consumer mishandling). FDA considers the estimates in both tables as preliminary estimates.
