FR941205-0-00181 FR941205-0-00029 (f) Board and care/assisted living facilities. Board and care projects and assisted living facilities may be insured if the facilities meet the definition of those terms in §266.5. (g) Elderly projects. Projects or parts of projects specifically designed for the use and occupancy by elderly families. An elderly family means any household where the head or spouse is 62 years of age or older, and also any single person who is 62 years of age or older. (h) Zoning requirements. Projects insured under this part must meet applicable zoning and other State/local government requirements. §266.205 Ineligible projects. The following projects and facilities are not eligible for insurance under this part: (a) Transient housing or hotels. Rental for transient or hotel purposes. For purposes of this part, rental for transient or hotel purposes means: (1) Rental for any period less than 30 days, or (2) Any rental, if the occupants of the housing accommodations are provided customary hotel services such as room service for food and beverages, maid service, furnishing and laundering of linens, or valet service. (b) Projects in military impact areas. A project located in a military impact area, as determined by HUD. A military impact area is generally a small or medium size metropolitan housing market area or a remote or isolated nonmetropolitan area where: (1) Military-connected households comprise 25 percent or more of the total households in the market area. Military-connected households include active duty military personnel, civilian employees of the military service (Department of Defense) or other Federal agency at or in support of the installation, and employees of contractors and sub-contractors directly associated with the military installation, and their dependents. Unaccompanied active duty military personnel housed in military-controlled group quarters housing (barracks, BOQ's) are excluded; and (2) There is concern about the continued stability of the current level of military strength and mission at the installation based on public announcements from the Department of Defense or the military service of impending changes; and (3) The complete reduction of military-connected households living in nonmilitary rental housing over a 5 year period, at an annual average decline of 20 percent, would, taking into account growth in the civilian economy and normal changes in the housing inventory, cause an adverse impact on the private rental market resulting in an increase in the rental vacancy rate in the housing market of 10 percent or more at the end of that period. (c) Retirement service centers. Projects designed for the elderly with extensive services and luxury accommodations that provide for central kitchens and dining rooms with food service or mandatory services. (d) Nursing homes or intermediate care facilities. Nursing homes and intermediate care facilities licensed and regulated by State or local government and providing nursing and medical care. §266.210 HUD-retained review functions. Certain functions are retained by the Commissioner. The HFA must submit any information or certification required by the Commissioner to permit determination of compliance with requirements concerning: (a) Previous participation of principals. Previous participation of the principals of the mortgagor, general contractor, consultant or management agent in accordance with the Previous Participation and Clearance Review Procedures of 24 CFR 200.210 through 200.218. (b) Environmental review requirements. To determine compliance with the requirements of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 and related laws and authorities, the HUD Field Office will visit each project site proposed for insurance under this part and prepare the applicable environmental reviews as set forth in 24 CFR part 50 and for the related environmental criteria and standards in 24 CFR part 51. These requirements must be completed before HUD may issue the firm approval letter. (c) Intergovernmental review. Intergovernmental review of Federal programs under Executive Order 12372, as implemented in 24 CFR part 52. (d) Subsidy layering. The Commissioner, or Housing Credit Agencies through such delegation as may be in effect by regulation hereafter, shall review all projects receiving tax credits and some form of HUD assistance for any excess subsidy provided to individual projects and reduce subsidy sources in accordance with outstanding guidelines. (e) Davis-Bacon Act. The Commissioner shall obtain and provide to the HFA the appropriate Department of Labor wage rate determinations under the Davis-Bacon Act, where they apply under this part. §266.215 Functions delegated by HUD to HFAs. The following functions are delegated by HUD to the HFAs: (a) Affirmative Fair Housing Marketing Plan (AFHMP). The HFA will perform information collection, reviews and ministerial activities associated with the review and approval of the AFHMP for all projects. (Enforcement of fair housing and equal opportunity laws is the responsibility of HUD.) (b) Labor standards and prevailing wage requirements. The HFA will perform information collection ( e.g. , payroll review and routine interviews) and other routine administration and enforcement functions regarding labor standards, in accordance with §266.225(e). (Enforcement of Davis-Bacon prevailing wage requirements and labor standards is the responsibility of HUD.) (c) Insurance of advances. In cases involving insured advances, the HFA will approve periodic advances of mortgage insurance proceeds during construction of the project subject to terms specified by the Commissioner. (d) Cost certification. The HFA will perform cost certification functions on each insured loan subject to terms specified by the Commissioner.
