FR941003-1-00064 FR941003-1-00006 The Council has added new provisions to assist agencies in meeting their responsibilities under the statutory requirement in Section 110(a)(2) of the 1992 NHPA amendments which requires agencies to develop preservation programs and to ensure that the agencies' procedures for compliance with Section 106 are consistent with the Council's procedures (Sections 800.3&hyph;800.6). The provisions implement the principle that agency procedures establishing a preservation program must be consistent with the Council's regulations by providing standards for consistency (Section 800.4) and processes through which the Council can evaluate whether these standards have been met (Section 800.5 and 800.6). Subpart C_The Section 106 Process The heart of the Section 106 process is in Subpart C. The provisions in this Subpart have changed to allow for more agency-SHPO decisionmaking without Council involvement. To offset the Council's removal from routine cases, this Subpart gives the Council the authority to resolve disputes between Federal agencies and SHPOs and to monitor agency performance and provides an expanded opportunity for the public to request the Council to intervene in particular cases. Section 800.7(a&hyph;e) sets forth the steps that an agency official must go through prior to the identification of historic properties. These provisions emphasize the need for early planning and coordination, both with reviews under other authorities and with other individuals and organizations, prior to the initiation of the identification stage. The identification and evaluation stages (Section 800.8) remain essentially the same as the present regulations, except that the regulation adds a provision allowing for Council review of agency decisions made during the identification and evaluation stages (Section 800.8(e)). As a supplement to Section 800.8, a non-binding Appendix has been added to provide additional clarification on the identification process and the establishment of the area of potential effects. The revised regulations eliminate the determination of effect step (and the existing Criteria of Effect) currently in the Section 106 process and allow an agency to apply the criteria of adverse effect directly after completing the identification stage (Section 800.9(a)). An agency is no longer required to notify the Council of a finding of no adverse effect, but the Council may review such a finding if requested or if the Council deems it appropriate (Section 800.9(d)). The revised regulations also eliminate the exceptions to a finding of adverse effect and incorporate those exceptions into a new provision allowing for conditional no adverse effect agreements (Section 800.9(b)(2)). The intent of the addition of the conditional no adverse effect agreement provision is to allow agencies and SHPOs flexibility in reaching routine agreements while maintaining agency accountability. It formally recognizes a practice that has already become widespread under the current regulations. In order to resolve adverse effects more efficiently, the revised regulations provide more autonomy to the SHPO and the Federal agency. The revised regulations establish a method for resolution of adverse effects without the Council's participation, changing the current two-party Memorandum of Agreement process (Sections 800.10(a)(1) and 800.10(c)(1)). Under this provision, if the Council elects not to participate in the negotiation, the agency and the SHPO may execute a Memorandum of Agreement which is sent to the Council, but need not be executed by the Council (Section 800.10(c)(1)). The revised regulations also clarify the use, force and effect of a Memorandum of Agreement and its provisions (Section 800.10(d)). If a Memorandum of Agreement cannot be reached during two-party consultation, the parties must seek the Council's participation and enter three-party consultation before terminating negotiations. If a Memorandum of Agreement cannot be reached, the revised regulations set forth more detailed provisions on termination of negotiations and Council comments (Section 800.11)). With regard to Council comments, the new regulations require that the head of the agency respond to the Council's comments in accordance with Section 110(l) of the NHPA. In responding to comments made by respondents to the Council's survey of Section 106 users and in order to balance the Council's removal from routine Section 106 cases, the revised regulations establish a new section on agency monitoring and compliance (Section 800.12). This section provides for the review of an agency official's findings, providing more detail than the review procedures contained in the current regulations at Section 800.6(e). The monitoring and compliance section also includes a new provision for the issuance of a notice of violation to an agency which has violated or, in the case of a preliminary notice of violation, is about to violate the requirements of the NHPA. In response to the 1992 amendments which added Section 110(k), the Council has established procedures addressing anticipatory demolition. Subpart D_Alternative Procedures This Subpart provides options for complying with the requirements of Section 106 other than those set forth in Subpart C. Its purpose is to encourage agencies to integrate the Section 106 process into their internal planning procedures. Section 800.16 of the revised regulations explains that counterpart procedures, as described in Sections 800.4 and 800.5(a), Programmatic Agreements, as described in Section 800.5(b), provide alternative means of compliance. In accordance with Section 101(d)(5) of the NHPA, the Council has added a new provision to establish a process by which an Indian tribe may substitute its tribal historic preservation regulations for the Council's regulations for review of undertakings on tribal lands (Section 800.17). The Council has also attempted to address the unique situations created by disasters or emergencies and has revised its emergency regulations to emphasize the need for the development of agency counterpart procedures which establish a plan for considering historic properties during responses to disasters and emergencies. The revised emergency regulations delete reference to 36 CFR Part 78 in order to encourage agencies to develop their own procedures for dealing with disasters. The Council has limited the applicability of the regulations to natural disasters or emergencies declared by the President or by an Agency Official. Subpart E_Coordination With Other Authorities As an expansion and revision of the current regulations regarding agency coordination, requested by surveyed users, the revised regulations establish more detailed guidance on coordination with the National Environmental Policy Act and indicate other relevant statutes where coordination is desirable (Section 800.19). III. Issues Deserving Special Attention From Commenters In the development of these revisions, the Council determined that several issues warranted special attention from commenters. These issues fall into three categories: (1) areas of particular concern to the Council on which the views of users and the public are particularly solicited; (2) provisions that could be drafted in one or more alternative ways and views are sought on the best alternative; and (3) questions about actions that could be taken to improve the functioning of the Section 106 process, but that would not be specifically included in the regulations. The Council invites commenters to give these issues special consideration and provide views for its use.
