FR940406-1-00029 FR940406-1-00009 The Federal Council believes that the proposed amendment to the Regulations will significantly enhance its ability to provide the American public with the benefits of a high quality program of international exhibitions while not significantly increasing the exposure of the Federal government to pay loss or damage claims nor significantly adding to the administrative burdens or costs of the program. The Federal Council believes that widening the eligibility criteria under the Indemnity Program to include coverage of U.S.-owned objects in exhibitions that also include foreign-owned loans would provide an important benefit to U.S. cultural institutions and to the American public. Under the current guidelines, U.S.-owned loans may be indemnified only when exhibited abroad. The Federal Council believes that if an exhibition of eligible items from abroad meets the criteria of having educational, cultural, historical or scientific value, and is certified by the Director of the United States Information Agency as being in the national interest, the U.S.-owned loans to the exhibition also should be eligible for indemnification. The Federal Council wishes to stress that the proposed amendment is not intended to bring about a major shift in the emphasis of the current policy or practice of the indemnity program. Under the proposed amended regulations, indemnity coverage would continue to be available primarily for the exhibition of items coming from outside the United States. It is anticipated that any U.S. loans to such international exhibitions would be a small but important component of the exhibition. Exhibitions consisting solely of domestic items would continue to be ineligible for indemnification. The Director of the United States Information Agency would continue to certify that the exhibition of items otherwise determined by the Council to be eligible for indemnification is in the national interest. The Federal Council believes that the proposed modification would not significantly increase the exposure of the Federal government to claims for loss or damage while providing important additional relief for U.S. borrowing institutions. This is because coverage during international transit, the time of greatest risk, would not be required for loans from U.S. lending institutions. Nor does the Federal Council anticipate a significant increase in either the number of applications to the program or the administrative burdens associated with applying or reviewing indemnification applications. Under current practice, applicants already are required to include information on domestic loans in their applications, and indemnity panels consider the educational, cultural, historical or scientific value of both the domestic and foreign items in determining whether to indemnify an exhibition. List of Subjects in 45 CFR Part 1160 Indemnity payments. For the Federal Council on the Arts and the Humanities. Michael S. Shapiro, Counsel to the Federal Council on the Arts and the Humanities. Accordingly, for the reasons set out in the preamble, the Federal Council proposes to amend 45 CFR part 1160 as follows: 1. The authority citation for part 1160 continues to read as follows: Authority: 20 U.S.C. 971&hyph;977. PART 1160_INDEMNITIES UNDER THE ARTS AND ARTIFACTS INDEMNITY ACT ยง1160.1 [Amended] 2. Section 1160.1, is amended by revising paragraph (a) to read as follows: ยง1160.1 Purpose and scope. (a) This part sets forth the exhibition indemnity procedures of the Federal Council on the Arts and Humanities under the Arts and Artifacts Indemnity Act (Pub. L. 94&hyph;158) as required by section 2(a)(2) of the Act. An indemnity agreement made under the regulations in this part shall cover: (1) Eligible items from outside the United States while on exhibition in the United States; (2) Eligible items from the United States while on exhibition outside this country, preferably when they are part of an exchange of exhibitions; or (3) Eligible items from the United States while on exhibition in the United States if the exhibition includes other eligible items from outside the United States. * * * * * [FR Doc. 94&hyph;8238 Filed 4&hyph;5&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 7536&hyph;01&hyph;P
