FR941019-2-00027 FR941019-2-00020 5. Amending a Previous Year's Report The final guidelines add a provision which allows reporters to amend any previous year's report. The program will, for example, accept reports based on estimated and default data, which will be identified as such by the reporter. (See discussion at II.B., above.) Where a reporter subsequently develops better data, for example through field measurements or utility-specific emissions factors, the original report may be modified based on information developed using the later-acquired data. The amended report will include the reason for the revision and a comparison of the amended report's changes to the original report. The primary reason for adding this provision is to encourage reporters to develop their own activity-specific data, without discouraging reporting based on less-specific estimation or default data. 6. Radiative Forcing of Greenhouse Gases The language of Section 1605(b)(1) provides that the reporting guidelines are ``to establish procedures for taking into account the differential radiative activity and atmospheric lifetimes of each greenhouse gas.'' The draft guidelines and the supporting materials included as Part 7, ``Global Warming Potentials'' (GWPs), describing the GWP index developed by the IPCC as a simple method for representing the relative effects on climate resulting from a unit mass of a greenhouse gas. Comments unanimously supported DOE's decision to require that emissions data be reported only in units of greenhouse gases emitted, and not to require reporters to convert these data to the effects of the gases reported relative to carbon dioxide. The final guidelines continue to direct that reported data will be in units of gas emitted. Commenters expressed concerns that (1) the concept of GWPs was too complex to be useful to most reporters in developing GHG mitigation options; (2) the discussion in draft Part 7 of the scientific basis of GWPs was flawed; and (3) use of scientific work not yet formally adopted by the IPCC was inappropriate. In response to comments, draft Part 7 has been substantially condensed and appears as Appendix E in the two supporting volumes. The expansion of draft Part 7 to clarify fully the many complex and evolving scientific issues was deemed outside the scope of the voluntary reporting program. A brief discussion of the concept, together with a chart of the latest quantitative GWP index developed by the international scientific community, is provided in the Appendix. The reader/user is referred to other sources for additional information. DOE agrees that the scientific concepts involved in GWPs, such as time horizons, carbon cycle models, and integration time scales, may not be clearly understood by many in the general reporting population. The ongoing improvements in our understanding of the complex global climate system and analytic models developed are evidenced, as discussed in the Notice of Inquiry preceding the draft guidelines, by the 1992 revision of the 1990 IPCC report on GWPs. Further, revisions to the 1992 report have been approved by an IPCC subsidiary body, Working Group I, and will be published later this year. It is from this anticipated publication that the GWPs provided in the draft and final guidelines are taken. The IPCC, an international body charged with reaching international consensus on the complex scientific matters in climate change, is supported by the United States. IPCC work will ultimately be a factor in both domestic and international analyses on climate change mitigation options. It would thus be imprudent for the DOE reporting guidelines to address differential radiative forcing in a manner inconsistent with the IPCC. The 1994 revisions to the IPCC GWP index have been approved by Working Group I and are expected to be formally accepted by the full IPCC soon after publication of the final guidelines. DOE is using this material in advance of its formal acceptance for administrative ease. 7. Editorial and Minor Revisions In response to various comments, editorial revisions were made throughout the General Guidelines and the supporting documents as follows. Case studies and examples. Case studies and examples are provided for the purpose of illustrating the process of project analysis in light of a reporter's purpose and sector-specific circumstances and conditions. Some commenters suggested that some of the case studies and examples provided were unrealistic, that they suggest a greater reporting burden for reporters in some sectors than in others, or that they appear to require the use of certain approaches and methods for some activities. To address these comments, the following text has been added to all case study and example presentations: Note: This example illustrates only one approach in analyzing a project; your analysis, methods, and calculations will vary depending on your particular circumstances, the geographic location of the project, and other factors.
