FR940127-2-00007 FR940127-2-00005 [C&hyph;307&hyph;810] Preliminary Negative Countervailing Duty Determination: Phthalic Anhydride from Venezuela AGENCY: Import Administration, International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce. EFFECTIVE DATE: January 27, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Kristin M. Heim or Cynthia Thirumalai, Office of Countervailing Investigations, Import Administration, U.S. Department of Commerce, room B099, 14th Street and Constitution Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20230; telephone (202) 482&hyph;3798 or 482&hyph;4087, respectively. PRELIMINARY DETERMINATION Case History Since the publication of the notice of initiation in the Federal Register (58 FR 60845, November 18, 1993), the following events have occurred. On November 23, 1993, we issued a questionnaire to the Government of Venezuela (``GOV'') in Washington, DC., concerning petitioners' allegations. On January 5, 1994, we received responses from the GOV and Oxidaciones Organicas, C.A. (Oxidor). Scope of Investigations For purposes of this investigation, phthalic anhydride (``PA'') is an aromatic synthetic organic chemical usually produced from a primary petrochemical called orthoxylene, although sometimes it is produced from naphthalene. PA is predominately used in the production of plasticizers, unsaturated polyester resins, and alkyd resins, which in turn are generally used to produce plastics and paints. The subject PA is produced in two physical forms, molten and flaked. The PA subject to this investigation is currently classified under subheading 2917.35.00 of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (HTSUS). Although the HTSUS subheading is provided for convenience and customs purposes, our written description of the scope of this investigation is dispositive. Injury Test On August 31, 1990, Venezuela became a contracting party to the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT). Since qualification as a ``country under the Agreement'' under section 701(b)(3) requires a finding that the GATT does not apply between the United States and the country from which the subject merchandise is imported, Venezuela is no longer eligible for treatment as a ``country under the Agreement'' within the meaning of section 701(b)(3). However, because Venezuela is a GATT contracting party and the merchandise under investigation is nondutiable, the ITC is required to determine whether, pursuant to section 303(a)(2), imports of this merchandise from Venezuela materially injure, or threaten material injury to, a U.S. industry. On December 1, 1993, the ITC preliminarily determined that there is a reasonable indication that an industry in the United States is threatened with material injury by reason of imports of PA from Venezuela. Petitioners Petitioners are Aristech Chemical Corporation, BASF Corporation, Koppers Industries, Inc. and Stepan Company. Petitioners state that they represent 75 percent of the domestic phthalic anhydride industry. Respondents The Government of Venezuela and Oxidor are respondents. While there are two producers of PA in Venezuela, Oxidor accounted for over 85 percent of exports to the United States during the POI and, hence, was selected as the sole respondent. Analysis of Programs For purposes of this preliminary determination, the period for which we are measuring bounties or grants, the period of investigation (``the POI''), is April 1, 1992 to March 30, 1993, which corresponds to Oxidor's fiscal year. Consistent with our practice in preliminary determinations, when a response to an allegation denies the existence of a program, receipt of benefits under a program, or eligibility of a company or industry under a program, and the Department has no persuasive evidence showing that the response is incorrect, we accept the response for purposes of the preliminary determination. All such responses, however, are subject to verification. If the response cannot be supported at verification, and the program is otherwise countervailable, the program will be considered a bounty or grant in the final determination.
