FR941206-2-00107 FR941206-2-00073 6. Inclusion of Short Sales in NPROVE As currently proposed, short-sales would be prohibited through NPROVE, just as they are prohibited through the NASD's Small Order Execution System rules currently in effect. In light of the SEC's approval of the NASD's proposed short-sale rule in June 1994, 15 coupled with NPROVE's order acceptance feature that enables market makers to handle exposure to transactions such as short sales by permitting them to reject trades if they have already traded, however, the NASD believes it is appropriate to permit short sales through NPROVE. By so doing, the NASD will expand the spectrum of retail orders that are available to take advantage of NPROVES's price improvement and limit order protection benefits. Nevertheless, while NPROVE will provide a 15-second period for a market maker to react to an NPROVE order, the NASD remains concerned that this 15-second period is sufficiently short the there remains a risk of destabilizing short term trading through the service. Accordingly the NASD will review the volume and impact of short sales effected through NPROVE on an on-going basis to determine whether it is appropriate in the interests of maintaining fair and orderly markets to continue to allow short-sales through NPROVE. 15 Securities Exchange Act Release No. 34277 (June 29, 1994), 59 FR 34885 (July 7, 1994). The NASD believes that the proposed NPROVE system, as amended, is consistent with Section 15A(b)(6), 15A(b)(9), 15A(b)(11), and 11A(a)(1)(C) of the Act. Section 15A(b)(6) requires that the rules of a national securities association be designed to prevent fraudulent and manipulative acts and practices, to promote just and equitable principles of trade, to foster cooperation and coordination with persons engaged in regulating, clearing, settling, processing information with respect to, and facilitating transactions in securities, to remove impediments to and perfect the mechanism of a free and open market and a national market system and in general to protect investors and the public interest. Section 15A(b)(9) requires that rules of an association not impose any burden on competition not necessary or appropriate in furtherance of the purposes of the Act. Section 15A(b)(11) requires the NASD to formulate rules governing the quality of fair and informative quotations. Section 11A(a)(1)(C) finds that it is in the public interest to, among other things, assure economically efficient execution of securities transactions. The fundamental purpose of NPROVE is to assist individual investors in achieving prompt, efficient executions of their small orders, to provide individual investors an opportunity for price improvement within an automated execution environment, and to afford individual investors an automated and effective means to protect their limit orders. The integrity and efficiency of Nasdaq for public investors and market-making participants is critical and the NASD believes that NPROVE will provide benefits to both constituencies. The design of NPROVE is not anti-competitive as it treats all unpreferenced orders uniformly; to the extent that preferenced orders are distinguished, by entering into preferencing arrangements with known customers, market maker's effectively waive the protections offered by the system. NPROVE may also enhance the quality of quotations in the Nasdaq market as market makers participating in the service may be encouraged to narrow the spread and improve the best inter-dealer quotations in Nasdaq in order to be first in priority and continue to receive unpreferenced order flow through NPROVE. Lastly, the NASD believes that NPROVE is fully consistent with the significant national market system objectives contained in Section 11A of the Act. The facilities of NPROVE would advance these objectives by offering efficient execution of investors' small orders, by maintaining market maker participation through the automated delivery of orders with the ability to reject those orders if trades have already occurred, and by offering the opportunity for price improvement to NPROVE orders. The system's functionality will more accurately reflect market makers' affirmative obligations to provide liquidity to the market, without depriving market makers of legitimate exceptions from the firmness requirements contained in Rule 11Ac1&hyph;1 promulgated under the Act. B. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Burden on Competition The NASD believes that the proposed rule change will not result in any burden on competition that is not necessary or appropriate in furtherance of the purposes of the Act. C. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received from Members, Participants, or Others Comments were neither solicited nor received. III. Date of Effectiveness of the Proposed Rule Change and Timing for Commission Action Within 35 days of the date of publication of this notice in the Federal Register or within such longer period (i) as the Commission may designate up to 90 days of such date if it finds such longer period to be appropriate and publishes it reasons for so finding or (ii) as to which the NASD consents, the Commission will: A. By order approve such proposed rule change, or B. Institute proceedings to determine whether the proposed rule change should be disapproved. Solicitation of Comments Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views, and arguments concerning the foregoing. Persons making written submissions should file six copies thereof with the Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549. Copies of the submission, all subsequent amendments, all written statements with respect to the proposed rule change that are filed with the Commission, and all written communications relating to the proposed rule change between the Commission and any person, other than those that may be withheld from the public in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552, will be available for inspection and copying in the Commission's Public Reference Room. Copies of such filing will also be available for inspection and copying at the principal office of the NASD. All submissions should refer to File Number SR&hyph;NASD&hyph;94&hyph;13 and should be submitted by December 27, 1994. For the Commission, by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. 16 16 17 CFR 200.30&hyph;3(a)(12) (1994). Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;29932 Filed 12&hyph;5&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
