FR941026-0-00023 FR941026-0-00008 DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE Office of the Secretary 32 CFR Parts 90 and 91 RINs 0790&hyph;AF61 and 0790&hyph;AF62 Revitalizing Base Closure Communities and Community Assistance AGENCY: Department of Defense, DoD. ACTION: Interim final rule; amendments. SUMMARY: The interim final rule amendment promulgates guidance required by Section 2903 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1994. This guidance clarifies the application process and the criteria that will be used to evaluate an application for property under this section. DATES: This document is effective October 26, 1994. Any pending written request for economic development conveyances, pursuant to §91.7(e)(5), will be subject to the terms and conditions of this rule amendment. Comments on this amendment must be received by December 27, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments should be forwarded to the Office of the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Economic Security, Room 3D814, The Pentagon, Washington, DC 20301. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Robert Hertzfeld, telephone (703) 604&hyph;5690. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: A. Summary of Amendment In response to public comments regarding the interim final rule implementing Title XXIX of the National Defense Authorization Act for FY 1994 published in the Federal Register on April 6, 1994 (59 FR 16123), the Department of Defense is amending the Rule to: 1. Delete section 91.7(d) and the accompanying ``Market Test.'' 2. Establish the requirements for an Economic Development Conveyance (EDC) application for real property in a revised section 91.7(e). 3. Establish criteria that will be used to evaluate EDC applications in a revised section 91.7(e). 4. Provide guidance for greater flexibility on the compensation to the Federal Government for property conveyed under an EDC in a revised section 91.7(e). The scope of the following amendment is limited to the real property conveyance section of the rule §§91.7 (d), (e), and (f), and not the entire April 6, 1994, interim final rule. A final rule addressing all of the elements of the interim final rule will be published in early 1995. The Department of Defense will also publish a guidebook describing the base conversion process. B. Background On July 2, 1993, President Clinton announced a major new policy to speed the economic recovery of communities affected by base closures or realignments. The President requested that Congress provide additional authority to expedite the reuse of closing military bases. Congress agreed, and passed this new authority, Title XXIX of the National Defense Authorization Act for FY 1994. Section 2903 of Title XXIX gave the Secretary of Defense the authority to transfer property to local redevelopment authorities at or below fair market value. The Department of Defense implemented this authority by creating an additional tool for local communities to help foster economic development through the creation of a new form of conveyance, referred to as the ``Economic Development Conveyance '' (EDC). Under an EDC, the Department may transfer property to a Local Redevelopment Authority (``LRA'') at or below estimated fair market value for purposes of economic development. (Property may also be transferred under a series of other existing public benefit conveyances.) On April 6, 1994, (59 FR 16123), the Department of Defense published an interim final rule that provided base closure communities with guidance on how to use the new authority. During the public comment process, the Department of Defense learned that some of the procedures contained in the interim final rule may be impractical and not assist in reaching the rapid economic redevelopment goals. As a result, they are being revised by this amendment. Specifically, the interim final rule established a ``market test'' or ``market survey'' as a precondition to any EDC. This approach was designed to help determine whether immediate private development of a property was possible by advertising its availability and soliciting private interest. Many comments suggested that private developers would not spend the time and money necessary to prepare a detailed expression of interest until after a community redevelopment plan was approved, if at all. Additionally, the interim final rule was perceived to encourage private developers to ``cherry-pick'' valuable parcels for private sector sales and leave the less attractive parcels for the community redevelopment. This effort was said to be inconsistent with proper planning methods and not in the long-term interest of enhancing local economic recovery. With the assistance of comments received during the public comment period of the interim final rule, the Department of Defense has been persuaded that such solicitation is unlikely to be fruitful unless and until the local community provides the necessary investment and infrastructure for development: zoning, public utilities, etc. As a result, the Department is eliminating the ``market test'' and creating with this Amendment a new process for an EDC that will consider such information, as addressed by the local redevelopment plan. The interim final rule also prescribed procedures and guidelines for recoupment of value by the Federal Government if and when net proceeds were realized by development. Based upon experience since its publication and public comment, the Department of Defense is persuaded that greater flexibility is needed in this area. C. Discussion The interim final rule amendment being published today addresses some of the concerns raised by affected communities and others. This amendment eliminates the ``market test'' requirements, includes a new application and review process for an EDC, and establishes criteria to evaluate the applications as a substitute for the ``market test.'' Greater flexibility is given to the Military Departments and the communities to negotiate the terms and conditions of the EDC. A detailed application, including the approved community redevelopment plan, will now be the basis for a determination of whether or not an LRA will be eligible for an EDC. The application and review process will also be used to help determine the terms and conditions of such a conveyance.
