FR940928-0-00026 FR940928-0-00007 DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE Immigration and Naturalization Service 8 CFR Part 286 [INS No. 1392&hyph;93] RIN 1115&hyph;AA&hyph;30 Immigration User Fee; Remittance Requirements AGENCY: Immigration and Naturalization Service, Justice. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: This rule publishes changes to requirements related to the Immigration User Fee Account (IUFA). The rule amends existing regulations to comply with the 1991 and 1994 Department of Justice Appropriations Acts. In addition, this rule changes where remittances shall be sent; requires additional information in the remittance and statement procedures for fees; clarifies how remittances shall be paid; and makes a nomenclature change. Two minor technical corrections are also being made to correct errors in the text of the regulations. EFFECTIVE DATE: October 28, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Michael Natchuras, Budget Analyst, Fee Analysis and Operations Branch, Office of Finance, Office of Budget, Immigration and Naturalization Service (INS), 425 I Street NW., Room 6307, Washington, DC 0536&hyph;0002, telephone (0) (202) 616&hyph;2754. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: I. Introduction The INS published a proposed rule on February 15, 1994, at 59 FR 7227, making changes to requirements related to the Immigration User Fee Account. The proposed rule was published with a 60-day comment period. The public had the opportunity to comment on the proposed rule through April 18, 1994. Changes in current regulations are needed to make the regulations consistent with current law, and establish requirements for fee collection data and remittance information. In addition, the final rule implements a nomenclature change throughout 8 CFR 86 to remove the word ``Comptroller'' and to put in its place the words ``Associate Commissioner, Finance,'' and makes two other technical corrections. Comments were received from seven commenters, including three industry associations. All the comments were carefully considered before preparing this final rule. Following is a discussion of the comments. II. Summary of Comments A. Monthly Summary Statement Requirement Five commenters expressed dissatisfaction with this reporting requirement. One commenter expressed agreement in principal with the proposed submission of monthly information related to the Immigration User Fees collected. The commenters who expressed dissatisfaction with the reporting requirement indicated that the monthly requirement would add an additional and costly reporting burden which would duplicate a quarterly remittance statement, and would require carrier-ticketing information which is considered to be ``commercially confidential.'' One commenter indicated that there would be timing difficulty in reporting information as required in the proposed rule, given the dates airlines receive domestic and international sales reports. Along these same lines, another commenter suggested that carriers be given at least 1 month to submit a report. Further, two commenters noted that the universal scope of the requirement should be limited if the reporting requirement is published as a final rule. One of these suggested that the requirement apply to high-volume carriers; the other suggested that it be applicable to carriers who consistently fail to remit fees. Another of the comments suggested that, should the monthly reporting requirement be implemented, it should include a ``sunset'' provision to discontinue the requirement after 2 years subject to evaluation of the benefits in relation to the costs.
