FR941011-0-00026 FR941011-0-00009 The comment received from the National Association of Boards of Pharmacy (NABP) which strongly supports the elimination of the ephedrine threshold also states that ``NABP agrees that adoption of the proposed rule should have no significant impact on pharmacies, hospitals, or points of distribution that distribute medications containing ephedrine for the treatment of asthma and other conditions.'' The NABP comment also notes that other products are also available for the treatment of asthma. BDI's comment claims that DEA is biased against single entity ephedrine products while many advertised combination products are not considered safe and effective. On the contrary, DEA is not supporting the use of one product over another for the treatment of asthma or any other medical condition. It is not DEA's mandate to make such determinations. It is, however, DEA's responsibility to prevent the diversion of chemicals for the illicit production of controlled substances. The DCDCA removes the exemption for single entity ephedrine products. However, it is important to note that the DCDCA also provides for the removal of an exemption for any drug or group of drugs that are being diverted to obtain the listed chemical for use in the illicit production of a controlled substance. Under such provisions, combination products used in the illicit production of controlled substances can lose their exemptions and thus be subjected to recordkeeping, reporting, notification and registration requirements. DEA plans to closely monitor such activity, and is prepared to pursue the removal of exemptions for those products. BDI's comment implies that the high retail cost of its product line prevents these products from being a cost effective source of ephedrine for clandestine laboratory use. Depending upon the package size, BDI reports that 48,000 ephedrine 25 mg tablets would cost $3,000 to $9,000 at a retail outlet. In contrast, however, based on data available to DEA regarding the national range of street prices for methamphetamine in 1993, these products are a cost effective source of ephedrine for clandestine laboratory use. BDI's comment states that the comment period should be extended. However, BDI's request for extension was denied by the Administrator on the grounds that sufficient information was included in the March 17, 1994, Notice of Proposed Rulemaking and ample time given for comments to be submitted. BDI's comment states that the likely source of ephedrine at clandestine laboratories is bulk ephedrine from Canada. This is not substantiated by DEA information. Ephedrine tablets have been seized at many clandestine laboratories. It is important to note, however, that DEA has emphasized that smuggling from Mexico is also an important source of ephedrine for clandestine laboratory usage. BDI's comment states that Congress did not contemplate the complete elimination of the ephedrine threshold. On the contrary, the language in the DCDCA is specific, i.e. the DCDCA uses the language ``or if the Attorney General establishes a threshold amount for a specific listed chemical''. Such language makes it clear that the normal case would be that listed chemicals would not have a threshold unless the Attorney General decides that a threshold is warranted and that the Attorney General may remove the threshold from chemicals already listed. BDI's comment states that DEA has no evidence of retail package diversion. On the contrary, DEA does have evidence of the retail diversion of ephedrine tablets as a source of precursor material for clandestine laboratory use. In addition to the smuggling of ephedrine and purchase via mail order, ephedrine is obtained through the purchase of ephedrine tablets from gas stations, convenience stores and other retail outlets. This includes small 6 count packets of ephedrine and bottles of 24 dosage units. Investigative information shows that individuals have gone from store to store to buy out the stock of ephedrine until they obtain sufficient material for desired batch sizes. T&M Distributing commented that DEA has not demonstrated that the current threshold is insufficient to control diversion, and has failed to consider the burden to public health. These specific issues have been addressed earlier in this Federal Register Notice.
