FR940810-2-00045 FR940810-2-00024 This alternative would include continuation of on-going waste management activities, planned waste management and environmental restoration activities, and enhanced usage of the Site for waste management activities. In addition to on-going activities, planned waste management activities proposed for the Area 5 radioactive waste management site include construction and operation of: certification facilities for various types of waste, expanded mixed waste disposal facilities for on- and off-site generated mixed waste, increased capacity for hazardous and mixed waste storage, waste treatment facilities, closure barriers or caps, and infrastructure improvements. Enhanced usage would include, for example, options to utilize the Nevada Test Site as specified in other DOE and Department of Defense NEPA documents (such as the Environmental Restoration and Waste Management Programmatic EIS which, among other things, addresses a programmatic alternative under which all DOE low-level radioactive wastes would be disposed of at the Nevada Test Site); regional treatment of mixed waste in accordance with the Federal Facility Compliance Act; and disposal of mixed and transuranic wastes. Other Alternatives The Department will consider other resource management alternatives, i.e., variations of the no action alternative that would involve no new projects or a phased reduction in current operations, and no shipments or reduced shipments of off-site waste to the Nevada Test Site. The Department invites public comment on the above, and suggestions regarding other resource management alternatives that should be considered. Preliminary Identification of Environmental Issues The following issues have been tentatively identified for analysis in this EIS. This list is intended to facilitate public comment on the scope of the EIS. It is not intended to be all-inclusive, nor is it intended to be a predetermination of impacts. 1. Potential effects on the public and on-site workers from releases of radiological and hazardous materials during normal operations and from reasonably foreseeable accidents.
