FR940921-1-00013 FR940921-1-00007 Wednesday September 21, 1994 Part IV Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board 36 CFR Part 1191 Americans With Disabilities Act Accessibility Guidelines for Buildings and Facilities; Recreation Facilities and Outdoor Developed Areas; Proposed Rule Federal Register ␣/␣Vol. 59, No. 182␣/␣Wednesday, September 21, 1994␣/␣Proposed Rules ARCHITECTURAL AND TRANSPORTATION BARRIERS COMPLIANCE BOARD 36 CFR Part 1191 [Docket No. 94&hyph;1] RIN 3014&hyph;AA16 Americans With Disabilities Act Accessibility Guidelines for Buildings and Facilities; Recreation Facilities and Outdoor Developed Areas AGENCY: Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board. ACTION: Advance notice of proposed rulemaking. SUMMARY: The Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board (Access Board) announces that its Recreation Access Advisory Committee has issued a report with recommendations for making recreation facilities and outdoor developed areas readily accessible to and usable by individuals with disabilities. Single copies of the report may be obtained from the Access Board. The Access Board will use the committee's report to develop a notice of proposed rulemaking establishing accessibility guidelines for newly constructed and altered recreation facilities and outdoor developed areas under the Americans with Disabilities Act and the Architectural Barriers Act. The Access Board seeks public comment on the committee's report and will consider the comments along with the report as it develops the notice of proposed rulemaking. DATES: Comments should be received by December 20, 1994. Comments received after this date will be considered to the extent practicable. ADDRESSES: Comments should be sent to the Office of Technical and Information Services, Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board, 1331 F Street NW., suite 1000, Washington, DC 20004&hyph;1111. Comments will be available for inspection at the above address from 9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. on regular business days. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Peggy H. Greenwell, Office of Technical and Information Services, Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board, 1331 F Street NW., suite 1000, Washington, DC 20004&hyph;1111. Telephone number (202) 272&hyph;5434 ext. 34 (Voice); (202) 272&hyph;5449 (TTY). These are not toll-free numbers. This document is available in alternate formats (cassette tape, braille, large print, or computer disk) upon request. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Advisory Committee Report Single copies of the Recreation Access Advisory Committee's report may be obtained at no cost by calling the Access Board's automated publications order line (202&hyph;272&hyph;5434), pressing 1 on the telephone keypad, then 1 again and requesting publication S26 (Recreation Report). Persons using a TTY should call 202&hyph;272&hyph;5449. Please record a name, address and telephone number. Persons who want a copy in an alternate format, should specify the type of format (audio cassette tape, braille, large print, or computer disk). Background The Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board (Access Board) is responsible for developing accessibility guidelines under the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 to ensure that new construction and alterations of facilities covered by the law are readily accessible to and usable by individuals with disabilities. 1 The Access Board initially issued the Americans with Disabilities Act Accessibility Guidelines in 1991. 36 CFR part 1191. ADAAG contains scoping provisions and technical specifications for designing parking areas, entrances, toilet rooms and other elements and spaces that typically comprise a building and its site so that individuals with disabilities will have ready access to and use of the facility. ADAAG also contains additional provisions for certain types of facilities, including restaurants, medical care facilities, business and mercantile establishments, libraries, transient lodging, and transportation facilities. 2 1 The Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) (42 U.S.C. 12101 et seq.) is a comprehensive Civil Rights law which prohibits discrimination on the basis of disability and requires, among other things, that newly constructed and altered State and local government building, places of public accommodation, and commercial facilities be accessible to and usable by individuals with disabilities. 2 The Access Board recently issued an interim final rule that adds provisions to ADAAG for certain State and local government facilities, including judicial, legislative and regulatory facilities; detention and correction facilities; residential housing; and public rights-of-way. 59 FR 31676 (June 20, 1994). Various types of recreation facilities and outdoor developed areas are covered by the Americans with Disabilities Act. Newly constructed and altered recreation facilities and outdoor developed areas are currently required to comply with ADAAG, as adopted by the Department of Justice as the standards for accessible design (28 CFR 36.406), where its provisions can be applied. For example, parking areas, entrances, toilet rooms, restaurants, and mercantile establishments that are part of newly constructed and altered recreation facilities and outdoor developed areas must comply with ADAAG. 3 3 State and local governments currently have the option of using ADAAG or an earlier standard, the Uniform Federal Accessibility Standards (UFAS), when constructing or altering facilities under the Department of Justice regulations (28 CFR 35.151(c)). The Department of Justice has recently issued a notice of proposed rulemaking to eliminate this option. 59 FR 31808 (June 20, 1994). Recreation facilities and other outdoor developed areas have some unique features for which additional accessibility guidelines need to be developed. In July 1993, the Access Board convened an advisory committee as the first step in developing these guidelines. The committee was comprised of owners and operators of recreation facilities; persons who design recreation facilities or manufacture related equipment; local, State and Federal officials responsible for parks and other outdoor developed areas; and individuals with disabilities and organizations representing their interests. The committee was requested to accomplish the following objectives within one year: •Develop a list of the various types of recreation facilities and outdoor developed areas; •Identify the features of each facility type that are not adequately addressed by ADAAG; •Consider any unique design issues or constraints affecting access to each facility type; •Review any existing voluntary guidelines for providing access to the various facility types; and •Make recommendations for accessibility guidelines for each facility type. The committee organized itself into six subcommittees based on facility types to accomplish these objectives: Sports facilities; places of amusement; play settings; golf; boating and fishing facilities; and outdoor developed areas. The committee met five times between July 1993 and May 1994. Committee members spent most of their time working in subcommittees which reported to the full committee. The subcommittees also worked between committee meetings. Committee meetings were well attended by persons interested in the committee's work and public comment was received at each meeting. The subcommittees also encouraged interested persons to participate in their work, including providing information and reviewing draft reports. More than 250 people actively participated in the committee's and subcommittees' work and collectively gave between 50,000 and 60,000 hours of their time. In July 1994, the committee formally presented its report to the Access Board. During the next year, the Access Board will review the committee's report and develop a notice of proposed rulemaking to establish accessibility guidelines for newly constructed and altered recreation facilities and outdoor developed areas under the Americans with Disabilities Act. The Access Board is also responsible for developing accessibility guidelines for federally financed facilities under the Architectural Barriers Act (42 U.S.C. 4151 et seq.) and anticipates that the notice of proposed rulemaking will also apply to recreation facilities and outdoor developed areas covered under that law. In view of the significant public interest in the committee's report and the rulemaking, the Access Board is providing copies of the committee's report to the public and will receive comments from the public on the committee's report for a 90-day period from the publication of this notice. Comments received during this period will be considered along with the committee's report as the Access Board develops the notice of proposed rulemaking. Local, State and Federal government agencies and private entities which own or operate recreation facilities and outdoor developed areas are encouraged to review the committee's report and to send their comments to the Access Board. Individuals with disabilities and their organizations, and other interested persons are also encouraged to review and comment on the committee's report.
