FR941025-2-00006 FR941025-2-00005 Forest Service Boise River Wildfire Recovery Project, Boise National Forest, Idaho AGENCY: Forest Service, USDA. ACTION: Notice; intent to prepare environmental impact statement. SUMMARY: The Rabbit Creek, Bannock Creek and Star Gulch Wildfires burned a total of 182,000 acres in July, August, and September of 1994. Approximately 173,000 acres burned within the boundaries of National Forest System lands. Personnel on the Boise National Forest intend to prepare an Environmental Impact Statement to assess opportunities to salvage the economic value of fire killed and imminently dead trees in combination with treatments to promote regeneration of trees on forested areas, maintain or improve hydrologic conditions of affected watersheds, and protect long-term soil site productivity. These activities are to occur on 95,000 acres of the Idaho City and Mountain Home Ranger Districts. All proposals will provide visual resource needs on river segments eligible for wild, scenic, or recreational classification under the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act, and provide for wildlife and fisheries habitat. Past experience with wildfire timber recovery efforts on the Boise National Forest have proved that prompt action is required to recover the economic value of fire killed trees. The trees, mostly ponderosa pine and Douglas-fir, are expected to lose 20 to 80 percent of their economic value after just one summer season. In addition, there is an expected benefit to watershed recovery from the slash that is created by salvage harvest operations. Proposals for treatment of the area will be based on area burn intensity, slope characteristics, soil and land types, wildlife habitat needs, soil erosion and sediment reduction techniques, visual quality protection, and economics. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: There are approximately 23,000 acres burned within Inventoried Roadless Areas (IRAs). The IRAs affected are Breadwinner, Grand Mountain, Mt. Heinen and Ten Mile/Black Warrior. In addition, approximately 35,000 acres of an area recommended for wilderness designation burned. Approximately 30,000 acres burned within the Sawtooth Wilderness. Within the burn area are approximately 1,000 acres of the 6,865-acre Boise Basin Experimental Forest, slightly more than 300 acres of the 445-acre Bannock Creek Research Natural Area, and approximately 100 acres of the proposed 874-acre North Fork Boise River Research Natural Area. Approximately 45 miles of eligible Wild, Scenic and Recreational River segments (North Fork Boise, Middle Fork Boise, Crooked, and Bear Rivers) were included in the fire area. Many acres of wildlife and fish habitat were affected. Burn intensities in the fire area varied considerably. Within the fire perimeter, approximately 46,000 acres burned at high intensity, 46,000 acres burned at moderate intensity and 85,000 acres burned at low intensity. Approximately 5,000 acres inside the fire perimeter did not burn. Proposed Action Treat approximately 95,000 acres of National Forest System lands to recover the economic value of the timber, promote regeneration of trees on forested areas, maintain or improve hydrologic conditions of affected watersheds, and protect long-term soil site productivity. Approximately 18,000 acres of suitable timber lands are not expected to regenerating naturally, and will be planted. Of these, approximately 4,000 acres are within the IRAs. All other suitable timber acres are projected to reforest naturally and will be monitored for natural regeneration success. The fire area includes the Boise Basin Experimental Forest which will be treated as lands suitable for harvest. Salvage harvest may occur in the IRAs (Breadwinner, Grand Mtn., Mt. Heinen, and Ten Mile/Black Warrior outside of Management Area 28). No harvest will occur within the Recommended Wilderness (Forest Plan Management Area 28 portion of the Ten Mile/Black Warrior IRA) or the Sawtooth Wilderness.
