FR941013-1-00070 FR941013-1-00010 The first option is to define the source in a very broad context as the entire facility. This option was rejected by the EPA for the off-site waste and recovery operations NESHAP because it would be very difficult to apply a single facility-wide emission limitation level for MACT to all off-site waste and recovery operations facilities for several reasons. First, the mechanism by which organic HAP are emitted to the atmosphere and the types of air emission controls applicable to reducing these emissions vary widely for the emission point types identified for off-site waste and recovery operations. For example, covers frequently are installed on tanks to control air emissions while work practice programs are used to control air emissions from equipment leaks. Furthermore, not all off-site waste and recovery operations at a particular facility may be subject to this rulemaking. As previously explained, certain types of waste combustion units, landfill units, and other operations are being addressed by separate EPA regulatory actions. Finally, some waste and recovery operations at a particular facility may be dedicated to managing only wastes or recoverable materials generated on-site and, thus, would not be subject to this rulemaking. A second option is to define the source in a more narrow context as the entire operation used to manage a particular waste or recoverable material from the point where the material enters the facility through the point where the material exits the facility or, if it is a waste, disposed on-site. Under this definition, the source would consist of a mix of different types of emission points representing the sequence of units in which the waste or recoverable material is stored, conveyed, treated, and, in some cases, disposed. Under this option, a single emission limitation for MACT would be established for the entire group of emission points comprising the management sequence used to handle the waste or recoverable material. This second option for defining sources under the off-site waste and recovery operations NESHAP was also rejected by the EPA as inappropriate. Unlike manufacturing or production processes that produce a specific product, the operations used to manage a particular type of waste or recoverable material cannot be readily characterized by one or even several standardized process configurations which are used throughout the industrial segment representing the source category. The types, configurations, and sequencing of units used for operations handling a particular type of waste or recoverable material are not consistent, but instead can vary widely from one facility to the next. Therefore, the EPA concluded that this option is not an appropriate approach for defining sources for the off-site waste and recovery operations NESHAP. The final option considered by the EPA is to further narrow the definition of source to the individual emission points identified for the source category ( i.e., tanks, containers, land disposal units, process vents, and equipment leaks). Under this option, an overall emission limitation for MACT would be established for each emission point type. The EPA believes that this option is the most appropriate approach for defining sources for the off-site waste and recovery operations NESHAP. This approach defines the source in terms of common types of units used at off-site waste and recovery operations facilities for handling all types of wastes and recoverable materials. Also, this approach to defining sources is consistent with other EPA air rules for waste and recovery operations. Therefore, for the off-site waste and recovery operations NESHAP, the EPA is proposing to define the source to be each of the individual emission point types. E. Determination of MACT Floor The statutory requirements under CAA section 112 for determination of the MACT floor are explained in section II.A of this notice. As explained in section III.C of this notice, the off-site waste and recovery operations source category contains more than 30 existing sources nationwide. Therefore, for the off-site waste and recovery operations NESHAP, the MACT floor for existing sources is defined the average emission limitation achieved by the best performing 12 percent of existing sources. The MACT floor for new sources is defined by the emission control that is achieved in practice by the best controlled similar source.
