FR941011-0-00046 FR941011-0-00012 The commenter asserts that EPA has a duty to notify the State of Colorado that its visibility protection plan, as currently being implemented, is deficient and to explain what actions are needed to remedy those deficiencies. The commenter recommends that, in any event, EPA should attach conditions to any final decision to approve the State's submittal. In particular, the commenter states that EPA must notify the State of Colorado that its next long-term strategy revision ``must include emission limitations representing the best available retrofit technology (BART) and schedules for compliance with BART in response to the U.S. Forest Service's certification of visibility impairment in the Mount Zirkel Wilderness Area.'' EPA does not agree with the commenter that the SIP revision that is the subject of this action ( i.e. , the November 18, 1992 Visibility SIP revision regarding the long-term strategy review and report) should be conditioned with requirements involving the Mount Zirkel issue or that the State's response to the USFS's certification of visibility impairment for the Mount Zirkel Wilderness Area should otherwise affect the approvability of this relatively limited action. The November 18, 1992 submittal was adopted prior to the U.S. Forest Service's certification of impairment of the Mount Zirkel Wilderness Area on July 14, 1993. Therefore, EPA assessed the adequacy of the SIP revision relevant to the time and conditions of the submittal and found it approvable (as discussed in further detail in the proposed rulemaking at 59 FR 25002&hyph;25004, May 13, 1994). EPA believes it would be unreasonable to expect that the State's long-term strategy review would address circumstances that have not yet transpired, especially when EPA's regulations require periodic review and revision, as appropriate, at least every three years. See 40 CFR 51.306(c). Thus, the applicable regulatory scheme itself has a built-in on-going assessment of the State's progress in addressing visibility impairment in light of new developments and circumstances. Even if the State's response to the USFS's certification of visibility impairment at the Mount Zirkel Wilderness Area was within the scope of the this rulemaking action, the commenter has requested inappropriate relief in that it presupposes a particular result. The commenter requested that EPA direct the State to include emission limitations representing BART in its next long-term strategy review. While it ultimately may be appropriate for the State to include emission limitations in its next long-term strategy review and revision, a necessary adjunct to the imposition of such emission limitations is that the State has identified existing stationary facilities which may reasonably be anticipated to cause or contribute to visibility impairment at the Mount Zirkel Wilderness Area. See 40 CFR 51.302(c)(4)(i). Nevertheless, EPA is aware that significant changes have occurred since the November 18, 1992 submittal. Further, EPA is concerned about the visibility protection progress the State makes between the November 18, 1992 submittal and the next long-term strategy review and revision due by September 1, 1995. EPA's concern is heightened by the USFS's certification of visibility impairment at the Mount Zirkel Wilderness Area. The State's interim efforts must be guided by its responsibility to make reasonable progress toward the national visibility protection goal. See, e.g. , Clean Air Act section 169A(a)(1) and 40 CFR 51.302(c)(2)(i), 51.300(a), 51.306(a)(3) and 51.306(c). By finalizing this action, the submittal of the next long-term strategy review and report is a federally-enforceable obligation due by September 1, 1995 (see 59 FR 25003). Federal regulations (see 40 CFR 51.306) require the State to coordinate with the FLM in its long-term strategy review process and to report on the following: (1) The progress achieved in remedying existing impairment of visibility in any mandatory Class I Federal area; (2) The ability of the long-term strategy to prevent future impairment of visibility in any mandatory Class I Federal area;
