FR940810-0-00007 FR940810-0-00002 DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service 7 CFR Parts 300 and 319 [Docket No. 93&hyph;121&hyph;3] Importation of Fruits and Vegetables AGENCY: Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, USDA. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: We are allowing, under certain conditions, the cold treatment of imported fruits upon arrival at the port of Wilmington, NC. We have determined that in the Wilmington, NC, area, there are climatic and biological barriers that are adequate to prevent the introduction of certain plant pests into the United States in the event they escape from shipments of fruit before undergoing cold treatment. Also, we are deleting the listings of cold treatments in the regulations and replacing them with a reference to the cold treatments in the Plant Protection and Quarantine Treatment Manual, which is incorporated by reference. EFFECTIVE DATE: September 9, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mr. Victor Harabin, Head, Permit Unit, Port Operations, Plant Protection and Quarantine, APHIS, USDA, room 631, Federal Building, 6505 Belcrest Road, Hyattsville, MD 20782; (301) 436&hyph;8645. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background The Fruits and Vegetables regulations, contained in 7 CFR 319.56 through 319.56&hyph;8 (referred to below as ``the regulations''), prohibit or restrict the importation of fruits and vegetables to prevent the introduction and dissemination of injurious insects, including fruit flies, that are new to or not widely distributed in the United States. The Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS) of the U.S. Department of Agriculture administers these regulations. Under ยง319.56&hyph;2d of the regulations, APHIS allows certain fruits to be imported into the United States if they undergo sustained refrigeration (cold treatment) sufficient to kill certain insect pests. Cold treatment temperature and refrigeration period requirements vary according to the type of fruit and the pests involved. On May 13, 1994, we published in the Federal Register (59 FR 24968&hyph;24971, Docket No. 93&hyph;121&hyph;2) a proposal to amend the regulations to allow the cold treatment of imported fruits upon arrival at the port of Wilmington, NC. We also proposed to delete the listings of cold treatments in the regulations and replace them with a reference to the cold treatments in the Plant Protection and Quarantine Treatment Manual, which is incorporated by reference. We also proposed to make a nonsubstantive editorial change. We solicited comments concerning our proposal for a 30-day comment period ending June 13, 1994. We received two comments by that date. One, from a State agency, supports the rule. The other comment, from a port authority, asked that we continue to consider allowing cold treatment to be conducted at Gulfport, MS. We are still considering whether to allow cold treatment to be conducted at Gulfport. Therefore, based on the rationale set forth in the proposed rule and in this document, we are adopting the provisions of the proposal as a final rule without change. Executive Order 12866 and Regulatory Flexibility Act This rule has been reviewed under Executive Order 12866. The rule has been determined to be not significant for purposes of Executive Order 12866, and, therefore, has not been reviewed by the Office of Management and Budget. We are allowing, under certain conditions, the cold treatment of imported fruit upon arrival at the port of Wilmington, NC. As a result of this action, a number of different fruits could be imported into Wilmington, NC. Specifically, officials of the North Carolina State Ports Authority in Wilmington, NC, anticipate that apples, grapes, and pears from Argentina, Brazil, and South Africa will be imported and cold treated at the port of Wilmington, NC. Approximately 20 million pounds of each fruit could be imported annually into Wilmington, NC, as a result of this action, though we anticipate the amount will be much smaller. While some of the fruit arriving at Wilmington, NC, will be imported in addition to the present volume of annual imports into the United States, some will be shipments diverted from other ports also approved to conduct cold treatment on arrival. In the following analysis of the potential impact of this action on domestic producers of apples, grapes and pears, in order to demonstrate the greatest possible economic impact, we have assumed that the maximum amount of fruit will be imported into Wilmington, NC, for cold treatment, and further, that those commodities will be imported in addition to the present volume of annual imports into the United States.
