FR940721-2-00114 FR940721-2-00065 E. Implementation Notwithstanding the provisions above, the Agreement States shall exercise their regulatory authority in a responsible manner and shall not adopt more stringent regulations or requirements as a means to bar or preclude a practice without an adequate safety or environmental basis, or bar a practice needed in the national interest. In order to permit the NRC to provide early coordination and oversight of any proposed more stringent regulations or requirements, NRC will request Agreement States to identify any such regulations or requirements and provide opportunity for NRC review before publication as a draft rule for comment or before the institution of the requirement as a legally binding measure. F. Examples 4 for the Compatibility Criteria 4 The examples are not part of the Policy Statement and are neither exhaustive nor controlling. 1. Avoids a Significant Burden on Interstate Commerce _The adoption of transportation requirements for all Agreement States should be essentially identical to assure that the flow of radioactive materials in or through another jurisdiction is not impeded. For example, if States were allowed to change 10 CFR 71.47, ``External Radiation Standards for all Packages'' then it would be very difficult to transport radioactive material packages. 2. Ensures Clear Communication on Fundamental Radiation Protection Terminology _The definition of the terms ``sievert'' and ``gray'' (or ``rem,'' ``rad'') would need to be adopted essentially identically by all Agreement States. 3. Ensures the Establishment of Dose Limits and Radiation-Protection Related Release Limits in 10 CFR Part 20 and 10 CFR Part 61 Applicable to all Licensees, or Any Subsequent Amendments Thereto _The basic dose limits and radiation-protection related release limits for all classes of licensees set forth in Subpart C, ``Occupational Dose Limits,'' and Subpart D, ``Radiation Dose Limits for Individual Members of the Public,'' of 10 CFR Part 20 would need to be adopted essentially identical by all Agreement States along with any other subsequent amendments to 10 CFR Part 20 that may set forth dose limits. 10 CFR Part 61.41, ``Protection of general population from releases of radioactivity'' and 10 CFR Part 61.43, ``Protection of individuals during operations'' would also need to be adopted essentially identically by all Agreement States. 4. Assists the Commission in Evaluating the Effectiveness of the Overall National Program for Radiation Protection _The adoption of 10 CFR 35.33, ``Notifications, reports, and records of misadministrations'' would be adopted by the Agreement States in a manner essentially identical to that of the NRC. G. Examples 5 of More Stringent Requirements 5 The examples are not part of the Policy Statement and are neither exhaustive nor controlling. As noted above, if the State program is equivalent to, or more stringent than, NRC's program to assure the protection of the public health and safety, and it incorporates all the elements of the NRC program identified by the Commission as necessary to achieve the national interest in radiation protection, including the requirement to establish regulations which are uniform with the dose limits and radiation-protection related release limits in 10 CFR Part 20 and 10 CFR Part 61 applicable to all licensees, or any subsequent amendments thereto, then a State should generally have the flexibility to tailor its program. More stringent requirements, other than the above mentioned dose limits and radiation-protection release limits could be applicable to all classes of licensees in a State. For example, an Agreement State's recordkeeping provisions for all licenses could be more stringent than NRC's. Other examples of State actions which impose stricter requirements than NRC regulations, and which would be ``adequate'' under the draft policy statement, are_ 1. State of Florida_20.304
