FR940325-0-00089 FR940325-0-00016 Response: In light of the wide range of possible cases, the Department believes that the rule should provide flexibility in the selection of a method to return an injured resource to baseline. The term ``restoration, rehabilitation, replacement, and/or acquisition of equivalent resources'' was introduced to emphasize that trustee officials may select among a wide range of methods. The Department does not believe that the rule should establish a preference for restoration as opposed to acquisition of equivalent resources. CERCLA explicitly mentions use of recovered funds for restoration, rehabilitation, replacement or acquisition of equivalent resources. The ``shall not be limited by'' language quoted by the commenters simply provides that trustee officials may obtain damages in excess of restoration costs. The statutory language does not require that damages be based on acquisition costs only if restoration is infeasible. Further, the court in Ohio v. Interior did not establish any preference for restoration as opposed to acquisition of equivalent resources. In fact, the court specifically stated that its use of the term ``restoration'' was intended as shorthand for restoration, rehabilitation, replacement, or acquisition of the equivalent of the injured resources. 880 F.2d at 441. Comment: Some commenters supported the Department's clarification that the restriction on land acquisition set forth in proposed §11.82(d)(8) would apply only to Federal trustee officials, not State or tribal trustee officials. Other commenters thought that the restriction should be eliminated altogether. Response: As was noted in the August 1, 1986, preamble to the original type B rule, the restriction on land acquisition by Federal trustee officials was included: *␣*␣* After extensive consultation with other Federal agencies. The purpose of this limitation is to limit the acquisition of private lands for Federal management under CERCLA, by eliminating the possibility of expanding the Federal estate without Congressional approval. 51 FR 27719. To avoid any confusion, the Department has removed the restriction from the list of factors that all trustee officials must consider when selecting a restoration, rehabilitation, replacement, and/or acquisition alternative and designated it as a separate provision. Further revision is beyond the scope of this rulemaking. Comment: Some commenters requested that trustee officials be prohibited from selecting a restoration, rehabilitation, replacement, and/or acquisition alternative that involves the purchase of contaminated land. Response: The Department anticipates that there may be situations in which it is difficult to identify available land in the appropriate geographical region that provides services identical to those provided by the injured resources. Therefore, the Department believes it would be inappropriate to further restrict trustee officials by requiring them to acquire only land that is free from all contamination. Comment: Some commenters thought that if trustee officials based their damage claim on acquisition costs, they should be required to demonstrate a clear link between the services lost and the services provided by the acquired resource. Response: The rule provides that trustee officials are to select a restoration, rehabilitation, replacement, and/or acquisition alternative that reestablishes baseline services. Therefore, any alternative based on acquisition of resources would have to involve acquiring resources that provide services equivalent to those lost as a result of the injury.
