FR941116-2-00088 FR941116-2-00069 Advisory Committee on Reactor Safeguards Ad Hoc Subcommittee Meeting on NRC Technical Training Center (TTC) Curricula; Notice of Meeting The ACRS AD Hoc Subcommittee on NRC Technical Training Center (TTC) Curricula will hold a meeting on December 7, 1994, Room T&hyph;2B3, 11545 Rockville Pike, Rockville, Maryland. The entire meeting will be open to public attendance. The agenda for the subject meeting shall be as follows: Wednesday, December 7, 1994_12:30 p.m. until the conclusion of business The Ad Hoc Subcommittee will discuss the new TTC curriculum on PRA, and the status of a new digital instrumentation & control system curriculum for inspectors. The purpose of this meeting is to gather information, analyze relevant issues and facts, and to formulate proposed positions and actions, as appropriate, for deliberation by the full Committee. Oral statements may be presented by members of the public with the concurrence of the Ad Hoc Subcommittee Chairman; written statements will be accepted and made available to the Committee. Electronic recordings will be permitted only during those portions of the meeting that are open to the public and questions may be asked only by members of the Ad Hoc Subcommittee, its consultants, and staff. Persons desiring to make oral statements should notify the cognizant ACRS staff engineer named below five days prior to the meeting, if possible, so that appropriate arrangements can be made. During the initial portion of the meeting, the Ad Hoc Subcommittee, along with any of its consultants who may be present, may exchange preliminary views regarding matters to be considered during the balance of the meeting. The Ad Hoc Subcommittee will then hear presentations by and hold discussions with representatives of the NRC staff, its consultants, and other interested persons regarding this review. Further information regarding topics to be discussed, whether the meeting has been cancelled or rescheduled, the Chairman's ruling on requests for the opportunity to present oral statements and the time allotted therefor can be obtained by contacting the cognizant ACRS staff engineer, Mr. Douglas Coe (telephone 301/415&hyph;6885) between 7:30 a.m. and 4:15 p.m. (EST). Persons planning to attend this meeting are urged to contact the above named individual on the working day prior to the meeting to be advised of any potential changes in the proposed agenda, etc., that may have occurred. Dated: November 9, 1994. Sam Duraiswamy, Chief, Nuclear Reactors Branch. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;28254 Filed 11&hyph;15&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 7590&hyph;01&hyph;M
