FR941026-2-00100 FR941026-2-00064 DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY Customs Service [ADM&hyph;9&hyph;03:CO:R:IT:R 912245 GRV] Notice of Grant Money for the Establishment of a Center for the Study of Western Hemispheric Trade in Texas AGENCY: U.S. Customs Service, Department of the Treasury. ACTION: General notice. SUMMARY: This notice announces the availability of application packages for institutions (or a consortium of institutions) located in the State of Texas interested in grant money for the planning, establishment, and operation of a Center for the Study of Western Hemispheric Trade. Application packages will be sent to those institutions that wish to be considered in the award of the grant money. DATES: Requests for application packages will be accepted through November 25, 1994. ADDRESSES: Requests for application packages should be sent to the Procurement Services Division, ATTN: Ms. Kim Doherty, Room 1438, Department of Treasury, 15th Street and Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20220; FAX (202) 622&hyph;2343. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: At Customs: Mr. James Picard, (202) 927&hyph;2059; at Treasury: Mr. Phillip Casteel (Grant Officer) (202) 622&hyph;1300. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background Pursuant to authority contained in Public Law 103&hyph;182 (107 Stat. 2057, codified at 19 U.S.C. 3301 note), Customs, with offices of the Department of the Treasury, announce a competition for $10,000,000 in grant money to assist an institution (or consortium of institutions) in the State of Texas in the planning, establishment, and operation of a Center for the Study of Western Hemispheric Trade (Center). The Center is to conduct year-round programs that promote and study trade between and among Western Hemisphere countries. This notice is to obtain a list of interested Texas institutions that wish to be considered in the award of the grant money. Once the list is compiled, Customs will establish a committee to develop criteria for evaluating eligible institutions, and the Commissioner of Customs will begin consulting with appropriate officials of the State of Texas and private sector authorities with respect to selecting, planning, and establishing the Center. Consideration will be given to an institution's ability to carry out the Center's designated programs and activities and to any resources the institution can provide the Center in addition to any Federal funds provided. The grant program is described as follows: 1. Grant sum: $10,000,000 2. Effective date: Date of award 3. Completion date (funding): Fiscal Year 1997 4. Program description: The purpose of this grant is to provide support to Grantee's planning, establishing, and operating a Center for the Study of Western Hemispheric Trade (Center). It is understood that the grant will support the Grantee's activities from the effective date of the grant or as may be otherwise provided in the grant Schedule, and that the Center shall be established not later than [February 1,] 1995. The government's support is based on the provision that the Center shall be a year-round program which will promote and study trade between and among Western Hemisphere countries (Canada, the United States, Mexico, countries located in South America, beneficiary countries (as defined by Section 212 of the Caribbean Basin Economic Recovery Act, 19 U.S.C. 2701 et seq.), the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and the United States Virgin Islands). Scope of the Center The Center is expected to conduct activities designed to examine_ (1) the impact of the NAFTA on the economies in, and trade within, the Western Hemisphere; (2) the negotiation of any future free trade agreements, including possible accessions to the NAFTA; and, (3) adjusting tariffs, reducing nontariff barriers, improving relations among customs officials, and promoting economic relations among countries in the Western Hemisphere. Programs and Activities of the Center The Center is expected to conduct the following activities: (1) Provide forums for international discussion and debate for representatives from Western Hemisphere countries regarding issues which affect trade and other economic relations within the hemisphere; (2) Conduct studies and research projects on subjects which affect Western Hemisphere trade, to include tariffs, customs, regional and national economics, business development and finance, production and personnel management, manufacturing, agriculture, engineering, transportation, immigration, telecommunications, medicine, science, urban studies, border demographics, social anthropology, and population;
