FR941213-2-00099 FR941213-2-00061 F. Ineligible Applications Applications for intermediate care facilities and nursing homes may not be approved under this NOFA. Applications for housing designated for the disabled and for MROP activities will be the subject of separate NOFAs and may not be applied for under this NOFA. IV. Field Office Processing of Applications A. Submission of Applications The cover letter of all applications must be marked with the date and time of receipt, along with the initials of the Field Office employee accepting the application. Applications received after the date and time specified at the beginning of this NOFA will be returned to the applicant. The PHA should obtain a ``Return receipt'' or similar evidence of delivery when applications are delivered via other means (U.S. Mail, private mailing firms, etc.). B. Initial Screening 1. Immediately after the deadline for receipt of applications, the Field Office will screen each application to determine whether all information and exhibits have been submitted. a. If any application lacks any technical information or exhibit, or contains a technical mistake, the PHA will be advised in writing and will have 14 calendar days from the date of the issuance of HUD's notification to deliver the missing or corrected information or documentation to the Field Office. b. Curable technical deficiencies relate only to items that would not improve the substantive quality of a category 4 application, relative to the ranking factors. c. If Form HUD 52470 (Application) is missing, the PHA's application will be considered substantively incomplete, and therefore ineligible for further processing. If other forms are missing, such as Form HUD 50070 (Drug Free Workplace Certification) or if there is a technical mistake, such as no signature, or an unauthorized signatory on a submitted form, the PHA will be given an opportunity to correct the deficiency. 2. An application that does not meet the applicable threshold and NOFA requirements after the 14-day technical deficiency period will be rejected from processing and determined to be unapprovable. 3. Applications proposing housing in areas also served by the Farmers Home Administration (FmHA) are subject to coordination with FmHA to assure that assisted housing resources to be provided are not duplicative. The State FmHA office shall be advised that an application for public housing has been received and is being considered for funding, and be provided an opportunity to comment on the application. 4. The responsibility for submitting a complete application rests with the PHA. The failure of the Field Office to identify and provide a notice of deficiency to the PHA shall not relieve the PHA of the consequences of failure to submit a complete application. C. Application Threshold Approvability After initial screening and upon expiration of the deficiency ``cure'' period, complete applications will be examined for threshold approvability. Applications that fail one or more of the threshold criteria will be rejected from processing and determined to be unapprovable. All applications for public housing development funds must meet the following thresholds to be determined approvable: 1. The PHA may not have any litigation pending which would preclude approval of the application. The PHA must be legally eligible to develop, own, and operate public housing under the USHA and have: a. Approved and current PHA organization documents; b. Local cooperation agreements to cover units under management, in development, and the units requested (Form HUD 52481), and any other required local authority; c. A properly executed and complete PHA Resolution (Form HUD 52471), referring to the need for front-end funding, if requested, and a Local Governing Body Resolution (HUD 52472) which approves the request for front-end funds, if front-end funds are requested. (Note: By executing the PHA Resolution, the PHA certifies that it will comply with Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act (42 U.S.C. 12131) and the implementing regulation at 28 CFR part 35. The PHA Resolution also certifies to the PHA's intent to comply with all requirements of 24 CFR part 941. These requirements include: Nondiscrimination under the applicable civil rights laws; the requirements imposed by the Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act of 1970 (URA) (42 U.S.C. 4601&hyph;4655); the accessibility requirements of section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 794) and HUD's implementing regulations at 24 CFR part 8; and section 3 of the Housing and Urban Development Act of 1968, as amended (12 U.S.C. 1701u), and HUD's implementing regulations at 24 CFR part 135.) 2. The category of application is eligible under this NOFA (see Section II.B of this NOFA). 3. If new construction (conventional or turnkey) has been applied for, the PHA has provided a cost comparison or a certification with documentation (see Section III.B. of this NOFA), and has stated what is to be done with the application if new construction is not approvable. 4. No application shall be determined to be approvable if the PHA has failed to return excess advances received during development or modernization, or amounts determined by HUD to constitute excess financing based on a HUD-approved Actual Development Cost Certificate (ADCC) or Actual Modernization Cost Certificate (AMCC), unless HUD has approved a pay-back plan. 5. There are no environmental factors, such as sewer moratoriums, precluding development in the requested locality. 6. The following certifications are included in the application and have been executed by the appropriate person(s): a. Form HUD&hyph;50070, Drug-Free Workplace; b. Form HUD&hyph;50071, Certification for Contracts, Grants, Loans and Cooperative Agreements; c. Form SF&hyph;LLL, Disclosure of Lobbying Activities, if applicable; d. Form HUD&hyph;2880, Applicant/Recipient Disclosure/Update Report; e. FSS certification; f. Section 5(j) certification appropriate to the category of application. 7. The PHA must be in compliance with civil rights laws and equal opportunity requirements. A PHA will be considered to be in compliance if: a. As a result of formal administrative proceedings, there are no outstanding findings of noncompliance with civil rights laws unless the PHA is operating in compliance with a HUD-approved compliance agreement designed to correct the areas(s) of noncompliance; b. There is no adjudication of a civil rights violation in a civil action brought against it by a private individual, unless the applicant demonstrates that it is operating in compliance with a court order designed to correct the area(s) of noncompliance; c. There is no deferral of Federal funding based upon civil rights violations; d. There is no pending civil rights suit brought against the PHA by the Department of Justice; or e. There is no unresolved charge of discrimination against the PHA issued by the Secretary under section 810(g) of the Fair Housing Act, as implemented by 24 CFR 103.400. 8. For ``other'' applications only: a. The Field Office must determine that the PHA has or will have the capability to develop and manage the proposed housing. The Field Office shall determine capability based upon the PHA's overall score under the Public Housing Management Assessment Program (PHMAP) (see 24 CFR part 901), the PHA's most recent fiscal audit, and outstanding HUD monitoring findings. A PHA shall not be determined to lack administrative or development capability simply because it has no recent experience in developing or managing public/assisted housing.
