FR941110-0-00238 FR941110-0-00016 (2) Is clearly an identifiable living unit, such as an entire ward, wing, floor or building; (3) Consists of all beds and related services in the unit; (4) Houses all recipients for whom payment is being made for ICF/MR services; and (5) Is approved in writing by the survey agency. 5. A new ยง440.155 is added to read as follows: ยง440.155 Nursing facility services, other than in institutions for mental diseases. (a) ``Nursing facility services, other than in an institution for mental diseases'' means services provided in a facility that_ (1) Fully meets the requirements for a State license to provide, on a regular basis, health-related services to individuals who do not require hospital care, but whose mental or physical condition requires services that_ (i) Are above the level of room and board; and (ii) Can be made available only through institutional facilities; (2) Has been certified to meet the requirements of subpart C of part 442 of this chapter as evidenced by a valid agreement between the Medicaid agency and the facility for providing nursing facility services and making payments for services under the plan; and (b) ``Nursing facility services'' include services_ (1) Considered appropriate by the State and provided by a Christian Science sanatorium operated, or listed and certified, by the First Church of Christ, Scientist, Boston, Mass.; or (2) Provided by a facility located on an Indian reservation that_ (i) Furnishes, on a regular basis, health-related services; and (ii) Is certified by the Secretary to meet the standards in Subpart E of Part 442 of this chapter. (c) ``Nursing facility services'' may include services provided in a distinct part of a facility other than a nursing facility if the distinct part_ (1) Meets all requirements for a nursing facility; (2) Is an identifiable unit, such as an entire ward or contiguous ward, a wing, floor, or building; (3) Consists of all beds and related facilities in the unit; (4) Houses all recipients for whom payment is being made for nursing facility services, except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section; (5) Is clearly identified; and (6) Is approved in writing by the survey agency. (d) If a State includes as nursing facility services those services provided by a distinct part of a facility other than a nursing facility, it may not require transfer of a recipient within or between facilities if, in the opinion of the attending physician, it might be harmful to the physical or mental health of the recipient. (e) Nursing facility services may include services provided in a swing-bed hospital that has an approval to furnish nursing facility services. E. Part 441 is amended as follows: PART 441_SERVICES: REQUIREMENTS AND LIMITS APPLICABLE TO SPECIFIC SERVICES 1. The authority citation for part 441 continues to read as follows: Authority: Sec. 1102 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1302). 2. Section 441.11 is revised to read as follows: ยง441.11 Continuation of FFP for institutional services. (a) Basic conditions for continuation of FFP. FFP may be continued for up to 30 days after the effective date of termination or expiration of a provider agreement, if the following conditions are met:
