FR940705-2-00204 FR940705-2-00091 Appendix H. Shipment Recombinant DNA molecules contained in an organism or in a viral genome shall be shipped under the applicable regulations of the U.S. Postal Service (39 Code of Federal Regulations, Part 3); the Public Health Service (42 Code of Federal Regulations, Part 72); the U.S. Department of Agriculture (9 Code of Federal Regulations, Subchapters D and E; 7 CFR, Part 340); and/or the U.S. Department of Transportation (49 Code of Federal Regulations, Parts 171&hyph;179). Appendix H&hyph;I. Host organisms or viruses will be shipped as etiologic agents, regardless of whether they contain recombinant DNA, if they are regulated as human pathogens by the Public Health Service (42 Code of Federal Regulations, Part 72) or as animal pathogens or plant pests under the U.S. Department of Agriculture, Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (Titles 9 and 7 Code of Federal Regulations, respectively). Appendix H&hyph;II. Host organisms and viruses will be shipped as etiologic agents if they contain recombinant DNA when: (i) the recombinant DNA includes the complete genome of a host organism or virus regulated as a human or animal pathogen or a plant pest; or (ii) the recombinant DNA codes for a toxin or other factor directly involved in eliciting human, animal, or plant disease or inhibiting plant growth, and is carried on an expression vector or within the host chromosome and/or when the host organism contains a conjugation proficient plasmid or a generalized transducing phage; or (iii) the recombinant DNA comes from a host organism or virus regulated as a human or animal pathogen or as a plant pest and has not been adequately characterized to demonstrate that it does not code for a factor involved in eliciting human, animal, or plant disease. Appendix H&hyph;III. Footnotes and References of Appendix H For further information on shipping etiologic agents contact: (i) The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, ATTN: Biohazards Control Office, 1600 Clifton Road, Atlanta, Georgia 30333, (404) 639&hyph;3883, FTS 236&hyph;3883; (ii) The U.S. Department of Transportation, ATTN: Office of Hazardous Materials Transportation, 400 7th Street, S.W., Washington, DC 20590, (202) 366&hyph;4545; or (iii) U.S. Department of Agriculture, ATTN: Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, Import-Export Products, Room 756, Federal Building, 6505 Belcrest Road, Hyattsville, Maryland 20782; for Animal Pathogens call (301) 436&hyph;7885; for Plant Pests (301) 436&hyph;6799. Appendix I. Biological Containment (See Appendix E) Appendix I&hyph;I. Levels of Biological Containment In consideration of biological containment, the vector (plasmid, organelle, or virus) for the recombinant DNA and the host (bacterial, plant, or animal cell) in which the vector is propagated in the laboratory will be considered together. Any combination of vector and host which is to provide biological containment shall be chosen or constructed so that the following types of ``escape'' are minimized: (i) survival of the vector in its host outside the laboratory, and (ii) transmission of the vector from the propagation host to other non-laboratory hosts. The following levels of biological containment (host-vector systems) for prokaryotes are established. Appendices I&hyph;I&hyph;A through I&hyph;II&hyph;B describe levels of biological containment (host-vector systems) for prokaryotes. Specific criteria will depend on the organisms to be used. Appendix I&hyph;I&hyph;A. Host-Vector 1 Systems Host-Vector 1 systems provide a moderate level of containment. Specific Host-Vector 1 systems are: Appendix I&hyph;I&hyph;A&hyph;1. Escherichia coli K&hyph;12 Host-Vector 1 Systems (EK1). The host is always Escherichia coli K&hyph;12 or a derivative thereof, and the vectors include non-conjugative plasmids (e.g., pSC101, Co1E1, or derivatives thereof (see Appendices I&hyph;III&hyph;A through G) and variants of bacteriophage, such as lambda (see Appendices I&hyph;III&hyph;H through O). The Escherichia coli K&hyph;12 hosts shall not contain conjugation-proficient plasmids, whether autonomous or integrated, or generalized transducing phages. Appendix I&hyph;I&hyph;A&hyph;2. Other Host-Vector 1 Systems. At a minimum, hosts and vectors shall be comparable in containment to Escherichia coli K&hyph;12 with a non-conjugative plasmid or bacteriophage vector. Appendix I&hyph;II describes the data to be considered and mechanism for approval of Host-Vector 1 systems. Appendix I&hyph;I&hyph;B. Host-Vector 2 Systems Host-Vector 2 Systems provide a high level of biological containment as demonstrated by data from suitable tests performed in the laboratory. Escape of the recombinant DNA either via survival of the organisms or via transmission of recombinant DNA to other organisms should be <1/10 8 under specified conditions. Specific Host-Vector 2 systems are: Appendix I&hyph;I&hyph;B&hyph;1. For Escherichia coli K&hyph;12 Host-Vector 2 systems (EK2) in which the vector is a plasmid, no more than 1/10 8 host cells shall perpetuate a cloned DNA fragment under the specified non-permissive laboratory conditions designed to represent the natural environment, either by survival of the original host or as a consequence of transmission of the cloned DNA fragment.
