FR940906-0-00053 FR940906-0-00019 Response. NMFS considered designating embarkment/disembarkment locations outside Alaska, but due in part to the prohibitive transportation costs, declined to include non-Alaska sites in the list of proposed ports. ADF&G crab managers recommended that crab observer embarkment/disembarkment sites coincide with the observer briefing/debriefing sites in Alaska. The selection of embarkment/disembarkment ports occurs annually as part of the Research Plan specification process with opportunity for Council review and public comment. Embarkment/disembarkment sites outside of Alaska may be considered, along with the attendant costs, during this annual process. Comment 13. The proposed rule specified that vessels requiring observer coverage must have passed a Coast Guard safety inspection within the last 2 years. If this requirement is a reference to the fishing-industry-specific inspection requirements contained in 46 U.S.C. Chapter 45, the final rule should be clarified to say so. Response. The U.S. Coast Guard implemented regulations codified at Titles 33 and 46 CFR, which implemented statutory provisions at 46 U.S.C. Chapter 45. The final rule has been clarified to require that vessels with observer coverage display certification of compliance with certain U.S. Coast Guard regulations codified at Titles 33 and 46 CFR and at 46 U.S.C. 3311. This requirement is intended to provide observers with some assurance that vessels they are stationed on meet specified U.S. Coast Guard safety standards. Comment 14. Vessels cannot always provide officer's accommodations for observers as would be required by ยง677.10(c)(1) of the proposed rule. Response. Section 677.10(c)(1) has been changed in the final rule to require accommodations and food for observers that are equivalent to those provided for officers, engineers, foremen, deck-bosses or other management level personnel of the vessel. The intent of this regulation is to require a vessel operator to treat the observer with respect. The observer need not be given the captain's quarters, but the observer should not be housed in a room with accommodations less than those provided for management personnel. Comment 15. If a funding shortfall exists, would NMFS allow overharvesting of a total allowable catch (TAC) to generate additional funding? Response. NMFS will not authorize an overharvest of a species' TAC to generate additional revenue under the Research Plan. Comment 16. Catcher vessels should not be liable for delivering fish to an unpermitted processor. The violation should remain with the processor, not the vessel. Some other means besides NMFS' electronic bulletin board should be used to notify the industry of the processors with valid permits. Response. NMFS believes it is the responsibility of catcher vessel operators to be aware of the permit status of each processor they choose to do business with. A processor will not be issued semiannual processor permits unless its billed fee assessments are paid. The prohibition on delivering fish to a processor not possessing a current semiannual permit provides additional incentive to the processor to submit timely payments on its billed fee assessment. This is a crucial consideration in achieving the objectives of the Research Plan. NMFS will maintain an updated list of permitted processors on its electronic bulletin board. A vessel operator also can request this information directly from a processor. Comment 17. Currently, 30-percent observer coverage requirements are strictly adhered to because vessel operators do not want to pay for additional observer coverage. Under the Research Plan, this strong incentive to effectively limit coverage to required levels will be eroded. Response. NMFS realizes that full implementation of the Research Plan will erode some of the incentive to a vessel operator to disembark an observer as soon as coverage requirements are met. Observer contractors will work with vessel owners to monitor the observer coverage and to see that observers are transferred to other vessels where coverage is needed. NMFS may order a vessel to port to disembark an observer, should that prove necessary. Comment 18. Concern exists that the Research Plan will ultimately result in reduced observer coverage, because the statutory limit on the annual fee percentage (2 percent) will not allow for the collection of funds sufficient to provide for increased costs of observer coverage, nor for increased administrative costs incurred by NMFS and ADF&G. Response. NMFS is committed to providing an efficient and effective observer program within the statutory constraints. NMFS will use the best available information to establish the annual fee percentage. If increased Research Plan costs or reduced fee collections due to a reduced exvessel value of Research Plan fisheries create unanticipated shortfalls within any calendar year, a regulatory mechanism exists to decrease observer requirements over the season. Alternatives to reduced observer coverage in both the short and long term also exist in the form of amending the Magnuson Act to allow for a fee percentage greater than 2 percent, or obtaining other sources of funding. During 1995, the first year of the Research Plan, an annual fee percentage of 2 percent may be necessary to accumulate sufficient start-up funds to support the contracts for observer coverage during the first half of 1996. In succeeding years, the percentage should be lower. In all cases the 2 percent limit should serve as an incentive to keep down the costs, make the observer programs more efficient, and seriously evaluate the benefits of any proposed increase in observer coverage requirements.
