FR940124-1-00084 FR940124-1-00009 During negotiated rulemaking, the Secretary proposed to define the term ``vocational program'' based on the statutory provision included in the definition of various types of eligible institutions of higher education. Thus, the Secretary proposed to define a vocational program as an ``undergraduate educational program that prepares students for gainful employment in a recognized occupation.'' (See, for example, section 481(b)(1) of the HEA for a ``proprietary institution of higher education''; section 481(c)(1) for a ``postsecondary vocational institution''; and the second sentence of section 1201(a) of the HEA for a ``public and private nonprofit institution of higher education.'') Several negotiators believed this proposed definition was too vague and were concerned that it could be interpreted to include all postsecondary undergraduate programs. Those negotiators contended that such a broad interpretation, if applied to the review standards discussed above, would cause unnecessary burden on all institutions, and argued for a more narrow definition of a vocational program. Some negotiators proposed that the term ``vocational program'' encompass only those educational programs below the baccalaureate degree level that are not classified as ``professional programs''. Other negotiators suggested that the term ``vocational program'' be limited further to apply only to nondegree vocational educational programs offered by institutions whose primary purpose is to prepare students for employment. The Secretary agrees that the proposed definition is too broad and thus, in §667.2, proposes to define the term ``vocational program'' as ``an educational program below the baccalaureate degree level, that is not classified as a professional program, that prepares students for gainful employment in a recognized occupation.'' The Secretary acknowledges that the definition of ``vocational program'' in these proposed regulations differs from the definition of ``vocational education'' as that term is defined in the proposed regulations for the Secretary's Procedures and Criteria for the Recognition or Accrediting Agencies (``education or training that prepares students for gainful employment in a recognized occupation''). The Secretary requests specific comment on whether the same definition should be used in both regulations and, if so, which definition should be used. The Secretary particularly invites public comments on the definitions of professional and vocational programs. Section 667.3␣State agreement Section 494 of the HEA authorizes the Secretary to enter into an agreement with each State to carry out the purposes of this part. As provided in sections 494A(b) and 494C of the HEA, the agreement between each State and the Secretary must contain the following elements_ (1) A designation of a single SPRE which represents all entities in the State that are responsible for_ (A) granting State authorization to each institution of higher education in the State for the purposes of this title; and
