FR941128-1-00002 FR941128-1-00001 SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION 13 CFR Part 130 Small Business Development Centers AGENCY: Small Business Administration. ACTION: Proposed rule. SUMMARY: The Small Business Administration (SBA) is proposing regulations governing the Small Business Development Center (SBDC) Program. Since the enactment of Pub. L. 96&hyph;302 and the establishment of the program in 1980, the program has been operating under direct statutory authority, without regulations. The SBA is proposing these regulations to establish a framework for effective and efficient operation of the program. DATES: Written comments should be submitted on or before December 28, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments should be submitted to: Johnnie L. Albertson, Associate Administrator for Small Business Development Centers (AA/SBDCs), U.S. Small Business Administration, 409 Third Street, SW, Fifth Floor, Washington, DC 20416. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Hardy Patten, Program Manager, (202) 205&hyph;6766. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The SBDC Program, originally established in 1980, is administered pursuant to Section 21 of the Small Business Act, 15 U.S.C. 648. The SBDC program creates a partnership between the SBA and organizations operating the SBDC networks. Together they provide business development and technical assistance to small businesses in order to promote growth, expansion, innovation, increased productivity, and management improvement. The SBDC program has been operating under direct statutory authority without regulations. The SBA is proposing these regulations to establish a framework for effective and efficient operation of the program. Many of the provisions set forth in this proposed rule have arisen from legislation. Others codify current procedures utilized since the inception of the program. Section-by-Section Analysis Proposed §130.100 would serve as the introduction, establishing the overall objective of the SBDC program to create a broader-based system of assistance for the small business community, and defining the relationship between the SBA and the organizations operating the SBDC networks, known as recipient organizations. The program operates under the general management and oversight of the SBA, with recognition that a partnership exists between the SBA and the recipient organization for the provision of assistance to the small business community. That assistance is delivered to the small business community pursuant to a Cooperative Agreement negotiated between the SBA and the organization operating the SBDC network. Proposed §130.110 would provide definitions of terms relevant to the SBDC program. Proposed §130.200 would set forth those entities which, by statute, are eligible to enter into a Cooperative Agreement with the SBA for the purpose of establishing or continuing the operation of an SBDC network. Proposed §130.310 would provide that the area of service for any SBDC network is the state or portion of a state in which it is located. When more than one SBDC network is to be located in a given state, the AA/SBDCs shall determine the general geographic areas to be served by each SBDC network in that state. Proposed §130.320 would discuss the location of participants in the SBDC network, and proposed §130.330 would set forth the operating requirements for the SBDC network. Proposed §130.340 would provide for the establishment of State and National Advisory Boards to advise, counsel, and confer with SBDC directors and the AA/SBDCs on matters pertaining to the operation of SBDC networks and the national SBDC program. Proposed §130.350 would describe the services to be provided by SBDC networks to ensure convenient access and effective service to small businesses, including specialized services such as international trade assistance, rural development, procurement assistance, capital formation and technical assistance. It would also place certain restrictions on SBDC assistance. SBDCs would be prohibited from making loans, servicing loans or making credit decisions. SBDCs would also be prohibited from making credit recommendations, unless authorized to do so by the Administrator, or his or her designee.
