FR940405-2-00186 FR940405-2-00081 (D) Selection Criteria Only applications that meet the threshold requirements in Section II(C) will be rated and ranked on the basis of the following selection criteria. (1) Need for Elderly Independence Program (20 points) (i) Description. The need for a program providing housing assistance and supportive services for frail elderly persons and housing for near-frail elderly persons in the area to be served, as demonstrated by the applicant's analysis of the size and characteristics of the population to be served, the unit of general local government's total population of persons over 62, and the proportion of elderly households receiving housing assistance. (ii) Rating: 10&hyph;20 points. The applicant has documented that there is a need in the locality for the Multifamily Project Demonstration which is not being met through existing housing assistance programs, and the documentation provides a thorough analysis of the size and characteristics, including race, gender and ethnicity, of the frail elderly and near-frail elderly population. There is a substantial number of elderly persons in the local population. 1&hyph;9 points. The applicant has documented that there is a need in the locality for the Multifamily Project Demonstration which is not being met through existing housing assistance programs, but the documentation provides only a cursory analysis of the frail elderly and near-frail elderly population including race, gender and ethnicity. There is a moderate number of elderly persons in the local population. 0 points. There is no demonstration of need for the Multifamily Project Demonstration or the needs of most elderly households are being met through existing housing assistance programs. There is a small elderly population in the locality. (2) Extent of Existing Housing Built Prior to 1940 in the Unit of General Local Government's Jurisdiction (20 points) (i) Description. The percent of the housing stock built prior to 1940. (ii) Rating: 5&hyph;20 points. The HUD Boston Regional Office will determine the percent of the housing stock built prior to 1940 in each applicant unit of general local government's jurisdiction. The unit of general local governments' percentages will be listed in order from those with the highest percentage to those with the lowest percentage, and divided into four equal groups. Those in the quarter of applicants with the highest percentage of the housing stock built prior to 1940 will be awarded 20 points, and the succeeding quarters will be awarded 15 points, 10 points and 5 points, respectively. (3) The Number of Elderly Persons Living in Adjacent Projects to Whom the Services and Facilities Provided by the Project Would Be Available (20 points) (i) Description. The number of elderly persons living near (i.e., within an approximate one-mile radius) the proposed multifamily demonstration project. (ii) Rating: 10&hyph;20 points. The number of elderly persons living near the project for whom services will be offered is substantial. 1&hyph;9 points. The number of elderly persons living near the project for whom services will be offered is moderate. (4) The Level of State and Local Contributions Toward the Cost of Developing the Project and of Providing Supportive Services (20 points) (i) Description. The extent to which the proposed development and services financing for the project is committed, and level of State and local (i.e., nonfederal) contributions toward the cost of developing the project and providing supportive services. (ii) Rating: 10&hyph;20 points. State and local public or private contributions committed to developing the project and providing supportive services are substantial. 1&hyph;9 points. State and local public or private contributions committed to developing the project and providing supportive services are limited. 0 points. There are no financing commitments. (5) The Project's Contribution To Neighborhood Improvement (20 points) (i) Description. The extent to which the project will contribute to the improvement of the neighborhood. (ii) Rating: 10&hyph;20 points. The project site is located in an area in which major, concentrated neighborhood improvement is being undertaken by the local government and/or neighborhood-based organizations, and the project will contribute to neighborhood improvement. 1&hyph;9 points. The project site is located in an area in which some limited neighborhood improvement is being undertaken. 0 points. There is no neighborhood improvement planned or underway. (E) Unacceptable Applications (1) Following the 14-day period provided to applicants to cure technical deficiencies in applications (see section IV of this NOFA), the Field Office will disapprove applications that it determines are not acceptable for processing. The Field Office notification of rejection letter must state the basis for the Field Office decision. Material to cure technical deficiencies that is received after close of business on the fourteenth calendar day after the date of HUD's written notice will not be accepted. If the applicant has not cured all technical deficiencies by this deadline, the application will be rejected as incomplete. Each applicant is encouraged to review the initial screening checklist provided as Attachment 1 of this NOFA. The checklist identifies all technical requirements needed for application processing. (2) Applications that fall into any of the following categories will not be processed: (a)(i) The Department of Justice has brought a civil rights suit against the applicant HA, and the suit is pending;
