FR940810-2-00006 FR940810-2-00004 Soil Conservation Service Hayfork Creek Watershed, Trinity County, CA AGENCY: Soil Conservation Service, USDA. ACTION: Notice of Finding of No Significant Impact. SUMMARY: Pursuant to Section 102(2)(c) of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969; the Council on Environmental Quality Regulations (40 CFR Part 1500); and the Soil Conservation Service Regulations (7 CFR Part 650); the Soil Conservation Service, U.S. Department of Agriculture, gives notice that an environmental impact statement is not being prepared for the Hayfork Creek Watershed, Trinity County, CA. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Hershel R. Read, State Conservationist, Soil Conservation Service, 2121&hyph;C Second Street, Suite 102, Davis, California, 95616, Phone (916) 757&hyph;8261. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The environmental assessment of this federally assisted action indicates that the project will not cause significant local, regional, or national impacts on the environment. As a result of these findings, Hershel R. Read, State Conservationist, has determined that the preparation and review of an environmental impact statement are not needed for this project. A decline of salmonids (salmon and steelhead) is occurring in the watershed due in part to low water flow, high temperature, poor water quality due to high water temperatures, and a loss of habitat. Loss of riparian vegetation from grazing and clearing has reduced stream shade. The plan involves land treatment measures and technical assistance to enhance the water quantity and quality in the Hayfork Creek Watershed for restoration of the anadromous fisheries. This will be accomplished through (1) landowner education and assistance in the conservation of ranch and water resources, (2) improving water conveyance systems and redirecting water conserved to benefit surface flows and aquatic habitat and fisheries, and (3) restoration of riparian corridors. The plan will be carried out through long-term contracts for land treatment. Project installation will be carried out in cooperation with the South Fork Trinity River Coordinated Resource Management Planning (CRMP) group. The plan proposes to provide 5 staff years of technical assistance to work with landusers on the development of practices of irrigation water management, proper grazing use, and channel vegetation. The Notice of a Finding of No Significant Impact (FONSI) has been forwarded to the Environmental Protection Agency and to various Federal, State and local agencies and interested parties. A limited number of copies of the FONSI are available to fill single copy requests at the above address. Basic data developed during the environmental assessment is on file and may be reviewed by contacting Romeo A. Rivera, Director, Water Resources Planning, (916) 757&hyph;8261. No administrative action on implementation of the proposal will be taken until 30 days after the date of the publication in the Federal Register . (This activity is listed in the Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance under No. 10.904, Watershed Protection and Flood Prevention, and is subject to the provisions of Executive Order 12372, which requires intergovernmental consultation with State and local officials.) Dated: August 4, 1994. Henry C. Wyman, Deputy State Conservationist. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;19475 Filed 8&hyph;9&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3410&hyph;16&hyph;M
