FR940705-2-00089 FR940705-2-00067 DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE Antitrust Division United States v. Nagel Motors, Inc., et al.; Proposed Final Judgment and Competitive Impact Statement Notice is hereby given pursuant to the Antitrust Procedures and Penalties Act, 15 U.S.C. 16(b)&hyph;(h), that a proposed Final Judgment, Stipulation, and Competitive Impact Statement have been lodged with the United States District Court for the District of Wyoming in United States of America v. Nagel Motors, Inc., et al., Civil Action No. 94CV146&hyph;J. The Complaint in this case alleges that the three defendant corporations and co-conspirators agreed to participate in discussions and information exchanges to facilitate an increase in the rates charged for automobile body repair services in the Casper, Wyoming area in violation of Section 1 of the Sherman Act, 15 U.S.C. 1. The proposed Final Judgment enjoins the defendants from agreeing with any other automobile body repair shop to fix an hourly rate or part price or discount. It also enjoins the defendants from participating in any discussion with or communicating with any other automobile repair shop concerning adherence to or changes to, or the need or desirability of adhering to or changing, any hourly rate or part price or discount. The proposed Final Judgment further enjoins the defendants from disseminating any information to any automobile body repair shop concerning any planned or contemplated change in an hourly rate or part price or discount. Each defendant is required to establish an antitrust compliance program. Public comment on the proposed Final Judgment is invited within the statutory 60-day comment period. Such comments, and responses thereto, will be published in the Federal Register and filed with the Court. Comments should be directed to Gary R. Spratling, Chief, San Francisco Office, Box 36046, Antitrust Division, U.S. Department of Justice, San Francisco, California 94102 (telephone: (415) 556&hyph;6300). Constance K. Robinson, Director of Operations, Antitrust Division. In the United States District Court, District of Wyoming United States of America, Plaintiff, vs. Nagel Motors, Inc., Greiner Motor Company, Inc., and Benson Chevrolet, Inc., Defendants. Civil No. 94&hyph;CV&hyph;146&hyph;J. Complaint The United States of America, plaintiff, by its attorneys, acting under the direction of the Attorney General of the United States, brings this civil action to obtain equitable relief against the defendants named herein, and complains and alleges as follows:
