FR941102-1-00076 FR941102-1-00018 On average for the 21 months of data available in the record the protein price recommended for adoption in this decision, at $1.6851 per pound of protein, is twice both the $.6379 per pound average other solids price and the $.8374 per pound average butterfat price. Certainly, pricing protein at double the price of the other components in milk gives producers a clear message that protein is the component most desired in the marketplace without over-valuing that component. The significant difference in prices between protein and the other nonfat solids and butterfat components should give producers an incentive to increase protein output. Testimony by several proponents of component pricing explained that component pricing would be more equitable to handlers than the current skim-butterfat pricing system. The proponents explained that the increased equity would be due to handlers paying for milk based more closely on its economic value to them. This increased equity is reflected in a narrower spread in margins between handlers making cheese from low protein-low solids milk versus handlers making cheese from high protein-high solids milk. Several exhibits showed that handlers using ``average'' milk would experience little if any change in their net margins. However, handlers using low-testing milk would experience a higher net margin than under the present pricing plan, while handlers using high-testing milk would experience a lower net margin. This result, the narrowing of handlers' net margins when compared to the skim-butterfat pricing system, would occur no matter which of the proposed pricing plans is used to price the components. Analysis of data presented at the hearing, using price computations based on each of the proposals and averaged over the 21 months of data included in exhibits, shows a range of net manufacturing margins for cheese using the recommended pricing system of $1.57 per hundredweight compared with the $3.34 range in cheese manufacturing margins per hundredweight of milk purchased attributable to the current skim-butterfat pricing system. The three component pricing plans discussed at the hearing would result in ranges in net cheese manufacturing margins of $1.16 per hundredweight for the NAJ proposal, $1.62 per hundredweight for the CMPC proposal, and $1.70 per hundredweight for the NCI proposal. Even though the NAJ proposal yielded the smallest spread in net margins, further analysis of the NAJ results shows that the net margins increase and then start to decline. The decline in margins occurs when there is not enough butterfat in the milk to fully utilize the protein available, thus reducing the increase in cheese yield as protein content continues to increase. Accordingly, if the price of protein is greater than the increased return from cheese, the net return will start to decline. The decline in net returns under the NAJ proposal indicates that the NAJ proposal would overprice protein, at least when there is not enough butterfat to fully utilize the protein. The result is that the marginal return using the NAJ proposal peaks within the protein and butterfat range of average milk while the marginal return using the protein and other solids price as recommended in this decision continues to increase, although at a decreasing rate. A mandated pricing system should not set prices at levels that result in a declining marginal return, particularly when the decline occurs at or near average market component levels. Therefore, the whey protein factor should not be included in the computation of the protein price. The monthly average price for 40-pound block cheddar cheese on the National Cheese Exchange in Green Bay, Wisconsin, is the appropriate price to use for determining the protein price. Use of the block price results in producers receiving a higher price for protein than if the barrel price were used without handlers incurring any significantly higher cost for milk. In addition, although the record showed that more cars of barrel cheese were sold on the Exchange than block cheese, the predominant cheese form in which American cheese is manufactured in the five-market region is in 40-pound or 640-pound blocks.
