FR940110-1-00066 FR940110-1-00006 (2) Nonprofit or state or local government sponsored projects. Applications for projects that finance the purchase, construction or rehabilitation of housing sponsored by a nonprofit organization, a state or political subdivision of a state, a local housing authority or a state housing finance agency. (See proposed ยง960.10(d)(2).) (3) Special needs projects. Applications for projects that address special needs, which shall be defined by the Bank in its AHP implementation plan, which special needs may include but are not limited to: (i) Empowering the households or residents through programs such as resident management of the property, self-help housing, homesteading, and sweat equity; (ii) Providing housing for special needs populations such as homeless persons, abused or battered persons, persons with AIDS, mentally or physically disabled persons, or persons with substance abuse problems; (iii) Providing housing in rural areas or areas targeted by local, state or federal governments for community development or revitalization through the development of affordable housing or economic investment; or (iv) Providing housing with special services to meet the needs of low- or moderate-income households including, but not limited to, child care, job training, medical care, substance abuse programs, independent living skill training, and rental household and homeowner household counseling. (See proposed ยง960.10(d)(3).) In defining the special needs priority in its AHP implementation plan, a Bank is not required to include all of the special needs listed as examples above. Rather, a Bank may be selective in giving priority to some special needs and not others in devising its scoring system. In addition, the Bank may select other special needs not listed as examples above if the special needs chosen are similar in nature to such examples. (4) District Bank priority. Applications for projects that meet one or more priorities recommended by the Bank's Advisory Council and adopted by the Bank's board of directors that each address a housing need in the Bank's district and are consistent with the purposes of this part. The Bank shall describe in its AHP implementation plan how the points for the priority or priorities will be distributed. (See proposed ยง960.10(d)(4).) (5) Economic mobility priority. Applications for projects that provide housing for low- or moderate-income households that move from low- or moderate-income neighborhoods or housing projects to neighborhoods, mixed-income buildings or owner-occupied housing developments in which at least 50 percent of the households have incomes above the median income for the area, as published by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development. (See proposed ยง960.10(d)(5).) b. Scoring for objectives. The Board's existing AHP regulation contains the following ``objectives'' scoring criteria: Targeting; long-term retention; effectiveness; community involvement; community stability; and innovation. The proposed rule makes long-term retention a threshold criteria and adds a new objective called ``applicant participation.'' A description of this new objective and the other criteria are set forth below. c. Scoring for targeting objective. Section 960.10(e) of the proposed rule provides that an application can receive a maximum of 20 points for the targeting objective category. This is an increase from 15 points under the existing regulation. The proposed rule provides that the Bank shall award points to applications based on the extent to which the project(s) serve(s) the greatest percentage of very low-, low- and moderate-income households, in that priority order. In the alternative, if a weighted-average scoring methodology is provided in the Bank's AHP implementation plan, the Bank shall award points to an application based on the extent to which the project has the lowest weighted-average income determined by multiplying the percentage of units reserved for households at certain income levels by those incomes expressed as a percentage of median income, and adding the totals. Applications shall be scored relative to each other with the maximum number of points allowable awarded to the application(s) that best achieve(s) the targeting objective, and the remaining application scores shall be adjusted and awarded points on a declining scale basis. However, owner-occupied housing projects shall be scored as one group and rental housing projects shall be scored as a separate group.
