FR940610-2-00231 FR940610-2-00106 (d) Reconfigured relationships and responsibilities of regular and special education staff, and redesigned programs that train personnel for work in schools, for the continued development of all regular and special education personnel in the education of children with disabilities; or (e) Expanded multi-agency solutions to the collaborative delivery of services for individual children with disabilities and their families. Supplementary Information: An award under this competition provides not more than 60 percent of the total cost of the project. The State agency receiving the award shall provide an amount not less than 40 percent of the total cost of the project (34 CFR 327.40(a)). Project Period: Up to 24 months. Absolute Priority 2_State and Local Education Efforts to Implement the Transition Requirements in the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (84.159D). (a) A project funded under this priority must include substudies_or compile extant information that obviates the need for a study_in the following areas: (1) The range and variation in State and local policies related to the definitional components of transition services; (2) Student participation in transition planning, and student outcomes associated with implementation of transition services; (3) State and local policies, practices and procedures related to the implementation of the transition services, with information obtained from local service providers (the substudy may include visits to illustrative sites); (4) Interagency involvement in transition planning and services, including a description of the impediments associated with interagency involvement in transition planning and provision of services; and (5) Federal program services (including those of the Department of Labor and the Social Security Administration) and relevant policies related to meeting the transition requirements, including special education, vocational education, rehabilitation services, adult education, postsecondary education, the Job Training Partnership Act, and the Americans with Disabilities Act. (b) In planning and implementing the substudies, the project must include appropriate policymakers, administrators, and service providers involved in the design and delivery of transition services to youth with disabilities. (c) The project must submit for approval_ (1) A plan for conducting the substudies and disseminating reports within 60 days of the start of the project; (2) A report for substudy (1) by the end of year one; (3) Reports for substudies (2), (3), and (4) by the end of year two; (4) A report for substudy (5) by the middle of year 3; and (5) A final report at the end of year three. The final report must include the following: an executive summary, introduction, project objectives, methodology, findings organized by substudy, summary, and conclusions regarding the progress being made by State and local agencies to implement the IDEA transition requirements. The project must budget for two trips annually to Washington, DC for (1) a two-day Research Project Directors' meeting; and (2) another two-day meeting to meet with the project officer of the Office of Special Education Programs (OSEP) and with other OSEP work groups, as appropriate, to plan and review project activities and progress. Project Period: Up to 36 months. Absolute Priority 3_State Agency-Federal Evaluation Studies Projects (84.159F). This priority supports cooperative agreements that assess the impact and effectiveness of programs, policies, and procedures assisted under the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA) in accordance with sections 618(d)(1) and (2) of the Act. Invitational Priority: Within Absolute Priority 3 the Secretary is particularly interested in applications that meet the following invitational priority. However, under 34 CFR 75.105(c)(1) an application that meets this invitational priority does not receive competitive or absolute preference over other applications: The Secretary particularly invites projects that perform feasibility studies that develop the conceptual framework for an evaluation study about a specific issue or question concerning the impact and effectiveness of special education and related services, and determine if the conceptual framework is workable. Feasibility studies identify topics that have significant potential for evaluation, but that require preliminary study to determine feasibility related to identification of the issue, study designs, measurement, and analysis. While collection and reporting of generalizable impact and effectiveness data are not expected for feasibility studies, the Secretary particularly encourages pilot tests of data collection instruments and procedures to determine the implications of these results for the study design, measurement and analysis. The Secretary particularly encourages projects that address the feasibility of designs to evaluate the impact and effectiveness of: (a) Management and regulatory flexibility that encourages innovative management of schools to expand opportunities for the inclusion of children with disabilities; (b) Student outcomes and performance of comprehensive, community-based, family-oriented systems of education and support; (c) Community-supported schools focusing on family participation in activities and services; (d) Reconfigured relationships and responsibilities of regular and special education staff, and redesigned programs that train personnel for work in schools, for the continued development of all regular and special education personnel in the education of children with disabilities; or (e) Expanded multi-agency solutions to the collaborative delivery of services for individual children with disabilities and their families. Supplementary Information: An award under this competition provides not more than 60 percent of the total cost of the project. The State agency receiving the award shall provide an amount not less than 40 percent of the total cost of the project (34 CFR 327.40(a)). Project Period: Up to 12 months. For Applications and General Information Contact: Darlene Crumblin, U.S. Department of Education, 400 Maryland Avenue, SW., room 3525, Switzer Building, Washington, DC 20202&hyph;2641. Telephone (202) 205&hyph;8953; or FAX: (202) 205&hyph;8105. For Technical Information Contact: Susan Sanchez, U.S. Department of Education, 400 Maryland Avenue, SW., room 3528, Switzer Building, Washington, DC 20202&hyph;2641. Telephone: (202) 205&hyph;8998. Program Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1418.
