FR941110-0-00046 FR941110-0-00016 With respect to SNFs, State-operated facilities, or HCFA validation actions when HCFA's enforcement choice prevails, HCFA would have the exclusive authority to settle any case at any time prior to a final administrative law judge hearing decision. With respect to non-State-operated NFs or dually participating facilities or HCFA validation surveys when only the State's enforcement decision prevails, the State would have the authority to settle any case at any time prior to the hearing decision. 9. Closure of a Medicaid Facility and Transfer of Residents as a Remedy Section 1919(h)(2)(A)(iv) of the Act allows the State to close a Medicaid facility and transfer its residents as an available remedy in emergency situations. This provision appeared in our proposed §488.226 (Closure of a Medicaid facility and transfer of residents). Notice and appeal rights would be in accordance with State procedures. 10. Other Alternative or Additional State Remedies Other Than Termination_Medicaid only Section 1919(h)(2)(A) allows the State to develop alternative or additional State remedies (other than denial of payment for new admissions and State monitoring). At §488.228 (Alternative or additional State remedies), we proposed that for Medicaid facilities, the State may establish and impose alternative remedies if the State demonstrates to HCFA's satisfaction that the alternative remedies are as effective in deterring noncompliance and correcting deficiencies as the remedies of temporary management, civil money penalties, and emergency closure of the facility and transfer of residents. Regardless of which alternative remedies the State establishes, we proposed that they must include denial of payment for new admissions and State monitoring as remedies. We reached this conclusion because section 1919(h)(2)(D) of the Act requires that denial of payment for new admissions and State monitoring be imposed when a NF was found to have provided substandard quality of care on three consecutive standard surveys. We also required the State to include denial of payment for new admissions because section 1919(h)(2)(C) of the Act requires this remedy be imposed on a NF that has not complied with the participation requirements within 3 months after the last day of the survey which found the facility out of compliance with the requirements. We proposed requiring that these alternative or additional remedies be approved by HCFA and specified in the State plan. 11. Selecting an Enforcement Remedy Once a State or HCFA determines that violations of nursing home requirements have occurred, there is an obligation to assess what the most effective remedy ought to be to assure the protection of the well being of the resident population. At §488.208 (Choice of remedies), we proposed that the survey agency or HCFA assess individual deficiencies or clusters of deficiencies first according to the following initial factors: •The presence or absence of immediate and serious threat to resident health and safety; •The severity of the deficiency; and •The scope of the deficiency. We also proposed that, following the initial assessment, HCFA and survey agency could consider the following secondary factors: •The relationship of one deficiency or group (cluster) of deficiencies to other deficiencies; and •The facility's prior compliance history in general and specifically with reference to the cited deficiencies.
