FR940812-0-00090 FR940812-0-00019 Subpart E_Responsibilities of GSA, Agency and Participants §2542.400 GSA responsibilities. (a) In accordance with the OMB guidelines, GSA shall compile, maintain, and distribute a list of all persons who have been debarred, suspended, or voluntarily excluded by agencies under Executive Order 12549 and this part, and those who have been determined to be ineligible. (b) At a minimum, this list shall indicate: (1) The names and addresses of all debarred, suspended, ineligible, and voluntarily excluded persons, in alphabetical order, with cross-references when more than one name is involved in a single action; (2) The type of action; (3) The cause for the action; (4) The scope of the action; (5) Any termination date for each listing; and (6) The agency and name and telephone number of the agency point of contact for the action. §2542.410 Corporation responsibilities. (a) The agency shall provide GSA with current information concerning debarments, suspension, determinations of ineligibility, and voluntary exclusions it has taken. Until February 18, 1989, the agency shall also provide GSA and OMB with information concerning all transactions in which the Corporation has granted exceptions under §2542.130 permitting participation by debarred, suspended, or voluntarily excluded persons. (b) Unless an alternative schedule is agreed to by GSA, the agency shall advise GSA of the information set forth in §2542.400(b) and of the exceptions granted under §2542.130 within five working days after taking such actions. (c) The agency shall direct inquiries concerning listed persons to the agency that took the action. (d) Agency officials shall check the Nonprocurement List before entering covered transactions to determine whether a participant in a primary transaction is debarred, suspended, ineligible, or voluntarily excluded. (e) Agency officials shall check the Nonprocurement List before approving principals or lower tier participants where agency approval of the principal or lower tier participant is required under the terms of the transaction, to determine whether such principals or participants are debarred, suspended, ineligible, or voluntarily excluded. §2542.420 Participants' responsibilities. (a) Certification by participants in primary covered transactions. Each participant shall submit the certification in Appendix A of this part for it and its principals at the time the participant submits its proposal in connection with a primary covered transaction, except that States need only complete such certification as to their principals. Participants may decide the method and frequency by which they determine the eligibility of their principals. In addition, each participant may, but is not required to, check the Nonprocurement List for its principals. Adverse information on the certification will not necessarily result in denial of participation. However, the certification, and any additional information pertaining to the certification submitted by the participant, shall be considered in the administration of covered transactions. (b) Certification by participants in lower tier covered transactions. (1) Each participant shall require participants in lower tier covered transactions to include the certification in Appendix B of this part for it and its principals in any proposal submitted in connection with such lower tier covered transactions. (2) A participant may rely upon the certification of a prospective participant in a lower tier covered transaction that it and its principals are not debarred, suspended, ineligible, or voluntarily excluded from the covered transaction by any Federal agency, unless it knows that the certification is erroneous. Participants may decide the method and frequency by which they determine the eligibility of their principals. In addition, a participant may, but is not required to, check the Nonprocurement List for its principals and for participants. (c) Changed circumstances regarding certification. A participant shall provide immediate written notice to Corporation if at any time the participant learns that its certification was erroneous when submitted or has become erroneous by reason of changed circumstances. Participants in lower tier covered transactions shall provide the same updated notice to the participant to which it submitted its proposals.
