FR940810-0-00323 FR940810-0-00021 (d) Muffle furnace capable of 600 ○C (e) Drying oven capable of 50_150 ○C (f) Aluminum specimen pans (g) Tongs for handling samples in the furnace (h) High dispersion index of refraction oils (Special for dispersion staining.) n=1.550 n=1.585 n=1.590 n=1.605 n=1.620 n=1.670 n=1.680 n=1.690 (i) A set of index of refraction oils from about n=1.350 to n=2.000 in n=0.005 increments. (Standard for Becke line analysis.) (j) Glass slides with painted or frosted ends 1x3 inches 1mm (thick, precleaned. (k) Cover Slips 22x22 mm, # 11/2 (l) Paper clips or dissection needles (m) Hand grinder (n) Scalpel with both # 10 and # 11 blades (o) 0.1 molar HCl (p) Decalcifying solution (Baxter Scientific Products) Ethylenediaminetetraacetic Acid, Tetrasodium 0.7 g/l Sodium Potassium Tartrate 8.0 mg/liter Hydrochloric Acid 99.2 g/liter Sodium Tartrate 0.14 g/liter (q) Tetrahydrofuran (THF) (r) Hotplate capable of 60 ○C (s) Balance (t) Hacksaw blade (u) Ruby mortar and pestle 3.3. Sample Pre-Preparation Sample preparation begins with pre-preparation which may include chemical reduction of the matrix, heating the sample to dryness or heating in the muffle furnace. The end result is a sample which has been reduced to a powder that is sufficiently fine to fit under the cover slip. Analyze different phases of samples separately, e.g., tile and the tile mastic should be analyzed separately as the mastic may contain asbestos while the tile may not. (a) Wet Samples Samples with a high water content will not give the proper dispersion colors and must be dried prior to sample mounting. Remove the lid of the scintillation vial, place the bottle in the drying oven and heat at 100 ○C to dryness (usually about 2 h). Samples which are not submitted to the lab in glass must be removed and placed in glass vials or aluminum weighing pans before placing them in the drying oven. (b) Samples With Organic Interference_Muffle Furnace These may include samples with tar as a matrix, vinyl asbestos tile, or any other organic that can be reduced by heating. Remove the sample from the vial and weigh in a balance to determine the weight of the submitted portion. Place the sample in a muffle furnace at 500 ○C for 1 to 2 h or until all obvious organic material has been removed. Retrieve, cool and weigh again to determine the weight loss on ignition. This is necessary to determine the asbestos content of the submitted sample, because the analyst will be looking at a reduced sample. Note: Heating above 600 ○C will cause the sample to undergo a structural change which, given sufficient time, will convert the chrysotile to forsterite. Heating even at lower temperatures for 1 to 2 h may have a measurable effect on the optical properties of the minerals. If the analyst is unsure of what to expect, a sample of standard asbestos should be heated to the same temperature for the same length of time so that it can be examined for the proper interpretation. (c) Samples With Organic Interference_THF Vinyl asbestos tile is the most common material treated with this solvent, although, substances containing tar will sometimes yield to this treatment. Select a portion of the material and then grind it up if possible. Weigh the sample and place it in a test tube. Add sufficient THF to dissolve the organic matrix. This is usually about 4 to 5 mL. Remember, THF is highly flammable. Filter the remaining material through a tared silver membrane, dry and weigh to determine how much is left after the solvent extraction. Further process the sample to remove carbonate or mount directly. (d) Samples With Carbonate Interference Carbonate material is often found on fibers and sometimes must be removed in order to perform dispersion microscopy. Weigh out a portion of the material and place it in a test tube. Add a sufficient amount of 0.1 M HCl or decalcifying solution in the tube to react all the carbonate as evidenced by gas formation; i.e., when the gas bubbles stop, add a little more solution. If no more gas forms, the reaction is complete. Filter the material out through a tared silver membrane, dry and weigh to determine the weight lost. 3.4. Sample Preparation Samples must be prepared so that accurate determination can be made of the asbestos type and amount present. The following steps are carried out in the low-flow hood (a low-flow hood has less than 50 fpm flow):
