FR940610-2-00082 FR940610-2-00054 (h) Where the manufacturer's auditors conclude that there has been a violation of the requirements of section 340B(a)(5) (A) or (B), the manufacturer's auditors shall identify (1) the procedures or lack of adherence to existing procedures which caused the violation, and (2) the dollar amounts involved. (i) Following completion of the audit field work, the manufacturer's auditors shall provide a verbal briefing of the audit findings to the covered entity to ensure a full understanding of the facts. (j) An audit report must be prepared at the completion of the audit in accordance with reporting standards for performance audits of the Government Auditing Standards, Current Revision. The manufacturer shall submit a copy of the audit report to the covered entity. The covered entity shall provide its response to the manufacturer on the audit report's findings and recommendations within 60 days from the date of receipt of the audit report. When the covered entity agrees with the audit report's findings and recommendations either in full or in part, the covered entity shall include in its response to the manufacturer a description of the actions planned or taken to address the audit findings and recommendations. When the covered entity does not agree with the audit report's findings and recommendations, the covered entity shall provide its rationale for the disagreement to the manufacturer. (k) Informational copies of the audit report shall also be submitted to the Office of Drug Pricing (see section For Further Information Contact for the address), the Office of Inspector General, Office of Audit Services, PHS Audits Division at room 1&hyph;30, Park Building, 12420 Parklawn Drive, Rockville, MD 20857, and the PHS Cost and Audit Management Branch, room 17A&hyph;50, Parklawn Building, 5600 Fishers Lane, Rockville, MD 20857. (l) If a dispute concerning the audit findings and recommendations arises, the parties may file a request for informal dispute resolution with the Office of Drug Pricing. All dispute resolution procedures developed by the Office of Drug Pricing shall be followed. Informal Dispute Resolution The Office of Drug Pricing is proposing an informal process for the resolution of certain disputes between manufacturers, covered entities, and PHS concerning compliance with the provisions of section 340B of the PHS Act. PHS expects parties to utilize this informal process before resorting to other remedies which may be available. I. Types of Disputes Covered Disputes resolved by these procedures include: (a) A manufacturer believes a covered entity is in violation of the prohibition against resale or transfer of a covered outpatient drug provided in section 340B(a)(5)(B) of the PHS Act, or the prohibition against duplicate discounts or rebates provided in section 340B(a)(5)(A) of the PHS Act; (b) A covered entity believes that a manufacturer is charging a price for a covered outpatient drug that exceeds the ceiling price as determined by section 340B(a)(1) of the PHS Act; (c) A manufacturer is conditioning the sale of covered outpatient drugs to a covered entity on the entity's provision of assurances or other compliance with the manufacturer's requirements that are based upon section 340B provisions; (d) A manufacturer has refused to sell a covered outpatient drug to a covered entity at or below the ceiling price as determined by section 340B(a)(1) of the PHS Act; (e) A manufacturer believes that a covered entity is dispensing a covered outpatient drug in an unauthorized service (e.g., inpatient services or ineligible clinics within the same health system); (f) A manufacturer believes that a covered entity has not complied with the audit requirements under section 340B(a)(5)(C) of the PHS Act, or the auditors of the manufacturer have not abided by the approved workplan or audit guidelines.
