FR940110-2-00056 FR940110-2-00042 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY [FRL&hyph;4823&hyph;3] Agency Information Collection Activities Under OMB Review AGENCY: Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: In compliance with the Paperwork Reduction Act (44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq.), this notice announces that the Information Collection Request (ICR) abstracted below has been forwarded to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) for review and comment. The ICR describes the nature of the information collection and its expected cost and burden. DATES: Comments must be submitted on or before February 9, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: For further information or to obtain a copy of this ICR contact Sandy Farmer at EPA, (202) 260&hyph;2740. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Office of Research and Development Title: Request for Information for the bioremediation Field Initiative Database Systems (EPA ICR No. 1672.01). Abstract: This is a new ICR for gathering information on the design, operation, and performance of biological treatment technologies from remediation experts and managers working at sites where biological treatment technologies are being tested or implemented. The authority for collecting information on innovative treatment technologies is described at Section 311 of the Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act, Section 8003 of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, Section 7001 of the Oil Pollution Act, and Section 10 of the Toxic Substance Control Act. The information will help the EPA to deploy innovative technologies more quickly at Superfund and other sites. Selected respondents will be asked to complete and return, via mail, a two-part questionnaire. The first part requests general site information, such as location, contacts, contaminants, and legislative authority under which the site is being remediated. The second part requests site-specific biotechnology information, such as the stage of the operation, wastes and media being treated, clean-up level goals, and the performance and cost of the treatment. All responses will be strictly voluntary. Following the initial questionnaire, respondents will receive follow-up questionnaires on a semi-annual basis to update the information already provided. The EPA will enter the information from completed questionnaires into computer databases that will be publicly accessible through computerized bulletin boards. Burden Statement: Public reporting burden for respondents is estimated to average 1.6 hours per response with 5 hours per response for the first-time respondents and 0.5 hours for respondents updating previous responses, including time for reviewing instructions, gathering and compiling the data needed, and completing and reviewing the questionnaire. Respondents: Respondents may be State and local governments, businesses, non-profit institutions, and small businesses and organizations involved in the use of innovative technologies at Superfund or other remediation sites. Estimated No. of Respondents: 767. Estimated Responses Per Respondent: 2. Frequency of Collection: Semiannual. Estimated Total Annual Burden on Respondents: An estimated annual average of 2,401 hours over three years. Send comments regarding the burden estimate, or any other aspect of this collection of information, including suggestions for reducing the burden to: Sandy Farmer, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Information Policy Branch (2136), 401 M St. SW., Washington, DC 20460. ␣␣and Timothy Hunt, Office of Management and Budget, Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, 725 17th St., NW., Washington, DC 20503. Dated: January 4, 1994. David Schwarz, Acting Director, Regulatory Management Division. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;495 Filed 1&hyph;7&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;M
