FR940112-1-00042 FR940112-1-00022 Another rule on sleeper berth specifications was published on April 26, 1974 (39 FR 14710). It amended §393.76 by increasing the minimum interior dimensions required for sleeper berths. The rule omitted specific references to trucks and truck-tractors but made no substantive changes to adapt the regulation to the different design configurations of motorcoaches. Available information indicates that many sleeper berths installed on motorcoaches today are located in the baggage area. This area is modified to allow the doors to be opened from inside the compartment, and by adding a mattress, air conditioning, heat, and a means of communication with the driver. In order to meet the current requirement of §393.76(c)(1) for direct and ready means of exit from the sleeper berth into the driver's seat or compartment, an aperture that meets the exit dimensional requirements must be cut into the floor of the motorcoach. This reduces the seating capacity of the motorcoach. The FHWA would like to know about other motorcoach sleeper berth designs which may or may not meet the current requirements of §393.76. The FHWA is requesting public comment on the question of whether, and if so how, existing sleeper berth regulations should be amended to address design differences between motorcoaches and commercial trucks. Questions The FHWA would appreciate comments on the following questions. Commenters are also encouraged to discuss any other matters related to sleeper berths on motorcoaches which they believe the FHWA should address. 1. Should existing sleeper berth regulations be amended to account for design differences between motorcoaches and trucks? If so, what changes should be made and why? 2. What is the current extent of sleeper berth usage within the motorcoach industry? 3. How many motorcoaches have been manufactured with sleeper berths as part of their original equipment? How and where are these sleeper berths installed? How many comply with §393.76? How many do not? 4. How many motorcoaches have been retrofitted with sleeper berths? How and where are these sleeper berths installed? How many comply with §393.76? How many do not? 5. Do after-market changes, such as cutting holes in the floor or modifying the cargo compartment, affect the structural integrity of the motorcoach? 6. The FHWA notes that if a driver sleeper berth is located within the baggage area and occupied while the motorcoach is in operation, the occupant could be vulnerable to a side impact collision. Are special requirements needed to ensure the occupants' safety? 7. If a driver sleeper berth is located in the baggage area of a motorcoach, should its location be restricted (e.g., only the forward-most portion of the baggage area)? If the sleeper berth is used while the vehicle is in operation, would having the sleeper berth near the rear of the motorcoach subject persons occupying the berth to excessive heat, noise, or exhaust? 8. The current requirements of §393.76 for a direct and ready means of exit from the sleeper berth into the driver's seat or compartment may be design-restrictive for motorcoaches. Should the exit requirements allow a ready means of exit into the passenger compartment of the motorcoach instead of the driver's seat or compartment? 9. Would separate motorcoach sleeper berth regulations enhance motorcoach safety or benefit the motorcoach industry? If yes, how? Rulemaking Analyses and Notices All comments received before the close of business on the comment closing date indicated above will be considered and will be available for examination in the docket at the above address. Comments received after the comment closing date will be filed in the docket and will be considered to the extent practical. In addition to late comments, the FHWA will also continue to file relevant information in the docket as it becomes available after the comment closing date, and interested persons should continue to examine the docket for new material. Executive Order 12866 (Regulatory Planning and Review) and DOT Regulatory Policies and Procedures The FHWA has determined that this document does not contain a ``significant regulatory action'' under Executive Order 12866 or a ``significant'' regulation under the regulatory policies and procedures of the DOT. Due to the preliminary nature of this document and lack of necessary information on costs, however, the FHWA is unable to evaluate the economic impact of potential changes to regulatory requirements concerning the use and design of driver sleeper berths in the motorcoach industry. Based on the information received in response to this notice, the FHWA intends to carefully consider the costs and benefits associated with possible amendments to the regulations. Comments, information, and data are solicited on the economic impact of the potential changes.
