FR940407-2-00162 FR940407-2-00081 Other_Line 6h. Enter the total of all other costs. Such costs, where applicable, may include but are not limited to insurance, food, medical and dental costs (noncontractual), fees and travel paid directly to individual consultants, space and equipment rentals, printing and publication, computer use, training costs, including tuition and stipends, training service costs including wage payments to individuals and supportive service payments, and staff development costs. Total Direct Charges_Lines 6i. Show the total of Lines 6a through 6h. Indirect Charges_Line 6j. Enter the total amount of indirect costs. This line should be used only when the applicant currently has an indirect cost rate approved by the Department of Health and Human Services or another cognizant Federal agency. With the exception of local governments, applicants should enclose a copy of the current rate agreement if it was negotiated with a cognizant Federal agency other than the Department of Health and Human Services. If the applicant organization is in the process of initially developing or renegotiating a rate, it should immediately upon notification that an award will be made, develop a tentative indirect cost rate proposal based on its most recently completed fiscal year in accordance with the principles set forth in the pertinent DHHS Guide for Establishing Indirect Cost Rates, and submit it to the appropriate DHHS Regional Office. Applicants awaiting approval of their indirect cost proposals may also request indirect costs. It should be noted that when an indirect cost rate is requested, those costs included in the indirect cost pool should not be also charged as direct costs to the grant. Totals_Line 6k. Enter the total amounts of Lines 6i and 6j. Program Income_Line 7. Enter the estimated amount of income, if any, expected to be generated from this project. Separately show expected program income generated from OCS support and income generated from other mobilized funds. Do not add or subtract this amount from the budget total. Show the nature and source of income in the program narrative statement. Justification Describe the nature, source and anticipated use of program income in the Program Narrative Statement. Column 5: Carry totals from Column 1 to Column 5 for all line items. Section C_Non-Federal Resources This section is to record the amounts of non-Federal resources that will be used to support the project. Non-Federal resources mean those other than OCS funds. Therefore, mobilized funds from other Federal programs should be entered on these lines. Provide a brief listing of the non-Federal resources on a separate sheet and describe whether it is a grantee-incurred cost or a third-party in-kind contribution. The firm commitment of these resources must be documented and submitted with the application in order to be given credit in the Public-Private Partnerships criterion. Except in unusual situations, this documentation must be in the form of letters of commitment from the organization(s)/individuals from which funds will be received. Justification Describe third-party, in-kind contributions, if included. Grant Program_Line 8 Column (a): Enter the project title. Column (b): Enter the amount of contributions to be made by the applicant to the project. Column (c): Enter the State contribution. If the applicant is a State agency, enter the non-Federal funds to be contributed by the State other than the applicant. Column (d): Enter the amount of cash and third-party in-kind contributions to be made from all other sources. Column (e): Enter the total of columns (b), (c), and (d). Grant Program_Lines 9, 10, and 11 Should be Left Blank Grant Program_Line 12 Carry the total of each column of Line 8, (b) through (e). The amount in Column (e) should be equal to the amount on Section A, Line 5, column (f). Section D_Forecasted Cash Needs Federal_Line 13. Enter the amount of Federal (OCS) cash needed for this grant, by quarter, during the first 12 month budget period. Non Federal_Line 14. Enter the amount of cash from all other sources needed by quarter during the first 12-month budget period. Totals_Line 15. Enter the total of Lines 13 and 14. Section E_Budget Estimates of Federal Funds Needed for Balance of Project(s) For new applications, enter in the proper columns amounts of Federal funds which will be needed to complete the program or project over the succeeding funding periods (usually in years).
