FR940602-1-00062 FR940602-1-00013 (a) The employer shall require that employees exposed to impact, falling objects, or puncture hazards wear safety shoes, or equivalent protection. (b) Protective shoes shall bear identifying marks or labels indicating compliance with manufacturing provisions of the American National Standard for Personal Protection_Protective Footwear ANSI Z41&hyph;1991. ยง1918.105 Other protective measures. (a) Protective clothing. (1) The employer shall provide, and shall require the wearing of special protective clothing for those employees engaged in work in which such protective clothing is necessary. (2) When necessary, protective clothing shall be cleaned and disinfected before reissuance. (b) Personal flotation equipment. (1) The employer shall provide, and shall require the wearing of personal flotation devices for those employees engaged in work in which they may fall into the water: (i) When such employees are working in isolation; or (ii) Where physical limitations of available working space creates a hazard of falling into the water; or (iii) Where the work area is obstructed by cargo or other obstacles so as to prevent employees from obtaining safe footing for their work; or (iv) When working on the deck of a barge. (2) Personal flotation devices shall be United States Coast Guard approved Type I PFD, Type II PFD, Type III PFD, or Type V PFD, or equivalent, in accordance with 46 CFR part 160 (Coast Guard Lifesaving Equipment Specifications) and 33 CFR part 175.23 (Coast Guard table of devices equivalent to personal flotation devices). (3) Personal flotation devices shall be maintained in safe condition and shall be considered unserviceable when damaged so as to affect buoyancy or fastening capability. Appendix I to Part 1918_Cargo Gear Register and Certificates (Non-mandatory) Note: This Appendix is non-mandatory and provides guidance to part 1918 to assist employers and employees in complying with the requirements of this standard, as well as to provide other helpful information. Nothing in this Appendix adds or detracts from any of the requirements of this standard. General The tests, examinations and inspections indicated in this register are based on the requirements of I.L.O. Convention 152 and Recommendation 160. They are intended to ensure that ships having lifting appliances are initially certified by a competent person, and to establish periodically that they continue to be in safe working order to the satisfaction of a competent person acceptable to a competent authority. A Register of lifting appliances and items of loose gear shall be kept in a form prescribed by the competent authority, account being taken of this model recommended by the International Labour Office. This Register and related certificates shall be kept available to any person authorized by the competent authority. The Register and certificates for gear currently aboard the ship shall be preserved for at least five years after the date of the last entry. Instruction 1. Initial Examination and Certification 1.1. Every lifting appliance shall be certified by a competent person before being taken into use for the first time to ensure that it is of good design and construction and of adequate strength for the purpose for which it is intended. 1.2. Before being taken into use for the first time, a competent person shall supervise and witness testing, and shall thoroughly examine every lifting appliance. 1.3. Every item of loose gear shall, before being taken into use for the first time, shall be tested, thoroughly examined and certified by a competent person, in accordance with national law or regulations. 1.4. Upon satisfactory completion of the procedures indicated above, the competent person shall complete and issue the Register of lifting appliances and attach the appropriate certificates. An entry shall be made in part I of the Register. 1.5. A rigging plan showing the arrangement of lifting appliances shall be provided. In the case of derricks and derrick cranes, the rigging should show at least the following information. (a) the position of guys; (b) the resultant force on blocks, guys, wire ropes and booms; (c) the position of blocks; (d) the identification mark of individual items; and (e) arrangements and working range of union purchase; 2. Periodic Examination and Re-testing 2.1. All lifting appliances and every item of loose gear shall be thoroughly examined by a competent person at least once in every twelve months. The particulars of these thorough examinations shall be entered in part I of the Register. 2.2. Re-testing and thorough examination of all lifting appliances and every item of loose gear is to be carried out; (a) after any substantial alteration or renewal, or after repair to any stress bearing part, and; (b) in the case of lifting appliances, at least once in every five years. 2.3. The retesting referred to in paragraph 2.2(a) may be omitted provided the part which has been renewed or repaired is subjected by separate test, to the same stress as would be imposed on it if it had been tested in-situ during the testing of the lifting appliance. 2.4. The thorough examinations and tests referred to in paragraph 2.2. are to be entered in part I of the Register.
