FR941206-1-00114 FR941206-1-00008 The Administrator specifically requests comments on the MACT floor determination, subcategorization, and claims by some shipyards on the need for thinning solvents beyond levels indicated by the manufacturer because of viscosity problems attributable to extremely cold weather. Specifically, comments are requested on: (1) Are such needs compulsory or more convenience, (2) why in-line heaters would not provide sufficient viscosity control, (3) what extreme climatic conditions (e.g., temperature, humidity, etc.) would justify excess thinning, (4) how such additional solvent could be linked in quantity (e.g., dilution to a preapproved viscosity setpoint), and (5) any other information that would help the Agency in this matter. The Administrator also requests comments on the timeframe for submitting items in the initial notification that are not required under the General Provisions §§63.9(b) (2) and (3) of subpart A. These items are the compliance procedure(s) that the source intends to use to demonstrate compliance; procedures for ensuring compliance with the handling, storage, and transfer standards; and procedures for maintaining records. Specifically, comments are requested on whether 120 days is sufficient time to prepare and submit these items. VIII. Administrative Requirements A. Public Hearing A public hearing will be held, if requested, to discuss the proposed standards in accordance with section 307(d)(5) of the Act. Persons wishing to make oral presentation on the proposed standards for coating operations at shipbuilding facilities should contact the EPA at the address given in the ADDRESSES section of this preamble. Oral presentations will be limited to 15 minutes each. Any member of the public may file a written statement before, during, or within 30 days after the hearing. Written statements should be addressed to the Air and Radiation Docket and Information Center address given in the ADDRESSES section of this preamble, and should refer to Docket No. A&hyph;92&hyph;11. A transcript of the hearing and written statements will be available for public inspection and copying during normal working hours at the EPA's Air and Radiation Docket and Information Center in Washington, DC (see ADDRESSES section of this preamble). B. Docket The docket is an organized and complete file of all the information submitted to or otherwise considered by the EPA in the development of this proposed rulemaking. The principal purposes of the docket are: (1) To allow interested parties to readily identify and locate documents so that they can intelligently and effectively participate in the rulemaking process, and (2) to serve as the record in case of judicial review [except for interagency review materials (section 307(d)(7)(A))].
