FR940620-1-00048 FR940620-1-00009 (f) Use the following clauses in solicitations and contracts that include the clause at 252.227&hyph;7013: (1) 252.227&hyph;7030, ``Technical Data_Withholding of Payment''; (2) 252.227&hyph;7036, ``Certification of Technical Data Conformity''; and, (3) 252.227&hyph;7037, ``Validation of Asserted Restrictions'' (paragraph (d) of the clause contains information that must be included in a challenge). 227.403&hyph;7 Use and non-disclosure agreement (a) Except as provided in 227.403&hyph;7(b), technical data or computer software delivered to the Government with restrictions on use, modification, reproduction, release, performance, display, or disclosure may not be provided to third parties unless the intended recipient completes and signs the use and non-disclosure agreement at 227.403&hyph;7(c) prior to release, or disclosure of the data. (1) The specific conditions under which an intended recipient will be authorized to use, modify, reproduce, release, perform, display, or disclose technical data subject to limited rights or computer software subject to restricted rights must be stipulated in an attachment to the use and non-disclosure agreement. (2) For an intended release, disclosure, or authorized use of technical data or computer software subject to special license rights, modify paragraph 1.(c) of the use and nondisclosure agreement to enter the conditions, consistent with the license requirements, governing the recipient's obligations regarding use, modification, reproduction, release, performance, display or disclosure of the data or software. (b) The requirement for use and non-disclosure agreements does not apply to Government contractors which require access to a third party's data or software for the performance of a Government contract that contains the clause at 252.227&hyph;7025, ``Limitations on the Use or Disclosure of Government Furnished Information Marked with Restrictive Legends.'' (c) The prescribed ``Use and Non-disclosure Agreement'' is: Use and Non-disclosure Agreement The undersigned, XXXX (Insert Name) XXXX , an authorized representative of the XXXX (Insert Company Name) XXXX , (which is hereinafter referred to as the ``Recipient'') requests the Government to provide the Recipient with technical data or computer software (hereinafter referred to as ``Data'') in which the Government's use, modification, reproduction, release, performance, display or disclosure rights are restricted. Those Data are identified in an attachment to this Agreement. In consideration for receiving such Data, the Recipient agrees to use the Data strictly in accordance with this Agreement: (1) The Recipient shall_ (a) Use, modify, reproduce, release, perform, display, or disclose Data marked with government purpose rights or SBIR data rights lends only for government purposes and shall not do so for any commercial purpose. The Recipient shall not release, perform, display, or disclose these Data, without the express written permission of the contractor whose name appears in the restrictive legend (the ``Contractor''), to any person other than its subcontractors or suppliers, or prospective subcontractors or suppliers, who require these Data to submit offers for, or perform, contracts with the Recipient. The Recipient shall require its subcontractors or suppliers, or prospective subcontractors or suppliers, to sign a use and non-disclosure agreement prior to disclosing or releasing these Data to such persons. Such agreement must be consistent with the terms of this agreement. (b) Use, modify, reproduce, release, perform, display, or disclose technical data marked with limited rights legends only as specified in the attachment to this Agreement. Release, performance, display, or disclosure to other persons is not authorized unless specified in the attachment to this Agreement or expressly permitted in writing by the Contractor. The Recipient shall promptly notify the Contractor of the execution of this Agreement and identify the Contractor's Data that has been or will be provided to the Recipient, the date and place the Data were or will be received, and the name and address of the Government office that has provided or will provide the Data. (c) Use computer software marked with restricted rights legends only in performance of contract number XXXX (insert contract number(s) XXXX . The recipient shall not, for example, enhance, decompile, disassemble, or reverse engineer the software, timeshare, or use of computer program with more than one computer at a time The recipient may not release, perform, display, or disclose such software to others unless expressly permitted in writing by the licensor whose name appears in the restrict legend. The Recipient shall promptly notify the software licensor of the execution of this Agreement and identify the software that has been or will be provided to the Recipient, the date and place the software were or will be received, and the name and address of the Government office that has provided or will provide the software. (d) Use, modify, reproduce, release, perform, display, or disclose Data marked with special license rights legends (to be completed by the contracting officer. See 227.403&hyph;7(a)(2). Omit if none of the Data requested is marked with Special license rights legends).
