FR940128-2-00152 FR940128-2-00096 3. American Mortgage Corp., Seattle, Washington Action: Proposed Settlement Agreement that includes indemnification to the Department for claim losses in connection with five improperly originated loans, and corrective action to assure compliance with HUD&hyph;FHA requirements. Cause: A HUD monitoring review that disclosed violations of HUD&hyph;FHA program requirements that included: failure to implement a Quality Control Plan; sharing office space and commingling employees with another firm; failure to verify the source of mortgagor funds used for downpayment and closing costs; permitting a mortgagor and real estate agent to handcarry a verification of employment and verification of deposit; failure to properly verify monthly effective income; and failure to ensure that face-to-face interviews are conducted with mortgagors prior to submission of HUD&hyph;FHA loan applications to AMC's underwriter. 4. Gulf States Mortgage Co., Atlanta, Georgia Action: Proposed Settlement Agreement that provides for indemnification to the Department for claim losses in connection with ten improperly originated loans, and corrective action to assure compliance with HUD&hyph;FHA requirements. Cause: A HUD monitoring review that cited the company for violations of HUD&hyph;FHA program requirements that included: overinsured mortgages; failure to verify mortgagors' source and/or adequacy of funds for downpayment and/or closing costs; failure to conduct adequate face-to-face interviews with mortgagors; permitting mortgagors to handcarry verifications of employment; and failure to properly complete the Form HUD 92900. 5. Mortgage Resource Center, Inc., Greensboro, North Carolina Action: Proposed Settlement Agreement that includes payment of a civil money penalty in the amount of $1,000, and corrective action to assure compliance with HUD&hyph;FHA requirements. Cause: A HUD monitoring review that cited the company for violations of HUD&hyph;FHA requirements that included: failure to comply with the reporting requirements under the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act (HMDA); failure to implement a Quality Control Plan; charging unallowable fees to mortgagors; and failure to maintain complete loan files. 6. Alcola Mortgage Corporation, Northridge, California Action: Probation and proposed civil money penalty in the amount of $1,500. Cause: A HUD monitoring review that disclosed violations of HUD&hyph;FHA requirements that included: failure to comply with the Department's requirements for office facilities; failure to implement an adequate Quality Control Plan; failure to comply with reporting requirements under the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act (HMDA); and submitting a false certification to HUD&hyph;FHA concerning the location of the company's office facilities. 7. L.J. Wright Financial Resource Company, Phoenix, Arizona Action: Letter of Reprimand. Cause: A HUD monitoring review that cited the company for failure to comply with HUD&hyph;FHA reporting requirements under the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act (HMDA). 8. Mortgagees Cited for Failure To Comply with HUD&hyph;FHA Reporting Requirements Under the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act (HMDA) and/or Maintain an Adequate Quality Control Plan. Action: Letters of Reprimand and proposed civil money penalty in the amount of $500. Cause: HUD monitoring reviews that disclosed noncompliance by the following mortgagees with the Department's reporting requirements under HMDA and/or failure to comply with HUD&hyph;FHA requirements for maintaining a Quality Control Plan. Mortgagees issued a Letter of Reprimand with a proposed civil money penalty for failure to meet HMDA reporting requirements and to maintain an adequate Quality Control Plan. All Service Mortgage Corporation, Largo, FL; Cannon Mortgage Company, Tustin, CA; Karma Mortgage, Orange, CA; Colorado Mortgage Professionals, Englewood, CO; Cypress Mortgage, Inc., Austin, TX; Franklin-Harris Associates, Longmont, CO; and Lincoln Home Mortgage, Inc., Roselle, IL. Mortgagees issued a Letter of Reprimand with a proposed civil money penalty for failure to report HMDA data only. Affordable Mortgage Corporation, Wappinger Falls, NY; and Mission Hills Mortgage Corporation, Santa Ana, CA. Dated: January 19, 1994. Nicolas P. Retsinas, Assistant Secretary for Housing_Federal Housing Commissioner. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;1785 Filed 1&hyph;27&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4210&hyph;27&hyph;P
