FR940627-0-00141 FR940627-0-00019 3. Verification Testing A number of mechanisms can cause emissions to be captured in the dilution and sampling system before they can be characterized or used for animal exposures. Verification testing is required to determine the ratio (``recovery factor'') of emissions that exit the sampling system to those that enter the system. This ratio must be high in order for subsequent emission testing to be meaningful. EPA requires testing to verify the exposure atmosphere and to monitor the performance of the dilution/sampling system and mixing chamber, ensuring the repeatability of test results. Verification testing of the dilution/sampling system must be accomplished by injecting a known sample at the inlet and measuring the amount that exits the sample probe. For example, an injected hydrocarbon sample could be detected with a gas chromatograph and flame ionization detector to estimate the recovery factor. Similar verification procedures apply to the verification testing of the mixing chamber. Verification procedures for the dilution/sampling system and mixing chamber are included in ยง79.57(e)(2)(v) of the accompanying regulations. Additional requirements include the monitoring of conditions (e.g., air flow, CO levels, etc.) in the inhalation exposure chamber and verification of test animal exposure levels (see ยง79.61). C. Evaporative Emission Generation Section III.A.2 discusses the RVP criteria which determine the applicability of evaporative emission testing to specific fuels and additive/base fuel mixtures. Evaporative emissions from in-use vehicles include diurnal, hot soak, resting and running loss emissions, and refueling emissions. However, to simplify the generation and collection procedures and to supply evaporative emissions of sufficient concentration for biological exposure testing, today's rule requires that evaporative emissions be generated using an evaporative emission generator (EEG). Emissions to be used both for characterization tests and biological exposure tests are to be generated in this way. The EEG is a fuel tank or vessel to which heat is applied to cause a portion of the fuel or additive/base fuel mixture to evaporate at a desired rate. Manufacturers will have flexibility in the design of the EEG used to test their particular F/FA. The size and/or number of EEG units to be used for evaporative emission testing will depend on the rate of emissions needed for the inhalation study. The vapor pressure of the F/FA product may influence the required tank size, as well. Emission rate modifications shall not be adjusted by temperature control, since emission composition is sensitive to temperature changes.
