FR940617-1-00077 FR940617-1-00012 (2) Morello, J. A., and M. Bohnhoff, `` Neisseria and Branhamella,'' in ``Manual of Clinical Microbiology,'' 3rd ed., edited by E. H. Lennette, American Society for Microbiology, Washington, pp. 111&hyph;122, 1980. (3) Buchanan, R. E., and N. E. Gibbons, ``Bergey's Manual of Determinative Bacteriology,'' 8th ed., Williams and Wilkins Co., Baltimore, p. 176, 1974. (4) Letter from W. E. Gilbertson, FDA, to M. Lowenstein, The Sanitube Co., coded LET68, Docket No. 75N&hyph;0183, Dockets Management Branch. N. Comments on Testing 26. Numerous comments addressed the agency's modifications in the Panel's proposed testing guidelines (43 FR 1210 at 1239 to 1240), the agency's statements on final formulation testing (43 FR 1211, 1224, and 1240), and specific protocols for upgrading an antimicrobial ingredient from Category III to Category I (43 FR 1242 to 1246). Stating that the testing guidelines were unclear in some places and pointing out inconsistencies between the guidelines and the agency's responses to comments at 43 FR 1211 and 1223 to 1227, a number of comments requested clarification or proposed modifications of a number of items in the guidelines. Several comments requested specific information or submitted protocols for testing Category III ingredients. One comment requested that manufacturers be permitted to determine which protocol to follow to establish safety or effectiveness of an ingredient. A number of comments objected to the agency's consideration of the testing guidelines as final, and urged revisions in the guidelines for publication in the Federal Register . The agency acknowledges that there were some inconsistencies in the testing guidelines for safety and effectiveness proposed in the previous tentative final rule. The agency does not consider the previous testing guidelines as final. The agency is clarifying in this amended tentative final monograph that all final formulations will be required to meet the specifications in the final monograph. As stated in section I.N., comment 28, the agency is proposing testing procedures in §333.470 for evaluating the active ingredient in pure form as well as in the complete formulation. The agency recommends that manufacturers use these procedures for testing the final formulations of products intended for health-care antiseptic use. Manufacturers may propose other appropriate testing procedures subject to agency evaluation, as requested. The data from these tests are not required to be submitted to FDA by the manufacturer. However, the agency intends to use these procedures for any necessary compliance testing. 27. Two comments pointed out an apparent conflict in the agency's statements concerning safety factor calculations as follows: At 43 FR 1240, the agency concluded that a minimum of a 100-fold safety factor should apply to the exposure dose for ingredients labeled for repeated daily use; at 43 FR 1241, the agency stated that if the safety factor is extrapolated from an animal species to man, considering surface area, the highest no-effect dose should be used for the multiplier, and in the absence of complete data, a 100-fold safety factor should be applied when translating the animal highest no-effect dose to man; and at 43 FR 1213 (see comment 19), the agency stated that modifications of the safety factor will be allowed for specific ingredients where justified by risk-benefit considerations. One comment suggested that a safety factor of less than 100-fold be acceptable when scientific investigation of good quality shows that the test animals used in establishing the no-effect dose are similar to humans with respect to metabolism (biotransformation and pharmacokinetics) and/or tissue susceptibility. Another comment stated that a more reasoned and practical approach would be to require calculation of certain safety factors as recommended, and indicate in a general guideline that risk-benefit ratios based on these factors would determine the relative merits of the product. The agency does not find any conflict in the various statements included in the previous tentative final monograph. The safety factor calculations were included merely as a general guideline. The agency's response to comment 19 at 43 FR 1213 indicated that the agency would retain a minimum of a 100-fold safety factor applied to the exposure dose for ingredients in products labeled for repeated daily use. However, the agency will consider modifications of the safety factor for specific ingredients where justified by risk-benefit considerations and where requests are based on submitted data. While the 100-fold safety factor was a general guideline in the previous tentative final monograph, the agency does not find a need to include a general guideline in this amended tentative final monograph. 28. Numerous comments requested clarification of the criteria required to establish effectiveness for each antimicrobial product class. One comment stated that the ``Testing Guidelines'' section seems to indicate that it may be necessary to determine the effect of the vehicle on the active ingredient. The comment contended that this provision is confusing because the preamble discussion in the tentative final monograph indicates that vehicle testing will not be necessary ``*␣*␣* where adequate data are available on the active ingredients alone.'' (See 43 FR 1210 at 1224.) Another comment stated that the Cade handwashing test can only be conducted if the antimicrobial is placed in a vehicle and noted that the antimicrobial is never used by consumers in its raw form; therefore, efficacy testing on the raw antimicrobial ingredient should not be required. A third comment stated that the overall antimicrobial effectiveness of a topically applied product is a function of the total formulation rather than a single ingredient. Another comment added that if an individual product formulation must be tested, and/or the testing of a product vehicle is considered essential, then such testing requirements must be specifically described. Citing the definition of an antiseptic in section 201(o) of the act (21 U.S.C. 321(o)), one comment asserted that the definition requires that the antimicrobial product kill or inhibit the growth of micro-organisms on the skin. The comment proposed that efficacy can be demonstrated by showing that the preparation produces a quantitative reduction in the levels of normal skin flora and/or inhibition of bacterial growth in vitro. Two comments pointed out that the ``Modified Cade Procedure'' handwashing test (43 FR 1210 at 1243) specifies a one-log reduction of bacteria, but the procedure fails to indicate how many uses or days of use of test product should produce the reduction. Other comments requested that no upper limit be set for bacterial hand counts, that the lower limit of 1.5×106 per hand be the only criteria for subject selection, and that minimal hand count reduction be defined in the test protocols for surgical hand scrub and health-care personnel handwash products. Another comment suggested that modification of the ``Sampling technique and times'' (paragraph 6) of the protocol ``Effectiveness Testing of Surgical Hand Scrub (Glove Juice Test)'' (43 FR 1243) was needed because the protocol did not indicate the volume of sampling solution but only stated that the volume *␣*␣* should be ``kept constant'' for all tests. The comment recommended that the agency specify a range of 50 to 100 mL of sampling solution in order to provide consistent and reproducible results.
