FR941110-1-00057 FR941110-1-00010 §956.5 Walla Walla Sweet Onions. Walla Walla Sweet Onions means all varieties of Allium cepa grown within the production area, except Spanish hybrid varieties. The committee may, with the approval of the Secretary, exempt individual varieties from any or all regulations issued under this part. §956.6 Handler. Handler is synonymous with ``shipper'' and means any person (except a common or contract carrier of Walla Walla Sweet Onions owned by another person) who handles Walla Walla Sweet Onions or causes Walla Walla Sweet Onions to be handled. §956.7 Registered handler. Registered handler means any person with adequate facilities for preparing Walla Walla Sweet Onions for commercial market, who has requested such registration and is so recorded by the committee, or any person who has access to such facilities and has recorded with the committee the ability and willingness to assume customary obligations of preparing Walla Walla Sweet Onions for commercial market. The committee may recommend, for approval of the Secretary, procedures with respect to handler registration. §956.8 Handle. Handle is synonymous with ``ship'' and means to package, load, sell, transport, or in any way place Walla Walla Sweet Onions or cause Walla Walla Sweet Onions to be placed in the current of commerce within the production area or between the production area and any point outside thereof. Such term shall not include the transportation, sale, or delivery of harvested Walla Walla Sweet Onions to a handler within the production area for the purpose of having such Walla Walla Sweet Onions prepared for market. §956.9 Container. Container means a box, bag, crate, hamper, basket, package, or any other receptacle used in the packaging, transporting, sale, shipment, or other handling of Walla Walla Sweet Onions. §956.10 Producer. Producer is synonymous with ``grower'' and means any person engaged in a proprietary capacity in the production of Walla Walla Sweet Onions for market. §956.11 Varieties. Varieties means and includes all classifications, subdivisions, or types of Walla Walla Sweet Onions according to those definitive characteristics now or hereafter recognized by the United States Department of Agriculture or recommended by the committee and approved by the Secretary. §956.12 Committee. Committee means the Walla Walla Sweet Onion Committee established pursuant to §956.20. §956.13 Fiscal period. Fiscal period means the period beginning on June 1 and ending on May 31 of each year, or other such period as may be recommended by the committee and approved by the Secretary. Administrative Committee §956.20 Establishment and membership. (a) The Walla Walla Sweet Onion Committee, consisting of ten members, is hereby established. The committee shall consist of six producer members, three handler members, and one public member. Each member shall have an alternate who shall have the same qualifications as the member. (b) A producer shall have three years of experience in producing onions in order to qualify for committee membership. At the time of selection, no more than two producer members may be affiliated with the same handler. §956.21 Term of office. (a) Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (b) of this section, the term of office of committee members and their respective alternates shall be for three fiscal periods beginning on June 1 or such other date as recommended by the committee and approved by the Secretary. The terms shall be determined so that one-third of the grower membership and one-third of the handler membership shall terminate each year. Members and alternates shall serve during the term of office for which they are selected and have been qualified, or during that portion thereof beginning on the date on which they qualify during such term of office and continuing until the end thereof, or until their successors are selected and have qualified. (b) The term of office of the initial members and alternates shall begin as soon as possible after the effective date of this subpart. One-third of the initial industry members and alternates shall serve for a one-year term, one-third shall serve for a two-year term, and one-third shall serve for a three-year term. The initial, as well as all successive terms of office of the public member and alternate member shall be for three years. (c) The consecutive terms of office for all members shall be limited to two three-year terms. There shall be no such limitation for alternate members. §956.22 Nominations. Nominations from which the Secretary may select the members of the committee and their respective alternates may be made in the following manner: (a) The committee shall hold or cause to be held, within the production area and prior to April 1 of each year or by such other date as may be specified by the Secretary, one or more meetings of producers and handlers for the purpose of designating one nominee for each of the member and alternate member positions which are vacant or will be vacant at the end of the fiscal period;
