FR940505-1-00040 FR940505-1-00012 Specifically, EPA is proposing to strengthen the recall program for cars and light and medium duty trucks. Vehicle manufacturer's recall responsibilities will be determined by testing the emissions performance of typical vehicles instead of only vehicles which have been properly maintained. EPA is also proposing to increase manufacturer's liability for repair of vehicle emissions control equipment. Both of these proposals are intended to provide incentives to manufacturers to increase the durability of the emissions control systems in the vehicles they produce (III.D.2.d., Appendix I.A., and 40 CFR 52.2962). EPA is also seeking comment on a program which would require that on-board diagnostic systems of new vehicles be capable of communicating, to on-road sensors, the operational status of the emission control system. This approach would be intended to particularly target high emitting vehicles, and would remain in effect for the life of the vehicle (III.D.2.d.). For the South Coast, EPA is also proposing a requirement that certain commercial vehicle fleets make the majority of their purchases from inherently low emitting vehicles (ILEVs), 9 including, for example, natural gas and electric vehicles, 40 CFR 52.2962. 9 Beyond very low exhaust emissions, these vehicles must have little or no evaporative emissions even when emissions control systems malfunction. In practice this means using fuel sources which have little or no evaporative emissions. For light-duty vehicles, EPA proposes to prohibit California residents from importing or registering vehicles purchased outside of California that are not certified to meet California's stringent vehicle standards. This prohibition would begin in 1999, and is described in section III.D.2.h. The proposed regulation is 40 CFR 52.2964. Given the level of emissions reductions necessary to demonstrate attainment in each of the three FIP areas, EPA believes it is absolutely essential to propose an enhanced inspection and maintenance (I/M) program for vehicles which meets national performance standards. As previously discussed, the structure of the FIP proposal will follow EPA's model program. If the state enacts and submits approvable legislation and regulations for its own enhanced program which meets national performance standards, EPA will withdraw or rescind the FIP I/M program. This issue is described in more detail in sections III.D.1.b.(7).(a). and III.D.2.c. The proposed regulation is 40 CFR 52.2963. For heavy duty trucks, the FIP proposals include tighter hydrocarbon (HC) and NO X exhaust standards for model years 1999 and beyond, strict evaporative HC standards to minimize shifting from diesel to gasoline beginning in 1999 as well, and a declining average NO X level for fleet operators beginning in 2000. Fees for fleet emission averages above the declining NO X targets are proposed to help maintain turnover to the newer, cleaner engines. At the option of the fleet owner, interstate trucks may comply with limitations on the number of stops allowed within FIP areas beginning in 1998 rather then complying with the declining NO X levels. The heavy duty truck proposals are discussed in section III.D.3. and the proposed regulations are in 40 CFR 52.2966. Finally, for the 1999 attainment date option in Sacramento, EPA is proposing to include an accelerated retirement strategy for on-highway heavy duty engines. This accelerated retirement strategy is discussed in section III.B.3.. (2) Programs for nonroad vehicles and engines. EPA is proposing to regulate a number of categories of nonroad vehicles and equipment: Nonroad heavy duty engines, small nonroad equipment, motorcycles and recreation vehicles, and marine engines. See discussion in section III.D.4.(a)-(d). For nonroad heavy duty engines (at or above 50 horsepower, 37 kW), a phased approach would begin with a national program targeted for final rulemaking in May 1994. In the next phase, EPA is proposing additional standards for the FIP areas and increased manufacturers liability for repair of emissions control systems to help ensure continued low emission performance. An emissions- based, fleet-average fee system with a declining emission levels is proposed for the FIP areas to maintain turnover to the cleaner engines. For the 1999 attainment date option in Sacramento, EPA is proposing a growth cap for the nonroad heavy equipment category. This cap is discussed in section III.B.3. For small nonroad equipment (spark ignited engines at or below 25 horsepower, 19kW), EPA is proposing to employ a two-phased strategy of first setting national standards for implementation by 1995, and then employing negotiated rulemaking to achieve still further reductions after 2000 or 2001. This strategy reflects discussions already underway at the national level. The standards EPA will propose in the first phase will be similar to the State of California's regulation for utility and lawn and garden equipment engines manufactured in 1995 and beyond. In both phases, the effect of this action will be to extend regulations to engines which California is currently pre-empted from regulating (III.D.4.b.2.). The FIP proposals include more stringent exhaust emissions standards for motorcycles and recreational vehicles such as mopeds, dirt bikes, all terrain vehicles (ATVs), and go-karts sold in California after January 1996. The level of stringency may require substitution of 4-stroke nonroad engines for some current 2-stroke applications (III.D.4.c.(1).). Finally, EPA is proposing to apply national emission standards, scheduled to be proposed in 1994 and finalized by November 1995, to spark-ignited marine propulsion engines such as outboard engines, personal watercraft (``jet-skis,'' etc.), and sterndrive and inboard engines. These national rules will apply to new spark ignition marine propulsion engines produced after August 1, 1998 and are proposed to be combined with a registration/permitting and fee system for marine engine use in FIP area waters. Marine engines meeting the new national standards would be exempt from the fees which are proposed to begin in 2004 (III.D.4.b.(3). and III.D.4.c.(2).). For the 1999 attainment option in Sacramento, EPA is proposing a fee system or boating restriction to reduce emissions from recreational boating by one-third.
