FR940413-0-00086 FR940413-0-00026 Executive Order 12866 This final rule was reviewed by the Office of Management and Budget under Executive Order 12866 as a significant regulatory action. Any changes made in this rule as a result of that review are clearly identified in the docket file, which is available for public inspection in the Office of HUD's Rule's Docket Clerk, room 10276, 451 Seventh St. SW., Washington, DC. Impact on Small Entities The Secretary, in accordance with the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. 605(b)), has reviewed this final rule before publication and by approving it certifies that the rule will not have a significant impact on a substantial number of small entities. The final rule establishes the requirements and procedures by which PHAs may designate projects, or portions of projects, for occupancy only by (1) elderly families, (2) disabled families, or (3) disabled families and elderly families. The rule incorporates the requirements established by statute for such designation. The designation of housing for occupancy by elderly families, disabled families, or disabled families and elderly families is an option provided to, not a requirement imposed on, PHAs by this rule. Executive Order 12606, The Family The General Counsel, as the Designated Official under Executive Order 12606, The Family, has determined that this final rule would not have potential for significant impact on family formation, maintenance, and general well-being within the meaning of the order. This final rule implements the designation process provided by section 622 of the 1992 Act, the purpose of which is to assist PHAs in meeting the housing and supportive service needs of disabled families and elderly families. The supportive services provided by PHAs to disabled and elderly families are expected to assist these families in avoiding possible institutionalization, and to reduce unnecessary stress and financial burden on these families. Thus, the supportive services component of the program is anticipated to have a beneficial impact on disabled families and elderly families. Since the designation process, however, provides for elderly-only housing and disabled-only housing, there is the possibility that the designation process authorized by section 622 of the 1992 Act would limit the availability of housing for (1) disabled families (if a PHA designates elderly family-only housing), (2) elderly families (if a PHA designates disabled family-only housing) or (3) families with children (if a PHA designates disabled families and/or elderly family-only housing), and thus adversely impact the maintenance and well-being of these families. (Although it should be noted that PHAs would be required to admit eligible elderly families with children to designated projects for elderly families, and admit eligible disabled families with children to projects designated for disabled families.) The final rule, however, provides certain protections for all family types, including the protection provided by HUD's review and approval of a PHA's housing allocation plan. The purpose of this review is to ensure that the availability of public housing, and other housing resources available to the PHA, is not reduced for any of these families, especially non-elderly disabled families. Thus, the impact on family maintenance and well being that may result from the designation process, as implemented by the Department through this rule, would not be significant within the meaning of the order. Executive Order 12612, Federalism The General Counsel, as the Designated Official under section 6(a) of Executive Order 12612, Federalism, has determined that this final rule would not have substantial, direct effects on States, on their political subdivisions, or on their relationship with the Federal government, or on the distribution of power and responsibilities among the various levels of government. The is limited to implementing the procedures under which PHAs may opt, subject to certain requirements and procedures, to designate public housing projects, or portions of public housing projects, for occupancy by elderly families, disabled families, or disabled families and elderly families. Regulatory Agenda This rule was listed as sequence number 1635 in the Department's Semiannual Agenda of Regulations, published on October 25, 1993 (58 FR 56402, 56448) under Executive Order 12291 and the Regulatory Flexibility Act. List of Subjects 24 CFR Part 945 Aged, Grant programs_housing and community development, Individuals with disabilities, Public housing, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. 24 CFR Part 960 Aged, Grant programs_housing and community development, Individuals with disabilities, Public housing. Accordingly, title 24 of the Code of Federal Regulations is amended as follows: 1. A new part 945, consisting of §§945.101 through 945.303, is added to read as follows:
