FR940128-2-00209 FR940128-2-00136 [Docket Nos. 50&hyph;275 and 50&hyph;323] Pacific Gas and Electric Co.; Consideration of Issuance of Amendments to Facility Operating Licenses, Proposed No Significant Hazards Consideration Determination, and Opportunity for a Hearing The U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission (the Commission) is considering issuance of amendments to Facility Operating License Nos. DPR&hyph;80 and DPR&hyph;82 issued to Pacific Gas and Electric Company (the licensee) for operation of the Diablo Canyon Nuclear Power Plant located in San Luis Obispo County, California. The proposed amendments would revise the combined Technical Specifications (TS) 3/4.32, ``Engineered Safety Features Actuation System Instrumentation,'' and TS 3/4.6.2.3. ``Containment Cooling System.'' TS 3/4.3.2, Table 3.3&hyph;3, ``Engineered Safety Features Actuation System Instrumentation Surveillance Requirements,'' would be revised to clarify acceptable containment fan cooling unit (CFCU) configurations that satisfy the safety analysis requirements and to clarify the minimum required component cooling water flow supplied to the CFCU cooling coils. The specific TS changes proposed are as follows: (1) TS 3.3.2, Table 3.3&hyph;3 and Table 4.3&hyph;2, Functional Units 2.c. and 3.b.3), would be revised to expand the mode applicability to Mode 4. (2) TS 3.6.2.3 would be revised to require that at least four containment fan cooling units (CFCUs), or three CFCUs, each supplied by a separate vital bus, be operable. (3) TS 3.6.2.3, action statement a., would be revised to clarify the equipment required to be operable when in the action statement. (4) TS 3.6.2.3, action statement b., would be deleted. (5) TS 3.6.2.3, action statement c., would be renumbered to action statement b. and revised to clarify the equipment required to be operable when in the action statement. (6) TS 4.6.2.3.a.2) would be revised to clarify the minimum component cooling water (CCW) flow to the CFCUs as 1650 gpm during normal operation which will assure that the required accident flow is satisfied. (7) A footnote would be added to the surveillance requirement of TS 4.6.2.3.a.2) allowing all CFCUs to have flow CCW flow for ASME Section XI testing and Mode 4 operation with the residual heat removal (RHR) heat exchangers in service for decay heat removal. (8) TS 4.6.2.3.a.3) would be revised to remove cycle specific information that is no longer applicable. Before issuance of the proposed license amendment, the Commission will have made findings required by the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended (the Act) and the Commission's regulations. The Commission has made a proposed determination that the amendment request involves no significant hazards consideration. Under the Commission's regulations in 10 CFR 50.92, this means that operation of the facility in accordance with the proposed amendment would not (1) involve a significant increase in the probability or consequences of an accident previously evaluated; or (2) create the possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any accident previously evaluated; or (3) involve a significant reduction in a margin of safety. As required by 10 CFR 50.91(a), the licensee has provided its analysis of the issue of no significant hazards consideration, which is presented below: (1) Does the change involve a significant increase in the probability or consequences of an accident previously evaluated? Neither the [component cooling water] CCW system nor the containment pressure high-high signal initiate any accident, and therefore, do not affect the probability of an accident occurring. Addition of Mode 4 to the applicability of the containment high-high pressure signal provides assurance that the containment spray system will automatically actuate and the CCW nonvital header will automatically isolate is response to the high containment pressure. Deletion of action statement b. of TS 3.6.2.3 is conservative since it assures that adequate containment heat removal is available and assures that the assumptions of the bounding Mode 1 containment [design basis accident] DBA are satisfied. Revising the CCW flow rates to the CFCUs clarifies the expected CCW flow rates during normal operation. Operation within the flow requirements assures that adequate flow will be available to the CFCUs to satisfy the assumptions in the containment DBA in [final safety analysis report] FSAR Section 6.2B.3. PG&E analysis has determined that with three CFCUs available for containment heat removal , adequate CCW flow will be available with both [residual heat removal] RHR heat exchangers in service to provide assurance that the maximum design pressure of containment is not exceeded, assuming a single failure does not occur.
