FR941007-1-00058 FR941007-1-00009 In addition, the agencies would evaluate the extent to which an institution provides community development services and the innovativeness and responsiveness of such services, given the needs of the institution's community and the capacity and constraints of the institution. The revised proposal defines community development services as services that primarily benefit low- and moderate-income individuals, businesses or farms with annual revenues less than or equal to $1 million, or businesses or farms that qualify as small businesses under a Small Business Administration program and that address affordable housing (including multifamily rental housing) or other community economic development needs that are not being met by the private market. 3 3 Examples of community development services would include, among other things: providing technical expertise for not-for-profit organizations serving low- and moderate-income housing needs and/or economic growth and development, lending executives to organizations facilitating affordable housing construction and rehabilitation and/or development of affordable housing; providing credit counseling, home buyers counseling, home maintenance counseling, and/or financial planning to promote community economic development and affordable housing, school savings programs, and other financial services education; and offering lifeline deposit services, low-cost or free government check cashing, or participating in an electronic benefit transfer network. The Community Development Test for Wholesale or Limited Purpose Institutions Under the December proposal, wholesale or limited purpose institutions were defined as insured depository institutions that are in the business of extending credit to the public but do not make a significant amount of reportable loans ( i.e., home mortgage, consumer, small farm and small business loans). These would have included institutions that make primarily large commercial loans, as well as credit card banks, and similar institutions. The December proposal would have required an evaluation of the CRA performance of these institutions primarily under the proposed investment test. Performance under that test would have been measured based on the amount of an institution's assets devoted to qualified investments as compared to its risk-based capital. Qualified investments would have consisted of lawful investments that benefited low- and moderate-income geographies or individuals in an institution's service area, including investments that supported local affordable housing and community, economic, or small business development. Eligible grants and loans that would have constituted a qualified investment also would have been included within the investment test. In assigning the overall rating for wholesale or limited purpose institutions, the institution's investment test rating could have been increased one level for outstanding performance and decreased one level for a ``substantial noncompliance'' rating on the service test. In light of the comments received, the revised proposal would replace the investment test with the community development test as the primary test for wholesale or limited purpose institutions. A number of commenters considered the investment test too narrowly focused to use as a tool for assessing the CRA performance of wholesale or limited purpose institutions and suggested replacing the test with a test that focused on community development activities more generally. The community development test in the revised proposal would focus on a wholesale or limited purpose institution's record in helping to meet the credit needs of its service area through qualified investments, community development lending, and community development services. In general, these community development-related activities would be similar to the community development aspects of the lending and service tests, and would adopt the definition of qualified investments used in the investment test in the revised proposal. The community development test also would consider small business and small farm loans as well as loans to low- and moderate-income individuals and geographies as community development loans, whether or not reported or collected under the data collection requirements of the revised proposal. Several commenters believed the December proposal's definitions of wholesale or limited purpose institutions did not clearly distinguish between these types of institutions and retail institutions. Some commenters also suggested that these institutions be permitted to conduct a certain amount of incidental retail lending without losing their wholesale or limited purpose institution status. Several comments suggested that an institution should have the opportunity to confirm its status as a wholesale or limited purpose institution with the agencies in advance of being examined.
