FR940830-2-00121 FR940830-2-00057 July 11, 1994. By Hand Delivery Richard L. Rosen, Esquire, Chief, Communications and Finance Section, Antitrust Division, U.S. Department of Justice, 555 4th Street, N.W._Room 8104, Washington, DC 2001. Re: United States v. Electronic Payment Services, Inc. Civ. No. 94&hyph;208 (D.Del.). Dear. Mr. Rosen: I am writing on behalf of The New York Switch Corporation (``NYS'') to comment on the proposed Stipulation, Final Judgment (``the decree''), and Competitive Impact Statement in United States v. Electronic Payment Services, Inc. (``EPS''), Civ. No. 94&hyph;208, as set out at 59 Fed. Reg. 24711 (May 12, 1994). NYS operates the NYCE ® ATM/POS network. For many years, NYCE has been foreclosed from competing against EPS' MAC ® network in Pennsylvania and other states where MAC has successfully established monopoly power through the very types of exclusionary practices which are the subject of the decree. By prohibiting its members from joining NYCE or selecting NYCE as their processor, EPS has largely succeeded in insulating itself from competition from NYCE, as well as from other regional ATM networks and third party processors, in Pennsylvania and a number of other states. The remedial purpose of the proposed decree is to check EPS' market power by facilitating the entry of competing regional ATM networks and ATM processors into markets in which EPS has heretofore exercised market power through various exclusionary practices. To that end, the decree would prohibit EPS from restricting its depository institution members from belonging to other networks; under the decree, EPS also cannot restrict any depository institution from (i) ``displaying multiple ATM network logos on its ATMs''; (ii) ``issuing cards that display multiple ATM network logos''; or (iii) ``enabling ATMs to function in multiple ATM network.'' 1 NYS applauds the Department of Justice for bringing this action and for achieving the foregoing remedial provisions, which NYS supports. 1 59 Fed. Reg. at 24717. What concerns NYS is the ambiguity and potential for abuse of the exception permitting EPS to ``restrict the branding of access cards that contain an integrated circuit computer chip with a stored value function'' 2 (referred to as ``smart cards''). According to the Competitive Impact Statement, the Department has concluded that ``[p]ermitting EPS to restrict the multiple branding on smart cards will not undercut the impact of the decree because the branding of ordinary ATM cards, which are not by far more common, is not restricted.'' 3 In conjunction with this statement, the Department cites the contention of EPS ``that allowing restrictive in services among firms marketing such cards.'' 4 2 Id. (emphasis added). 3 Fed. Reg. at 24721, n.10. 4 Id. NYS believes that this provision, which is an exception to the general prohibitory thrust of the decree, creates a potential loophole which EPS could interpret to perpetuate its exclusionary practices with respect to ATM cards. For this reason, while NYS generally supports the decree, it nevertheless urges the Department to withhold its consent unless the exception is modified or clarified as suggested below to reduce its anticompetitive potential. I. Tunney Act Standards As the Department well knows, the Tunney Act, under which these comments are permitted, is intended to ensure that antitrust consent decrees serve the public interest. As the court in the recent Airline Tariff Publishing case pointed out, one of the tests for determining whether the entry of a proposed consent judgment is in the public interest is whether the proposed decree ``effectively opens the relevant markets to competition and prevents the recurrence of anticompetitive activity.'' United States v. Airline Tariff Publishing Co., 1993&hyph;2 Trade Cas. (CCH) ¶ 70,409 at 71,167 (D.D.C. Nov. 1, 1993, quoting United States v. American Del. and Del. Co., 552 F. Sup. 131, 153 (D.C. 1982), aff'd sub. mom., Maryland v. United Sates, 460 U.S. 1001 (1983). Using language that is applicable here, the court inquired whether the proposed final judgment ``Using language that is applicable here, the court inquired whether the proposed final judgment ``prohibit[ed] both behavior that the government receives to be a current antitrust violation and behavior that could enable the settling defendants to devise methods through which to engage in anti competitive behavior.'' 5 5 Airline Tariff Publishing Co., 1993&hyph;2 Trade Cas. (CCH) at 71, 168 (emphasis added).
