FR940527-2-00222 FR940527-2-00152 7. Part VI_Maps (a) Location of proposed activities. (Applicants must show the boundaries of the defined area or areas.) (b) Location of areas with minorities by census tract. (If there are no minority areas, state so on the map.) (c) Housing conditions if project involves housing rehabilitation. (Number and location of each standard and substandard unit should be clearly identified.) 8. (a) Is Standard Form 424 complete? Yes␣␣␣ No (b) Is original signature on at least one copy? Yes␣␣␣ No 9. Is Certification signed with original signature? Yes␣␣␣ No 10. If housing activities have been proposed as part of application, has the Comprehensive Housing Affordability Strategy (CHAS) been prepared and submitted to HUD (or included with this application)? 11. Form HUD&hyph;2880, Application/Recipient Disclosure/Update Report, as required under subpart C of 24 CFR part 12. V. Corrections to Deficient Applications Under no circumstances will HUD accept from the applicant unsolicited information regarding the application after the application deadline has passed. HUD may advise applicants of technical deficiencies in applications and permit them to be corrected. A technical deficiency would be an error or oversight which, if corrected, would not alter, in either a positive or negative fashion, the review and rating of the application. Examples of curable technical deficiencies would be a failure to submit the proper certifications or failure to submit an application containing an original signature by an authorized official. Situations not considered curable would be, for example, a failure to submit program impact descriptions. HUD will notify applicants in writing of any curable technical deficiencies in applications. Applicants will have 14 calendar days from the date of HUD's correspondence to reply and correct the deficiency. If the deficiency is not corrected within this time period, HUD will reject the application as incomplete. Applicants should note that if a CHAS is required in support of a housing activity, the failure to submit a CHAS in a timely manner is not considered a curable deficiency. VI. Other Matters Environmental Impact A Finding of No Significant Impact with respect to the environment was made in accordance with HUD regulations at 24 CFR part 50, implementing section 102(2)(C) of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4332) at the time of development of the FY 1993 NOFA for this program. Because no substantive programmatic changes have been made, that Finding remains applicable to this NOFA and is available for public inspection and copying between 7:30 am and 5:30 pm weekdays at the Office of the Rules Docket Clerk, 451 Seventh Street, SW, Room 10276, Washington, DC 20410. Federalism The General Counsel, as the Designated Official under section 6(a) of Executive Order 12612, Federalism, has determined that this NOFA will not have substantial, direct effects on States, on their political subdivisions, or on their relationship with the Federal Government, or on the distribution of power and responsibilities between them and other levels of government. While the NOFA will provide financial assistance to the Small Cities Program of New York State, none of its provisions will have an effect on the relationship between the Federal Government and New York State, or the State's political subdivisions. Family The General Counsel, as the Designated Official for Executive Order 12606, The Family, has determined that the policies announced in this NOFA would not have the potential for significant impact on family formation, maintenance and general well-being within the meaning of the Order. No significant change in existing HUD policies and programs will result from issuance of this NOFA, as those policies and programs relate to family concerns. Accountability in the Provision of HUD Assistance See Section I.A.4 of this NOFA. Prohibition Against Lobbying Activities The use of funds awarded under this NOFA is subject to the disclosure requirements and prohibitions of section 319 of the Department of Interior and Related Agencies Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 1990 (31 U.S.C. 1352) and the implementing regulations at 24 CFR part 87. These authorities prohibit recipients of Federal contracts, grants, or loans from using appropriated funds for lobbying the Executive or Legislative Branches of the Federal Government in connection with a specific contract, grant, or loan. The prohibition also covers the awarding of contracts, grants, cooperative agreements, or loans unless the recipient has made an acceptable certification regarding lobbying. Under 24 CFR part 87, applicants, recipients, and subrecipients of assistance exceeding $100,000 must certify that no Federal funds have been or will be spent on lobbying activities in connection with the assistance. Indian Housing Authorities (IHAs) established by an Indian tribe as a result of the exercise of the tribe's sovereign power are excluded from coverage of the Byrd Amendment, but IHAs established under State law are not excluded from the statute's coverage. Prohibition Against Lobbying of HUD Personnel Section 13 of the Department of Housing and Urban Development Act (42 U.S.C. 3537b) contains two provisions dealing with efforts to influence HUD's decisions with respect to financial assistance. The first imposes disclosure requirements on those who are typically involved in these efforts_those who pay others to influence the award of assistance or the taking of a management action by the Department and those who are paid to provide the influence. The second restricts the payment of fees to those who are paid to influence the award of HUD assistance, if the fees are tied to the number of housing units received or are based on the amount of assistance received, or if they are contingent upon the receipt of assistance. HUD's regulation implementing section 13 is codified at 24 CFR part 86. If readers are involved in any efforts to influence the Department in these ways, they are urged to read the final rule, particularly the examples contained in Appendix A of the rule. Appendix A of this rule contains examples of activities covered by this rule. Any questions concerning the rule should be directed to the Office of Ethics, room 2158, Department of Housing and Urban Development, 451 Seventh Street, SW., Washington DC 20410&hyph;3000. Telephone: (202) 708&hyph;3815 (voice/TDD). (This is not a toll-free number.) Forms necessary for compliance with the rule may be obtained from the local HUD office. Prohibition Against Advance Information on Funding Decisions Section 103 of the Reform Act proscribes the communication of certain information by HUD employees to persons not authorized to receive that information during the selection process for the award of assistance that entails a competition for its distribution. HUD's regulations implementing section 103 are codified at 24 CFR part 4, and recently were amended by an interim rule published in the Federal Register on August 4, 1992. In accordance with the requirements of section 103, HUD employees involved in the review of applications and in the making of funding decisions under a competitive funding process are restrained by 24 CFR part 4 from providing advance information to any person (other than an authorized employee of HUD) concerning funding decisions, or from otherwise giving any applicant an unfair competitive advantage. Persons who apply for assistance in this competition should confine their inquiries to the subject areas permitted by 24 CFR part 4. Applicants who have questions should contact the HUD Office of Ethics (202) 708&hyph;3815 (voice/TDD). (This is not a toll-free number.) Dated: May 24, 1994. Andrew Cuomo, Assistant Secretary for Community Planning and Development . [FR Doc. 94&hyph;13104 Filed 5&hyph;26&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4210&hyph;29&hyph;P
