FR940527-2-00220 FR940527-2-00152 _the neighborhood experienced revitalization; _the amount of displacement was substantial; _displacement was caused by private reinvestment; _low- and moderate-income persons were permitted to remain in the neighborhood as a result of action taken by the applicant. If the community is inhabited predominantly by persons who are members of minority and/or low-income groups, points will be awarded where there is a balanced distribution of assisted housing throughout the community. (b) 20 Points - Implementation of a HUD-approved New Horizons Fair Housing Assistance Project or a Fair Housing Strategy that is equivalent in scope to a New Horizons Project. The applicant must demonstrate that it is implementing a HUD-approved New Horizons Fair Housing Assistance Project or demonstrate participation in a HUD-approved county/State/regional New Horizons Project; or that the applicant is implementing a fair housing strategy that is equivalent in scope to a New Horizons Project. If the applicant is implementing a New Horizons Project, it must include: _the date it was approved (by HUD); and _those actions taken to implement the plan. If the applicant is implementing an equivalent fair housing strategy, it must include: _the strategy being implemented; _those actions taken to implement the strategy. Please note that a fair housing strategy must include the four elements of a New Horizons Project in order to be considered equivalent in scope: _Local compliance activities; _Educational programs to enhance the clarity and understanding of the community's fair housing policy. For communities with few or no minorities, this should include publication in the surrounding communities of the applicant's policy of fair housing for minorities and the disabled; _Assistance to minority families; and _Special programs (e.g. utilization of Community Housing Resource Board (CHRB) Programs, efforts to encourage local realtors to enter into voluntary agreements to encourage equal access to financial institutions, etc.). The fair housing strategy must include goals for each of the above elements. The date of adoption or development of the strategy should be indicated, as well as the date proposed activities will be or have been implemented. (2) Entrepreneurial Efforts and Local Equal Employment (25 points total). Applicants may request points for both of these subfactors and must use the format sheets included in the application. (a) Minority Contracting. 15 points_Outstanding performance points will be given to those applicants who have demonstrated that they have utilized minority businesses to the following degree. The applicant must demonstrate that at least five percent of all its contracts, based on dollar value, have been awarded within the past two years to minority owned and controlled businesses (businesses that are at least 50 percent owned by minorities) provided that the minority population is five percent or less. If the minority population exceeds five percent, then the applicant must have a corresponding percentage of its contracts awarded to minority businesses; however, 20 percent of the total dollar value of its contracts will be sufficient for award of points for any applicant. The applicable percentage of minority population is the percentage of minorities in the applicant's jurisdiction, or is the county percentage, whichever is higher. The applicant must provide the information as outlined in the suggested format, showing the name, address, telephone number, contract date and contract amount for each contract or subcontract with a minority business. This information is to be provided in addition to information required on the HUD Form 4124.4, and should be for the two-year period ending February 1, 1994. (b) Equal Opportunity Employment. 10 points_In order to be considered for points, if claimed, the applicant must document that its percentage of minority, permanent full-time employees is greater than the percentage of minorities within the county or the community, whichever is higher. Applicants with no full-time employees may claim points based on part-time employment provided that they document that the only permanent employment is on a part-time basis. II. Application and Funding Award Process A. Obtaining Applications. Application kits may be obtained from either HUD's New York or Buffalo Offices. Applicants in New York, in the counties of Sullivan, Ulster, Putnam, and in non-participating jurisdictions in the urban counties of Dutchess, Orange, Rockland, Westchester, Nassau, and Suffolk should submit applications to the New York Office. All other nonentitled communities in New York State should submit their applications to the Buffalo Office. The appropriate addresses for HUD's New York and Buffalo offices are: Department of Housing and Urban Development, Office of Community Planning and Development, Attention: Small Cities Coordinator, 26 Federal Plaza, New York, NY 10278&hyph;0068, Telephone (212) 264&hyph;6500, or Department of Housing and Urban Development, Community Planning and Development Division, Attention: Small Cities Coordinator, 465 Main Street, Lafayette Court, Buffalo, NY 14203, Telephone (716) 846&hyph;5768. B. Submitting Applications A final application must be submitted to HUD no later than July 26, 1994. A final application includes an original and two photocopies. In accordance with HUD's regulation at 24 CFR 570.443(a)(1), final applications may be mailed, and if they are received after the deadline, must be postmarked no later than midnight, July 26, 1994. If an application is hand-delivered to either the New York or Buffalo Offices, the application must be delivered by 4:00 p.m. on the application deadline date. Applications must be submitted to the appropriate HUD office at the address listed above in Section A. The above-stated application deadline is firm as to date and hour. In the interest of fairness to all competing applicants, the Department will treat as ineligible for consideration any application that is not received on, or postmarked by July 26, 1994. Applicants should take this practice into account and make early submission of their materials to avoid any risk of loss of eligibility brought about by unanticipated delays or other delivery-related problems.
