FR940214-0-00018 FR940214-0-00004 5. Section 1944.212(b) Comment: A number of comments were received concerning restricting rehabilitation loans to no more than 5 percent of the loan for new construction. Several of the respondents expressed their support for placing this limit on rehabilitation loans. Also, a couple of respondents suggested that FmHA eliminate purchase and rehabilitation of historic buildings altogether. Several respondents did not favor this proposal and misconstrued its intent as an attempt to eliminate rehabilitation of historic buildings. FmHA response: The cost for purchasing and rehabilitating existing buildings has increased noticeably within the recent past and has, in some cases, exceeded the amount needed for constructing new units. FmHA feels it appropriate to establish a ceiling to ensure maximum use of loan funds. The excess cost of rehabilitation would be better spent to finance more units in other areas of need. Therefore, the Agency feels that a limit should be placed on the amount of Government funds being expended for rehabilitating historic buildings. While the Agency does not wish to prohibit the purchase and rehabilitation of historic buildings, it feels that a ceiling is needed to prevent unlimited funds from being used for this purpose. The proposed regulation does not prohibit the borrower from infusing additional cash from its or other sources in order to fully fund the purchase and rehabilitation. FmHA's first consideration must be to providing rental units to its beneficiaries at the lowest cost to the tenants. 6. Section 1944.212(c)(1) Comment: One respondent expressed an opinion that this section limits the basis of FmHA's maximum loan being 97 percent of total development cost or appraised value. Another respondent stated it does not appear there is a specific provision to accomplish what is required in this section. One respondent suggested adding clarification that FmHA can lend the present market value of the site ``as improved'' and that the cost of the improvements could not be released until all improvements were in place. One respondent recommended the section be revised to state the lower of the appraised value or purchase price will be used to determine total development cost and the applicant's initial investment. Another respondent recommended we restore the original language of this section. One respondent agreed that loan funds used to purchase land may not exceed the estimated market value as established by an appraisal. FmHA response: The only changes made to this section are the reference to FmHA Instruction 1922&hyph;B and deletion of the words ``in excess of estimated market value'' in the last sentence. These changes do not alter how the loan is calculated. The purchase price of land is not the basis for establishing the applicant's initial investment. The FmHA loan is limited to the development cost or the security value of the project, whichever is less; the applicant is responsible for the equity contribution whether it is in the form of land, cash, or a combination of both. After considering the comments, we feel that this section is confusing as written since it should be addressing the amount of loan funds which can be used to purchase land and should not include discussion of how the purchase price affects the applicant's initial investment. The last sentence has been removed. 7. Section 1944.212(c)(2) Comment: One respondent suggested that the existing language be restored to this section. FmHA response: The first sentence of the existing paragraph was removed because it already exists under ยง1944.213(c)(10). 8. Section 1944.212(c)(3) Comment: One respondent voiced the opinion that the density requirements referred to in ยง1944.215(a)(5) are not definitive. Another respondent suggested that FmHA define excess land. Another respondent felt that this section is in conflict with ยง1944.215(a)(6) and should be deleted. One respondent agreed with the section as long as consideration is given to local zoning requirements.
