FR940916-1-00084 FR940916-1-00016 FRA Conclusion. The RSERA requires FRA to issue standards for locomotive dynamic brakes, ``where applicable.'' It is clear from this qualification and the history of the legislation that it imposes no requirement that locomotives be equipped with dynamic brakes. Nor do we understand the RSERA to supersede the Act of March 2, 1893, which forbids a railroad to ``run any train *␣*␣* that has not a sufficient number of cars in it *␣*␣* equipped with power or train brakes that the engineer on the locomotive drawing such train can control its speed without requiring brakemen to use the common hand brake for that purpose.'' This provision clearly requires that the train brake system (which, after 100 years is still pneumatically operated in the case of conventional freight equipment) bear the burden of providing a sound and serviceable first-order safety system capable of controlling train speed and arresting the movement when required. It is pertinent to ask why, against this background, FRA is now required to address the issue of locomotive dynamic brakes. The mandate for dynamic brake safety standards emanated from the investigation, by the National Transportation Safety Board, of an accident in which normal precautions for use of the primary train air brake system were cast to the wind. In brief, excessive tonnage and excessive speed cresting the grade led to a train out of control. This, together with the disastrous consequences, resulted in examination by the Board of whether the availability of fully operational dynamic braking, as a secondary safety system, might have saved the day. Report No. RAR&hyph;90&hyph;02 (National Transportation Safety Board, 1990). It is conceded by most serious observers that locomotive dynamic brakes do not offer the technical capability to serve as a primary train braking system, since_ (a) they provide braking force only on powered locomotive axles and are incapable of controlling in-train forces in the same manner as the automatic braking system; (b) they are effective only within a narrow speed range and have no capability to actually stop a train; (c) they can fail without prior warning; and (d) their failure mode is characterized by loss of braking force (as opposed to the automatic brake, which, properly employed, initiates an emergency brake application upon loss of system integrity). FRA thus views as unfortunate, and potentially reckless, the increasing number of train handling and power brake instructions issued by freight railroads that emphasize use of dynamic brakes without including prominent warnings that such systems may not be relied upon to provide the margin of safety necessary to stop short of obstructions and control points or to avoid overspeed operation. Such instructions, while not yet affirmatively misleading to seasoned locomotive engineers, threaten to overcome the good judgment of safety critics and regulators by leading to excessive reliance upon these systems. While FRA is not persuaded that dynamic brakes warrant emphasis as the primary safety system, the agency recognizes that the statute communicates a valid safety concern, properly construed. That is, to the extent significant emphasis is placed on dynamic brakes_either by the railroads as a legitimate means of limiting fuel consumption, undesired emergency brake applications, and wear to freight car components, or by safety critics who do not foresee that hazard of reliance on such systems_engineers may in fact be encouraged to make errors in judgment that take them beyond prudent safety margins. At such a critical point, proper functioning of any secondary safety system_however subject to failure_is greatly to be wished. Further, dynamic brakes offer a redundant safety feature should the engineer make a mistake in judgment leading to excessive speed under the prevailing conditions of grade, tonnage, and weather. FRA believes that dynamic brakes have become, de facto, a second-order safety system where employed. While from the point of view of logical priorities, dynamic brakes ``back up'' the automatic train brake system, in sequence of operational procedures the priority is reversed. Stated differently, either the proper functioning of these systems, or the provision of reliable information concerning degraded functioning of these systems, should prevent locomotive engineers from operating trains in a manner that might make recovery through use of the automatic brake impossible. As between these two alternatives, proper functioning is marginally preferred, since communication, perception, and comprehension of information is not a uniformly successful enterprise. To summarize, although FRA will not require that locomotives be equipped with dynamic brakes, FRA does believe that Congress, in §20141 (formerly §7 of the RSERA), intended for FRA to develop meaningful and enforceable standards regarding the safe use and operation of dynamic brakes. Furthermore, FRA believes that if the devices are available, they should be maintained, and engineers should be informed on their safe and proper use and be provided with information regarding the amount of dynamic braking effort that they have available. Further, FRA believes that railroads operating braking systems that include dynamic brakes should have written operating rules, tailored to the specific equipment and territory of each railroad, governing the safe handling procedures for the use of dynamic brakes under all operating conditions, including procedures covering the loss of dynamic brakes. FRA also proposes to require railroads to inform engineers of the total dynamic brake retarding force available on all outbound trains equipped with dynamic brakes. As several commenters stated, in order to completely test dynamic brakes the train must be moving. Thus, FRA believes that running tests of the dynamic brake should be performed whenever the motive power or engine crew is changed so that the availability, or lack of availability, of the device can be rechecked. Currently, the operating rules of most railroads contain limits on the amount of dynamic braking force that may safely be used depending on the dimensions of the train involved. Most railroad operating rules express these limits in terms of the number of axles that engine consists are permitted to use in dynamic braking. Railroads generally will cut out the dynamic brakes on trailing locomotives, when the train is made up, in order to avoid the possibility of excessive dynamic braking force being applied, which could result in the buckling of the train. However, some operating rules also express dynamic braking limits for operating through turnouts, crossovers, and curves in terms of dynamic brake amperes, yet, there is currently no way for engineers to know the amount of dynamic brake amperage on their train or the amperage they are using. Furthermore, although running tests of dynamic brakes, as proposed by FRA, provide information to the locomotive engineer regarding the availability of dynamic brakes, such tests are limited to the specific moment they are performed. Thus, running tests do not provide continuous information on the current status of the dynamic brakes to the locomotive engineer. Because dynamic brakes could fail at any time, FRA feels there should be some way for engineers to continuously monitor the operation of their available dynamic brakes. Consequently, based on Congress' mandate contained in §20141 (formerly §7 of the RSERA), requiring meaningful standards to address the safe use of dynamic brakes, FRA believes that locomotives built after January 1, 1996, and equipped with dynamic brakes, should be able to (i) test the electrical integrity of the dynamic brake at rest and (ii) display the total train dynamic brake retarding force, at certain speed increments, in the cab of the controlling locomotive.
