FR940713-0-00009 FR940713-0-00005 The AVMA comment supported the proposal as written. The other three comments all suggested that language in a particular paragraph in the proposal be deleted. The language in question occurs in the definition of ``Class A State or area'' in ยง78.1(a)(2)(ii)(B) (2) , and is repeated in the definitions ``Class B State or area,'' ``Class C State or area,'' and ``Class Free State or area.'' The issue at hand is what action a designated epidemiologist must take after determining that brucellosis reactors are present in a herd. The regulations require that such herds must be subjected to herd blood tests or quarantined unless: ( 2 ) Evidence indicates that the brucellosis reactor is from a herd that no longer presents a risk of spreading brucellosis, or is from a herd that is unlikely to be infected with brucellosis. Such evidence could include, but is not limited to, situations where: ( i ) The brucellosis reactor is traced back to a herd that has been sold for slaughter in entirety; ( ii ) The brucellosis reactor is traced back to a herd that is certified brucellosis free and is 100-percent vaccinated; or, ( iii ) The brucellosis reactor showed a low titer in the MCI test and is traced back to a dairy herd that is 100 percent vaccinated and has tested negative to the most recent brucellosis ring test required by this section for herds producing milk for sale. Three commenters opposed inclusion of the language in ( i ), ( ii ), and ( iii ) that provides guidance to designated epidemiologists on how to determine that a herd where a positive MCI blood sample was collected no longer presents a risk of spreading brucellosis, or is unlikely to be infected with brucellosis. The commenters made the point that designated epidemiologists are highly trained professionals who are responsible, among other duties, for determining when a herd situation presents a risk of spreading brucellosis. The commenters believe that designated epidemiologists are fully capable of determining what evidence is relevant to such a decision, and interpreting the evidence. As one commenter put it, ``each individual situation should be evaluated with sound epidemiological principles which cannot be adequately enumerated by a `predetermined list'.'' We agree that no list of risk scenarios in the regulations, however extensive, could substitute for the professional judgment and experience of a designated epidemiologist. We rely on continuing education programs the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS) mandates for designated epidemiologists, and review of their decisions by other USDA epidemiologists, to ensure they make reasonable determinations with regard to brucellosis risks. We did not attempt to provide a ``cookbook'' list in the regulations to substitute for this system of professional judgment backed by continuing education and review by professional peers. The proposed language cites three situations that could provide evidence that a herd that no longer presents a risk of spreading brucellosis, or is unlikely to be infected with brucellosis. These examples were provided by epidemiologists from their own experience as examples of frequently occurring situations where the risk of spreading brucellosis is mitigated. The proposed language specifically says that ``evidence could include, but is not limited to'' the described situations. The examples were provided not for the benefit of designated epidemiologists, who are well aware of their relevance, but for the benefit of members of the public who may be affected by the regulations. We believe it will aid public understanding of the regulations to see some examples of situations that could provide evidence that a herd with an MCI reactor no longer presents a risk of spreading brucellosis, or is unlikely to be infected with brucellosis. Therefore, based on the rationale set forth in the proposed rule and in this document, we are adopting the provisions of the proposed rule as a final rule, without change. Executive Order 12866 and Regulatory Flexibility Act This final rule has been reviewed under Executive Order 12866. The rule has been determined to be not significant for purposes of Executive Order 12866 and, therefore, has not been reviewed by the Office of Management and Budget. Only State animal health agencies will be affected by this rule; it will have no effect on the private sector. State animal health officials will need to provide other States with information on only the MCI reactors detected each month instead of total numbers of MCI test cattle slaughtered. They will also need to maintain records of the numbers of MCI reactor cases that are successfully closed and report the percentage of successfully closed cases annually to APHIS. The States are already required to carry out the activities that constitute successful case closure. Under these circumstances, the Administrator of the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service has determined that this action will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. Executive Order 12372 This program/activity is listed in the Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance under No. 10.025 and is subject to Executive Order 12372, which requires intergovernmental consultation with State and local officials. (See 7 CFR part 3015, subpart V.) Executive Order 12778 This rule has been reviewed under Executive Order 12778, Civil Justice Reform. This rule: (1) Preempts all State and local laws and regulations that are in conflict with it; (2) has no retroactive effect; and (3) does not require administrative proceedings before parties may file suit in court challenging this rule. Paperwork Reduction Act In accordance with the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980 (44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq. ), the information collection or recordkeeping requirements included in this rule have been submitted for approval to the Office of Management and Budget. List of Subjects in 9 CFR Part 78 Animal diseases, Bison, Cattle, Hogs, Quarantine, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Transportation. Accordingly, 9 CFR part 78 is amended as follows: PART 78_BRUCELLOSIS 1. The authority citation for part 78 continues to read as follows: Authority: 21 U.S.C. 111&hyph;114a&hyph;1, 114g, 115, 117, 120, 121, 123&hyph;126, 134b, 134f; 7 CFR 2.17, 2.51, and 371.2(d). 2. Section 78.1 is amended as follows: a. In the definition of Class A State or area , paragraph (a)(2)(ii) is revised to read as set forth below and paragraph (c) is removed. b. In the definition of Class B State or area , paragraph (a)(2)(ii) is revised to read as set forth below and paragraph (c) is removed.
