FR941021-0-00200 FR941021-0-00023 FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Robert L. Jessen, Migratory Bird Harvest Information Program Coordinator, Office of Migratory Bird Management, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, (301) 497&hyph;5980, FAX (301) 497&hyph;5981. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The purpose of this final rule is to facilitate the collection of needed information about the harvest of migratory game birds. A proposed rule was published on March 14, 1994 at 59 FR 11838. This final rule revises the migratory bird hunting regulations to require hunters, as a condition for hunting migratory game birds, to annually provide their names, addresses, and other necessary information to the licensing authority of the State in which they hunt. This information will provide a sampling frame for the national Migratory Bird Harvest Survey that the Service will conduct annually. The Service and States are currently implementing this Program over a 5-year period, starting with the 1994&hyph;95 hunting season. During this implementation, the requirement to participate in the Program will not apply on Federal Indian Reservations or to tribal members hunting on ceded lands. The participating States will provide the names, addresses, and other necessary information obtained from licensed hunters. During the implementation phase the Service will work with the States to investigate and develop alternative methods for obtaining information about unlicensed hunters to facilitate their inclusion in the sample frame upon full implementation. The Program will be evaluated to determine the adequacy and timeliness of the sample and the time burden, cost, and other impacts on hunters, State license agents, States, and the Service. The names, addresses, and other information for an adequate sample of hunters are needed in time for hunting record forms to be distributed to selected hunters before they forget the details of their hunts. Because of this fundamental need, States have only a short time to provide hunter names and addresses. The approaches used by different States will be compared. Minimum survey standards will be developed during the next 2 years to ensure the quality of survey data. As each new State is phased into the Program, an agreement will be developed with each State in order to identify and resolve specific reporting or data-capture problems. This will ensure that each State will be providing reliable survey data and that no material biases are incorporated into the system. A Program validation ( e.g., ``Migratory Bird Harvest Information Program Participant'') will be printed on the annual State hunting license or supplementary permit for those hunters who participate in the Program. The State may charge these hunters a small handling fee to compensate agents and to cover the State's administrative costs associated with implementing the Program. To reduce survey costs and to identify hunters who hunt less commonly hunted species, migratory bird hunters will be asked the following questions: 1. Will you hunt migratory game birds during [season]? [This screening question is needed only if a State asks all hunters to provide their names, addresses, and other information needed by the Program]. 2. Please check the birds you hunted last season in the United States. [This list need only include migratory birds that are hunted in the State.] XXX Ducks XXX Geese XXX Cranes XXX Coots XXX Snipe XXX Mourning doves XXX White-winged doves XXX Band-tailed pigeons XXX Woodcock XXX Rails/Gallinules 3. How many of these birds did you bag last season? ␣ 1␣ 1None 11&hyph;10 111&hyph;30 131+ Ducks Geese Doves Woodcock Question # 3 will identify which success category ( e.g., none, 1&hyph;10, etc.) a hunter was in during the previous year and will allow stratification of the sample. A stratified sample (multiplying the number of hunters in each category by the average seasonal bag per hunter in that category and then adding the results for each category) will provide a better estimate of total harvest and will not require as large a sample size as a standard sample (multiplying the total number of hunters by the average seasonal bag per hunter).
