FR940802-2-00090 FR940802-2-00054 [Release No. 34&hyph;34442; File No. SR&hyph;NASD&hyph;93&hyph;51] Self-Regulatory Organizations; Notice of Filing of Amended Proposed Rule Change by National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. Relating to the Eligibility of Disputes for Arbitration July 26, 1994. Pursuant to Section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act''), 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1), notice is hereby given that on July 15, 1994, the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. (``NASD'' or ``Association'') filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``SEC'' or ``Commission'') the proposed rule change as described in Items I, II, and III below, which Items have been prepared by the NASD. 1 The Commission is publishing this notice to solicit comments on the proposed rule change from interested persons. 1 The NASD originally filed the proposed rule change on September 21, 1993. I. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Terms of Substance of the Proposed Rule Change The NASD is proposing to amend Part I, Section 3, and Part III, Section 15 of the Code of Arbitration Procedure (``Code'') to permit the Director to delegate the duties and responsibilities of the Director and to permit the Director of Arbitration to make final determinations regarding the eligibility of claims for arbitration under the Code. Below is the text of the proposed rule change. Proposed new language is italicized; proposed deletions are in brackets. Code of Arbitration Procedure Director of Arbitration Sec. 3. The Board of Governors of the Association shall appoint a Director of Arbitration ( hereinafter ``Director'' ) who shall be charged with the performance of all administrative duties and functions in connection with matters submitted for arbitration pursuant to this Code. The Director [He] shall be directly responsible to the National Arbitration Committee and shall report to it at periodic intervals established by the Committee and at such other times as called upon by the Committee to do so. The duties and functions of the Director may be delegated as appropriate by the Director. In the event of the incapacitation, resignation, removal, or other permanent or indefinite inability of the Director to perform the duties and responsibilities of the Director, the President or an Executive Vice President of the Association may appoint an interim Director. * * * * * [Time Limitation on Submission] Eligibility Sec. 15 (a ) No dispute, claim or controversy shall be eligible for submission to arbitration under this Code where six (6) years have elapsed from the occurrence or event giving rise to the [act or] dispute, claim or controversy. This section shall not extend or limit applicable statutes of limitations [nor shall it apply to any case which is directed to arbitration by a court of competent jurisdiction]. (b) After the filing of a statement of claim, counterclaim, cross-claim or third-party claim (hereinafter ``claim'') pursuant to Section 13 or 25 of the Code, the Director of Arbitration shall determine if the claim is eligible for submission to arbitration by determining if the claim alleges that less than six (6) years have elapsed between the occurrence or event giving rise to the dispute, claim or controversy and filing of the claim. If the claim does not state clearly, that less than six (6) years have elapsed between the occurrence or event giving rise to the dispute, claim or controversy and filing, the Director may ask the claimant to modify the claim, within a time period set by the Director, to so state. The Director will determine the eligibility of the claim for submission to arbitration either on the basis of the claim as stated in the original claim or, if modified, on the basis of the modified claim. (c) Following service of a claim, but prior to the earlier of (1) the date the parties are notified of the appointment of the arbitrators pursuant to Sections 13 or 19 of the Code, or (2) the date the Director appoints an arbitrator to consider prehearing issues pursuant to Section 32(e) of the Code, a responding party disputing the eligibility of a claim shall, along with, or after, submitting an executed Uniform Submission Agreement and any fees or deposits required under the Code, submit a notice of objection to the Director of Arbitration supported by statements of fact and documentary evidence asserting that more than six (6) years have elapsed between the occurrence or event giving rise to the dispute, claim or controversy and filing. The claimant and any other party may respond to the notice of objection within the time period set by the Director. The Director shall promptly determine on the basis of the written record only, after considering any responses timely submitted, if the claim is eligible for submission to arbitration by determining if the disputing party's objections and assertions regarding eligibility: (i) contradict the allegations in the claim relating to eligibility; (ii) are supported by documentary evidence; and, (iii) are not contradicted by other allegations which, if true, would prevail. (d) Any determination by the Director pursuant to subparagraph (b) or (c) is final. (e) Any determination by the Director pursuant to subparagraph (b) or (c) that a claim is ineligible: (i) shall not limit the right of any party to offer evidence concerning the event or occurrence which was the basis of the eligibility determination at any other stage of the proceeding on the claim for any purpose other than contesting the eligibility of the claim determined to be ineligible; (ii) shall not bar a claimant from bringing the claim before a judicial forum, notwithstanding any existing predispute arbitration agreement; (iii) shall not affect the rights and remedies of the claimant with respect to such claim, notwithstanding any existing predispute arbitration agreement; and, (iv) shall mean that the limitation period on eligibility set forth in Subsection (a) shall continue to run as though the claim had never been filed. (f) Any determination by the Director relating to eligibility shall set forth in writing the occurrence or event that was the basis for the determination. (g) No party shall seek to enforce any agreement to arbitrate if the claim has been determined to be ineligible under this Section. * * * * *
