FR941130-1-00051 FR941130-1-00011 (4) The application, all related matters, and all correspondence concerning it shall be addressed to Approval and Certification Center, Box 201 B, Industrial Park Road, Dallas Pike, Triadelphia, WV 26059. * * * * * 4. Section 18.15 is amended by revising paragraph (a) to read as follows: §18.15 Changes after approval or certification. * * * * * (a)(1) Application shall be made as for an original approval or letter of certification requesting that the existing approval or certification be extended to cover the proposed changes and shall be accompanied by drawings, specifications, and related information, showing the changes in detail. (2) Where the applicant for approval has used a laboratory recognized by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration as a nationally recognized testing laboratory (NRTL) under part 6 of this chapter to perform the testing and evaluation necessary for approval under this part, the application shall also include the testing and evaluation results and the statement of product compliance from the NRTL. * * * * * PART 19_[AMENDED] 5. Section 19.3 is revised to read as follows: §19.3 Applications. (a) Before MSHA will undertake the active investigation leading to approval of any lamp the manufacturer shall make application by letter for an investigation leading to approval of his lamp. This application in duplicate, accompanied by a check, bank draft, or money order, payable to U.S. Mine Safety and Health Administration, to cover all the necessary fees, shall be sent to Approval and Certification Center, Box 201 B, Industrial Park Road, Dallas Pike, Triadelphia, WV 26059, together with the required drawing, one complete lamp, and instructions for its operation. (b) Where the applicant for approval has used a laboratory recognized by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration as a nationally recognized testing laboratory (NRTL) under part 6 of this chapter to perform the testing and evaluation necessary for approval under this part, the application shall also include the testing and evaluation results and the statement of product compliance from the NRTL. (c) An applicant may request testing and evaluation to other testing and evaluation requirements which have been determined by MSHA to be equivalent under §6.20 of this chapter. 6. Section 19.13 is amended by revising paragraph (a) to read as follows: §19.13 Instructions for handling future changes in lamp design. * * * * * (a)(1) The manufacturer shall write to Approval and Certification Center, Box 201 B, Industrial Park Road, Dallas Pike, Triadelphia, WV 26059, requesting an extension of the original approval and stating the change or changes desired. With this letter the manufacturer should submit a revised drawing or drawings showing the changes in detail, and one of each of changed lamp parts. (2) Where the applicant for approval has used a laboratory recognized by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration as a nationally recognized testing laboratory (NRTL) under part 6 of this chapter to perform the testing and evaluation necessary for approval under this part, the applicant shall also include the testing and evaluation results and the statement of product compliance from the NRTL. * * * * * PART 20_[AMENDED] 7. Section 20.3 is revised to read as follows: §20.3 Applications. (a) Before MSHA will undertake the active investigation leading to approval of any lamp, the manufacturer shall make application by letter for an investigation of the lamp. This application in duplicate, accompanied by a check, bank draft, or money order, payable to the U.S. Mine Safety and Health Administration, to cover all the necessary fees, shall be sent to Approval and Certification Center, Box 201 B, Industrial Park Road, Dallas Pike, Triadelphia, WV 26059, together with the required drawings, one complete lamp, and instructions for its operation.
