FR941117-2-00052 FR941117-2-00040 •Serves as the principal organization within HCFA for evaluating the medical aspects of Medicare coverage issues. Coordinates with other components, such as the Health Standards and Quality Bureau, in developing and evaluating health quality and safety standards for physician and ambulatory care services under Medicare. •Coordinates with and reviews recommendations from the Prospective Payment Assessment Commission and the Physician Payment Review Commission. •Develops and maintains fee schedules for physician, radiology and diagnostic services. •Develops and maintains fee schedules for independent laboratory services and ambulatory surgical centers. •Develops payment policy for special forms of health care delivery such as hospital outpatient departments, ASCs, RHCs and FQHCs, including the development of prospective payment systems. •Establishes policy for implementing payment controls and cost containment programs. •Develops, evaluates, and reviews national Medicare coverage issues concerning the reasonableness and necessity for medical and related services. •Participates in the formulation and use of medical codes under the HCFA Common Procedure Coding System and develops common medical coding standards and policy. •Develops, evaluates, and reviews regulations, guidelines, and instructions required for the dissemination of Medicare coverage and payment policy to program contractors and the health care field. •Identifies, studies, and makes recommendations for modifying Medicare payment and coverage policies and health and safety standards to reflect changes in beneficiary health care needs, program objectives, and the health care delivery system. (1) Division of Outpatient Surgery and Services (FKA41) •Develops and evaluates coverage and payment policies and participation requirements for hospital outpatient services and ambulatory surgical centers (ASCs). •Develops, evaluates, and reviews regulations, manuals, program guidelines, and instructions required for the dissemination of program policies to program contractors and the health care field. •Participates in the development and evaluation of proposed legislation pertaining to hospital outpatient services and ASCs. •Formulates policies and principles for developing, evaluating and updating payment rates for hospital outpatient services and ASCs. •Develops innovative payment policies and rate setting systems designed to promote efficiency and economy for ASC and hospital outpatient services, including the development of prospective payment systems, as appropriate. •In cooperation with other components, such as the Health Standards and Quality Bureau, develops and evaluates health quality and safety standards for ASCs. •Maintains continuing liaison with provider groups, industry associations, patient organizations, medical associations, and other parties that relate to outpatient facility services and ASCs. •Provides interpretations of established policies and technical assistance to regional offices, State agencies, fiscal intermediaries, suppliers of services,congressional staff,and other departmental offices. •Coordinates with and reviews recommendations from the Prospective Payment Assessment Commission. •Coordinates with other components responsible for health and safety standards, program operations, and quality control, professional groups and standard setting organizations, and with other parties and individuals, as appropriate. •Identifies, studies, and makes recommendations for modifying Medicare policies and providers' health and safety standards to reflect changes in beneficiary health care needs, program objectives, and the health care delivery system. •Reviews policies developed by other components for their impact on hospital outpatient and ASC services. (2) Division of Ambulatory Care Services (FKA42) •Develops and evaluates coverage and payment policies and participation requirements for clinical laboratory services, ambulance services, drugs and special payment delivery systems, including rural health clinics and federally qualified health centers. •Develops, evaluates, and reviews regulations, manuals, program guidelines, and instructions required for the dissemination of program policies to program contractors and the health care field.
