FR940105-0-00038 FR940105-0-00007 The Commission will not decide this issue now because it is still being considered by the Working Groups. But the Commission continues to find merit in the concept of providing a cost-effective electronic Index of purchasers and expects the participants in the Working Groups to consider this issue in the same open-minded and conciliatory manner they used to build consensus on other issues in this proceeding. The Commission also did not propose to make data items for contract number and replacement contract number mandatory fields, finding that these items were tied to the proposed Index. 55 The National Registry contends its request to make contract and replacement contract numbers mandatory fields is independent of the Index. It asserts these data are needed by the Commission, state commissions, and others to create an audit trail to verify the ownership of capacity being released and acquired. 55 The releaser's contract number is an optional field and so may be included by pipelines when they deem such information to be necessary for operation of their systems. Although the Commission will not require the inclusion of contract and replacement contract number in the data sets at this time, it does recognize that pipelines will need to maintain a correlation between release transactions and the contracts resulting from those transactions for Commission audit requirements if not also for the pipelines' own purposes. Since pipelines must maintain this information in any event, the Working Groups should consider making this information mandatory in the downloadable data sets to make access easier. 2. Nominations for Firm and Interruptible Capacity No consensus was reached in the Working Groups whether to include fields showing confirmed firm and interruptible nominations and a field showing whether no-notice service is available at a location. Proponents of providing this information contended it was needed for releasing shippers and bidders to assess the value of released capacity, while opponents maintained it is not needed to bid on capacity, but would unfairly tilt the market in favor of bidders. The parties also disagreed on the availability, and costs, of providing the information. In the NOPR, the Commission found that the available information did not permit it to resolve the issue. Moreover, the Commission recognized the Working Groups had little time to consider this matter fully and, therefore, strongly encouraged them to continue their discussions and to explore alternatives for providing information relevant to the purchasing of capacity that is operationally feasible to provide at reasonable cost. The comments on the NOPR essentially parallel the previous positions: proponents state the information is needed to make business judgments and is information that would be available in a free market; 56 opponents contend it would undermine capacity release, is too costly to provide, would not be provided in a free market, and unfairly requires shippers to divulge competitive information that would be used against them. 57 NGSA and Destec Energy comment that the Commission must be prepared to judge the merits of disputes, like this one, which are based on competing economic interests. FMA asserts that for unresolved disputes, special consideration should be given to the views of end-users, because they are the ones paying for natural gas and transportation. 56 Power Generators, Destec Energy, FMA, Edison. 57 Columbia Distribution, Con Edison, Enron, KGPL, National, Natural, Transco, and UDC. The Commission finds that the Working Groups should continue to examine and explore means of reaching a compromise on this issue. The Commission does not agree that the views of any one group should predominate over others. The parties should seek to accommodate each other's interests, as they have on other issues, a process more likely to produce a resolution preferable to both sides than if the Commission decides. Should agreement on whether to provide the information prove elusive, the parties should, at a minimum, seek to agree upon a cost effective method of providing the information if the Commission determines it is necessary. B. Communication Protocols for Uploading Files and Downloading Subsets of Files In the NOPR, the Commission stated that development of standards permitting users to transmit (upload) files to the pipelines' computers as well as to download subsets of files could increase the efficiency of the capacity allocation mechanism. File upload capability, for example, would permit bidders to submit their bids electronically without having to sign-on to the pipelines' on-line EBBs. The ability to download a subset of a capacity release file, such as release information received after a certain date, would permit users to eliminate unneeded information from the files they download and also increase the efficiency of the communication process. The Commission endorsed Working Group 4's plan to continue its efforts to develop these capabilities. Many commenters support file uploading to provide efficient communication. 58 Others, principally pipelines, raise questions about file uploading. They contend file uploading is not as well suited as on-line EBBs to handling bids submitted near the close of bidding periods, because, unlike EBBs, uploading is not an interactive system permitting immediate notification to bidders of errors in their bids. 59 58 Power Generators, Columbia Distribution, Con Edison, NYMEX/EnerSoft, Edison, Tenneco (noting effort should not be oversimplified), WEV, and Williston Basin (noting uploads must be coordinated with interactive EBBs, especially at the end of bidding periods when quick action is needed). 59 El Paso, Natural, Transco, Northwest, KGPL, National (also may expose pipelines' computers to security risks, such as viruses). Edison states downloading of file subsets should be a priority. Columbia Gas maintains downloads of subsets based on dates is reasonable, but adding other criteria could be burdensome, while Williston Basin contends any subset downloads would be too expensive. UDC suggests the Commission should not mandate file uploading or downloading of file subsets, but should trust the market to develop these capabilities if they are needed.
