FR941216-1-00034 FR941216-1-00010 5. Other special rules. Although most contingent payment debt instruments can be dealt with under the above provisions, the proposed regulations provide additional rules for certain other circumstances. For example, the proposed regulations provide rules for a holder whose basis in a contingent payment debt instrument is different from the debt instrument's adjusted issue price (e.g., a secondary market purchaser of the debt instrument). Under the proposed regulations, the holder continues to accrue interest and determine adjustments based on the original projected payment schedule. The holder, however, must allocate the difference between basis and adjusted issue price to the accruals or projected payments on the debt instrument over the remaining term of the debt instrument. Amounts allocated to a taxable year are recovered as if they were positive or negative adjustments, as appropriate. The proposed regulations require only a reasonable, rather than an exact, allocation of the difference between basis and adjusted issue price. For example, if almost all of the difference is attributable to changes in the expected value of a contingent payment, the holder may allocate the difference to the contingent payment. Similarly, a taxpayer may allocate a portion of the difference to accruals if the taxpayer determines that the portion is attributable to changes in interest rates. A taxpayer may make this determination by comparing rates on similar debt instruments, by looking to changes in standard interest rate indices that have occurred since the date the contingent payment debt instrument was issued, or by other appropriate means. The proposed regulations require the holder's allocation to be reasonable based on all the facts and circumstances. In the case of a contingent payment debt instrument that is exchange listed property (within the meaning of §1.1273&hyph;2(f)(2)), the proposed regulations provide a safe harbor that allows holders to account for the difference between the debt instrument's adjusted issue price and the holder's basis under the same rules that apply to acquisition premium on a noncontingent debt instrument under section 1272(a)(7) and §1.1272&hyph;2. The IRS and Treasury recognize that the method provided in the proposed regulations for allocating the difference between basis and adjusted issue price may be difficult to apply because the difference may be attributable to both changes in interest rates and in the expected values of the contingent payments. Other methods for making the allocation were considered in drafting the proposed regulations, but were not adopted because they were not believed to be sufficiently accurate. The IRS and Treasury believe that contingent payment debt instruments (other than exchange listed debt instruments) rarely trade in the secondary market and, therefore, the need to make the allocation will occur only infrequently. The IRS and Treasury request comments on this issue. The proposed regulations also provide rules for a debt instrument that has a contingent payment that is fixed more than 6 months before the payment is due. Under the proposed regulations, an adjustment is made on the date the payment is fixed, and the amount of the adjustment is equal to the difference between the present value of the fixed amount and the present value of the projected amount of the contingent payment. The adjusted issue price is modified to reflect the adjustment and the projected payment schedule is changed to reflect the fixed payment. The IRS and Treasury are concerned about whether this method may produce inappropriate accelerations of income or deductions and request comments on whether other methods, such as a method that spreads the income or deductions, are more appropriate. In addition, the proposed regulations provide rules for debt instruments that have both payments that are contingent as to time and payments that are contingent as to amount. If a taxpayer has an option to put or call the debt instrument, to exchange the debt instrument for other property, or to extend the maturity date of the debt instrument, the projected payment schedule is determined by using the principles of §1.1272&hyph;1(c)(5). Under the proposed regulations, if an option to put, call, or exchange the debt instrument is assumed to be exercised under the principles of §1.1272&hyph;1(c)(5), it is generally reasonable to assume that the option is exercised immediately before it expires. If the option is exercised at an earlier time, the exercise is treated as a sale or exchange of the debt instrument. The proposed regulations reserve on other types of timing contingencies. The IRS and Treasury request comments on the appropriate treatment of other types of timing contingencies. C. Method for Debt Instruments Not Subject to the Noncontingent Bond Method The proposed regulations provide a method for contingent payment debt instruments not subject to the noncontingent bond method. In general, the method applies to a debt instrument that has an issue price determined under §1.1274&hyph;2 (e.g., a nonpublicly traded debt instrument issued in a sale or exchange of nonpublicly traded property). The method in the proposed regulations is generally similar to the rules prescribed in §1.1275&hyph;4(c) of the 1986 proposed regulations. Under the proposed regulations, the payments on a contingent payment debt instrument (the overall debt instrument) are divided into two components: (1) a noncontingent component consisting of all noncontingent payments and the projected amounts of any quotable contingent payments, and (2) a contingent component consisting of all nonquotable contingent payments. The noncontingent component is treated as a separate debt instrument and is taxed under the general OID rules (including the noncontingent bond method if the separate debt instrument provides for quotable contingent payments). However, no interest payments on the separate debt instrument are qualified stated interest payments and the de minimis rules do not apply to the separate debt instrument. The issue price of the separate debt instrument is the issue price of the overall debt instrument. See the discussion below for the determination of the stated principal amount and the imputed principal amount of the overall debt instrument for purposes of section 1274. In general, a nonquotable contingent payment is not taken into account until the payment is made. When a nonquotable contingent payment (other than a contingent payment accompanied by a payment of adequate stated interest) is made, a portion of the payment is treated as principal, based on the amount determined by discounting the payment at the AFR from the payment date to the issue date, and the remainder is treated as interest. Special rules are provided if a nonquotable contingent payment becomes fixed more than 6 months before it is due.
