FR940207-2-00002 FR940207-2-00001 DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE Forest Service Availability of Appealable Decisions AGENCY: Forest Service, USDA. ACTION: Notice: Legal Notice for Availability for Comment of Decisions That May be Appealable Under 36 CFR Part 215. SUMMARY: Responsible Officials in the Southwestern Region will publish notice of availability for comment and notice of decisions that may be subject to administrative appeal under 36 CFR part 215. These notices will be published in the legal notice section of the newspapers listed in the Supplementary Information section of this notice. As provided in 36 CFR 215.5 and 215.9, such notice shall constitute legal evidence that the agency has given timely and constructive notice for comment and notice of decisions that may be subject to administrative appeal. Newspaper publication of notices of decisions is in addition to direct notice to those who have requested notice in writing and to those known to be interested in or affected by a specific decision. DATES: Use of these newspapers for purpose of publishing legal notices for comment and decisions that may be subject to appeal under 36 CFR part 215 shall begin January 3, 1994 and continue until further notice. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Pat Jackson, Regional Appeals Coordinator, Southwestern Region, 517 Gold Avenue SW, Albuquerque, New Mexico 87102, 505&hyph;842&hyph;3305. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Responsible Officials in the Southwestern Region will give legal notice of decisions that may be subject to appeal under 36 CFR part 215 in the following newspapers which are listed by Forest Service administrative unit. Where more than one newspaper is listed for any unit, the first newspaper listed is the primary newspaper which shall be used to constitute legal evidence that the agency has given timely and constructive notice for comment and for decisions that may be subject to administrative appeal. As provided in 36 CFR 215.5, the timeframe for appeal shall be based on the date of publication of a notice of decision in the primary newspaper. Notice by Regional Forest of Availability for Comment and Decisions affecting New Mexico Forests: Albuquerque Journal , published daily in Albuquerque, Bernalillo County, New Mexico, for comment and decisions affecting National Forest System lands in the State of New Mexico and for any decisions of Region-wide impact. Notice by Regional Forester of Availability for Comment and Decisions affecting Arizona Forests: The Arizona Republic published daily in Phoenix, Maricopa County, Arizona, for comment and decisions affecting National Forest System lands in the State of Arizona and for any decisions of Region-wide impact. Notice by Regional Forester of Availability for Comment and Decisions affecting Grasslands in New Mexico, Oklahoma, and Texas, Rita Blanca National Grasslands: National Grasslands in Cimarron County, Oklahoma. Boise City News , published weekly on Wednesday in Boise City, Cimarron County, Oklahoma. National Grasslands in Dallam County, Texas. The Texan, published daily except Sunday, in Dalhart, Dallam County, Texas. Kiowa National Grasslands. Union County Leader, published weekly on Wednesday in Clayton, Union County, New Mexico.
