FR941006-2-00120 FR941006-2-00084 C. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received From Members, Participants or Others No written comments were either solicited or received with respect to the proposed rule change. III. Date of Effectiveness of the Proposed Rule Change and Timing for Commission Action The NASD has requested that the proposed rule changes be given accelerated effectiveness pursuant to Section 19(b)(2) of the Act. The Commission finds that the proposed rule change is consistent with the requirements of the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder applicable to a national securities exchange, and, in particular, the requirements of section 15A(b)(6) of the Act. 14 Specifically, the Commission believes that providing for the listing and trading of SEEDS will offer a new and innovative means of participating in the securities markets. In particular, the Commission believes that the availability of SEEDS will permit investors to more closely approximate their desired investment objectives through, for example, shifting some of the opportunity for upside gain in return for additional income. 15 Accordingly, for these reasons, as well as the reasons stated in the Commission's Equity-Linked Note Approval Orders, 16 the Commission finds that the NASD standards for the listing and trading of SEEDS are consistent with the Act and that the listing and trading of SEEDS is in the public interest. 14 15 U.S.C. 78o(b)(6) (1982). 15 Pursuant to section 15A(b) of the Act the Commission must predicate approval of trading for new products upon a finding that the introduction of the product is in the public interest. Such a finding would be difficult with respect to a product that served no investment, hedging, or other economic function, because any benefits that might be derived by market participants would likely be outweighed by the potential for manipulation, diminished public confidence in the integrity of the markets, and other valid regulatory concerns. 16 See Equity-Linked Note Approval Orders, supra note 4. The discussions articulated in the Equity-Linked Note Approval Orders are incorporated herein. As with ELNs and ELDS, SEEDS are not leveraged instruments. Their price, however, will still be derived and based upon the underlying linked security. Accordingly, the level of risk involved in the purchase or sale of a SEEDS is similar to the risk involved in the purchase or sale of traditional common stock. Nonetheless, in considering the Amex's and the NYSE's respective proposals to list and trade ELNs and ELDS, the Commission had several specific concerns with this type of product because the final rate of return of an ELN is derivatively priced, based on the performance of the underlying security. The concerns included: (1) Investor protection concerns, (2) dependence on the credit of the issuer of the instrument, (3) systemic concerns regarding position exposure of issuers with partially hedged positions or dynamically hedged positions, and (4) the impact on the market for the underlying linked security. 17 The Commission concluded, however, that the Amex and the NYSE proposals adequately addressed each of these issues such that the Commission's regulatory concerns were adequately minimized. 18 Similarly, in this proposal, the NASD has proposed safeguards, as described above, which the Commission finds to be equivalent to those approved for the trading of ELNs and ELDS. In particular, by imposing the listing standards, suitability, disclosure, and compliance requirements noted above, the NASD has adequately addressed the potential public customer concerns that could arise from the hybrid nature of SEEDS. Further, the Commission believes that the listing standards and issuance restrictions should help to reduce the likelihood of any adverse market impact on the securities underlying SEEDS. 17 Id. 18 Id. Except in two respects, the Commission finds that the proposal and Amendment Nos. 1 and 2 to the proposal are substantially identical to rule changes already approved by the Commission with respect to the listing and trading of ELNs on the Amex and ELDS on the NYSE. 19 The two new items included in this proposal are: (1) The new requirement that allows the listing of SEEDS linked to an underlying security with a minimum market capitalization of $500 million and a trading volume in the year prior to listing of at least 80 million shares; and (2) allowing flexibility for the NASD, with the concurrence of the staff of the Commission, to determine on a case-by-case basis to list SEEDS that do not satisfy one of the three objective listing tiers with respect to market capitalization and trading volume. The Commission believes that neither of these proposals raises any significant regulatory issues that were not addressed in the Equity-Linked Note Approval Orders. The Commission finds that the proposal to add an additional market capitalization and trading volume requirement for eligible linked securities will expand the number of securities that can be linked to these equity-linked products while maintaining the requirement that the linked security be an actively traded common stock issued by a highly capitalized issuer. While the proposal introduces a third alternative for ELN eligibility that reduces the minimum market capitalization requirement for the linked security, the stock of such an issuer (or sponsored ADR related thereto) could only be linked to a SEEDS issue if its trading volume for the prior one-year period is at least 80 million shares, which is four times higher than the current minimum trading volume for these products as currently allowed on the Amex and the NYSE. Moreover, in recently approving proposals by the NYSE and the Amex to list and trade ELDS and ELNs, respectively, linked to securities (including sponsored ADRs) issued by non-U.S. companies subject to reporting requirements under the Act, the NYSE and the Amex represented to the Commission that no problems had been reported to either exchange regarding the listing and trading of these products. 20 Furthermore, the Commission believes that together, the new capitalization and trading volume requirements will continue to ensure that SEEDS are only issued on highly liquid securities of broadly capitalized companies and that these requirements should help to reduce the likelihood of any adverse market impact on the securities underlying SEEDS. 19 Id. 20 See Exchange Act Release Nos. 34545 and 34549, supra note 4.
