FR940927-2-00037 FR940927-2-00027 II. General Considerations To facilitate the testing of new policy approaches to social problems the Department will_ •Work with States to develop research and demonstrations in areas consistent with the Department's policy goals; •Consider proposals that test alternatives that diverge from that policy direction; and •Consider, as a criterion for approval, a State's ability to implement the research or demonstration project. While the Department expects to review and accept a range of proposals, it may disapprove or limit proposals on policy grounds or because the proposal creates potential constitutional problems or violations of civil rights laws or equal protection requirements. The Department seeks proposals which preserve and enhance beneficiary access to quality services. Within this overall policy framework, the Department is prepared to_ •Grant waivers to test the same or related policy innovations in multiple States, (replication is a valid mechanism by which the effectiveness of policy changes can be assessed); •Approve demonstration projects ranging in scale from reasonably small to state-wide or multi-state, and •Consider joint Medicare-Medicaid demonstrations, such as those granted in the Program for All-Inclusive Care for the Elderly (PACE) and Social Health Maintenance Organization (SHMO) demonstrations, and Aid to Families with Dependent Children (AFDC)-Medicaid waivers. III. Duration The complex range of policy issues, design methodologies, and unanticipated events inherent in any research or demonstration makes it very difficult to establish a single Department policy on the duration of 1115 waivers. However, the Department is committed, through negotiations with State applicants, to_ •Approve waivers of at least sufficient duration to give new policy approaches a fair test. The duration of waiver approval should be congruent with the magnitude and complexity of the project (for example, large-scale statewide reform programs will typically require waivers of five years); •Provide reasonable time for the preparation of meaningful evaluation results prior to the conclusion of the demonstration; and •Recognize that new approaches often involve considerable start-up time and allowance for implementation delays. The Department is also committed, when successful demonstrations provide an appropriate basis, to working with State governments to seek permanent statutory changes incorporating those results. In such cases, consideration will be given to a reasonable extension of existing waivers.
