FR941116-0-00189 FR941116-0-00022 (b) Producers shall certify the required quantities on form CCC&hyph;136, Production Certification for the VPLP. (c) Certification of the quantity on hand at the beginning of the marketing year for the current crop production year shall occur no later than June 1 for wheat, barley, and oats and September 1 for corn and grain sorghum. (d) A representative of the county ASCS office will conduct spot checks of all producer certifications. (e) The operator shall certify current year production of wheat and small grains harvested for enrolled program crops no later than the following dates: (1) Iowa_July 30; (2) Nebraska_July 15; and (3) South Dakota_August 1. (f) The operator shall certify current year production of corn and grain sorghum harvested for enrolled corn and grain sorghum crops no later than December 1. §1416.106 Determining compliance with PLQ. (a) The quantity of an enrolled crop marketed, bartered, donated, or used on the farm during the marketing year will be calculated, based on the quantities reported in accordance with §1416.105, by adding the amount of the enrolled crop reported on hand at the beginning of the marketing year and the production amount of the enrolled crop harvested and subtracting the quantity of the enrolled crop on hand at the end of the marketing year. (b) The production amount disposed of: (1) Is in compliance with program provisions if the result is less than or equal to the sum of the PLQ for the crop and eligible carryover as determined in §1416.102; (2) Is not in compliance if the result of paragraph (a) of this section is more than the sum of the PLQ and eligible carryover as determined in §1416.102. In this case, excess marketings have occurred and the producer will be subject to a penalty. (c) When the disposed bushels exceed the allowable quantities determined according to paragraph (a) of this section by: (1) 5 percent or less, the penalty is the larger of the price support rate established for the county for the commodity or the current market price, as determined by CCC, times the excess bushels; (2) 6 to 10 percent, the penalty is the larger of the price support rate established for the county for the commodity or 1.2 times the current market price, as determined by CCC, at the time the violation is discovered times the excess bushels; (3) Over 10 percent, the penalty is the larger of the target price or 1.5 times the current market price, as determined by CCC, at the time the violation is discovered times the excess bushels. §1416.107 Penalties for inaccurate inventory and crop production reporting errors. (a) A penalty shall be assessed for each crop enrolled in this program for discrepancies in reporting the bushel quantity in accordance with §1416.105. (b) For any discrepancies in quantities listed above, the penalty per bushel shall be the higher of: (1) The target price; or
