FR940303-2-00073 FR940303-2-00054 d. Unusual Problems Requiring Specialized Sampling Procedures. No specialized sampling procedures are required. e. Use of Periodic Data Collection Cycles to Reduce Burden. This is a one-time data collection effort. 3. Methods to Maximize Response Rates In an effort to maximize response rates, a copy of the survey instrument will be mailed to all respondents prior to the telephone survey in order to familiarize them with its content. 4. Tests of Procedures to be Undertaken Input has been received from HUD's Office of Policy Development and Research (PD & R) in order to fine-tune the survey instrument and permit the collection of information needed for the report to Congress. 5. Persons Involved in the Survey Individual consulted on the statistical aspect of the survey instrument: Kevin Neary, HUD's PD & R Program Evaluation Division (202&hyph;708&hyph;0574). Individual responsible for completion of report: Barbara Neal, HUD's Office of Community Planning and Development, Entitlement Communities Division (202&hyph;708&hyph;1577). Grantee Survey for HUD Microenterprise Report Section 807(c)(4) of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1992 (``1992 Act'') requires the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) to submit to Congress a report on the effectiveness of the use of Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) funds in promoting development of microenterprises, including a review of any statutory or regulatory provision that impedes their development. This survey is being undertaken in an effort to provide HUD with current, relevant information regarding the actual experiences of community and economic development practitioners in this area for the Department's consideration in the preparation of the required report to Congress. Your participation is voluntary, but failure to respond will hurt HUD's ability to report accurately to Congress on the nature and extent of microenterprise activity in the CDBG program. Therefore, your participation is greatly appreciated. This survey seeks to obtain information regarding any microenterprise assistance activities you may be undertaking with CDBG funds. •A ``microenterprise'' is defined by the 1992 Act to be a commercial enterprise that has five or fewer employees, one or more of whom owns the enterprise. •For the purposes of this survey, ``microenterprise assistance activities'' are those that are designed to promote the establishment and expansion of microenterprises, as such entities are defined above. Examples of such activities include: •Provision of training for persons interested in starting microenterprises. •Provision of technical assistance and training to existing microenterprises. •Provision of financial assistance to new and existing microenterprises. Name of Grantee (Optional): Type of Grantee (State, Urban County, Unit of Local Government): Address, City, State, HUD Region: Name of Contact Person & Phone Number (Optional) 1. Does your community use Community Development Block Grant (CDBG) funds for microenterprise assistance activities? ␣␣Yes XXX No XXX (If No, go to Q.8) 2. What national objective(s) is/are your CDBG-funded microenterprise assistance activities designed to meet? (Check all that apply.) ␣␣ XXX Low/mod Area Benefit ␣␣ XXX Low/mod Jobs ␣␣ XXX Slum/Blight ␣␣ XXX Urgent Need
