FR940617-2-00230 FR940617-2-00118 E. Grantee Share of Project Costs Federal funds will be provided to cover up to 75% of the total allowable project costs. Therefore, the non-Federal share must amount to at least 25% of the total (Federal plus non-Federal) project cost. This means that, for every $3 in Federal funds received, up to the maximum amount allowable under each priority area, applicants must contribute at least $1. For example, the cost breakout for a project with a total cost of $56,666 to implement would be: ␣ 1Federal request 1Non-Federal share 1Total cost $50,000 $16,666 $56,666 75% 25% 100% Part IV_Instructions for the Development and Submission of Applications This Part contains information and instructions for submitting applications in response to this announcement. Application forms are provided as part of this publication along with a checklist for assembling an application package. Please copy and use these forms in submitting an application. Potential applicants should read this section carefully in conjunction with the information contained within the specific priority area under which the application is to be submitted. The priority area descriptions are in part II. A. Required Notification of the State Single Point of Contact This program is covered under Executive Order 12372, (E.O.) ``Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs,'' and 45 CFR part 100, ``Intergovernmental Review of Department of Health and Human Services Program and Activities.'' Under the E.O., States may design their own processes for reviewing and commenting on proposed Federal assistance under covered programs. All States and territories, except Alabama, Alaska, Connecticut, Hawaii, Idaho, Kansas, Louisiana, Minnesota, Montana, Nebraska, Oklahoma, Oregon, Pennsylvania, South Dakota, Virginia, Washington, American Samoa and Palau, have elected to participate in the E.O. process and have established a Single Points of Contact (SPOCs). Applicants from these eighteen jurisdictions need take no action regarding E.O. 12372. Applicants for projects to be administered by Federally-recognized Indian tribes are also exempt from the requirements of E.O. 12372. Otherwise, applicants should contact their SPOCs as soon as possible to alert them of the prospective applications and receive any necessary instructions. Applicants must submit any required material to the SPOCs as soon as possible so that OCS can obtain and review SPOC comments as part of the award process. It is imperative that the applicant submit all required materials, if any, to the SPOC and indicate the date of this submittal (or the date of contact if no submittal is required) on the Standard Form 424, item 16a. Under 45 CFR 100.8(a)(2), a SPOC has 60 days from application deadline to comment on proposed new or competing continuation awards. SPOCs are encouraged to eliminate the submission of routine endorsements as official recommendations. Additionally, SPOCs are requested to differentiate clearly between mere advisory comments and those official State process recommendations which may trigger the ``accommodate or explain'' rule. When comments are submitted directly to ACF, they should be addressed to: Department of Health and Human Services, Administration for Children and Families, Division of Discretionary Grants, 370 L'Enfant Promenade, SW., 6th Floor, Washington, DC 20447. A list of the Single Points of Contact for each State and Territory is included at the end of this announcement.
