FR941012-2-00176 FR941012-2-00116 Develop a series of clearly stated educational messages about missing and exploited children. These messages, delivered through media, teleconference, publications and other sources should be designed to communicate the human, economic and social costs of the victimization of missing and exploited children and their families. These materials should explain the need to prosecute offenders who commit crimes against children, point to sources of human services, and promote prevention measures. These messages should translate the latest available information about the nature of the problem into themes that can be clearly communicated in communities. Develop information vehicles for dissemination to targeted audiences. These vehicles could be public service announcements and other public education materials that are tailored to parents and different professionals who see the evidence of the problem in communities. These materials should be of a type that can be economically reproduced and widely distributed. Develop an approach for evaluating the effectiveness of these materials. Survey information or focus groups could be vehicles used to evaluate the ability of public education materials to impart key facts about prevention, intervention services, and the need to prosecute crimes against children committed by adults. Goal 2: Develop Effective Community Approaches OJJDP will identify, design, and make available effective community approaches for addressing the problems of missing and exploited children and their families. These approaches will deal with specific aspects of family abduction, non-family abduction, thrownaway children, and otherwise missing children. Strategies Evaluate relevant information from Title IV funded activities to identify gaps in existing knowledge and identify ways to fill those needs. Information needs to be developed to establish risk factors that can be used to identify potential abductors in family and non-family cases so that prevention and intervention tactics can be more sharply focused. More also needs to be learned about relatively new categories of missing children such as thrownaways and otherwise lost children. Design multi-agency methods for dealing with specific types of missing and exploited children to include chronic runaways, thrownaways, and victims of family abductions. Issues related to confidentiality and information sharing among the range of agencies involved in missing and exploited children cases should be addressed in order to promote inter-agency collaboration. Comprehensive case management methods should be adapted to address the needs of missing and exploited children and their families for each of the categories of missing children cases. Develop training and technical assistance materials and prepare a Title IV Technical Assistance Catalogue.
