FR940513-2-00254 FR940513-2-00097 (6) Coordinating the development and implementation of this Youth FIC Initiative with other self-sufficiency programs and other education and employment programs; or (7) Performing other duties and functions that are appropriate for providing eligible residents with better access to educational and employment opportunities. Supportive Services means new or significantly expanded services essential to providing youth in public housing with better access to educational and employment opportunities to achieve self-sufficiency and independence. (PHAs applying for funds to provide supportive services must demonstrate that the services will be provided at a higher level than currently provided). Program funds may be used for the provision of not more than 15 percent of the cost of any supportive services (which may be provided directly to eligible residents by the public housing agency or by contract or lease through other appropriate agencies or providers). Supportive services may include: (1) Child care, of a type that provides sufficient hours of operation and serves appropriate ages as needed to facilitate parental access to education and job opportunities; (2) Employment training and counseling ( e.g. , job training, preparation and counseling, job development and placement, business management training and entrepreneurship development, and follow-up assistance after job placement); (3) Computer skills training; (4) Education ( e.g. , remedial education, literacy training, completion of secondary or post-secondary education, and assistance in the attainment of certificates of high school equivalency); (5) Transportation as necessary to enable any participating youth to receive available services or to commute to his or her place of employment; (6) Personal welfare ( e.g. , substance/alcohol abuse treatment and counseling, self-development counseling, etc.); (7) Supportive Health Care Services ( e.g. , outreach and referral services); and (8) Any other services and resources, including case management, that are determined to be appropriate in assisting eligible residents. Vacant Unit means a dwelling unit that is not under an effective lease to an eligible family. An effective lease is a lease under which an eligible family has a right to possession of the unit and is being charged rent, even if the amount of any utility allowance equals or exceeds the amount of a total tenant payment that is based on income and, as a result, the amount paid by the family to the PHA is zero. E. Eligibility (1) Eligible Applicants. Funding for this program is limited to public housing authorities. The factors for award reflect that half of the points possible are for the provision of supportive services, whether provided by the PHA or through partnerships with other social service agencies. Facilities assisted shall be on or near the premises of public housing. For all families using FIC services, other than eligible residents (as defined in Section I.D of this NOFA), any additional costs incurred are to be borne by other resources. To be eligible under this NOFA, a PHA cannot have serious unaddressed, outstanding Inspector General audit findings; fair housing and equal opportunity monitoring review findings; or Field Office management review findings. In addition, the PHA must be in compliance with civil rights laws and equal opportunity requirements. A PHA will be considered to be in compliance if: (a) As a result of formal administrative proceedings, there are no outstanding findings of noncompliance with civil rights laws unless the PHA is operating in compliance with a HUD-approved compliance agreement designed to correct the area(s) of noncompliance; (b) There is no adjudication of a civil rights violation in a civil action brought against it by a private individual, unless the PHA demonstrates that it is operating in compliance with a court order, or implementing a HUD-approved resident selection and assignment plan or compliance agreement, designed to correct the area(s) of noncompliance; (c) There is no deferral of Federal funding based upon civil rights violations; (d) HUD has not deferred application processing by HUD under Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, the Attorney General's Guidelines (28 CFR 50.3) and HUD's Title VI regulations (24 CFR 1.8) and procedures (HUD Handbook 8040.1) or under Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 and HUD regulations (24 CFR 8.57); (e) There is no pending civil rights suit brought against the PHA by the Department of Justice; and (f) There is no unresolved charge of discrimination against the PHA issued by the Secretary under section 810(g) of the Fair Housing Act, as implemented by 24 CFR 103.400. (2) Eligible Activities. To develop such a Youth Development Initiative, program funds may be used for the following activities to guarantee youth access to comprehensive services: (a) The renovation, conversion, or combination of vacant dwelling units in a PHA development to create common areas to accommodate the provision of supportive services; (b) The renovation of existing common areas in a PHA development to accommodate the provision of supportive services; (c) The renovation, acquisition, or construction of facilities located near the premises of one or more PHA developments to accommodate the provision of supportive services. Under this NOFA, acquisition and new construction will be treated the same as substantial rehabilitation (renovation/conversion) activities, for such purposes as ranking and submission requirements.
