FR941212-1-00066 FR941212-1-00016 c. Disease or predation. The Service is unaware of any disease or predation which constitutes a significant threat to G. b. cactorum. D. The inadequacy of existing regulatory mechanisms. The Migratory Bird Treaty Act (MBTA) (16 U.S.C. 703&hyph;712) is the only direct, current Federal protection provided for the cactus ferruginous pygmy-owl. The MBTA prohibits ``take'' of any migratory bird. ``Take'' is defined as ``*␣*␣* to pursue, hunt, shoot, wound, kill, trap, capture, or collect, or attempt to pursue, hunt, shoot, wound, kill, trap, capture, or collect.'' However, unlike the Endangered Species Act, there are no provisions in the MBTA preventing habitat destruction unless direct mortality or destruction of active nests occurs. The Federal Clean Water Act contains provisions for regulating impacts to river systems and their tributaries. These mechanisms have been insufficient to prevent major losses of riparian habitat, including habitats occupied by the pygmy-owl. The State of Arizona lists the ferruginous pygmy-owl (subspecies not defined) as endangered (AGFD 1988). However, this designation does not provide special regulatory protection. Arizona regulates the capture, handling, transportation, and take of most wildlife, including G. b. cactorum, through game laws, special licenses, and permits for scientific investigation. However, habitat is not protected under Arizona endangered species law. The State of Texas lists the ferruginous pygmy-owl (subspecies not defined) as threatened (Texas Parks and Wildlife Department 1978 and 1984). This designation requires permits for take for propagation, zoological gardens, aquariums, rehabilitation purposes, and scientific purposes (State of Texas 1991). Again, however, there are no provisions for habitat protection. The pygmy-owl is also on the Texas Organization for Endangered Species' (TOES) ``watch list'' (TOES 1984). Most Federal agencies have policies to protect species listed by States as threatened or endangered, and some also protect species that are candidates for Federal listing. For example, the National Park Service protects all wildlife within most National Parks and Monuments. However, until agencies develop specific protection guidelines, evaluate their effectiveness, and institutionalize their implementation, it is uncertain whether any general agency policies adequately protect the pygmy-owl and its habitat.
