FR940907-1-00031 FR940907-1-00012 (2) The Government may, at its discretion, make payments prior to final settlement on account of the reserves established under this requirement, subject to such conditions precedent as the Contracting Officer may prescribe. (3) The Government shall, at the time of final settlement, in accordance with the provisions of the requirement entitled ``FINAL SETTLEMENT'', pay the Contractor the balance owing to it under the contract promptly after the amount of such balance shall have been determined. (i) Liens and title . For liens and title provisions, see the requirement of this contract entitled ``LIENS AND TITLE''. (j) Certifications and audits . At any time or times prior to final payment under this contract, the Contracting Officer may have any invoices and statements or certifications of costs audited. The Contracting officer may require the Contractor to submit, or make available for examination by the Contracting Officer or his designated representative, the supporting documentation upon which invoices, statements or certifications of costs are based. Each payment theretofore made shall be subject to reduction as necessary to reflect the exclusion of amounts included in the invoices or statements or certifications of costs which are found by the Contracting Officer, on the basis of such audit, not to constitute allowable costs. Any payment may be reduced for overpayments, or increased for underpayments on preceding invoices. (k) Reduction or suspension . The Contracting Officer may reduce or suspend progress payments after finding on substantial evidence of any of the following conditions: (1) The Contractor failed to comply with any material requirement of this contract. (2) Performance of this contract is endangered by the Contractor's (i) failure to make progress or (ii) unsatisfactory financial condition. (3) Inventory allocated to this contract substantially exceeds reasonable requirements. (4) The Contractor is delinquent in payment of the costs of performing this contract in the ordinary course of business. (5) The Contractor fails to maintain an efficient and reliable accounting system and controls adequate for the proper administration of progress payments. (l) Limitations on Undefinitized Contract Actions . Notwithstanding any other progress payment provisions in this contract, progress payments may not exceed 90 percent of costs incurred on work accomplished under undefinitized contract actions. A ``contract action'' is any action resulting in a contract, as defined in subpart 2.1, including contract modifications for additional supplies or services, but not including contract modifications that are within the scope and under the terms of the contract, such as contract modifications issued pursuant to the CHANGES clause, or funding and other administrative changes. This limitation shall apply to the costs incurred, as computed in accordance with paragraph (f) of this requirement, and shall remain in effect until the contract action is definitized. Costs incurred which are subject to this limitation shall be segregated on Contractor progress payment requests and invoices from those costs eligible for higher progress payments rates. For purposes of progress payment liquidation, progress payments for undefinitized contract actions shall be liquidated at 90 percent of the amount invoiced for work performed under the undefinitized contract action as long as the contract action remains undefinitized. The amount of unliquidated progress payments for undefinitized contract actions shall not exceed 90 percent of the maximum liability of the Government under the undefinitized contract action or such lower limit specified elsewhere in the contract. Separate limits may be specified for separate actions. (m) Special terms regarding default . If this contract is terminated under the ``DEFAULT'' clause, (1) the Contractor shall, on demand, repay to the Government the amount of unliquidated progress payments and (2) title shall vest in the Contractor, on full liquidation of progress payments, for all property for which the Government elects not to require delivery under the ``DEFAULT'' clause. The Government shall be liable for no payment except as provided by the ``DEFAULT'' clause. (End of Clause) Dated: August 19, 1994. Lewis T. Booker, Jr., LCDR, JAGC, USN, Federal Register Liaison Officer. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;21611 Filed 9&hyph;6&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3810&hyph;AE&hyph;P
