FR940419-2-00053 FR940419-2-00033 Item 15. Estimated Funding Levels In completing 15a through 15f, the dollar amounts entered should reflect, for a 17-month or less project period, the total amount requested. If the proposed project period exceeds 17- months, enter only those dollar amounts needed for the first 12 months of the proposed project. Item 15a. Enter the amount of Federal funds requested in accordance with the preceding paragraph. This amount should be no greater than the maximum amount specified in the priority area description. Items 15b&hyph;e. Enter the amount(s) of funds from non-Federal sources that will be contributed to the proposed project. Items b&hyph;e are considered cost-sharing or matching funds. The value of third party in-kind contributions should be included on appropriate lines as applicable. For more information regarding funding as well as exceptions to these rules, see Part I, Section D, and the specific priority area description (Part II, Section C). Item 15f. Enter the estimated amount of income, if any, expected to be generated from the proposed project. Do not add or subtract this amount from the total project amount entered under item 15g. Describe the nature, source and anticipated use of this income in the Project Narrative Statement. Item 15g. Enter the sum of items 15a&hyph;15e. Item 16a. Is Application Subject to Review by State Executive Order 12372 Process? Yes._Enter the date the applicant contacted the SPOC regarding this application. Select the appropriate SPOC from the listing provided at the end of Part IV. The review of the application is at the discretion of the SPOC. The SPOC will verify the date noted on the application. If there is a discrepancy in dates, the SPOC may request that the Federal agency delay any proposed funding until September 1994. Item 16b. Is Application Subject to Review By State Executive Order 12372 Process? No._Check the appropriate box if the application is not covered by E.O. 12372 or if the program has not been selected by the State for review. Item 17. Is the Applicant Delinquent on any Federal Debt?_Check the appropriate box. This question applies to the applicant organization, not the person who signs as the authorized representative. Categories of debt include audit disallowances, loans and taxes. Item 18. To the best of my knowledge and belief, all data in this application/ preapplication are true and correct. The document has been duly authorized by the governing body of the applicant and the applicant will comply with the attached assurances if the assistance is awarded._To be signed by the authorized representative of the applicant. A copy of the governing body's authorization for signature of this application by this individual as the official representative must be on file in the applicant's office, and may be requested from the applicant. Item 18a&hyph;c. Typed Name of Authorized Representative, Title, Telephone Number_Enter the name, title and telephone number of the authorized representative of the applicant organization. Item 18d. Signature of Authorized Representative_Signature of the authorized representative named in Item 18a. At least one copy of the application must have an original signature. Use colored ink (not black) so that the original signature is easily identified.
