FR941230-2-00003 FR941230-2-00002 Forest Service BlueGrass Bound Ecosystem Management Project; Idaho Panhandle National Forest, Boundary County, ID AGENCY: Forest Service, USDA. ACTION: Notice of intent to prepare environmental impact statement. SUMMARY: Notice is hereby given that the USDA Forest Service is gathering information in order to prepare an environmental impact statement (EIS) for an Ecosystem Management project in the United States portion of the Boundary Creek watershed. The purpose and need for action is to trend or sustain the environment in the BlueGrass Bound project area towards the desired condition. The desired condition is to sustainably support healthy forest and aquatic ecosystems_within the project area as part of the Selkirk Ecosystem and the Idaho Panhandle National Forest. The proposed management activities include watershed, and fisheries and wildlife habitat improvement projects. Prescribed fire, timer harvesting, road closures, road reconstruction and obliteration, limited road construction, fish structures, and wildlife security areas are all being considered to achieve the desired condition. The Forest Service estimates that this proposed action would include 1,007 acres of underburning (including harvest units), 2,088 acres of timber harvesting, 23.8 miles of road obliteration, 10.0 miles of road reconstruction, 130.2 miles of road stabilization, 1.9 miles of new road construction, 1.5 miles of stream rehabilitation, 14.1 miles of revegetation, and 84 instream structures for fish habitat. Most of the proposed timber harvest locations are located on areas with the highest stand treatment needs; low current and potential caribou habitat value; low potential for producing and delivering sediment to streams; and high potential for creating or improving habitat for wildlife species such as flammulated owl, lynx, black-backed and pileated woodpeckers. Part of the proposed action involves harvesting timber from existing roads within the Saddle Mountain Roadless Area (1&hyph;154). These proposed actions are being considered together because they represent either connected, similar, or cumulative actions as defined by the Council on Environmental Quality (40 CFR 1508.25). DATES: Written comments and suggestions concerning the scope of this analysis would be most useful if received by February 13, 1995. ADDRESSES: Submit written comments to District Ranger, Bonners Ferry Ranger District, Idaho Panhandle National Forests, Route 4, Box 4860, Bonners Ferry, Idaho 83805&hyph;9764. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Dale Deiter, EIS Team Leader, Bonners Ferry Ranger District, Idaho Panhandle National Forests, Phone (208) 267&hyph;5561. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Development of the alternatives is underway. The Forest Service is continuing to seek information and comments from all parties who may be interested in or affected by the proposed action. The Forest Service will consider a range of alternatives. The analysis will consider the No Action alternative in which none of the proposed activities would be implemented. Under No Action, no management would be undertaken to actively trend the project area towards the desired condition. The proposed action and alternatives will respond in part to the purpose and need by addressing the desired condition objectives to varying degrees. Three action alternatives to the proposed action are being considered at this time. 1. One alternative would only include watershed, fisheries, and wildlife improvements that do not involve harvesting timber. 2. One alternative would place more emphasis than the proposed action on managing vegetation to maintain stand growth and reduce the risk of disturbance from insect, disease, and fire. This alternative would also include watershed, fisheries, and wildlife improvements. 3. At least one alternative in addition to No Action would not have any activity within the Saddle Mountain Roadless area. The draft environmental impact statement should be available for public review in March of 1995. The comment period on the draft EIS will be 45 days from the date the Environmental Protection Agency publishes the notice of availability in the Federal Register . After this public comment period, the comments received will be analyzed and considered by the Forest Service in preparing the final environmental impact statement. The final EIS is scheduled to be completed by July of 1995. The District Ranger, who is the responsible official for this EIS, will make a decision regarding this proposal after considering the comments and responses, environmental consequences discussed in the final EIS, and applicable laws, regulations, and policies. This decision and reasons for the decision will be documented in a Record of Decision.
