FR940511-2-00137 FR940511-2-00092 [SGA No. DAA 94&hyph;007] Job Training Partnership Act: Business Partnership Grants AGENCY: Employment and Training Administration, Labor. ACTION: Notice of availability of funds and solicitation for grant applications (SGA). SUMMARY: The U.S. Department of Labor (DOL), Employment and Training Administration (ETA), under Title IV of the Job Training Partnership Act (JTPA), is announcing the availability of demonstration funds under the Business Partnership Grants program. Grants will be awarded to eligile non-profit organizations to support the participation and involvement of the private sector in specific new initiatives involving national employment and training programs. These initiatives are (1) School-to-Work Programs which are sponsored jointly by the Departments of Labor and Education; (2) Skill Standards Initiatives and (3) Reemployment Program Strategy, which includes both Worker Adjustment Services and One-Stop Career Centers. Multiple grant awards may be made in each category. The estimated total amount of funds available under this solicitation is $1.8 million for all categories. Awards will be for a twelve month period with up to two option years. Applicants must identify which of the above categories they are applying for on the face sheet of their application. All information and forms needed to apply for funding under this solicitation are included in this announcement. DATES: Applications for grant awards will be accepted commencing May 11, 1994. The closing date for receipt of applications shall be June 15, 1994, at 2 p.m. (Eastern Time) at the address below. ADDRESSES: Applications shall be mailed to: U.S. Department of Labor, Employment and Training Administration, Division of Acquisition and Assistance, Attention: Ms. Reda Harrison, Reference: SGA No. DAA 94&hyph;007, 200 Constitution Avenue, NW., room S&hyph;4203, Washington, DC 20210. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Ms. Reda Harrison, Division of Acquisition and Assistance, Telephone: (202) 219&hyph;8702 (this is not a toll-free number). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: This announcement consists of four parts: Part I_Background, Part II_Application Process, Part III_Statement of Work, and Part IV_Evaluation Criteria. Part I_Background The Department of Labor's Employment and Training Administration (ETA), in collaboration with other Federal agencies, has undertaken a series of initiatives: (1) To enhance the effectiveness of and to better coordinate the services provided through a variety of programs and (2) to enhance the competitiveness of the American worker. An important aspect of these initiatives is to elicit the participation and involvement of private sector firms both by a direct approach to major firms and by developing strategies and materials that will provide assistance to State and local officials in dealing with small and medium-size employers. A key tenet of this effort is that the delivery of programs should be customer-focused. To accomplish this, there is a need to elicit direct input from a broad range of employers on the services available through various ETA programs and to obtain detailed views of these private sector ``customers'' on ways to ultimately improve services to employment and training clients. It is important for potential grantees to recognize that the support requested depends to a substantial degree on the enactment of legislation proposed or to be proposed to the Congress. While the Department favors the enactment of such legislation, there is no assurance that such bills will be enacted or that there will not be substantial revisions in the bills enacted into law. Part II_Application Process A. Eligible Applicants Awards under this Solicitation will be made to non-profit organizations. B. Submission of Proposals An original and three (3) copies of the proposal shall be submitted. The proposal shall consist of two (2) separate and distinct parts. Part I shall contain the cost proposal, consisting of the following items: Standard Form (SF) 424, ``Application for Federal Assistance'' (Appendix No. 1) and SF 424A, ``Budget'' (Appendix No. 2). Also, the budget shall include on a separate page(s) a detailed cost analysis of each line item in the budget. Part II shall contain a technical proposal that demonstrates the applicant's capabilities in accordance with the Statement of Work contained in this announcement. Applicants are strongly encouraged to submit a technical proposal of less than one hundred fifty (150) pages in length (exclusive of appendices) which sets forth the applicant's explanation of how it proposes to accomplish the elements described in the Statement of Work.
