FR940503-0-00046 FR940503-0-00009 (3) The laboratory shall provide facilities for the effective monitoring, control and recording of environmental conditions as appropriate. Due attention shall be paid, for example, to biological sterility, dust, electromagnetic interference, humidity, voltage, temperature, and sound and vibration levels, as appropriate to the calibrations or tests concerned. (4) There shall be effective separation between neighboring areas when the activities therein are incompatible. (5) Access to and use of all areas affecting the quality of these activities shall be defined and controlled. (6) Adequate measures shall be taken to ensure good housekeeping in the laboratory. (f) Equipment and reference materials. (1) The laboratory shall be furnished with all items of equipment (including reference materials) required for the correct performance of calibrations and tests. In those cases where the laboratory needs to use equipment outside its permanent control it shall ensure that the relevant requirements of this section are met. (2) All equipment shall be properly maintained. Maintenance procedures shall be documented. Any item of equipment which has been subjected to overloading or mishandling, or which gives suspect results, or has been shown by verification or otherwise to be defective, shall be taken out of service, clearly identified and wherever possible stored at a specified place until it has been repaired and shown by calibration, verification or test to perform satisfactorily. The laboratory shall examine the effect of this defect on previous calibrations or tests. (3) Each item of equipment including reference materials shall, when appropriate, be labelled, marked or otherwise identified to indicate its calibration status. (4) Records shall be maintained of each item of equipment and all reference materials significant to the calibrations or tests performed. The records shall include: (i) The name of the item of equipment; (ii) The manufacturer's name, type identification, and serial number or other unique identification; (iii) Date received and date placed in service; (iv) Current location, where appropriate; (v) Condition when received (e.g. new, used, reconditioned); (vi) Copy of the manufacturer's instructions, where available; (vii) Dates and results of calibrations and/or verifications and date of next calibration and/or verification; (viii) Details of maintenance carried out to date and planned for the future; (ix) History of any damage, malfunction, modification or repair. (g) Measurement traceability and calibration. (1) All measuring and testing equipment having an effect on the accuracy or validity of calibrations or tests shall be calibrated and/or verified before being put into service. The laboratory shall have an established program for the calibration and verification of its measuring and test equipment. (2) The overall program of calibration and/or verification and validation of equipment shall be designed and operated so as to ensure that, wherever applicable, measurements made by the laboratory are traceable to national standards of measurement where available. Calibration certificates shall wherever applicable indicate the traceability to national standards of measurement and shall provide the measurement results and associated uncertainty of measurement and/or a statement of compliance with an identified metrological specification. (3) Where traceability to national standards of measurement is not applicable, the laboratory shall provide satisfactory evidence of correlation of results, for example by participation in a suitable program of interlaboratory comparisons or proficiency testing. (4) Reference standards of measurement held by the laboratory shall be used for calibration only and for no other purpose, unless it can be demonstrated that their performance as reference standards has not been invalidated. (5) Reference standards of measurement shall be calibrated by a body that can provide traceability to a national standard of measurement. There shall be a program of calibration and verification for reference standards. (6) Where relevant, reference standards and measuring and testing equipment shall be subjected to in-service checks between calibrations and verifications. (7) Reference materials shall, where possible, be traceable to national or international standards of measurement, or to national or international standard reference materials. (h) Calibration and test methods. (1) The laboratory shall have documented instructions on the use and operation of all relevant equipment, on the handling and preparation of items and for calibration and/or testing, where the absence of such instructions could jeopardize the calibrations or tests. All instructions, standards, manuals and reference data relevant to the work of the laboratory shall be maintained up-to-date and be readily available to the staff. (2) The laboratory shall use appropriate methods and procedures for all calibrations and tests and related activities within its responsibility (including sampling, handling, transport and storage, preparation of items, estimation of uncertainty of measurement and analysis of calibration and/or test data). They shall be consistent with the accuracy required, and with any standard specifications relevant to the calibrations or tests concerned. (3) Where methods are not specified, the laboratory shall, wherever possible, select methods that have been published in international or national standards, those published by reputable technical organizations or in relevant scientific texts or journals.
