FR940617-0-00053 FR940617-0-00006 EXPORT-IMPORT BANK OF THE UNITED STATES 12 CFR Part 412 Acceptance of Payment From a Non-Federal Source for Travel Expenses AGENCY: Export-Import Bank of the United States. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: This final rule implements the statutory authority of the Export-Import Bank of the United States (Eximbank) to accept from non-Federal sources reimbursement for travel and subsistence expenses incurred by Eximbank employees in connection with official travel to a meeting or similar event. Authorized meetings or similar events under this final rule do not include those described in the Federal Travel Regulations permitting Federal agencies to accept payments from non-Federal sources for travel expenses. This final rule, by effectuating Eximbank's statutory gift acceptance authority, will further the mission of Eximbank by enabling Eximbank to issue more official travel orders for employees to conduct agency business than Eximbank would otherwise be able to issue under its authorized annual travel budget. EFFECTIVE DATE: June 17, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mr. Paul W. Boyer, Export-Import Bank of the United States, Office of The General Counsel, telephone (202) 377&hyph;7605. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: I. Background Section 2(a)(1) of the Export-Import Bank Act of 1945, as amended (12 U.S.C. 635(a)), enables Eximbank, subject to regulations issued pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 553, to accept reimbursement for travel and subsistence expenses incurred by a director, officer or employee of Eximbank in accordance with subchapter I of chapter 57 of title 5, United States Code. In order to implement this statutory authority, Eximbank is issuing a regulation that sets forth the parameters for accepting payment from a non-Federal source for an Eximbank employee's travel and subsistence expenses to attend or participate in an event relating to the employee's official duties. The regulation applies to events other than a ``meeting or similar function'' as defined in 41 CFR 304&hyph;1.2(c)(3). The rule enables Eximbank to accept travel expense payments in order to send employees to such functions as meetings, formal gatherings, site visits, negotiation sessions and other similar events in which the employee's participation would further the mission of Eximbank. In order to avoid any actual impropriety or appearance of impropriety in the acceptance of travel expense payments, the regulation requires that the employee's supervisor and the designated agency ethics official or his/her designee determine that Eximbank's interest in the employee's attendance at the meeting or similar event outweighs concern that acceptance of the payment by Eximbank may cause a reasonable person to question the integrity of Eximbank's programs or operations. As provided in the authorizing statute, the regulation limits payments from a non-Federal source for travel and subsistence payments to the maximum per diem or actual service limitations prescribed in 41 CFR chapter 301. II. Matters of Regulatory Procedure Administrative Procedure Act As General Counsel of Eximbank, I have found good cause pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 553(b) and (d)(3) for waiving, as unnecessary and contrary to the public interest, the general notice of proposed rulemaking and the 30-day delay in effectiveness as to this final rule. The reason for this determination is that this rulemaking is related to Eximbank organization, procedure and practice. Regulatory Flexibility Act As General Counsel of Eximbank, I have determined under the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. chapter 6) that this regulation will not have a significant impact on small business entities.
