FR941019-0-00014 FR941019-0-00003 (4) 303.8(e) (5) 303.8(f)(1) (6) 303.8(g)(1) (7) 303.8(h) (8) 303.8(i)(1) and (i)(2) 8. Section 303.9 is revised to read as follows: ยง303.9 Delegation of authority to act on certain enforcement matters. (a) Actions pursuant to section 8(a) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1818(a)) . (1) Authority is delegated to the Director (DOS), and where confirmed in writing by the director, to an associate director, or to the appropriate regional director or deputy regional director, to issue notifications to primary regulator when the respondent bank's book capital is less than 2% of total assets; Provided however, That authority may not be delegated to the regional director or deputy regional director whenever the respondent bank has issued any mandatory convertible debt or any form of Tier 2 capital (such as limited life preferred stock/subordinated notes and debentures). (2) Authority is delegated to the Director (DOS), and where confirmed in writing by the director, to an associate director, to issue notifications to primary regulator when the respondent bank's adjusted Tier 1 capital is less than 2% of adjusted part 325 total assets. (3) The authority delegated under paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section shall be exercised only upon concurrent certification by the Associate General Counsel for Compliance and Enforcement, or, in cases where a regional director or deputy regional director issues notifications to primary regulator, by the appropriate regional counsel, that the allegations contained in the findings of unsafe or unsound practices or conditions, if proven, constitute a basis for the issuance of a notification to primary regulator pursuant to section 8(a) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1818(a)). (b) Actions pursuant to section 8(b) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1818(b)) . (1) Authority is delegated to the Director (DOS), to the Director (DCA), and where confirmed in writing by either director, to an associate director, or to the appropriate regional director, deputy regional director or regional manager to issue: (i) Notices of charges; and (ii) Cease-and-desist orders (with or without a prior notice of charges) where the respondent bank or individual respondent consents to the issuance of the cease-and-desist order prior to the filing by an administrative law judge of proposed findings of fact, conclusions of law and recommended decision with the Executive Secretary of the FDIC. (2) The Director (DOS) and the Director (DCA) may issue a joint notice of charges or cease-and-desist order under paragraph (b)(1) of this section, where such notice or order addresses both safety and soundness and consumer compliance matters. A joint notice or order will require the signatures of both directors or, alternatively, the signatures of the appropriate regional director or deputy regional director and regional manager. (3) The authority delegated under paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section shall be exercised only upon concurrent certification by the Associate General Counsel for Compliance and Enforcement or, in cases where a regional director, deputy regional director or regional manager issues the notice of charges or the stipulated cease-and-desist order, by the appropriate regional counsel, that the allegations contained in the notice of charges, if proven, constitute a basis for the issuance of a section 8(b) order, or that the stipulated cease-and-desist order is authorized under section 8(b) of the Act, and, upon its effective date, shall be a cease-and-desist order which has become final for purposes of enforcement pursuant to the Act. (c) Actions pursuant to section 8(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1818(c)). (1) Authority is delegated to the Director (DOS), to the Director (DCA), and where confirmed in writing by either director, to an associate director, to issue temporary cease-and-desist orders. (2) The Director (DOS) and the Director (DCA) may issue a joint temporary cease-and-desist order where such order addresses both safety and soundness and consumer compliance matters. A joint notice or order will require the signatures of both directors or, alternatively, the signatures of the appropriate regional director or deputy regional director and regional manager. (3) The authority delegated under paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section shall be exercised only upon concurrent certification by the Associate General Counsel for Compliance and Enforcement that the action is not inconsistent with section 8(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1818(c)) and the temporary cease-and-desist order is enforceable in a United States District Court. (d) Actions pursuant to section 8(e) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1818(e)). (1) Authority is delegated to the Director (DOS) or the Director (DCA), and where confirmed in writing by the director, to an associate director, to issue:
