FR941128-2-00027 FR941128-2-00017 Procurement List Addition AGENCY: Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled. ACTION: Addition to the Procurement List. SUMMARY: This action adds to the Procurement List a service to be furnished by nonprofit agencies employing persons who are blind or have other severe disabilities. EFFECTIVE DATE: December 28, 1994. ADDRESSES: Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled, Crystal Square 3, Suite 403, 1735 Jefferson Davis Highway, Arlington, Virginia 22202&hyph;3461. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Beverly Milkman (703) 603&hyph;7740. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: On August 19, 1994, the Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled published notice (59 F.R. 42820) of proposed addition to the Procurement List. Comments were received from the current contractor for the janitorial service, four other disadvantaged businesses in Utah, the Utah office of the Small Business Administration (SBA), and a legal defense fund representing disadvantaged businesses. All the commenters opposed the proposal to add the service to the Procurement List. The current contractor indicated that its contract for the service represented a sizeable part of its sales for the last quarter, and noted that not being allowed to perform the remaining option year of its contract could affect its survival. The contractor cited its quality performance on the contract, as evidenced by an award it had received. The legal defense fund seconded the contractor's comments. The four other Utah disadvantaged businesses noted that the service had long been in the Federal disadvantaged business (8(a)) program. Its removal from the program, along with closures of two other military bases in Utah, would, they claimed, eliminate about a fifth of the 8(a) contracting business in Utah, requiring disadvantaged businesses to go outside of the State to do Federal work in the program. Accordingly, they indicated that addition of this contract to the Procurement List would negatively impact them. The SBA district office also indicated that this service has been in the 8(a) program for many years. The office indicated that the service is a substantial part of the program in Utah, representing at least ten percent of program dollars and nearly fifty percent of program dollars in janitorial services. The office also seconded the current contractor's comments concerning its option and its performance on the contract. Additions to the Procurement List do not affect contracts in being before the effective date of the addition, or options exercised under those contracts. The decision to exercise an option is solely at the discretion of the Government contracting activity. Consequently, if an option is not exercised, any resulting impact on a contractor is because of the contracting activity's decision and not the Committee's action in adding an item to the Procurement List. In this particular case, the option in question has already been exercised, so the contractor will retain the work for the coming year. A comparison of the comments by the SBA district office and the four Utah businesses with information available from Hill Air Force Base contracting staff indicates that the commenters have exaggerated the impact on the 8(a) program of adding this service to the Procurement List. Based on FY 1994 data, this contract represents only six percent of all 8(a) contracts at Hill Air Force Base. Since there are other 8(a) contracts in Utah, such as a General Services Administration contract for janitorial services at the Federal building in Salt Lake City, this contract clearly represents an extremely small percentage of all the 8(a) contracts in Utah. With respect to 8(a) janitorial contracts in Utah, the Committee recognizes that there are a limited number of opportunities to clean Federal facilities. However, it also knows that many 8(a) janitorial contracts are competed among 8(a) contractors on a regional or national basis. Consequently, the Federal business opportunities for 8(a) janitorial firms in Utah are not limited to contracts for facilities within Utah. Moreover, adding this service to the Procurement List is not taking business away from the current contractor or the other 8(a) contractors which commented, but only removing the opportunity for 8(a) firms other than the current contractor to obtain the work in the future. Taking into account all these factors, the Committee does not believe that addition of this service to the Procurement List will have a severe impact on the 8(a) program and its Utah contractors. The Committee's action will also create a very large number of jobs for people with severe disabilities, well beyond the average for a Procurement List addition. After consideration of the material presented to it concerning capability of qualified nonprofit agencies to provide the service, fair market price, and impact of the addition on the current or most recent contractors, the Committee has determined that the service listed below are suitable for procurement by the Federal Government under 41 U.S.C. 46&hyph;48c and 41 CFR 51&hyph;2.4. I certify that the following action will not have a significant impact on a substantial number of small entities. The major factors considered for this certification were: 1. The action will not result in any additional reporting, recordkeeping or other compliance requirements for small entities other than the small organizations that will furnish the service to the Government. ’2. The action does not appear to have a severe economic impact on current contractors for the service. 3. The action will result in authorizing small entities to furnish the service to the Government. 4. There are no known regulatory alternatives which would accomplish the objectives of the Javits-Wagner-O'Day Act (41 U.S.C. 46 - 48c) in connection with the service proposed for addition to the Procurement List. Accordingly, the following service is hereby added to the Procurement List: Janitorial/Custodial (Remaining buildings not on Procurement List) Hill Air Force Base, Utah. This action does not affect current contracts awarded prior to the effective date of this addition or options exercised under those contracts. Beverly L. Milkman, Executive Director. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;29203 Filed 11&hyph;25&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6820&hyph;33&hyph;P
