FR940318-0-00089 FR940318-0-00015 (iii) Indebtedness owned by beneficial owner who becomes a 5-percent shareholder or 5-percent entity. If the beneficial owner of indebtedness immediately before the ownership change is a 5-percent shareholder or 5-percent entity immediately after the ownership change, the general rules of paragraph (d)(2) of this section apply to determine whether the indebtedness has been owned for the requisite period by the beneficial owner. (iv) Example. The following example illustrates paragraph (d)(3) of this section. (A)(1) L is a loss corporation in a title 11 case. The plan of reorganization of L approved by the bankruptcy court provides for the satisfaction of claims by the issuance of new L common stock to its creditors as follows: A_2 percent B_7.5 percent C_2.5 percent P1_3 percent P2_10 percent P3_4.9 percent P4_4.9 percent P5_4.9 percent (2) P2 is owned by Public P2. B owns 10 percent of the stock of P1 and L has no actual knowledge of this ownership. L has actual knowledge that D owns P3, P4 and P5. In addition, L has actual knowledge, immediately after the ownership change, that C owns an option to acquire newly-issued stock of L that, if exercised, would increase C's percentage ownership of L stock from 2.5 percent to 8 percent. An ownership change of L occurs on the date the plan becomes effective. (B) Under paragraph (d)(3)(i) of this section, L may treat the indebtedness owned by A and P1 immediately before the ownership change as always having been owned by A and P1. Neither A nor P1 is a 5-percent shareholder immediately after the ownership change. Further, because P1 owns less than 5 percent of the L stock (and L has no actual knowledge of B's ownership interest in P1), P1 is treated as an individual, and the L stock owned by P1 is not attributed to any other person, including B. See ยง1.382&hyph;2T(h)(2)(iii). Therefore, P1 is not a 5-percent entity. (C) Paragraph (d)(3)(i) of this section does not apply to the indebtedness owned by B, C, P2, P3, P4, or P5. B is a 5-percent shareholder immediately after the ownership change. L has actual knowledge immediately after the ownership change that the exercise of C's option would cause C to be a 5-percent shareholder immediately after the ownership change. (L does not take into account the effect of the exercise of the option, however, in determining the percentage stock ownership of any person other than C because the deemed exercise would not cause any other person to be a 5-percent shareholder or a 5-percent entity after the ownership change.) P2 is a 5-percent entity, because Public P2, a 5-percent shareholder, owns an indirect ownership interest in L through P2. P3, P4, and P5 are 5-percent entities because D, a 5-percent shareholder, owns an indirect ownership interest in L through P3, P4, and P5. Because L has actual knowledge that D would be a 5-percent shareholder but for the application of ยง1.382&hyph;2T(h)(2)(iii), that section does not apply to P3, P4, or P5. See ยง1.382&hyph;2T(k)(2). Thus, under ยง1.382&hyph;2T(h)(2)(i), the L stock owned by P3, P4, and P5 is attributed to D, and D is a 5-percent shareholder. Because paragraph (d)(3)(i) of this section does not apply to the indebtedness owned by B, C, P2, P3, P4, and P5, L may treat as qualified indebtedness only indebtedness that it determines had been owned by such persons for the requisite period. See paragraph (d)(2)(iii) of this section. (4) Special rule if indebtedness is a large portion of creditor's assets _(i) In general . Indebtedness is not qualified indebtedness if_ (A) The beneficial owner of the indebtedness is a corporation or other entity that had an ownership change on any day during the applicable period; (B) The indebtedness represents more than 25 percent of the fair market value of the total gross assets (excluding cash or cash equivalents) of the beneficial owner on its change date; and (C) The beneficial owner is a 5-percent entity immediately after the ownership change of the loss corporation (determined by applying the rules of paragraph (d)(3) of this section). (ii) Applicable period. For purposes of paragraph (d)(4)(i) of this section, the term applicable period means the period beginning on the day 18 months before the filing of the title 11 or similar case (or the day on which the beneficial owner acquired the indebtedness, if later) and ending with the change date of the loss corporation. (iii) Determination of ownership change. For purposes of paragraph (d)(4)(i) of this section, the determination whether a beneficial owner of indebtedness has an ownership change is made under the principles of section 382 and the regulations thereunder, without regard to whether the beneficial owner is a loss corporation and by beginning the testing period no earlier than the latest of the day three years before the change date, the day 18 months before the filing of the title 11 or similar case, or the day on which the beneficial owner acquired the indebtedness. (iv) Reliance on statement. Paragraph (d)(4)(i) of this section does not apply to indebtedness if the loss corporation obtains a statement, signed under penalties of perjury, by the beneficial owner of the indebtedness that states that paragraph (d)(4)(i) of this section does not apply to the indebtedness.
