FR941110-0-00122 FR941110-0-00016 Response: Providers have consented to certification and validation surveys and to complaint investigations by choosing to participate as providers in the Medicare or Medicaid programs, or both. As indicated previously, the Supreme Court has long upheld warrantless searches of closely regulated businesses, and the nursing home industry is no exception. Moreover, section 1128(b)(12) of the Act provides for the exclusion from the Medicare and Medicaid programs of an individual or an entity who denies access to the Secretary or the State agency for the purpose of a survey to determine a provider's compliance with Federal requirements. Comment: Some commenters suggested that we require coordination of complaint investigations with the State or local ombudsman program. Response: The Act does not require the State to coordinate complaint investigations with ombudsman programs. However, under the Act, each State is required to notify the State long-term care ombudsman of its findings of noncompliance as specified on the HCFA&hyph;2567, with any of the requirements pertaining to provision of services, resident rights, or administration and other matters. The State also provides the long term care ombudsman with any report of adverse action (specified at §488.406 of this rule) imposed on a facility. We are including the requirement for disclosing such information to long term care ombudsman at §488.325. Comment: Some commenters believed that §488.332 should include procedures, including timing, evaluation of severity, and protocols, to be used in the investigation of complaints of violations of participation requirements. These commenters offered a variety of specific procedures to be included in this regulatory section. Also, commenters suggested that the State investigate all complaints received, while other commenters suggested giving States flexibility to determine whether there is a reasonable basis for an investigation. Response: As explained fully in the preamble to the proposed rule, sections 1819(g)(4)(A) and 1919(g)(4)(A) of the Act require each State to maintain procedures to investigate complaints of violations of Federal participation requirements. Additionally, the State Operations Manual has prescribed procedures State agencies must follow if complaints involve Medicare and/or Medicaid facilities. We believe these procedures, which are subject to ongoing revisions, provide basic minimum instructions, with sufficient flexibility, for State agencies to follow when investigating complaints. We do not believe that it would be reasonable or economically feasible to require States, especially those with remotely located facilities, to survey all facilities for which complaints are received. The experience of State survey agencies has shown that many complaints are either groundless or are not potential violations of requirements for certification. This position, however, does not relieve the States from their responsibilities to properly evaluate and investigate all complaints that may affect a facility's certification. To ensure these responsibilities are properly carried out, §§488.318 and 488.320 of these rules and sections 1819(g)(3)(C) and 1919(g)(3)(C) of the Act require that the Secretary provide appropriate remedies when a State fails to perform survey and certification responsibilities required under the Act. In addition, HCFA evaluates the Medicare/Medicaid survey and certification performance of State survey agencies with the State Agency Evaluation Program (SAEP). The SAEP identifies, among other factors, State actions with regard to the investigation of complaints. In Federal fiscal year 1992, the SAEP assessment of the State agency's timely processing of general certification related complaints indicated that on a national average between 90 and 99 percent of all general certification related complaints reviewed in the sample were processed in a timely manner. The evaluation included determining if allegations which may involve immediate jeopardy were investigated within two working days of receipt and also determining if non-immediate jeopardy complaints were processed in accordance with existing State agency procedures for prioritizing and investigating general certification related complaints. The SAEP data for fiscal year 1992 also confirmed that in the sample of complaints reviewed, which included general certification related complaints, complaints against accredited hospitals and violations of section 1867 of the Act (Examination and Treatment for Emergency Medical Conditions and Women in Labor), between 90 and 100 percent of complaints were collected, logged, referred and acknowledged in accordance with the guidelines provided in the State Operations Manual and specific policy memoranda. Any inappropriate State actions are discussed with State survey agency management and reconciled accordingly.
