FR940802-0-00073 FR940802-0-00013 FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION 47 CFR Part 22 [CC Docket No. 90&hyph;358; FCC 94&hyph;164] Cellular Radio Service AGENCY: Federal Communications Commission. ACTION: Final rules. SUMMARY: The Federal Communications Commission has revised certain rules governing the conduct of comparative renewal proceedings in the cellular radio service. The revisions are needed to establish and explain several procedural aspects of comparative renewal proceedings in the cellular radio service. The intent of these revisions is to promote efficiency and fairness in the licensing of the cellular radio service. EFFECTIVE DATES: October 3, 1994. In addition, the effective date for the revised version of §22.942 of the Rules which was adopted in a Memorandum Opinion and Order on Reconsideration (Reconsideration Order) in this proceeding, 58 FR 21928 (April 26, 1993), was stayed until the Reconsideration Order was final and no longer subject to judicial review. Section 22.942 of the Rules, which was adopted in the referenced Reconsideration Order, will become effective September 1, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: R. Barthen Gorman, Mobile Services Division, Common Carrier Bureau, (202) 418&hyph;1310. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The following is a summary of the Commission's Memorandum Opinion and Order on Further Reconsideration, adopted June 13, 1994, and released July 7, 1994. The full text of this Commission decision is available for inspection and copying during normal business hours in the FCC Dockets Branch, (Room 230), 1919 M Street, NW., Washington, DC 20554. The complete text of this decision may be purchased from the Commission's copy contractor, International Transcription Service, Inc.; (202) 857&hyph;3800; 2100 M Street, NW., Suite 140; Washington, DC 20037. Summary of the Memorandum Opinion and Order on Further Reconsideration 1. This Order amends and clarifies certain rules governing the conduct of comparative renewal proceedings in the Domestic Public Cellular Radio Telecommunications Service. Such proceedings are initiated when a cellular radio licensee seeks renewal of its license at the end of its 10-year license period and challengers file competing applications. The Report and Order, 57 FR 3027 (January 27, 1992), which first established standards for conducting cellular radio comparative renewal proceedings, also created standards for awarding a renewal expectancy, which is a major comparative preference awarded to a licensee for its substantial performance during its license term. A renewal expectancy would be more significant than any other preference awarded in a comparative renewal proceeding. The Memorandum Opinion and Order on Reconsideration (Reconsideration Order) in this proceeding, 58 FR 21928 (April 26, 1993), created a two-step procedure for cellular license renewal hearings and also modified the renewal expectancy standards. 2. Pursuant to the two-step procedure, the Presiding Judge will conduct a threshold (step one) hearing to determine whether the renewal applicant deserves a renewal expectancy for providing ``substantial'' service during its license term. If the renewal applicant is awarded a renewal expectancy, the renewal application would be granted. If the renewal applicant does not receive a renewal expectancy in the threshold hearing, the Presiding Judge would then conduct a full (step two) hearing comparing the applicants pursuant to the evaluation criteria described in the Rules. Further, a challenging applicant which proposes to provide service which far exceeds that presently being provided by the incumbent licensee may request a waiver of step one of the two-step procedure. The two-step procedure is described in revised Section 22.942 of the Rules, which was stayed until the Reconsideration Order became final and was no longer subject to judicial review. The revised version of Section 22.942 adopted in the referenced Reconsideration Order will become effective thirty days after the publication of this summary in the Federal Register . 3. The Further Reconsideration Order revises §22.942 of the Commission's Rules in several respects. First, it amends §22.942(d) to explicitly state that if a waiver of the step one hearing is granted, a renewal expectancy issue will be designated as part of the step two hearing and will be the most important comparative factor in deciding the case. Second, it revises §22.942(a) of the Rules to provide that renewal applicants will have sixty (60) days after the issuance of the Public Notice announcing the filing of competing applications to file their renewal expectancy showing, rather than the thirty (30) days now specified in the Rules. Third, it amends §22.942(f) of the Rules to state specifically that the expedited hearing procedures of §§22.916(b) (5)&hyph;(8) of the Rules apply to step one hearings as well as to step two hearings. Fourth, it revises Section 22.942(d) to require challenging applicants to file requests for waiver of step one hearings at the time they file their applications and to allow other parties to respond to those requests at the same time that petitions to deny any of the applications are filed, i.e., thirty days after the renewal applicant files its renewal expectancy showing. 4. In addition, the Further Reconsideration Order explained that unserved area applications or authorizations would play no role in the cellular renewal process, including the comparison of the proposed service areas of competing applicants. Further, since the Reconsideration Order ruled that relevant non-FCC misconduct will no longer be considered as part of a licensee's renewal expectancy showing, the Commission eliminated the language of Section 22.941(b)(4) of the Rules which required the disclosure of non-FCC misconduct as part of a licensee's renewal expectancy showing. Lastly, the Commission vacated the character reporting requirements set forth in footnote six of the Reconsideration Order, observing that the issue of what character reporting requirements should be imposed on cellular renewal applicants and other Part 22 applicants can best be resolved in a broad rulemaking proceeding and not on reconsideration of the cellular renewal rules. Ordering Clauses Accordingly, It Is Ordered that the rule changes made herein Will Become Effective sixty (60) days after publication in the Federal Register , and that the stay imposed by the Reconsideration Order on the effectiveness of §22.942 of the Rules is vacated. List of Subjects in 47 CFR Part 22 Communications common carriers, Domestic cellular radio telecommunications service, Radio, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Rural areas.
