FR941110-0-00079 FR941110-0-00016 Section 488.310␣Extended Surveys Comment: Several commenters advocated that HCFA mandate extended surveys and/or more frequent surveys (every 6 months) whenever a facility has a nurse staffing waiver. Commenters reasoned that requiring extended surveys would protect residents through the process of reviewing a facility's staffing, as required in sections 1819(g)(2)(B)(iii) and 1919(g)(2)(B)(iii) of the Act. One commenter raised the presumption that in the case of nurse staffing waivers, quality of care problems exist and need to be closely examined. Further, the commenters fundamentally questioned the legality of granting nurse staffing waivers because they believe it contradicts the statutory definition of a SNF and NF. Response: While we agree that facilities with nurse staffing waivers should be carefully examined to ensure sufficient staffing, we do not believe that conducting an extended survey is the only means available to do so. The standard survey, as described in the Appendix P of the State Operations Manual Transmittal No. 250, permits surveyors to expand the standard survey ``as needed'' for any reason without requiring an extended survey. Subpart I of the State Operations Manual, Appendix P, Section A states, ``If in conducting the information gathering tasks of the standard survey you identify a possible noncompliant situation related to any requirement, investigate the situation to determine whether the facility is in full compliance with the requirements.'' Therefore, surveyors could review facility staffing records during the standard survey to assure sufficient staffing. We wish to reserve the use of extended surveys to those circumstances in which we have found substandard quality of care. We are not accepting the commenters' suggestion that we require more frequent surveys for facilities with nurse staffing waivers. To do so would undermine the State survey agency's ability to choose survey intervals. We believe that the Congress intended State survey agencies to have the flexibility to choose the survey intervals. The law specifies that the interval between 2 successive standard surveys must not exceed 15 months and that the State survey agency must maintain no greater than a 12 month Statewide average for standard surveys. We do not address the comments regarding the legality of nurse staffing waivers. The requirements for nurse staffing waivers are outside of the purview of this rule and were included in a final rule published in the Federal Register on September 26, 1991 (56 FR 48826).
