FR940511-0-00038 FR940511-0-00015 Boundary Alternative 5 Comment: NOAA should choose boundary alternative 5 because: (1) Activities that are, or could occur, in the southern portion of the study area can affect the resources in the north; (2) The entire study area is ecologically connected; (3) The management needs are greatest in the south; (4) The sanctuary management regime would complement existing management initiatives (Willapa Bay watershed planning processes, Columbia and Snake River Salmon Recovery Planning, State National Heritage Plans); and (5) Expansion of the Sanctuary boundary in the future will be too time-consuming. Response: NOAA's preferred boundary alternative is based on an ecologically identifiable boundary. The northern and southern portions of the study area are distinct with respect to their coastal and offshore ecology. NOAA can protect Sanctuary resources from outside activities through the prohibition on discharges outside the Sanctuary boundary that enter and injure Sanctuary resources. NOAA will be involved in planning activities that could potentially threaten Sanctuary resources outside its boundary. The boundary can be expanded in the future if needed. Comment: NOAA should not choose boundary alternative 5 because it is not necessary to encompass the entire Washington coastline as a marine sanctuary, and it would eliminate any future development of the coastal areas. Response: NOAA agrees. See response to previous comment. Comment: A more detailed analysis of the impacts of sanctuary designation must be undertaken before seriously considering boundary alternative 5. Response: NOAA has undertaken an extensive analysis of the uses and ecology of the southern portion of the study area and believes that the ecologically sensitive estuarine environments are adequately protected. Alternative Boundary Suggestions Comment: NOAA should establish a series of smaller site-specific areas surrounding unique marine resources, such as ocean waters immediately adjacent to already protected terrestrial ecosystems such as wildlife refuges and the Olympic National Park. This alternative would afford sanctuary status to marine resources while maintaining provisions for compatible ocean uses. Response: NOAA disagrees. Smaller site-specific areas would not encompass an ecosystem for the reasons stated above. Further, designation of the marine sanctuary would allow for the continuation of pre-existing and compatible uses. Comment: NOAA's analysis of the resources within the study area identified the southern portion as highly important in terms of wildlife and fishery values, particularly the areas in and surrounding Willapa Bay. NOAA should consider modifying boundary alternative 4 by adding a satellite site encompassing the estuarine environment and the offshore waters of Willapa Bay. Response: NOAA's analysis confirmed that the estuarine areas in the southern portion of the study area are significant natural resources and that many of the resources utilize the waters off the northern coast as well. However, NOAA has determined that the estuarine ecosystems are distinct from the higher energy marine environment of the northern portion of the study area. In addition, the activities in, and adjacent to Grays Harbor are managed pursuant to an existing estuarine management plan promulgated pursuant to the Washington State Shorelands Management Act. The residents living in the watersheds of Willapa Bay are currently preparing an estuarine management plan. Comment: NOAA should consider the creation of a north and south Olympic Coast National Marine Sanctuary with separate but coordinated management regimes. Response: The Act requires the designation of one sanctuary on the Western Washington Outer Coast with the offshore Islands and coastal areas of the northern Olympic Peninsula as the core area of the sanctuary. In carrying out this mandate, NOAA examined the seaward, northerly, southerly, and easterly extent of the ecosystem that has as its core the intertidal communities of the outer coast. Comment: The boundary of the Sanctuary should be modified as further cetacean information is available. Response: NOAA can modify the boundary in the future, in accordance with the requirements of the MPRSA, the NEPA and the APA, as more information becomes available. Modification of the Western Boundary Comment: The outer boundary of the sanctuary should extend westward to a point that minimizes restrictions and needless re-routing of vessel traffic and harbor maintenance activities at the opening of Grays Harbor. To accomplish this objective, the outer limit of the sanctuary should be set at a distance between 2 and 10 miles from shore. Response: Sanctuary boundaries are not established based on vessel traffic routes, particularly because routes are subject to change. NOAA will work with existing regulatory agencies to minimize impacts. While vessel traffic is in the scope of sanctuary regulations, NOAA is not promulgating vessel traffic regulations at this time. Comment: The outer boundary should be established at either the 100 or 500 fathom isobath. Response: NOAA has established the boundary at the 100 fathom isobath because it is generally recognized to be the seaward extent of the continental shelf, the area where photosynthetic activity is greatest.
