FR940610-1-00053 FR940610-1-00008 The Department also notes that many commenters raised distinct issues within the four stated questions. For example, many commenters cited the need for vegetarian alternatives; others argued for inclusion of fast food companies in the NSLP, and several specific commodity issues were raised. Therefore, the Department has included an analysis of several of these issues in this preamble. Following are the more prevalent issues raised by the over 2,300 commenters and the number of commenters who addressed them: (1) Fat levels in school meals: 1,048; (2) The need for more fruits and vegetables: 829; (3) The importance of nutrition education: 794; (4) Concerns about milk and dairy products including the statutory requirement for whole milk and recommendations for a beverage substitute: 687; (5) The Department's Food Distribution Program and commodities: 493; (6) The costs and operational difficulties of implementing the Dietary Guidelines: 448; (7) The need for whole grains in school meals: 387; (8) Fast foods and fast food companies (both for and against availability in schools): 385; (9) Vegetarian alternatives for school meals: 263; (10) Sodium levels in school meals: 213; (11) The importance of breakfast: 200. Readers should note that while all comments were taken into consideration, this preamble does not generally discuss individual comments. The preamble does, however, address the common themes which emerged and responds to specific individual comments when they raised significant issues. Health Consequences Comments Close to 800 commenters addressed some issue relevant to health consequences and diet. The majority of commenters were from the public and the medical communities. Generally speaking, all of the commenters focused on the link between diet and disease, specifically, cardiovascular disease, obesity, and cancer. The majority of these commenters cited the high incidence of cardiovascular disease in the United States, both among children and adults, and the need to improve the diets of young children in order to prevent the development of heart disease in adulthood. Many commenters wrote in support of the positions taken by a number of major medical associations. These commenters focused on the importance of improving the diets of children, given the strong evidence that heart disease begins early in life, and emphasized the need to provide foods rich in fiber and complex carbohydrates for the possible prevention of some cancers.
