FR940906-1-00041 FR940906-1-00017 ␣ 1Species 1Proposed amendment 1Proponent 1Tentative U.S. position Mammalia Order Chiroptera: Acerodon jubatus (Golden-capped fruit bat) Transfer from II to I Philippines Support (1) Acerodon lucifer (Panay giant fruit bat) Transfer from II to I Philippines Support (1) Order Edentata: Euphractus spp. (Armadillos) Add to II Chile Oppose (2) Order Pholidota: Manis spp. (Pangolins) Add to II Switzerland Support (3) Manis temminckii (Cape pangolin) Transfer from I to II Switzerland Support (4) Order Rodentia: Chinchilla spp. (Chinchillas) Remove from I (domesticated specimens in South America) Chile Oppose (5) Order Cetacea: Balaenoptera acutorostrata (Minke whale) Transfer from I to II (Northeast Atlantic and the North Atlantic central stocks) Norway Oppose (6) Order Carnivora: Felis bengalensis bengalensis (Leopard cat) Transfer from I to II Switzerland Support (1) Hyaena brunnea (Brown hyaena) Transfer from I to II Switzerland Support (1) Coepatus spp. (Hog-nosed skunks) Add to II Chile Oppose (7) Ailurus fulgens (Red panda) Transfer from II to I Netherlands Support (1) Order Proboscidea: Loxodonta africana (African elephant) Transfer from I to II (South Africa's population) South Africa Under review (8a) Loxodonta africana (African elephant) Transfer from I to II Sudan Oppose (9) Order Perissodactyla: Ceratotherium simum simum (White rhinoceros) Transfer from I to II (South Africa's population) South Africa Oppose (8b) Order Artiodactyla: Megamuntiacus vuquanghensis (Giant muntjac) Add to I Vietnam Support (1) Pseudoryx nghetinhensis (Vu Quang Ox) Add to I Denmark Support (1) Vicugna vicugna (Vicuna) Transfer from I to II (remaining Peruvian Appendix I populations) Peru Oppose (10) Vicugna vicugna (Vicuna) Amend annotation for Appendix II populations to allow the trade in wool sheared from live vicuñas Chile Support (11) Hippopotamus amphibius (Hippopotamus) Add to II Belgium, Benin, and France Support (1) AVES Order Apterygiformes: Apteryx spp. (Kiwis) Add to I New Zealand Support (1,3) Order Tinamiformes: Rhynchotus rufescens maculicollis (Red-winged tinamou) Remove from II Uruguay Oppose (12) Rhynchotus rufescens pallescens (Southern red-winged tinamou) Remove from II Uruguay Oppose (12) Rhynchotus rufescens rufescens (Western red-winged tinamou) Remove from II Uruguay Oppose (12) Order Anseriformes: Anas aucklandica (currently listed as Anas aucklandica aucklandica ) Transfer from II to I New Zealand Support (13) Anas chlorotis (currently listed as Anas aucklandica chlorotis ) Transfer from II to I New Zealand Support (13) Anas nesiotis (currently listed as Anas aucklandica nesiotia ) Retain in I New Zealand Support (13) Order Galliformes: Xenoperdix udzungwensis (Udzangwa forest partridge) Add to I Denmark Oppose (2) Order Gruiformes: Balearica pavonina (Black-crowned crane) Transfer II to I Netherlands Oppose (2) Order Psittaciformes: Cacatua goffini (Goffin's cockatoo) Transfer from I to II Indonesia Oppose (14) Eos histrio (Red and blue lory) Transfer from II to I Indonesia Support (1) Cyanoramphus malherbi (Orange-fronted parakeet) Transfer from II to I New Zealand Support (15) Cyanoramphus novaezelandiae (New Zealand or Red-crowned parakeet) Transfer from I to II New Zealand Oppose (12) Psittacus erithacus (Sao Tome/Principe populations of African gray parrot) Retain in I in lieu of Psittacus erithacus princeps United Kingdom Support (1) Psittacus erithacus princeps (African gray parrot) Transfer from I to II United Kingdom Support (4) Order Cuculiformes: Musophagidae spp. (Turacos) Add to II Netherlands Support (3) Order Apodiformes: Collocalia spp. (Edible-nest swiftlets) Add to II Italy Support (1) Order Passeriformes: Agelaius flavus (Saffron-cowled blackbird) Add to I Uruguay Support (1) Reptilia Order Crocodylia: Melanosuchus niger (Black caiman) Transfer from I to II (Ecuador's population pursuant to Conf. 3.15 on ranching) Ecuador Support (16) Crocodylus niloticus (Nile crocodile) Change basis of maintenance of Malagasy population on II from Conf. 7.14 to Conf. 3.15 Madagascar Oppose (16) Crocodylus niloticus (Nile crocodile) Change basis of maintenance of South Africa's population on II from Conf. 7.14 to Conf. 3.15 South Africa Support (18) Crocodylus niloticus (Nile crocodile) Transfer from II to I (Madagascar and Somalia populations) Switzerland Support (19) Crocodylus niloticus (Nile crocodile) Maintain in II pursuant to Conf. 3.15, with export quota Tanzania Support (18) Crocodylus porosus (Saltwater crocodile) Change basis of maintenance of Indonesian population on II from Conf. 7.14 to Conf. 3.15 Indonesia Oppose (17) Crocodylus porosus (Saltwater crocodile) Transfer from II to I (Indonesian population) Switzerland Support (19) Crocodylus porosus (Saltwater crocodile) Change basis of maintenance of Australian population on II from Conf. 3.15 to Conf. 1.2 Australia Support (1) Order Testudinata: Lissemys punctata (Indian flap-shell turtle) Add to II Switzerland Support (1) Lissemys punctata punctata (Indian flap-shell turtle) Remove from I Switzerland Support (4,20) Terrapene spp. (Box turtles) Add to II (retain T. coahuila in I) Netherlands Support (21) Testudo kleinmanni (Egyptian tortoise) Transfer from II to I Egypt Support (22) Order Rhynchocephalia: Sphenodon spp. (Tuataras) or Sphenodon guntheri (Brother's Island tuatara) Add to I New Zealand Oppose (23) Order Sauria: Phymaturus flagellifer (Racerunner lizard) Add to II Chile Oppose (2) Pristidactylus alvarol Add to II Chile Support (1) Pristidactylus torquatus Add to II Chile Support (1) Pristidactylus valeriae Add to II Chile Support (1) Pristidactylus volcanensis Add to II Chile Support (1) Callopistes palluma Add to II Chile Support (22) Varanus bengalensis (Indian monitor) Transfer from I to II (Bangladesh population) Bangladesh Oppose (24) Varanus flavescens (Yellow monitor) Transfer from I to II (Bangladesh population) Bangladesh Oppose (24) Order Anura: Bufo periglenes (Monte Verde or Golden toad) Add to I Netherlands Support (25) Mantella aurantiaca (Malagasy golden frog) Add to I Netherlands and Germany Support (22) Order Osteoglossiformes: Scleropages formosus (Asian bonytongue) Transfer from II to I (Indonesian population) Indonesia Oppose (26) Scleropages formosus (Asian bonytongue) Transfer from II to I (Indonesian population) Switzerland Support (19) Order Mollusca: Charonia tritonis (Giant triton) Add to II Australia Support (1) Placostylus spp. (New Zealand flax snails) Add to II (New Zealand population) New Zealand Support (1) Powelliphanta spp. (New Zealand land snails) Add to II (New Zealand population) New Zealand Support (3) Class Insecta: Colophon spp. (Cape stag beetles) Add to I Netherlands Support (1) Order Arachnida: Pandinus dictator (Emperor scorpion) Add to II Ghana Support (3) Pandinus gambiensis (scorpion) Add to II Ghana Support (3) Pandinus imperator (scorpion) Add to II Ghana Support (22) Plants Family Apocynaceae: Pachypodium ambongense Transfer from II to I Madagascar & Switzerland Support (1) P. brevicaule Transfer from I to II Madagascar & Switzerland Support (2) P. namaquanum Transfer from I to II Switzerland Support (1) Family Araceae: Alocasia sanderiana Remove from II Switzerland Support (1) Family Balanophoraceae: Dactylanthus taylorii Add to I New Zealand Under review (27) Family Berberidaceae: Berberis aristata de Candolle Add to II India Support (28,2) Family Cactaceae: Astrophytum asterias Transfer from I to II Mexico & Switzerland Oppose (12) Leuchtenbergia principis Transfer from I to II Mexico & Switzerland Support (1) Mammilaria plumosa Transfer from I to II Mexico & Switzerland Support (2) Family Ebenaceae: Diospyros mun Add to II Germany Support (2) Family Euphorbiaceae: Euphorbia cremersii Transfer from II to I Madagascar & Switzerland Support (1) Euphorbia primulifolia Transfer from I to II Madagascar & Switzerland Oppose (29) Family Gentianaceae: Gentiana kurroo Add to II India Oppose (30,12,2) Family Leguminosae (Fabaceae): Dalbergia melanoxylon Add to II Germany; Kenya Support (1,2,31) Pterocarpus santalinus Add to II India Support (2) Family Liliaceae: Aloe albiflora Transfer from II to I Madagascar & Switzerland Support (1,2) Aloe alfredii Transfer from II to I Madagascar & Switzerland Support (1,2) Aloe bakeri Transfer from II to I Madagascar & Switzerland Support (1,2) Aloe barbadensis (syn. A. vera [ sic ]) Remove from II Switzerland Under review (33) Aloe bellatula Transfer from II to I Madagascar & Switzerland Support (1,2) Aloe calcairophila Transfer from II to I Madagascar & Switzerland Support (1,2) Aloe compressa (inc. var. rugosquamosa and var. schistophila ) Transfer from II to I Madagascar & Switzerland Support (1,2) Aloe delphinensis Transfer from II to I Madagascar & Switzerland Support (1,2) Aloe descoinqsii Transfer from II to I Madagascar & Switzerland Support (1,2) Aloe fragilis Transfer from II to I Madagascar & Switzerland Support (1,2) Aloe haworthioides (inc. var. aurantiaca ) Transfer from II to I Madagascar & Switzerland Support (1,2) Aloe helenae Transfer from II to I Madagascar & Switzerland Support (1,2) Aloe laeta (inc. var. maniensis ) Transfer from II to I Madagascar & Switzerland Support (1,2) Aloe parallelifolia Transfer from II to I Madagascar & Switzerland Support (1,2) Aloe parvula Transfer from II to I Madagascar & Switzerland Support (1,2) Aloe rauhii Transfer from II to I Madagascar & Switzerland Support (1,2) Aloe suzannae Transfer from II to I Madagascar & Switzerland Support (1,2) Aloe versicolor Transfer from II to I Madagascar & Switzerland Support (1,2) Colchicum luteum Add to II India Oppose (30,12,2) Family Meliaceae: Entrandrophragma spp Add to II Germany Support (1,2,32) Khaya spp Add to II Germany Support (1,2,32) Swietenia macrophylla incl. natural hybrid with S. humilis, and sic with S. mahagoni Add to II Netherlands Under review (34) Family Orchidaceae: Cattleya skinneri Transfer from I to II Switzerland & Mexico Support (1) Cypripedium cordigerum Transfer from II to I India Oppose (30,12) Cypripedium elegans Transfer from II to I India Oppose (30,12) Cypripedium himalaicum Transfer from II to I India Oppose (30,12) Cypripedium tibeticum Transfer from II to I India Oppose (30) Dendrobium cruentum Transfer from II to I Thailand Support (2,32) Didiciea cunninghamii Transfer from I to II Switzerland Support (1) Lycaste skinneri (var. alba ) Transfer from I to II Switzerland & Mexico Support (1) Family Polygonaceae: Rheum australe Add to II India Oppose (30,12,2) Family Ranunculaceae: Aconitum deinorrhizum Add to II India Oppose (2) Aconitum ferox Add to II India Oppose (2) Aconitum heterophyllum Add to II India Oppose (2) Coptis teeta Add to II India Support (2) Family Rosaceae: Prunus africana Add to II Kenya Support (1,2) Family Scrophulariaceae: Picrorhiza kurrooa Add to II India Oppose (30,12,2) Family Taxaceae: Taxus wallichiana Add to II India Support (2) Family Theaceae: Camellia chrysantha Remove from II Switzerland Support (1) Family Thymelaeaceae: Aguilaria malaccensis (syn. A. agallocha ) Add to II India Support (2) Family Valerianaceae: Nardostachys grandiflora Add to II India Oppose (30,12,2) 1 Parts and Derivatives Proposal with respect to Appendix II plant taxa replace the standard exclusions: ``tissue cultures and flasked seedling cultures'' with ``seedlings or tissue cultures obtained in vitro in sterile culture media, either liquid or solid, transported in containers commonly used for this type of cultures, with different shapes and made of different materials'' Germany Support 1The listing, uplisting, downlisting, or delisting of the taxon, as proposed, appears to be justified by the biological status and trade information in the proposal or currently available to the Service. 2Limited population status and trade information is given, but the United States will give strong consideration to the positions of range State(s). 3The listing of this taxon, as proposed, appears to be justified by the trade information and/or the similarity of appearance concern. 4Although this proposal was not formerly submitted pursuant to the ten-year review resolution for downlisting, this proposal appears to be justified under such provisions. 5These species of chinchilla occurring in South America are presently listed in Appendix I and are classified as rare, vulnerable or endangered by IUCN. Complete removal of protection for captive-bred forms of these species potentially places wild populations at risk. However, a downlisting of the captive populations in South America to Appendix II may be appropriate. 6The United States continues to support the 1978 request from the International Whaling Commission (IWC) to take all possible measures to support the IWC ban on commercial whaling for certain species and stocks of whales and therefore opposes the transfer of the minke whale from Appendix I to II. 7Trade information considered insufficient, and trade of species occurring in the United States does not appear to warrant listing the entire genus. Five species identified in Mammals Checklist of the World by Wilson and Reeder (1993) including two, C. leuconotus and C. mesoleucus, that occur in southwestern part of the United States. 8 a The Service believes that in order for the African countries to maintain sustainable populations of African elephants, the people in those countries must realize both consumptive and nonconsumptive benefits from this natural resource. The proposal as written, however, does not obligate South Africa to obtain approval from the CITES Parties before trading in ivory after COP10, and the United States does not support reopening the ivory trade. A Panel of Experts established under the provisions of resolution Conf. 7.9 is reviewing in-country trade controls. The U.S. will develop its position after receipt of the Panel's report. 8 b This proposal would allow legal trade in rhino horn products, albeit with strict in-country controls, and such trade is premature until illegal trade is under control. 9This proposal does not meet trade control provisions outlined in resolution Conf. 7.9. 10The Service is concerned that no information has been presented to show that the vicuna populations on Appendix II have benefited from the harvest now proposed for all populations. The Service is also concerned about a request in the proposal to market internationally both wool from live vicunas and wool from warehoused stocks. No trade controls such as those proposed by Chile are proposed to ensure that illegal wool does not enter trade. 11Export of fiber and reimport of processed fiber could be monitored to control inclusion of illegal fiber in any significant amount. No downlisting of Appendix I populations is proposed, as with the Peruvian proposal. 12The population-status information is not sufficient to warrant the listing, uplisting, downlisting, or delisting as proposed. 13These entities are listed as a single species Anas nesiotas in CITES-adopted checklist and the subspecies Anas aucklandica nesiotas is already on Appendix I. Consider recommendation of the Nomenclature Committee as to whether to list as a single or as three species. 14The Service is concerned with the methodology used in the study on which this proposal is based and understands that this study is being reviewed by IUCN peer group. 15While the biological status and trade information supports this proposal, the ``species'' is considered to be a color morph of C. auriceps in the CITES-adopted checklist. Therefore, consider the recommendation of the Nomenclature Committee. 16While the Service has a tentative position to support this proposal, the final position will depend in part upon the proponent providing specific procedures and regulations for licensing and inspection commitments and specific details for long-term population monitoring program. 17The Service remains concerned about the management and enforcement, including but not limited to the considerations presented in footnote 18a. 18 a The transfer of certain crocodilian populations from Appendix I to II was proposed pursuant to Conf. 3.15 (ranching) or Conf. 7.4 (export quota). The Service's initial support of these proposals is contingent upon assurance that (1) annual reports are being regularly filed with the CITES Secretariat by the proponent, (2) there is an adequate basis to monitor the status of wild populations, (3) animals will be returned to the wild in numbers as appropriate, and (4) there is an implementable limit on the harvest of wild juveniles and adults. 18 b The Service supports continuation of Appendix II listing under Conf. 3.15 but opposes expansion of wild harvest quotas beyond currently authorized levels without additional justification. 19Switzerland, as depository government, proposed the transfer from Appendix II to I of those species that were downlisted from Appendix I to II under the provisions of Conf. 7.14. If ranching or export quota proposals are adopted by the Parties, Switzerland will withdraw its proposal for those populations. 20Support for this proposal is conditioned upon the inclusion of the entire species L. punctata in Appendix II. 21The United States submitted a similar proposal for this genus, but was able to include more recent information in its proposal, a copy of which is available from either the Office of Management Authority or Office of Scientific Authority. 22Support for this proposal is based on trade levels and the historical effects of trade on other populations or the reproductive characteristics of the species. However, the Service will consider any new population information. 23The Service considers this species to be included in Appendix I already, based on the present listing. The report of the Nomenclature Committee supports this position, and, if adopted, will render the New Zealand proposal redundant. Should another species of tuatara be described, adding S. guntheri would add confusion to any listing of all tuataras on Appendix I. 24Although this is proposed as a tentative transfer to Appendix II until the next COP, the Service's position has been not to support the commercial sale of confiscated specimens of Appendix I species. 25The Service would support listing of this taxon in Appendix I on the basis of resolution Conf. 2.19 (i.e., due to the taxon's rarity, and because any trade in this taxon would be detrimental). 26Malaysia has had a captive breeding facility registered for this species in accordance with Article VII paragraph 4 and pursuant to resolution Conf. 8.15. Indonesia is proposing to register similar facilities but to date these have not been accepted by the CITES Secretariat. In the absence of the registration of one or more facilities in Indonesia, this proposal by Indonesia would preclude commercial trade in this species. Therefore, Indonesia may wish to consider modifying their proposal to continue the present downlisting to Appendix II pursuant to Conf. 7.14 with an export quota. 27The trade concern is the export of the ``wood-rose,'' which may or may not be legally included under CITES by listing Dactylanthus taylorii, because the ``wood-rose'' is tissue of various common host trees or shrubs that has been wholly transformed by the action of D. taylorii. 28Berberis aristata of authors not de Candolle= B. chitria (and/or B. floribunda ). 29The downlisting of this taxon appears to be unjustified, because of similarity-of-appearance concerns for the remaining dwarf taxa of subgenus Lacanthis. 30Trade information considered insufficient. 31The United States would want this proposal amended to exclude musical instruments. This species is often called African blackwood; although in the proposal one of the common names mentioned is African ebony, true ebony including African ebony normally are regarded to be species of Diospyros. 32The listing of this taxon appears to be justified; similarity-of-appearance also is a concern. 33The proposal is in error in not treating Aloe barbadensis as a synonym of Aloe vera. The parts and derivatives of artificially propagated Aloe vera already are not regulated by CITES. The Service is considering whether artificially propagated whole plants of Aloe vera can be dealt with in a better way, without putting wild Aloe taxa at increased risk. 34The United States expects to receive information regarding this species and its trade at a meeting of the Linnean Society on September 8, 1994. Information from range States and import data are also being sought and considered. Note that hybrids between Swietenia macrophylla and S. mahagoni are spontaneous but are not natural hybrids in terms of Resolution Conf. 2.13; they sometimes occur where S. macrophylla has been introduced by people into proximity with S. mahagoni. If the United States were to support this proposal, it would want it amended to exclude parts and derivatives other than saw logs, sawn wood, veneer sheets, and perhaps plywood sheets.
