FR940202-2-00079 FR940202-2-00058 SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION [Release No. 34&hyph;33524; File Nos. SR&hyph;MCC&hyph;93&hyph;4 and SCCP&hyph;93&hyph;03] Self-Regulatory Organizations; Midwest Clearing Corporation and Stock Clearing Corporation of Philadelphia, Notice of Filing and Order Granting Accelerated Approval of Proposed Rule Changes Relating to the Establishment of Interfaces With the National Securities Clearing Corporation's Fixed Income Transaction System January 26, 1994. Pursuant to Section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act''), 1 notice is hereby given that on August 23, 1993, and October 15, 1993, respectively, the Midwest Clearing Corporation (``MCC'') and the Stock Clearing Corporation of Philadelphia (``SCCP'') filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``Commission'') the proposed rule changes as described in Items I and II below, which Items have been prepared primarily by MCC and SCCP. The Commission is publishing this notice and order to solicit comments from interested persons and to grant accelerated approval of the proposed rule changes. 1 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1) (1988). I. Self-Regulatory Organizations' Statement of the Terms of Substance of the Proposed Rule Changes MCC and SCCP each propose to establish an interface with National Securities Clearing Corporation's (``NSCC'') recently approved Fixed Income Transaction System (``FITS'') which is designed to achieve higher rates of trade comparison at earlier times in the municipal securities comparison process. 2 2 For a detailed discussion of the various legal, regulatory, and operational issues of FITS, refer to Securities Exchange Act Release No. 32747 (August 13, 1993), 58 FR 44530 [File No. SR&hyph;NSCC&hyph;93&hyph;02] (order approving proposed rule change). II. Self-Regulatory Organizations' Statement on the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Changes In its filing with the Commission, MCC and SCCP included statements concerning the purpose of and basis for the proposed rule changes and discussed any comments they received on the proposed rule changes. The text of these statements may be examined at the places specified in Item IV below. MCC and SCCP have prepared summaries, set forth in section (A), (B), and (C) below, of the most significant aspects of such statements. A. Self-Regulatory Organizations' Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Changes Under the proposed rule filings, MCC and SCCP each will implement procedures to establish an interface with NSCC's FITS to enable MCC and SCCP participants to take advantage of the improved input and comparison features of FITS. It should be noted that all trade comparison will be conducted at NSCC and not at either MCC or SCCP. MCC and SCCP are required by NSCC to submit two-side original trade input information on behalf of their respective participants to NSCC by 2 a.m. on the business day after trade date (``T+1''). 3 NSCC will transmit a comparison report to MCC and SCCP reflecting the compared trades of their respective participants early on the morning of T+1 so that MCC and SCCP can produce contract reports for their own participants. 4 MCC's and SCCP's interfaces with NSCC will enable their participants to take full advantage of the features and benefits offered by FITS. 5 3 MCC has set a deadline of midnight central standard time (``c.s.t.'') on T for its participants to submit trade information to MCC. SCCP has set a deadline of 1 a.m. eastern standard time (``e.s.t.'') on T for its participants to submit trade information to SCCP. 4 MCC will provide contract reports to MCC participants by 6 a.m. c.s.t., and SCCP will provide contract reports to SCCP participants by 8 a.m. e.s.t. 5 For a detailed discussion of the benefits of FITS, refer to Securities Exchange Act Release No. 32747, supra note 2. B. Self-Regulatory Organizations' Statement on Burden on Competition MCC and SCCP do not believe a burden will be placed on competition as a result of the proposed rule changes. C. Self-Regulatory Organizations' Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Changes Received From Members, Participants or Others No comments were received. III. Date of Effectiveness of the Proposed Rule Changes and Timing for Commission Action Section 17A(a)(2)(A) of the Act directs the Commission to facilitate a national system for the prompt and accurate clearance and settlement of securities transactions. 6 Because the interfaces enable MCC and SCCP participants to utilize FITS with all its benefits, the Commission believes, for all the reasons set forth in the FITS approval order, 7 that the proposed rule changes filed by MCC and SCCP further this goal. 6 15 U.S.C. 78q&hyph;1(a)(2)(A) (i) and (ii). 7 Supra note 2. MCC and SCCP have requested that the Commission find good cause for approving the proposed rule changes prior to the thirtieth day after the date of publication of notice of the filing. The Commission finds good cause for so approving the proposed rule change because the Commission has previously published notice of and has approved NSCC's implementation of the system. 8 NSCC's proposed rule change did not generate any comment letters, and none are expected on MCC's and SCCP's proposals. Furthermore, MCC and SCCP filed the proposed rule changes implementing the interfaces with FITS subsequent to the interfaces becoming operational. 8 Supra note 2. IV. Solicitation of Comments Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views, and arguments concerning the foregoing. Persons making written submissions should file six copies thereof with the Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of the submissions, all subsequent amendments, all written statements with respect to the proposed rule change that are filed with the Commission, and all written communications relating to the proposed rule change between the Commission and any person, other than those that may be withheld from the public in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552, will be available for inspection and copying in the Commission's Public Reference Section, 450 Fifth Street NW., Washington, DC 20549, and at the principal offices of MCC and SCCP. All submissions should refer to File Nos. SR&hyph;MCC&hyph;93&hyph;04 and SR&hyph;SCCP&hyph;93&hyph;03 and should be submitted by February 23, 1994. It is therefore ordered, pursuant to Section 19(b)(2) of the Act, 9 that the proposed rule changes (File Nos. SR&hyph;MCC&hyph;93&hyph;04 and SR&hyph;SCCP&hyph;93&hyph;03) be, and hereby are, approved. 9 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(2). For the Commission by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. 10 10 17 CFR 200.30&hyph;3(a)(12) (1992). Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;2319 Filed 2&hyph;1&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
