FR940325-1-00106 FR940325-1-00008 55. Section 4150.1 is amended by designating the second sentence as paragraph (b) and adding a new paragraph (a) following the undesignated first sentence to read as follows: §4150.1 Violations. * * * * * (a) The authorized officer shall determine whether a violation is nonwillful, willful, or repeated willful. * * * * * 56. Section 4150.2 is amended by redesignating paragraphs (a) and (b) as (b) and (c), respectively, and adding a new paragraph (a) and (d) to read as follows: §4150.2 Notice and order to remove. (a) Whenever a violation has been determined to be nonwillful and incidental, and the owner of the unauthorized livestock, or agent, is known, the authorized officer shall notify the alleged violator that a violation has been reported, that the violation must be corrected, and how it can be settled, based upon the discretion of the authorized officer. * * * * * (d) The authorized officer may temporarily close areas to grazing by specified kinds or class of livestock for a period not to exceed 12 months when necessary to abate unauthorized grazing use. Such notices of closure may be issued as final decisions effective upon issuance or on the date specified in the decision and shall remain in effect pending the decision on appeal unless a stay is granted by the Office of Hearings and Appeals in accordance with 43 CFR 4.21. 57. Section 4150.3 is amended by removing the first sentence and revising the sentence following the new first sentence of the introductory text, revising paragraph (a), and removing the quotation mark, semicolon, and the word ``and'' at the end of paragraph (c) to read as follows: §4150.3 Settlement. *␣*␣* The amount due for settlement shall include the value of forage consumed as determined in accordance with paragraph (a), (b), or (c) of this section. *␣*␣* (a) For nonwillful violations: The value of forage consumed as determined by the average monthly rate per AUM for pasturing livestock on privately owned land (excluding irrigated land) for the 17 western States as published annually by the Department of Agriculture. The authorized officer may approve nonmonetary settlement of unauthorized use only when the authorized officer determines that each of the following conditions is satisfied: (1) Evidence shows that the unauthorized use occurred through no fault of the livestock operator; (2) The forage use is insignificant; (3) the public lands have not been damaged; and (4) Nonmonetary settlement is in the best interest of the United States. * * * * * Subpart 4160_Administrative Remedies 58. Section 4160.1 is revised to read as follows: §4160.1 Proposed decisions. (a) Proposed decisions shall be served on any affected applicant, permittee or lessee, and any agent and lien holder of record, who is affected by the proposed actions, terms or conditions, or modifications relating to applications, permits and agreements (including range improvement permits) or leases, by certified mail or personal delivery. Copies of proposed decisions shall also be sent to the interested public. (b) Proposed decisions shall state the reasons for the action and shall reference the pertinent terms, conditions and the provisions of applicable regulations. As appropriate, decisions shall state the alleged violations of specific terms and conditions and provisions of these regulations alleged to have been violated, and shall state the amount due under §4130.7 and §4150.3 and the action to be taken under §4170.1. (c) The authorized officer may elect not to issue a proposed decision prior to a final decision where the authorized officer has made a determination in accordance with §4110.3&hyph;3(b) or §4150.2(d). 59. Section 4160.3 is amended by removing from paragraph (b) the words ``on other affected interests'' and adding in their place the words ``the interested public'', revising paragraphs (a) and (c), and adding new paragraphs (d), (e), and (f) to read as follows: §4160.3 Final decisions.
