FR941222-0-00039 FR941222-0-00003 Response. The NRC reviewed potential issues related to possible radiological sabotage of storage casks at reactor site ISFSIs in the 1990 rulemaking that added Subparts K and L to 10 CFR Part 72 (55 FR 29181; July 18, 1990). NRC regulations in 10 CFR Part 72 establish physical protection and security requirements for an ISFSI located within the owner controlled area of a licensed power reactor site. Spent fuel in the ISFSI is required by 10 CFR 72.212(b)(5) to be protected against the design basis threat for radiological sabotage using provisions and requirements as specified in 72.212(b)(5). Each utility licensed to have an ISFSI at its reactor site is required to develop security plans and install a security system that provides high assurance against unauthorized activities that could constitute an unreasonable risk to the public health and safety. The security systems at an ISFSI and its associated reactor are similar in design features to ensure the detection and assessment of unauthorized activities. Alarm annunciations at the ISFSI are monitored by the security alarm stations at the reactor site. Response to intrusion is required. Each ISFSI is periodically inspected by NRC and annually audited by the licensee to ensure that the security systems are operating within their design limits. The validity of the threat is continually reviewed, with a formal evaluation every six months by the NRC. The NRC is currently conducting a study into the consequences of a vehicle bomb detonated in the vicinity of an ISFSI. Following completion of this study the NRC will make a determination as to whether additional physical protection is warranted. In the interim, the NRC staff believes that the inherent nature of the fuel, along with the degree of protection provided by the approved storage means for spent fuel, provides adequate protection against a vehicle bomb. N.2. Comment. One commenter wanted the emergency plan updated to include initiating events caused by unnatural occurrences, such as sabotage, particularly for this fuel storage option. The commenter believes that the NRC should determine if upgraded or new security barriers are necessary for the David-Besse site. Response. Under 10 CFR 72.212 requirements, each general licensee must protect the spent fuel against the design basis threat of radiological sabotage. Also, 10 CFR 72.212 requires each general licensee to review the reactor emergency plan to determine whether its effectiveness is decreased, and if so, to prepare the necessary changes and obtain the necessary approvals. Therefore, the comment is already essentially incorporated into NRC regulations. O. Several commenters had fabrication, quality assurance, and inspection concerns. O.1. Comment. One commenter raised questions about NRC oversight and requirements for proper cask fabrication by licensees. This is based on tests of the faulty welds at the Palisades plant conducted in July 1994 just before the cask was filled, but the test was not reviewed. Response. The ultimate responsibility to ensure proper cask fabrication belongs to the user of the cask. Each Part 50 licensee (general licensee) must have its own quality assurance (QA) program in place to oversee vendor activities. The QA requirements apply to design, purchase, fabrication, handling, inspection, testing, operation, maintenance, repair, modifications of structures, systems and components, and decommissioning that are important to safety. In addition, certified cask vendors have NRC-approved QA programs that control the implementation of these quality activities in a manner appropriate to the safety significance of these activities. In turn, the general licensee reviews, approves, and oversees its vendor's QA programs and activities. The NRC inspects both the general licensee and the subtiered vendors for compliance with the respective QA program requirements and for the adequacy of the activities performed. The faulty welds at Palisades in a loaded cask happened because the radiographs were not read initially. If the radiographs were read in a timely manner, the cask should not have been loaded without corrective action first being taken. NRC oversight and involvement in the process contributed to timely detection of the defective cask weld. O.2. Comment. One commenter wants clarification of the quality assurance program. NRC should have a regulatory guide for vendors with strong criteria for audits and subcontractors, and NRC inspection reports of fabricating facilities need to be put in the PDR. How will a subcontractor of NUHOMS vendor be checked by NRC in the future? If a vendor is going to continuously change subcontractors, the NRC should inspect each cask and carefully inspect the vendor QA manual.
