FR940930-2-00171 FR940930-2-00059 VII. Notification of Designation/Nondesignation The Grant Officer will make the final designation decision giving consideration to the following factors: the review panel's recommendation, in those instances where a panel is convened; input from DINAP, the Office of Special Targeted Programs, the DOL Employment and Training Administration's Office of Grant and Contracts Management and Office of Management Services, and the DOL Office of the Inspector General; and any other available information regarding the organization's financial and operational capability, and responsibility. The Grant Officer's decisions will be provided to all applicants by March 1, 1995, as follows: (1) Designation Letter. The designation letter signed by the Grant Officer will serve as official notice of an organization's designation. The letter will include the geographic service area for which the designation is made. It should be noted that the Grant Officer is not required to adhere to the geographical service area requested in the Final Notice of Intent. The Grant Officer may make the designation applicable to all of the area requested, a portion of the area requested, or if acceptable to the designee, more than the area requested. (2) Conditional Designation Letter. Conditional designations will include the nature of the conditions, the actions required to be finally designated and the time frame for such actions to be accomplished. (3) Nondesignation Letter. Any organization not designated, in whole or in part, for a geographic service area requested will be notified formally of the Nondesignation and given the basic reasons for the determination. An applicant for designation that is refused such designation, in whole or in part, may file a Petition for Reconsideration in accordance with 20 CFR 632.13, and subsequently, may appeal the Nondesignation to an administrative law judge under the provisions of 20 CFR Part 636. If an area is not designated for service through the foregoing process, alternative arrangements for service will be made in accordance with 20 CFR 632.12. VIII. Special Designation Situations (1) Alaskan Native Entities. DOL has established geographic service areas for Alaskan Native employment and training based on the following: (a) The boundaries of the regions defined in the Alaskan Native Claims Settlement Act (ANCSA); (b) the boundaries of major subregional areas where the primary provider of human resource development related services is an Indian Reorganization Act (IRA)-recongnized tribal council, and (c) the boundaries of one Federal reservation in the State. Within these established geographic service areas, DOL will designate the primary Alaskan Native-controlled human resource development services provider or an entity formally designated by such provider. In the past, these entities have been regional nonprofit corporations, IRA-recognized tribal councils and the tribal government of the Metlakatla Indian Community. DOL intends to follow these principles in designating Native American Grantees in Alaska for Program Years 1995 and 1996. (2) Oklahoma Indians. DOL has established a service delivery system for Indian employment and training programs in Oklahoma based on a preference for Oklahoma Indians to serve portions of the State. Generally, geographic service areas have been designated geographically as countywide areas. In cases in which a significant portion of the land area of an individual county lies within traditional jurisdiction of more than one tribal government, the service area has been subdivided to a certain extent on the basis of tribal identification information in the most recent Federal Decennial Census of Population. Wherever possible, arrangements mutually satisfactory to grantees in adjoining or overlapping geographic service areas have been honored by DOL. DOL intends to follow these principles in designating Native American grantees in Oklahoma for Program Years 1995 and 1996 to preserve continuity and prevent unnecessary fragmentation. IX. Designation Process Glossary In order to ensure that all interested parties have the same understanding of the process, the following definitions are provided: (1) Indian or Native American-Controlled Organization. This is defined as any organization with a governing board, more than 50 percent of whose members are Indians or Native Americans. Such an organization can be a tribal government, Native Alaskan or Native Hawaiian entity, consortium, or public or private nonprofit agency. For the purpose of hierarchy determinations, the governing board must have decision-making authority for the section 401 program. (2) Service Area. This is defined as the geographic area described as States, counties, and/or reservations for which a designation is made. In some cases, it will also show the specific population to be served. The service area is defined by the Grant Officer in the formal designation letter. Grantees must ensure that all eligible population members have equitable access to employment and training services within the service area. (3) Community Support. This is evidence of active participation and/or endorsement from Indian or Native American-controlled organizations within the geographic service area for which designation is requested. While applicants are not precluded from submitting attestations of support from individuals, the business community, State and local government offices, and community organizations that are not Indian or Native American-controlled, they should be aware that such endorsements do not meet DOL's definitional criteria for community support. Signed at Washington, DC, this 26th day of September 1994. Thomas M. Dowd, Chief, Division of Indian and Native American Programs. Paul A. Mayrand, Director, Office of Special Targeted Programs. James C. Deluca, Grant Officer, Office of Grants and Contracts Management, Division of Acquisition and Assistance. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;24183 Filed 9&hyph;29&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4510&hyph;30&hyph;M
