FR940106-1-00032 FR940106-1-00008 III.C.10. (formerly C.12.) is proposed to be amended by removing the requirement that, when leaks are detected, the meter setting shall be determined and recorded ``as found,'' and ``as left'' after the meter is calibrated. This part of the existing requirement is duplicated by the linearity test in requirement III.D.3. of the proposed Order. III.C.13. in the existing Order would be removed in the proposed Order because it is duplicated by the linearity test in requirement III.D.3. of the proposed Order. III.C.11. (formerly C.21.) would be amended by revising the corrective action to provide for the submittal of a report to BLM. The form called for in existing requirement C.21. is now submitted to the Minerals Management Service, not to the BLM. Under the proposed rule, the operator would be required to submit a report to the BLM showing what corrections were made. III.D.1. (formerly C.7.) would be amended by removing the provision allowing consideration of a variance for sales or allocation meters measuring between 200 and 500 Mcf per day. This provision duplicates the general provision for a variance under Article IV. of the Order. The requirement for the use of an indicating thermometer would be removed because when using an indicating thermometer the temperature is not a true average flowing temperature. All meters measuring more than 100 Mcf per day are required to have a temperature recorder. Meters measuring 100 Mcf per day or less are required to use either a temperature recorder or an average flowing temperature. III.D.2. (new) would ensure that the accuracy of the temperature recording device is maintained. III.D.3. (formerly C.15.) would be amended for clarification and to require the recording of readings before and after adjustments are made. The words ``of the element range'' would be added to make it clear what the 0 and 100 percent refer to. III.D.4. (new) would be added to require calibration equipment to be more accurate than the equipment being calibrated. If the testing equipment is not more accurate than the equipment being calibrated, the inherent uncertainty in the metering equipment increases. III.D.5. (new) would be added to require documentation of the certification or recertification of calibration equipment to be available to the authorized officer at the time of calibration. III.D.6. (formerly C.17.) would be amended to allow meters that measure 100 Mcf or less per day to be inspected and calibrated semiannually rather than quarterly. Experience has shown that quarterly inspections and calibrations of meters measuring such low volumes are neither cost effective nor necessary to assure an acceptable degree of accuracy. III.D.7. (formerly C.18.) would be amended to require operators to notify the authorized officer of the BLM well in advance of calibrations to enable the planning of inspections. III.D.8. (formerly C.19.) would be amended by changing the reference to ``measuring equipment'' to ``recording device'' to conform with changes in other requirements. The current Order requires that an adjustment be made whenever a volume error of 2 percent or greater occurs. It is proposed to change this standard to ``more than 1 percent'' because volume errors of less than 2 percent on higher volume wells are very significant. However, in most instances, it will be the policy of the BLM not to pursue volume errors of less than 200 Mcf per month, because the cost of doing so would exceed the value of any additional royalty that might result. The requirement that the meter be adjusted to zero error would be removed because this is part of the linearity test requirement in Section III.D.3. For the sake of simplicity, the abatement period would be stated as 60 days only rather than also stating the alternative ``prior to completion of calibration.'' III.D.10. would be added combining several requirements from the existing Order, as explained below. III.D.10.a. (formerly C.4.) would be revised to clarify what is meant by the outer 2/3 of the chart range. Also, the reference to sizing the orifice would be removed because doing so is not the only alternative available to the operator to maintain the differential pen in the outer 2/3 of the chart.
