FR940324-2-00056 FR940324-2-00039 The applicant must agree that the services provided will conform to the assurances and agreements required under the statute that: •The applicant will participate in an HIV care consortium established pursuant to part B, title XXVI, if such a consortium exists. •Hemophilia services will be provided through the network of regional comprehensive hemophilia diagnostic and treatment centers. •The applicant will ensure confidentiality of patient information. •Testing will be provided only after obtaining a statement that the testing is done after counseling has been conducted and that the decision of the individual to undergo testing is voluntarily made. •Opportunities for anonymous testing will be provided. •Individuals seeking services will not have to undergo testing as a condition of receiving other health services. •A sliding fee schedule with the limits established in the statute will be utilized. •Funds will not be expended for services covered, or which could reasonably be expected to be covered, under any State compensation program, insurance policy, or under any Federal or State health benefits program, or by an entity that provides health services on a prepaid basis. •Funds will be expended only for the purposes awarded, and such procedures for fiscal control and fund-accounting, as may be necessary, will be established. •Counseling programs shall be designed to reduce exposure to, and transmission of HIV disease by providing accurate information; and shall provide information on the health risks of promiscuous sexual activity and injecting drug use. •A limit of 5 percent of the grant funds will be imposed for administrative expenses. Funds may not be expended for construction, inpatient care, residential care, or cash payments to recipients of services. •The HIV Client and Program Profile, which has been formally established as the Minimum Data Set (MDS) for BPHC, will be submitted every 6 months. (Approved under the Paperwork Reduction Act, OMB No. 0915&hyph;0158.) Criteria for Evaluation New and Competing Continuation Applications In its review of applications for new and competing continuation projects, BPHC will consider: •The need in the community, based on the 2-year period preceding the proposed grant period, for additional preventive and primary care services to those at risk for HIV infection, including women, children, and minorities, and to persons with HIV infection; barriers to meeting those needs within the existing service provider system; and other information (e.g., epidemiological and health resources data) that makes a compelling case for the grant requested as specified in Section 2653 of the PHS Act. •The applicant's ability to describe its role within the community in addressing the unmet needs for delivery of HIV primary care services to the targeted populations. •The degree to which the proposed budget is appropriate to the program plan and the degree to which coordination with other funding sources is documented. •Comprehensiveness of the existing, plus proposed, scope of counseling and testing, referral, primary care prevention, diagnostic and treatment services, and optional outreach, case management, or eligibility assistance services provided by the applicant; and development of mechanisms to assure continuity of primary care for persons living with HIV infection. •Extent to which actions taken assure effective collaboration with city/county/State health department HIV prevention activities supported by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, and with State Care Consortia funded under Section 2613 of the PHS Act; extent to which efforts are consistent with priorities of the HIV Planning Council in the cities funded under Title XXVI of the PHS Act, and with programs funded by other PHS agencies. •The adequacy and completeness of the program evaluation plan, and the relationship of the evaluation plan to the goals and objectives of the proposed program, so that effectiveness can be measured.
