FR940119-0-00056 FR940119-0-00014 (d) Information requirements. An applicant must provide at least all the following information and any other information required by the Regional Director: name, mailing address, and telephone number; date of birth; hair color; eye color; height; weight; social security number (optional) and signature of the applicant. The applicant must also provide two color passport size photographs. (e) Fees. The Regional Director may charge a fee to recover the administrative expense of issuing a permit required under this section. The amount of the fee is calculated in accordance with the procedures of the NOAA Financial Handbook for determining the administrative costs of each special product or service. The fee may not exceed such costs and is specified with each application form. The appropriate fee must accompany each application; if it does not, the application will be considered incomplete for purposes of paragraph (f) of this section. (f) Issuance. Except as provided in subpart D of 15 CFR part 904, the Regional Director shall issue an operator's permit within 30 days of receipt of a completed application if the criteria specified herein are met. Upon receipt of an incomplete or improperly executed application, the Regional Director will notify the applicant of the deficiency in the application. If the applicant fails to correct the deficiency within 30 days following the date of notification, the application will be considered abandoned. (g) Expiration. A permit will expire upon the renewal date specified in the permit. (h) Duration. A permit is valid until it is revoked, suspended, or modified under 15 CFR part 904, or otherwise expires, or the applicant has failed to report a change in the information on the permit application to the Regional Director as specified in paragraph (k) of this section. (i) Replacement. Replacement permits, for otherwise valid permits, may be issued by the Regional Director when requested in writing by the applicant, stating the need for replacement and the Federal operator permit number assigned. An applicant for a replacement permit must also provide two color passport size photos of the applicant. An application for a replacement permit will not be considered a new application. An appropriate fee may be charged. (j) Transfer. Permits issued under this part are not transferable or assignable. A permit is valid only for the person to whom it is issued. (k) Change in application information. Notice of a change in the permit holder's name, address, or telephone number must be submitted in writing to, and received by, the Regional Director within 15 days of the change in information. If written notice of the change in information is not received by the Regional Director within 15 days, the permit is void. (l) Alteration. Any permit that has been altered, erased, or mutilated is invalid. (m) Display. Any permit issued under this part must be maintained in legible condition and displayed for inspection upon request by any authorized officer. (n) Sanctions. Vessel operators with suspended or revoked permits may not be on board a Federally permitted fishing vessel in any capacity while the vessel is at sea or engaged in offloading. Procedures governing enforcement related permit sanctions and denials are found at subpart D of 15 CFR part 904. (o) Vessel owner responsibility. Vessel owners are responsible for ensuring that their vessels are operated by an individual with a valid operator's permit issued under this section. ยง650.6 Dealer permits. (a) All dealers must have been issued and have in their possession a valid permit issued under this part. (b) Dealer application. Applicants for a permit under this section must submit a completed application on an appropriate form provided by the Regional Director. The application must be signed by the applicant and submitted to the Regional Director at least 30 days before the date upon which the applicant desires to have the permit made effective. The Regional Director will notify the applicant of any deficiency in the application pursuant to this section. (c) Information requirements. Applications must contain at least the following information and any other information required by the Regional Director: Company name, place(s) of business, mailing address(es) and telephone number(s); owner's name; dealer permit number (if a renewal); and name and signature of the person responsible for the truth and accuracy of the report. If the dealer is a corporation, a copy of the certificate of incorporation must be included with the application. If a partnership, a copy of the Partnership Agreement and the names and addresses of all partners must be included with the application. (d) Fees. The Regional Director may charge a fee to recover the administrative expense of issuing a permit required under this section. The amount of the fee is calculated in accordance with the procedures of the NOAA Finance Handbook for determining the administrative costs of each special product or service. The fee may not exceed such costs and is specified with each application form. The appropriate fee must accompany each application; if it does not, the application will be considered incomplete for purposes of paragraph (e) of this section. (e) Issuance. Except as provided in subpart D of 15 CFR part 904, the Regional Director will issue a permit at any time during the fishing year to an applicant unless the applicant has failed to submit a completed application. An application is complete when all requested forms, information, and documentation have been received and the applicant has submitted all applicable reports specified in ยง650.7(a). Upon receipt of an incomplete or improperly executed application, the Regional Director will notify the applicant of the deficiency in the application. If the applicant fails to correct the deficiency within 30 days following the date of notification, the application will be considered abandoned. (f) Expiration. A permit will expire upon the renewal date specified in the permit. (g) Duration. A permit is valid until it is revoked, suspended, or modified under 15 CFR part 904, or otherwise expires, or ownership changes, or the applicant has failed to report any change in the information on the permit application to the Regional Director as required by paragraph (j) of this section.
