FR940803-0-00122 FR940803-0-00040 (g) Engine starting and restarting. (1) If the engine is not running at the initiation of the highway fuel economy test (preconditioning cycle), the start-up procedure must be according to the manufacturer's recommended procedures. (2) False starts and stalls during the preconditioning cycle must be treated as in §86.136(d) and (e) of this chapter. If the vehicle stalls during the measurement cycle of the highway fuel economy test, the test is voided, corrective action may be taken according to §86.079&hyph;25 of this chapter, and the vehicle may be rescheduled for test. The person taking the corrective action shall report the action so that the test records for the vehicle contain a record of the action. (h) Dynamometer test run. The following steps must be taken for each test: (1) Place the drive wheels of the vehicle on the dynamometer. The vehicle may be driven onto the dynamometer. (2) Open the vehicle engine compartment cover and position the cooling fans(s) required. Manufacturers may request the use of additional cooling fans for additional engine compartment or under-vehicle cooling and for controlling high tire or brake temperatures during dynamometer operation. (3) Preparation of the CVS must be performed before the measurement highway driving cycle. (4) Equipment preparation. The provisions of §86.137(b)(3) through (6) of this chapter apply for highway fuel economy test except that only one exhaust sample collection bag and one dilution air sample collection bag need be connected to the sample collection systems. (5) Operate the vehicle over one Highway Fuel Economy Driving Schedule cycle according to the dynamometer driving schedule specified in §600.109(b). (6) When the vehicle reaches zero speed at the end of the preconditioning cycle, the driver has 17 seconds to prepare for the emission measurement cycle of the test. Reset and enable the roll revolution counter. (7) Operate the vehicle over one Highway Fuel Economy Driving Schedule cycle according to the dynamometer driving schedule specified in §600.109(b) while sampling the exhaust gas. (8) Sampling must begin two seconds before beginning the first acceleration of the fuel economy measurement cycle and must end two seconds after the end of the deceleration to zero. At the end of the deceleration to zero speed, the roll or shaft revolutions must be recorded. (i) For methanol dual fuel automobiles, the procedures of §600.111 (a) and (b) shall be performed for each of the required test fuels: (1) Gasoline or diesel fuel as specified in §600.107 (a) and (b); and (2) Methanol fuel as specified in §600.107 (c) and (d); and (3) A mixture containing 50% gasoline or diesel and 50% methanol by volume, applicable during model years 1993 through 1995; or (4) In lieu of testing using the mixture containing 50% gasoline or diesel and 50% methanol by volume, the manufacturer must provide a written statement attesting that the equal or superior energy efficiency is attained while using the 50% gasoline or diesel and 50% methanol mixture compared to using gasoline. 15. A new §600.113&hyph;93 is added to subpart B to read as follows: §600.113&hyph;93 Fuel economy calculations. The Administrator will use the calculation procedure set forth in this section for all official EPA testing of vehicles fueled with gasoline, diesel, or methanol fuel. The calculations of the weighted fuel economy values require input of the weighted grams/mile values for HC, CO, and CO 2 , and, additionally for methanol fueled automobiles CH 3 OH and HCHO for both the city fuel economy test and the highway fuel economy test. Additionally, the specific gravity, carbon weight fraction and net heating value of the test fuel must be determined. The city and highway fuel economy values shall be calculated as specified in this section. A sample appears in Appendix II to this part. (a) Calculate the weighted grams/mile values for the city fuel economy test for HC, CO, and CO 2 , and, additionally for methanol-fueled automobiles, CH 3 OH and HCHO as specified in §86.144 of this chapter. Measure and record the test fuel's properties as specified in paragraph (c) of this section. (b)(1) Calculate the mass values for the highway fuel economy test for HC, CO, and CO 2 , and CH 3 OH and HCHO where applicable, as specified in §86.144(b) of this chapter. Measure and record the test fuel's properties as specified in paragraph (c) of this section. (2) Calculate the grams/mile values for the highway fuel economy test for HC, CO, and CO 2 , and CH 3 OH and HCHO where applicable, by dividing the mass values obtained in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, by the actual distance traveled, measured in miles, as specified in §86.135(h) of this chapter. (c)(1) Gasoline test fuel properties shall be determined by analysis of a fuel sample taken from the fuel supply. A sample shall be taken after each addition of fresh fuel to the fuel supply. Additionally, the fuel shall be resampled once a month to account for any fuel property changes during storage. Less frequent resampling may be permitted if EPA concludes, on the basis of manufacturer-supplied data, that the properties of test fuel in the manufacturer's storage facility will remain stable for a period longer than one month. The fuel samples shall be analyzed to determine the following fuel properties:
