FR940825-0-00113 FR940825-0-00016 Subpart F_Disputes ยง74.90 Final decisions in disputes. (a) HHS attempts to promptly issue final decisions in disputes and in other matters affecting the interests of recipients. However, final decisions adverse to the recipient are not issued until it is clear that the matter cannot be resolved through further exchange of information and views. (b) Under various HHS statutes or regulations, recipients have the right to appeal from, or to have a hearing on, certain final decisions by HHS awarding agencies. (See, for example, subpart D of 42 CFR part 50, and 45 CFR parts 16 and 75). Paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section set forth the standards HHS expects its member agencies to meet in issuing a final decision covered by any of the statutes or regulations. (c) The decision may be brief but must contain: (1) A complete statement of the background and basis of the awarding agency's decision, including reference to the pertinent statutes, regulations, or other governing documents; and (2) Enough information to enable the recipient to understand the issues and the position of the HHS awarding agency. (d) The following or similar language (consistent with the terminology of the applicable statutes or regulations) should appear at the end of the decision: ``This is the final decision of the (title of grants officer or other official responsible for the decision). It shall be the final decision of the Department unless, within 30 days after receiving this decision, you deliver or mail (you should use registered or certified mail to establish the date) a written notice of appeal to (name and address of appropriate contact, e.g., the Departmental Appeals Board, Department of Health and Human Services, Washington, DC 20201). You shall attach to the notice a copy of this decision, note that you intend an appeal, state the amount in dispute, and briefly state why you think that this decision is wrong. You will be notified of further procedures.'' ยง74.91 Alternative dispute resolution. HHS encourages its awarding agencies and recipients to try to resolve disputes by using alternative dispute resolution (ADR) techniques. ADR often is effective in reducing the cost, delay and contentiousness involved in appeals and other traditional ways of handling disputes. ADR techniques include mediation, neutral evaluation and other consensual methods. Information about ADR is available from the HHS Dispute Resolution Specialist at the Departmental Appeals Board, U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Washington, DC 20201. Subparts G&hyph;AA_[Removed] 4. Subparts G&hyph;AA of part 74 are removed. 5. Appendix A is added to part 74 to read as follows: Appendix A to Part 74_Contract Provisions All contracts awarded by a recipient, including small purchases, shall contain the following provisions as applicable where the cost of the contract is treated as a direct cost of an award: 1. Equal Employment Opportunity_ All contracts shall contain a provision requiring compliance with E.O. 11246, ``Equal Employment Opportunity,'' as amended by E.O. 11375, ``Amending Executive Order 11246 Relating to Equal Employment Opportunity,'' and as supplemented by regulations at 41 CFR part 60, ``Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs, Equal Employment Opportunity, Department of Labor.''
