FR941011-2-00029 FR941011-2-00008 Comment : Priority should be given to those projects that include matching or in-kind contributions. Response : NOAA will stipulate in the Interagency Agreement with SCS that greater consideration be given to those projects that include a cost share/match or in-king contribution. Comment : Funds provided to California for purposes of the habitat restoration jobs program should be divided equally between the resource conservation districts and the Salmon Stamp Program. Response : SCS will consider providing these funds to the California Association of Resource Conservation, which in turn will award funds to Tribal organizations, conservation districts, state agencies and other organizations capable of conducting habitat restoration work based on scientific merit and priority needs. Comment : None of the NEAP money should be made available for the Columbia/Snake, Klamath/Trinity, or Central Valley watersheds, because they have already received substantial Federal funds. Instead, funds should be directed to smaller but more critical habitats. Response : Currently almost all Federal funds spent to undertake habitat restoration projects in the named watersheds are applied to projects on public lands. To complement these existing Federally funded activities, NOAA intends for funds under this program to be used primarily for projects on private lands in the named watersheds. At the same time, program funds may also be used to restore other critical watersheds. Comment : A number of respondents expressed concerns that no specific criteria were identified to assess scientific merit and/or need for individual habitat restoration jobs projects. Another respondent stated that projects should be developed after a watershed analysis. Similarly, there were concerns that the habitat restoration jobs program not overlap or duplicate other similar state and Federal projects undertaken as part of the Forest Plan. Response : NMFS is working with SCS to develop a review process that evaluates the biological aspects of individual projects and ensures the activities do not duplicate ongoing efforts. As deemed appropriate, a watershed analysis will be required for projects. Comment : Specific caps should be stipulated for the administrative costs associated with the habitat jobs restoration program. Response: The Interagency Agreement between NOAA and SCS will stipulate that the cumulative administrative costs for the habitat restoration jobs program not exceed 15%. Data Collection Jobs Program Comment : Funds provide to the PSMFC should not be restricted by state allocation levels. All applicants, regardless of residence, should compete openly for a single pool of funds.
