FR940405-0-00053 FR940405-0-00009 DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION National Highway Traffic Safety Administration 49 CFR Part 571 [Docket No. 74&hyph;09; Notice 36] RIN 2127&hyph;AE60 Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standards; Child Restraint Systems AGENCY: National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA), Department of Transportation. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: This rule amends Standard No. 213, Child Restraint Systems, to create an exception to the requirement that a restraint must not change its adjustment position during dynamic compliance testing. A change in adjustment positions of a rear-facing restraint, i.e., infant restraint, is permitted subject to a requirement intended to ensure that the design allowing such movement will not injure the infant. The amendment will permit the production of restraints specially designed for infants with apnea or other breathing problems. To facilitate breathing by these infants, these restraints allow infants to ride in the reclined position under normal driving conditions. However, when the restraint is subjected to the forces of a frontal vehicle crash, a portion of the restraint adjusts so that the infants move into an upright, rear-facing position. In this position, the crash forces are spread over the full torso and the back of the infant's head is supported, thus reducing the chance of injury. DATES: This rule is effective on May 5, 1994. Petitions for reconsideration of the rule must be received by May 5, 1994. ADDRESSES: Petitions for reconsideration should refer to the docket and number of this document and be submitted to: Administrator, room 5220, National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, 400 Seventh Street SW., Washington, DC 20590. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Dr. George Mouchahoir, Office of Vehicle Safety Standards, National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, 400 Seventh Street SW., Washington, DC 20590 (telephone 202&hyph;366&hyph;4919). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: This document amends the requirement in Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard No. 213, ``Child Restraint Systems,'' that a child restraint with adjustable (reclinable) positions must not change its adjustment position during dynamic testing (S5.1.1(b)). The purpose of the requirement is to prevent a child's fingers or limbs from being caught between the shifting parts of the restraint. Today's rule permits a change in adjustment positions of a rear-facing restraint system, i.e., infant restraint, provided that the restraint meets a requirement intended to ensure such movement will not injure the child. The amendments made by this document were proposed in a notice of proposed rulemaking (NPRM) published on May 26, 1993 (58 FR 30134). NHTSA commenced this rulemaking action in response to a petition for rulemaking from Century Products Company. The provisions adopted in today's document are substantially similar to those NHTSA proposed in the May 1993 NPRM. This rule permits an infant restraint to have a means for repositioning the seating surface of the restraint that allows an infant to move from a reclined position to an upright position during a frontal crash. To protect the infant during that change in adjustment position, the rule regulates exposed openings in the restraint structure. No opening that is exposed and is larger than 1/4 inch (6.35 mm) before the testing is permitted to become smaller during the movement of the seating surface relative to the restraint system as a whole. This rule also requires that the printed instructions accompanying each rear-facing child restraint system that has a means for repositioning the seating surface of the system include a warning against impeding the ability of the restraint to change adjustment position. Infant Restraints An infant restraint is a child restraint system, except a car bed, that positions a child so that the child faces toward the rear of the motor vehicle. Most infant restraints are conventional rear-facing seats which are designed for infants only, and are intended to be installed so that the infant faces the rear of the vehicle. There are other child restraints that are convertible into two different modes. In one mode, these restraints are rear-facing so that they can be used by infants. In the other mode, these restraints are forward-facing so that they can be used by toddlers. (When the term ``infant restraint'' is used below, it refers both to infant seats which are exclusively for infants and to the infant mode of convertible child restraints.)
