FR940930-0-00106 FR940930-0-00017 (a) General rules. (1) The employing entity or designee must offer eligible employees the option of enrollment in a qualified HMO at the earliest date permitted under the terms of existing agreements or contracts. (2) If the HMO's request for inclusion in a health benefits plan is received at a time when existing contracts or agreements do not provide for inclusion, the employing entity must include the HMO option in the health benefits plan at the time that new agreements or contracts are offered or negotiated. (b) Specific requirements. Unless mutually agreed otherwise, the following rules apply: (1) Collective bargaining agreement. The employing entity or designee must raise the HMO's request during the collective bargaining process_ (i) When a new agreement is negotiated; (ii) At the time prescribed, in an agreement with a fixed term of more than 1 year, for discussion of change in health benefits; or (iii) In accordance with a specific process for review of HMO offers. (2) Contracts. For employees not covered by a collective bargaining agreement, the employing entity or designee must include the HMO option in any health benefits plan offered to eligible employees when the existing contract is renewed or when a new health benefits contract or other arrangement is negotiated. (i) If a contract has no fixed term or has a term in excess of 1 year, the contract must be treated as renewable on its earliest anniversary date. (ii) If the employing entity or designee is self-insured, the budget year must be treated as the term of the existing contract. (3) Multiple arrangements. In the case of a health benefits plan that includes multiple contracts or other arrangements with varying expiration or renewal dates, the employing entity must include the HMO option, in accordance with paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section,_ (i) At the time each contract or arrangement is renewed or reissued; or (ii) The benefits provided under the contract or arrangement are offered to employees. 3. Sections 417.158 and 417.159 are revised to read as follows: ยง417.158 Payroll deductions. Each employing entity that provides payroll deductions as a means of paying employees' contributions for health benefits or provides a health benefits plan that does not require an employee contribution must, with the consent of an employee who selects the HMO option, arrange for the employee's contribution, if any, to be paid through payroll deductions. ยง417.159 Relationship of section 1310 of the Public Health Service Act to the National Labor Relations Act and the Railway Labor Act. The obligation of an employing entity subject to this subpart to include the HMO option in any health benefits plan offered to its eligible employees must be carried out consistently with the obligations imposed on that employing entity under the National Labor Relations Act, the Railway Labor Act, and other laws of similar effect. D. Subpart F is amended as set forth below. Subpart F_Continued Regulation of Federally Qualified Health Maintenance Organizations 1. The heading of subpart F is revised to read as set forth above. 2. Section 417.160 is revised to read as follows: ยง417.160 Applicability. This subpart applies to any entity that has been determined to be a qualified HMO under subpart D of this part. 3. Section 417.163 is revised to read as follows: ยง417.163 Enforcement procedures. (a) Complaints. Any person, group, association, corporation, or other entity may file with HCFA a written complaint with respect to an HMO's compliance with assurances it gave under subpart D of this part. A complaint must_ (1) State the grounds and underlying facts of the complaint; (2) Give the names of all persons involved; and (3) Assure that all appropriate grievance and appeals procedures established by the HMO and available to the complainant have been exhausted. (b) Investigations. (1) HCFA may initiate investigations when, based on a report, a complaint, or any other information, HCFA has reason to believe that a Federally qualified HMO is not in compliance with any of the assurances it gave under subpart D of this part. (2) When HCFA initiates an investigation, it gives the HMO written notice that includes a full statement of the pertinent facts and of the matters being investigated and indicates that the HMO may submit, within 30 days of the date of the notice, a written report concerning these matters. (3) HCFA obtains any information it considers necessary to resolve issues related to the assurances, and may use site visits, public hearings, or any other procedures that HCFA considers appropriate in seeking this information.
