FR940407-1-00065 FR940407-1-00012 (14) Flotation costs (Schedules F&hyph;VII and F&hyph;VII(A)). (i) A carrier's cost of common-stock equity capital shall be adjusted to reflect those costs of floating new issues that are actually incurred, but only in the event that new common stock is to be issued to the general public during the 12-month period used to compute projected midyear rate base. Those flotation costs for which an allowance shall be made must be identifiable, and must be directly attributable to underwriting fees, and printing, legal, accounting, and/or other administrative expenses. No allowance shall be made for any hypothetical costs such as those associated with market pressure and market break effects. The allowance shall be applied solely to the new common-stock equity and shall not be applied to the existing common-stock equity balance. The formula that shall be used to compute such an allowance is as follows: k = Fs/(1+s) where: k is the required increment to the cost of the carrier's common stock equity capital that will allow the company to recover its flotation costs; F is the flotation costs expressed as a decimal fraction of the dollar value of new common-stock equity sales; and s is the new common-stock equity sales expressed as a decimal fraction of the dollar value of existing common-stock equity capital. (ii) Flotation costs data (Schedules F&hyph;VII and F&hyph;VII(A)). (A) In the event that new common-stock equity is to be issued during the 12-month period used to compute projected midyear rate base, the carrier shall show separately by category the estimated costs of floating the new issues to the extent that such costs are identifiable and are directly attributable to actual underwriting fees, and to printing, legal, accounting, and/or other administrative expenses that must be paid by the carrier. The carrier shall submit a statement explaining the method used in estimating the flotation costs. The carrier shall also show estimates of the date of issuance; number of shares to be issued; gross proceeds at issuance price; and net proceeds to the carrier. (B) Where a carrier is a subsidiary that obtains its common-stock equity capital through a parent company, and the parent company intends to issue new common-stock equity during the 12-month period, the carrier shall show separately by category the estimated costs to the parent company of floating the new issues, and estimates of the above items relative to the parent company's issuance of new common-stock equity, provided that such carrier applies for and receives permission from the Commission to use a consolidated capital structure in computing the BTWACC. (f) Financial ratio methods _(1) Fixed charges coverage ratio. *␣*␣* (2) Operating ratio. *␣*␣* By the Commission. Joseph C. Polking, Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;8226 Filed 4&hyph;6&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6730&hyph;01&hyph;W
