FR941202-2-00179 FR941202-2-00098 3.5.4␣Staff Interviews The assessment team will evaluate a test by having the individual that normally conducts the specific procedure walk through the procedure, including a step-by-step description of exactly what is done and what equipment and supplies are employed. The assessor will note and record the procedure on the standardized checklists for that particular test and application. Any deficiencies shall also be noted and discussed with the individual. The assessment team members shall have the authority to conduct interviews with any/all staff and, if necessary, conduct private interviews. Calculations, data transfers, calibration procedures, quality control/assurance practices and adherence to SOP's shall be assessed for each test. During the evaluation, sufficient information may become available to indicate that a particular person has violated an environmental law or regulation, such as knowingly making a false statement on a report. This information should be carefully documented, since it may be used in a legal action. When the possibility of additional legal investigation exists, the assessor should not discuss the legal implications of the suspected violation with the individual or any laboratory representative. However, the assessor should continue to gather the information necessary to complete the accreditation assessment. 3.5.5␣Closing Conference The assessment team should meet with representatives following the evaluation of the laboratory for an informal debriefing and discussion of findings. In the event the laboratory disagrees with the findings of the assessor(s), and the team leader adheres to the original findings, the area(s) protested shall be documented by the team leader and included in the report to the accreditation body for consideration. The accrediting authority will make the final determination. The assessment team should provide the accreditation body with an assessment report encompassing all relevant information concerning the ability of the applicant laboratory to comply with the accreditation requirements. If data is available from performance evaluation testing, this should be included in the final report. 3.5.6␣Follow-Up Procedures The accrediting authority will issue the assessment to the applicant laboratory that outlines any areas of deficiencies. The applicant laboratory should then submit a plan of corrective action, if necessary, and provide any missing documentation required within 45 days from the date of report receipt. After reviewing documentation and corrective actions, the accrediting authority will make the decision to pass, fail or provide interim accreditation for a laboratory. If the deficiencies listed are substantial or numerous, an additional assessment (possibly unannounced) may be conducted before a final decision for accreditation can be made. 3.6␣Criteria for Assessment 3.6.1␣Assessor's Manual The NELAC will develop a manual(s) for on-site assessors to assure that on-site assessments are performed in a uniform, consistent manner. The manual(s) will be provided when assessors take the NELAC required training (section 3.2.1) and will serve as guidance for on-site assessment personnel. The manual(s) provided to on-site assessors should include instructions for evaluating the following items:
