FR940719-0-00025 FR940719-0-00007 (a) The U.S.G.S. map used to show the boundaries of the area (the Seiad Valley Quadrangle 7.5 minute series map) uses the name ``Seiad Valley'' to describe the area immediately surrounding Seiad Creek, corresponding to the portion of the area which is north of the Klamath River. The map also shows the town of Seiad Valley within this area. The map shows no separate designation for the portion of the area south of the Klamath River, which is drained by Grider Creek. (b) Excerpts from the 1957 issue of Siskiyou Pioneer, an annual publication of the Siskiyou County Historical Society, discuss the history of the name Seiad Valley, and local understanding of the extent of the area known as Seiad, or Seiad Valley. ``Sciad,'' by Betty Livingston and Hazel Davis, states the name Seiad was originally spelled Sciad, and the creek and valley were called that by the trappers ``before the prospectors came in 1850.'' Sometime after 1871, the spelling of the name changed to Seiad. In ``Gold Mining from Scott Bar to Happy Camp,'' by J.B. Grider, the following description appears: Seiad is a small valley two miles long and one mile wide *␣*␣*. There are two large creeks in Seiad, Grider Creek and Seiad Creek. Grider Creek flows north into the Klamath from the Marble Mountain territory. Seiad creek flows south into the Klamath from the Siskiyous and Red Mountain.'' (c) The petitioner also provided a copy of a claim document dated August 26, 1942, which states the Grider Creek mining claim is ``situate in the Seiad Mining District.'' Evidence of Boundaries The area is defined primarily by its elevation, using the 1,600 and 1,800 foot contour lines. The petitioner states that the vegetation within and outside the area provides a dramatic contrast. Within the area, cottonwood, oak and willow trees and wild blackberries and grapes grow in addition to the cultivated crops. Outside the area, on the higher slopes of the surrounding mountains, conifers such as cedar, Douglas fir and Ponderossa pine predominate in the thin, eroded soils with scant summer moisture. Geographical Features The viticultural area consists of the valleys drained by Seiad Creek and Grider Creek, which both flow into the Klamath River in northwestern California. These valleys and an expanse of land along the Klamath River which connects them share characteristics of topography, soil composition and climate which distinguish the viticultural area from the surrounding areas. Topography The U.S.G.S. topographic map of the Seiad Valley Quadrangle shows the area is a relatively flat area varying in elevation from 1,400 to 1,600 feet, with a small portion as high as 1,800 feet, surrounded by steeply rising terrain. Outside the area, the elevation ranges from 2,000 to 2,800 feet, with peaks exceeding 3,000 feet on all sides, and some peaks as high as 3,900 feet. Snow melt, runoff, and erosion from these higher areas into the valley create a contrast in both the quality of soils and the availability of water within and outside the area. The lower elevation within the area also contributes to more moderate temperatures there. Soil The petitioner describes the valley floor as ``composed of deep fertile soil mixtures of loam, sand, clay and rocks eroded from the surrounding mountain slopes.'' According to a draft environmental impact report prepared in 1975 by the California Department of Transportation, the valley floor is ``mostly alluvium deposits which were widely dredged and hydraulically mined for gold. Chromite was also mined within the Seiad Valley area.'' Dredging left ``tailings,'' or piles of rounded rocks, wherever the dredge operated. The petitioner states that these granite-dominated rock tailings store heat during the day and provide protection against frost in spring and fall.
