FR940819-2-00126 FR940819-2-00074 The patients were treated from December 13 to 17, 1993, and received doses of 1300 and 1320 cGy (1300 and 1320 rad) respectively, rather than the 1000 cGy (1000 rad) intended. This resulted in misadministrations of 30 and 32 percent greater than the intended dose. The licensee's physician stated that no adverse clinical effects are expected as a result of the overexposures. After the initial report, the licensee told NRC in subsequent telephone conversations that a recalculation of the dose averaged over the entire tumor volume did not exceed 30 percent and, therefore, the licensee no longer thought the definition of a misadministration applied in this case. NRC performed a special inspection on December 28 and 29, 1993, to review the potential misadministrations. Information gathered during this inspection, including the calculations of the administered doses, was given to an NRC scientific consultant to evaluate. The scientific consultant, in his report to NRC, stated that ``the dose prescription was to d max (i.e., 0.5 cm [0.2 inch] depth on the central axis) and a misadministration can only be judged by considering the dose given to this point. *␣*␣* clearly in both cases a misadministration has taken place.'' On March 25, 1994, the licensee was informed that the doses to both patients were deemed to be misadministrations. The licensee submitted its report of misadministrations in a letter dated April 7, 1994. After receiving the scientific consultant's report, an NRC medical consultant was retained to perform a clinical evaluation of the patients. The medical consultant is still reviewing the potential health effects to the patients. The consultant's report is expected to be completed in time to update this writeup in the next AO report to Congress. The referring physician was notified and determined that, based on medical judgment, informing the patients of the misadministrations would be harmful. Cause or Causes _The technologist incorrectly transposed the treatment depth on the facsimile used to prepare the treatment plan. The technologist failed to make reference to d max and entered the depth value incorrectly as 5.0 cm (2 inch) instead of the intended 0.5 cm (0.2 inch). Actions Taken to Prevent Recurrence Licensee _The licensee implemented a requirement for a stamp to be placed on all written directives that prompts a clear documentation of key treatment parameters such as site, method, daily dose, fractions, total dose s, depth of calculation, spinal blocks, other blocks, and date. Previously, key parameters had been informally handwritten directives on patients's treatment charts. The licensee also formalized its requirement to include the written directive for all dosimetry calculation requests from the Beaver facility, and revised its ``weekly chart check'' procedure to increase chart reviews from once a week to twice a week, as was the practice prior to December 1, 1993. NRC _NRC is reviewing the licensee's April 7, 1994, misadministration report and the findings of the December 28 to 29, 1993, NRC inspection. Once the NRC medical consultant's report is received, enforcement action will be considered. * * * * * 94&hyph;4␣Lost Reference Sources at Brooks Air Force Base in San Antonio, Texas One of the AO reporting guidelines notes that any serious deficiency in management or procedural controls in a major area can be considered an abnormal occurrence. Date and Place_ 1993; Armstrong Laboratory, Brooks Air Force Base (AFB); San Antonio, Texas.
