FR940128-1-00134 FR940128-1-00006 a. Products covered by this guidance should be subjected to one of the following processes: (1) Hot-process smoked or hot-process smoke-flavored fish to be air packaged needs to be heated to a continuous internal temperature of at least 145 ○F (63 ○C) throughout each fish for a minimum of 30 minutes, and brined to contain not less than 3.0 percent water-phase salt in the finished product (except that smoked chub containing sodium nitrite as provided for in §172.177 of this chapter must be processed as described in that section); or (2) Hot-process smoked or hot-process smoked-flavored fish to be vacuum packaged, modified atmosphere packaged, or controlled atmosphere packaged, needs to be heated to a continuous internal temperature of at least 145 ○F (63 ○C) throughout each fish for a minimum of 30 minutes. It also needs to be brined to contain not less than 3.5 percent water-phase salt in the finished product. However, where sodium nitrite is present at not less than 100 parts per million (as permitted by §§172.175 and 172.177 of this chapter) the water-phase salt content in the finished product should not be less than 3.0 percent; or (3) Cold-process smoked fish and cold-process smoke-flavored fish to be air-packaged should be brined or dry salted to contain at least 3.5 percent water-phase salt in the finished product. However, when such fish contains not less than 100 parts per million sodium nitrite, it should contain not less than 3.0 percent water-phase salt in the finished product. When cold-process smoked fish or cold-process smoked-flavored fish to be air-packaged is frozen immediately after smoking and cooling, and remains frozen throughout subsequent storage and distribution, it should contain not less than 2.5 percent water-phase salt in the finished product. Cold smoked and cold smoke-flavored fish to be air packaged should be processed under one of the following sets of conditions: (i) The temperature in the smoking chamber does not exceed 90 ○F (32 ○C) during a drying and smoking period that does not exceed 20 hours, or (ii) The temperature in the smoking chamber does not exceed 50 ○F (10 ○C) during a drying and smoking period that does not exceed 24 hours. (iii) For sablefish, the temperature in the smoking chamber does not exceed 120 ○F (49 ○C) during a drying and smoking period that does not exceed 6 hours; or (4) Cold-process smoked fish and cold-process smoke-flavored fish, to be vacuum packaged, modified atmosphere packaged, or controlled atmosphere packaged should be brined to contain at least 3.0 percent water-phase salt in the finished product and not less than 100 parts per million of sodium nitrite (where permitted by §§172.175 and 172.177 of this chapter) and should be processed as described in section 5(a)(3)(i) or (a)(3)(ii) of this Appendix. If sodium nitrite is not used, the water-phase salt content in the finished product should be at least 3.5 percent. b. Brining and dry salting operations should be conducted in a manner that will consistently result in the water phase salt content or sodium nitrite level (where permitted by §§172.175 and 172.177 of this chapter) recommended by section 5.a. of this Appendix. This should be achieved by conducting or obtaining a study that establishes that the appropriate salt content or sodium nitrite level is always met under prescribed processing conditions. The study should establish the limits of significant variables that could affect the ability of the product to reach the appropriate levels. These variables may include product size, product condition, soak time, soak temperature, salt-to- water ratio, and product-to-brine ratio. An adequate study should consist of at least three processing runs under the prescribed processing conditions. In this case, the processor should monitor and record the prescribed processing conditions identified by the study at least every 2 hours. c. The brining of all fish should take place in a refrigerated area at 40 ○F (4.4 ○C) or lower. d. The temperature of the brine should not exceed 60 ○F (15.6 ○C) at the start of brining. The temperature of the brine at the start of the each brining process should be determined and recorded.
