FR940526-2-00132 FR940526-2-00063 Interview Guidelines Seven types of information are collected in background surveys. Information is collected on products and services, outlet availability and usage, transportation, local taxes and fees, mortgage, real estate, and other topics related to the measurement of living costs (e.g., specialized information from local chambers of commerce, colleges, and universities). The following are the typical interview questions used to collect these data. Product or Service Information 1. As a major manufacturer/supplier of XXXXXXXX (a specific product or service, e.g., women's apparel), please identify your items/services that are most popular (e.g., your `volume sellers'). 2. Which of these items are apt to be readily available in the following geographic locations: Alaska (i.e., Anchorage, Fairbanks, and Juneau); Hawaii; Guam; Puerto Rico; the Virgin Islands; and Washington, DC, and suburbs? 3. If the items or services are not universally available, are there other items or services that are of similar function, quality, quantity, size, and type that can be substituted? 4. Is there anything else we should know about your product or service? Are there recommendations you wish to make that would help us in our data collection? Outlet Availability and Usage (Retail) 1. What is your product or service? What is the address(es) of your establishment(s)? If you have multiple locations, which locations have the greatest sales volumes (i.e., are most utilized by consumers)? 2. What are your store/office hours? Do these vary by locations? 3. Is your full line of products or services available at all locations? 4. Is there anything else we should know about your outlet(s) or recommendations you wish to make? Transportation Information_Private and Public Services 1. What type of transportation services do you provide (e.g., taxi, bus, subway)? 2. What geographic areas do you service? Which routes are `typical' or most heavily utilized? 3. What is your rate structure? Does it vary by time of day or season? 4. Is there anything else we should know about transportation usage and services in your area? Are there recommendations you wish to make about our data collection? Transportation Information_Private Use and Maintenance 1. What types of driving are most common in your area? What is the annual distance driven? 2. What types roads and highways are common in your area? What are the road surfaces and conditions? 3. Are there unusual climatic or other factors that affect the fuel economy, maintenance, and depreciation of vehicles? 4. Is there anything else we should know about private transportation usage and maintenance in your area? Are there suggestions or recommendations you wish to make? Local Taxes and Fees 1. What types of taxes, licenses, or fees does your State, territory, or local jurisdiction levy on real estate; personal property; sales (including sales of property); automobiles; utilities; or other goods, services, or transactions? 2. Who levies these taxes, licenses or fees (i.e., State, territory, county, city, other jurisdiction)? 3. What are the rates or schedules for these? How often and when are they levied? Do the rates/schedules vary by location, season, or other factors? 4. Is there anything else we should know about taxes and fees in your area? Are there suggestions or recommendations you wish to make?
