FR940126-2-00044 FR940126-2-00020 (18) Limited utility assistance (includes gas, coal, electricity, oil, water, firewood) for individuals or families, provided that: (i) Payment is in arrears; and, (ii) All other resources have been exhausted (e.g., State's Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program); and, (iii) Payment is limited to one month's cost for each utility for each individual or family; and, (iv) Month paid is part of the arrearage and from current phase or for continuous service; and, (v) Each utility can be paid only once in each award phase for any individual or family. (vi) Payment must guarantee an additional 30 days service. Note: Reconnect and late fees, but not deposits are eligible, but again only a one month payment for each utility for each individual or family in each award phase. Documentation required: (1) nonmetered utilities [e.g., propane, firewood], receipts/invoices for fuel including due date and canceled checks; (2) metered utilities [e.g., electricity, water], copy of past due utility bill showing one month's charges including due date and canceled checks. Note: Utility disconnect and termination notices often do not show amount owed by month. This information must be written onto the notice if not included. For other shelter assistance, eligible program costs include: (19) Off-site emergency lodging in a hotel or motel, or other off-site shelter facility provided: (i) No appropriate on-site shelter is available; and, (ii) It is limited to 30-days' assistance per individual or family during the program period. Note: Assistance may be extended in extreme cases with prior Local Board written approval. A copy of this approval should accompany LRO's documentation. Note: An LRO may not operate as a vendor for itself or other LROs, except for shared maintenance fee for food banks. Documentation required: receipts/invoices from off-site shelter [hotel/motel] and canceled checks. (b) Ineligible Program Costs. Purposes for which funds CANNOT BE USED include, but are not limited to: (1) Cash payments of any kind including checks made out to cash or reimbursements to staff, volunteers or clients for program purchases. (2) Deposits of any kind. (3) Payment of more than one month's rent. (4) Payment of more than one month's mortgage and first month's mortgage. (5) Transportation of people to another town or agency not related to food or shelter or to relative's home (e.g., non-local transportation, transportation to jobs, health care). (6) Payment of more than one month's portion of an accumulated utility bill. (7) Payments made directly to a client. (8) Rental security; deposits; revolving loan accounts. (9) Real property (land or buildings) costing more than $300. (10) Property taxes of any kind. (11) Equipment costing more than $300 per item (e.g., vehicles, freezers, washers). (12) Emergency repairs/building code or rehabilitation to government-owned or profit-making facilities or leased facilities. (13) Rehabilitation for expansion of service. (14) Repairs of any kind to an individual's house or apartment. (15) Purchase of supplies or equipment for an individual's home or private use. (16) Lease-purchase agreements. (17) Administrative cost reimbursement to State or regional offices of governmental or voluntary organizations. (18) Lobbying efforts. (19) Expenditures made prior to beginning of jurisdiction's program.
