FR940504-0-00007 FR940504-0-00002 Section 210.13(b) provides that a Reserve Bank will not debit an institution's reserve account for drafts or other orders on the account after receiving notice that the institution has been closed. The Board proposed to amend this section to clarify that Reserve Banks will not charge an account as authorized by §210.9(a)(5) after receiving notice the institution is closed. The amendment also would clarify that this section applies only to charges to reserve accounts to settle for items (including returned checks) and does not affect the Reserve Bank's security interest under proposed §§210.5(d) and 210.12(i). The Board received no comments on this section and has adopted the amendments as proposed. Section 210.14 Section 210.14 describes those circumstances under which the time limits for acting on an item may be extended, such as interruption of communication facilities, suspension of payments by a bank, and other emergency conditions. The Board proposed to amend this section to clarify that computer and equipment failure would constitute emergency conditions. This amendment is consistent with the emergency provisions in §229.38(e) of Regulation CC and U.C.C. 4&hyph;109(b). The Board received no comments on this section and has adopted the amendment as proposed. Final Regulatory Flexibility Analysis Two of the three requirements of a final regulatory flexibility analysis (5 U.S.C. 604), (1) a succinct statement of the need for and the objectives of the rule and (2) a summary of the issues raised by the public comments, the agency's assessment of the issues, and a statement of the changes made in the final rule in response to the comments, are discussed above. The third requirement of a final regulatory flexibility analysis is a description of significant alternatives to the rule that would minimize the rule's economic impact on small entities and reasons why the alternatives were rejected. The amendments apply to all depository institutions that receive items from or send items to Federal Reserve Banks, regardless of size. The amendments generally clarify rights and duties of banks and do not impose any substantial economic burden on small entities. List of Subjects in 12 CFR Part 210 Banks, Banking, Check collection. For the reasons set out in the preamble, 12 CFR part 210 is amended as follows: PART 210_COLLECTION OF CHECKS AND OTHER ITEMS BY FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS AND FUNDS TRANSFERS THROUGH FEDWIRE (REGULATION J) 1. The authority citation for part 210 is revised to read as follows: Authority: 12 U.S.C. 248 (i), (j), and (o), 342, 360, 464, and 4001&hyph;4010. 2. The first sentence of §210.1 is revised to read as follows: §210.1 Authority, purpose, and scope. The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Board) has issued this subpart pursuant to the Federal Reserve Act, sections 11 (i) and (j) (12 U.S.C. 248 (i) and (j)), section 13 (12 U.S.C. 342), section 16 (12 U.S.C. 248(o) and 360), and section 19(f) (12 U.S.C. 464); the Expedited Funds Availability Act (12 U.S.C. 4001 et seq. ); and other laws. *␣*␣* 3. In §210.2, paragraph (g) introductory text is revised and a new paragraph (p) is added immediately before the concluding text to read as follows: §210.2 Definitions. * * * * * (g) Item means an instrument or a promise or order to pay money, whether negotiable or not, that is: * * * * * (p) Uniform Commercial Code means the Uniform Commercial Code as adopted in a state. * * * * * 4. In §210.3, the last sentence of paragraph (a) is revised and a new paragraph (f) is added to read as follows: §210.3 General provisions. (a) *␣*␣* The circulars may, among other things, classify cash items and noncash items, require separate sorts and letters, provide different closing times for the receipt of different classes or types of items, set forth terms of services, and establish procedures for adjustments on a Reserve Bank's books, including amounts, waiver of expenses, and payment of interest by as-of adjustment. * * * * * (f) Relation to other law. The provisions of this subpart supersede any inconsistent provisions of the Uniform Commercial Code, of any other state law, or of part 229 of this title, but only to the extent of the inconsistency. 5. In §210.5, paragraph (a) introductory text and paragraph (a)(2) are revised, in paragraph (b)(3) the phrase ``judgment or decree of the tender of defense'' is revised to read ``judgment or decree or the tender of defense'', and a new paragraph (d) is added to read as follows: §210.5 Sender's agreement; recovery by Reserve Bank. (a) Sender's agreement. The warranties, authorizations, and agreements made pursuant to this paragraph may not be disclaimed and are made whether or not the item bears an indorsement of the sender. By sending an item to a Reserve Bank, the sender: * * * * * (2) Warrants to each Reserve Bank handling the item that: (i) The sender is a person entitled to enforce the item or authorized to obtain payment of the item on behalf of a person entitled to enforce the item; and (ii) The item has not been altered; but this paragraph (a)(2) does not limit any warranty by a sender or other prior party arising under state law or under subpart C of part 229 of this title; and * * * * * (d) Security interest. To secure any obligation due or to become due to a Reserve Bank by a sender or prior collecting bank under this subpart or subpart C of part 229 of this title, the sender and prior collecting bank, by sending an item directly or indirectly to the Reserve Bank, grant to the Reserve Bank a security interest in all of the sender's or prior collecting bank's assets in the possession of, or held for the account of, the Reserve Bank. The security interest attaches when a warranty is breached or any other obligation to the Reserve Bank is incurred. If the Reserve Bank, in its sole discretion, deems itself insecure and gives notice thereof to the sender or prior collecting bank, or if the sender or prior collecting bank suspends payments or is closed, the Reserve Bank may take any action authorized by law to recover the amount of an obligation, including, but not limited to, the exercise of rights of set off, the realization on any available collateral, and any other rights it may have as a creditor under applicable law.
