FR940930-0-00164 FR940930-0-00028 In this rulemaking, EPA did not propose to set a sales or production volume limit for manufacturers wishing to certify according to the Small Volume Manufacturers Certification Program (the ``volume limit''), nor did EPA receive any comments in this rulemaking suggesting that such a volume limit should be used. In this circumstance, EPA believes it should not finalize a volume limit without first providing the public an opportunity to comment on such a limit. Therefore, the portion of today's rule that limits the use of the Small-Volume Manufacturers Certification program to those certifiers with an annual sales or production volume of 10,000 or fewer converted vehicles, shall be effective on November 29, 1994, unless the information collection requirements contained in this section have not been approved by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB). In that case, EPA will publish a timely document in the Federal Register delaying the effective date. If, on or before October 31, 1994. EPA does not receive notification that someone wishes to file an adverse or negative comment on the volume limit portion of the rule, then the volume limit portion of the rule will become final and effective without further EPA action. On the other hand, if, on or before October 31, 1994, EPA receives notification that someone wishes to file adverse or negative comment on the volume limit portion of the rule, EPA will withdraw the volume limit portion of the rule. EPA will then repropose the volume limit and go through full notice-and-comment procedures before adopting the volume limit. If EPA were to withdraw this portion of the rule, all certifiers would be able to certify according to the Small-Volume Manufacturers Certification Program until and unless EPA issued a final rule that established a different requirement. ii. Small-volume manufacturers certification program_durability testing. Under the Small-Volume Manufacturer's Certification Program, a certifier will be required to demonstrate durability unless the certifier is specifically authorized to use another certifier's durability data and deterioration factors. If deterioration factors are not available, certifiers will be required to use assigned deterioration factors from the Small-Volume Manufacturer's Certification Program. Current regulations require that assigned deterioration factors be determined based on the seventieth percentile of industry-wide gasoline-fueled vehicle deterioration factors. Since the emission deterioration characteristics of vehicles operating on other fuels may be different, EPA may in the future consider through rulemaking the use of deterioration factors based on data from vehicles using different fuels when developing deterioration factors for such vehicles. The Small-Volume Manufacturers Program requires manufacturers to provide full low mileage emission data which show compliance with new vehicle emission standards, but requires complete durability testing only for vehicles with unproven technology. Certification through use of the small-volume certification program reduces the burden of durability testing for small volume manufacturers while providing reasonable assurance of emission compliance. Public comment was received that to further reduce the burden on small volume manufacturers, EPA should accept as proven technology under the Small-Volume Manufacturers Program any aftermarket conversion technology that has been durability tested and certified under CARB's bench testing rules 34 or has been durability tested using on-road mileage accumulation. 34 Sections 2030 and 2031 of Title 13, California Code of Regulations. As specified in 40 CFR 86.092&hyph;2, EPA will accept bench or road test data that has been demonstrated to be equal or more severe than certification mileage accumulation requirements to satisfy the requirements for proven technology under the Small-Volume Manufacturers Program. Thus, durability test data collected to satisfy CARB's bench testing rules or by on-road mileage accumulation could be submitted to EPA for review under the Small-Volume Manufacturers Program. EPA reserves the right to evaluate the adequacy of such data, and acceptance by CARB will not constitute automatic acceptance by EPA. It should be noted that EPA requires in-use data to demonstrate that bench and on-road durability testing is equal or more severe than certification mileage accumulation requirements. For example, actual temperature trace data collected during vehicle operation must be used to demonstrate that the temperature experienced during bench aging testing is at least as severe. It should also be noted that EPA will only permit the use of provisions in the Small-Volume Certification Program to demonstrate the durability of technology that is currently used in automotive applications. For technology that has not previously been used in automotive applications in certified vehicles the full mileage accumulation durability requirements will be required. iii. Other provisions. EPA is also establishing other requirements with which certifiers must comply. For vehicles converted under today's regulations, the certifier must list each installer which produces CFV conversions on the certification application for that CFV conversion. A revised list must be submitted as new installers are authorized to produce the conversion configuration. Because the certifier will be treated as the manufacturer for purposes of sections 206 and 207 and related enforcement provisions, EPA anticipates that certifiers will enter into legally binding agreements with installers to ensure that installers are exercising due care in performing the installation and meeting other obligations under today's regulations.
