FR940812-2-00256 FR940812-2-00088 DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION Office of the Secretary Criteria and Application Process for the Secretarial Award for Excellence in Transportation Technology Research and Development AGENCY: Department of Transportation, Office of the Secretary. ACTION: Notice of Request for Nominations. SUMMARY: The Department of Transportation (DOT) announces procedures for nominating individuals and organizations for the Secretarial Award for Excellence in Transportation Technology Research and Development. Awards are made annually by the Secretary of Transportation to recognize research and development contributions advancing the ability of the U.S. transportation industry to compete globally. DATES: Nominations must be postmarked no later than October 30,1994. ADDRESSES: An original and three copies of the nomination should be sent to: Noah Rifkin, Director of Technology Deployment, Office of the Secretary, U.S. Department of Transportation, 400 7th Street, SW, Washington, DC 20590, Room 10200. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: John E. Hohl, Technology Sharing Officer, Research and Special Programs Administration, U.S. DOT 400 7th Street, SW, Washington D.C. 20590 Telephone: (202) 366&hyph;4978. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background This notice solicits nominations for the Secretarial Award for Excellence in Transportation Technology Research and Development and provides relevant information on the nomination and selection process. The award is honorary recognition in the form of a certificate from the Secretary of Transportation. Awards will be presented annually. Purpose DOT is committed to providing the nation with a safe, efficient, environmentally sound and technologically advanced transportation system that promotes economic growth, enhances international economic competitiveness, and contributes to a secure and healthy environment. In fulfilling this mission, the Department intends to accelerate technological advances that promote the development and export of transportation technology and manufactured products. To further these goals, the Secretary of Transportation has established the Secretarial Award for Excellence in Transportation Technology Research and Development to recognize significant contributions to expanding the technology knowledge base and the ability of the transportation industry to compete internationally. Organization Defined •For purposes of this award, organizations include but are not limited to: •Domestic or U.S. Corporations, including nonprofit corporations; •Partnerships; •Professional associations; •Institutions of higher education;
