FR940217-2-00131 FR940217-2-00075 Availability of Final Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) for the Establishment of an Instrument Landing System (ILS) on Runway 11 at Newark International Airport, Newark, NJ AGENCY: Federal Aviation Administration, DOT. ACTION: Notice of availability of Final Environmental Impact Statement (EIS). SUMMARY: The Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) is issuing this Notice to advise the public, local, State and Federal agencies, and all other interested parties of the availability of a final Environmental Impact Statement (EIS), which assesses the potential effects of constructing and operating an Instrument Landing System (ILS) facility on Runway 11 at Newark International Airport, Newark, New Jersey. The EIS has been prepared in accordance with the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969. The purpose of this proposed action is to reduce delays to the aircraft and passengers utilizing Newark International Airport and to provide more efficient use of the existing runways. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mr. Thomas Hom of the Federal Aviation Administration at (718) 553&hyph;1508, or Mr. Errol Francis of the Federal Aviation Administration at (718) 553&hyph;1158. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: An FAA evaluation concluded that the installation of an ILS on Runway 11 at Newark International Airport would reduce aircraft and passenger delays and provide for greater efficiency in the use of the existing runways. The FAA, in cooperation with the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey (PANYNJ), began the preparation of an Environmental Assessment (EA) for an Instrument Landing System/Microwave Landing System (ILS/MLS). A public hearing was held on September 19, 1991 to receive comments regarding the Draft Environmental Assessment (EA) for the proposed Runway 11 ILS/MLS at Newark International Airport; and a notice of Intent to prepare an Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) was published in the Federal Register by the FAA on March 29, 1993 inviting comments. Both verbal and written comments were received. Comments from the public hearing and those arising from the publication of the Notice of Intent were incorporated into a Draft Environmental Impact Statement (DEIS). Due to technical reasons and considerations, an MLS was no longer a part of the proposed action. A notice of Availability of the DEIS was published in the Federal Register by the FAA on September 20, 1993 and by the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) on September 24, 1993. Both verbal and written comments were received, incorporated into, and addressed in the Final EIS. Several alternatives to the proposed action were evaluated in the EIS, including: shifting the demand to other airports; restricting aircraft operations during peak operating hours; installing a precision instrument landing system on another runway; and no action. An analysis of both the function of the ILS and the data used to develop the Environmental Assessment led to the recommendation to prepare an Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) for the proposed installation of an ILS on Runway 11 at Newark International Airport. In addition, based on this analysis the FAA determined that the Runway 11 precision approach is separate and independent of those issues and actions considered in the EIS currently being completed for the Expanded East Coast Plan (EECP). The EIS for the Newark Runway 11 ILS project specifically addresses the environmental impacts resulting from the installation and use of a precision approach landing system for Runway 11 at Newark International Airport. The installation of an ILS on Runway 11 is not a component part of the EECP. The scope of the EECP EIS analyzes procedures involving aircraft above 3,000 feet. Utilization of the precision approach to Runway 11 will only effect procedures relevant to, and aircraft operations conducted below 3,000 feet. The Runway 11 ILS precision approach will in no way limit the choice of reasonable alternatives in the current EECP EIS. Rather, the Runway 11 ILS is a stand alone project of independent utility, needed to reduce operating delays at Newark International Airport. Therefore, the preparation of a separate EIS for this project is appropriate. The EIS is available for public review at the following locations: (1) Cranford Public Library, 224 Walnut Avenue, Cranford, New Jersey (contact the Head Librarian); (2) Elizabeth Public Library, 11 South Broad Street, Elizabeth, New Jersey (contact the Head Librarian); (3) Newark Public Library, 5 Washington Street, Newark, New Jersey (contact the Head Librarian); (4) Air Traffic Control Tower, room 112, Tower Road, Newark International Airport (ask for Mr. Lucious Riley). To obtain a copy of the EIS, submit a written request to: Mr. Thomas Hom (AEA&hyph;451.3), Supervisor, Navaids/Visaids/Weather Section, Airway Facilities Division, Federal Aviation Administration, Fitzgerald Federal Building #111, John F. Kennedy International Airport, Jamaica, New York 11430. Issued in Jamaica, New York on February 14, 1994. Charles J. Hoch, Manager, Airway Facilities Division, FAA Eastern Region. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;3674 Filed 2&hyph;16&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;13&hyph;M
