FR940512-2-00073 FR940512-2-00052 Final Judgment Whereas Plaintiff, United States of America, having filed its Complaint in this action on April 21, 1994, and plaintiff and defendant, by their respective attorneys, having consented to the entry of this Final Judgment without trial or adjudication of any issue of fact or law; and without this Final Judgment constituting any evidence or admission by any party with respect to any issue of fact or law; And whereas defendant has agreed to be bound by the provisions of this Final Judgment pending its approval by the Court; Now, therefore, before any testimony is taken, and without trial or adjudication of any issue of fact or law, and upon consent of the parties, it is hereby Ordered, adjudged and decreed as follows: I Jurisdiction This Court has jurisdiction of the subject matter of this action and of the person of the defendant. The Complaint states a claim upon which relief may be granted against the defendant under Sections 1 and 2 of the Sherman Act, 15 U.S.C. ยง1, 2. II Definitions As used in this Final Judgment: A. ``Defendant'' and ``EPS'' means defendant Electronic Payment Services, Inc., its divisions, subsidiaries, affiliates, agents, officers, employees, successors and assigns, and without restriction means the business currently known as ``Money Access Service'' or ``MAC,'' its employees, agents, officers, and any successor or assign of that business or any significant portion of the assets of that business. ``Defendant'' also includes all persons made subject to this Final Judgment pursuant to Section III hereof. B. ``ATM'' means automatic teller machine, a machine typically owned and deployed by a depository institution, and used by depositors of that institution and others to withdraw cash and, in certain configurations, to perform one or more of the following additional functions: account inquiry, payment authorization, transfer or deposit. C. ``ATM network'' means an arrangement whereby more than one ATM and more than one depository institution (or the deposit records of such depository institutions) are interconnected by electronic or telecommunications means, to one or more computers, processors or switches for the purpose of providing ATM services to the retail customers of depository institutions. D. ``ATM processing'' means providing the data processing services and telecommunications facilities and services used: 1. To operate, monitor and support the operation of ATMs deployed by a depository institution; 2. To connect the ATMs deployed by a depository institution to that institution's deposit authorization records, for authorization and confirmation of ``on-us transactions,'' and the recordkeeping and other functions related to such transactions; and 3. To connect the ATMs deployed by a depository institution to one or more branded ATM networks for authorization and confirmation of ``on-others transactions,'' and the recordkeeping and other functions related to such transactions. ATM processing can be provided as a service distinct from branded ATM network access, and can be performed in the facilities of the ATM switch, a depository institution's own facilities, or in the facilities of a data processing service organization. E. ``ATM switch'' means a telecommunications and data processing facility used to receive and route transactions from ATMs or ATM processors to data processing facilities used by depository institutions to authorize ATM transactions. A ``MAC switch'' is an ATM switch operated by or on behalf of, or providing such functionality for branded ATM network access to, the MAC or any successor branded ATM network controlled by defendant. F. ``Authorization processing'' means providing the data processing services and telecommunications facilities and services used to connect a branded ATM network to a depository institution's deposit authorization records, for authorization and confirmation of ATM transactions, and the recordkeeping and other functions related to such transactions. G. ``Branded ATM network access'' means access to an ATM network identified by a common trademark or logo displayed on ATMs and ATM cards, and includes the offering for sale of the ability for an ATM card holder with an account at one member depository institution to request withdrawal, deposit, payment authorization, transfer or account inquiry transactions at an ATM identified by a network's trademark or logo owned by another member depository institution; transaction switching by an ATM switch; and the right to brand ATMs or ATM cards with the trademark or logo of an ATM network. H. ``Depository institution'' means a bank, savings bank, savings and loan association, credit union or other institution authorized by federal or state law to take deposits. For the purpose of this Final Judgment, ``depository institution'' also includes any other member of a branded ATM network operated by defendant that also deploys ATMs within that network. I. ``Intercept processor'' means a depository institution that provides ATM processing for itself. J. ``MAC'' means Money Access Service, the branded ATM network owned, controlled and operated by EPS, or any successor brand to ``MAC.'' K. ``MAC Midwest Platform'' means MAC's data facility (or facilities) that on October 1, 1994, provides branded ATM network access to depository institutions located in the States of Illinois, Indiana, Kentucky, Michigan, Ohio and Tennessee, and at least the greater number of the depository institutions in the State of West Virginia that are branded ATM network customers of defendant. L. ``Person'' means any natural person, corporation, firm, company, sole proprietorship, partnership, association, institute, governmental unit, or other legal entity. M. ``Third party processor'' means any person that currently or in the future offers ATM processing services to depository institutions. Third party processors may include both depository institutions providing ATM processing for other depository institutions and firms unaffiliated with depository institutions that provide such services. A third party processor is ``qualified'' within the meaning of this Final Judgment if it is qualified within the meaning of Section IV.E below.
