FR940119-0-00044 FR940119-0-00014 DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration 50 CFR Part 650 [Docket No. 930828&hyph;3324; I.D. 080593A] RIN 0648&hyph;AC99 Atlantic Sea Scallop Fishery AGENCY: National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS), National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), Commerce. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: NMFS issues this final rule to implement the conservation and management measures contained in Amendment 4 to the Fishery Management Plan (FMP) for the Atlantic Sea Scallop Fishery. Amendment 4 substantially revises the management of the Atlantic Sea Scallop Fishery, especially regarding effort control in the fishery, permits, and reporting and recordkeeping requirements. The intent of this Amendment is to reduce the fishing mortality rate to eliminate the overfished condition of Atlantic sea scallops. EFFECTIVE DATE: March 1, 1994. ADDRESSES: Copies of Amendment 4, its regulatory impact review (RIR), initial regulatory flexibility analysis (IRFA), and the final supplemental environmental impact statement (FSEIS) are available from Douglas Marshall, Executive Director, New England Fishery Management Council, Suntaug Office Park, 5 Broadway (U.S. Rte. 1), Saugus, MA 01906&hyph;1097, telephone 617&hyph;565&hyph;8937. Copies of the Finance Handbook may be obtained from Mr. Joseph Giza, Chief, Fiscal Policy and Quality Assurance Branch, NOAA Financial Management Division, Caller Service No. 8025, 20020 Century Boulevard, Germantown, Maryland 20874, telephone 301&hyph;443&hyph;8795. Comments regarding the burden-hour estimates or any other aspect of the collection-of-information requirements contained in this final rule should be sent to Richard B. Roe, Regional Director, One Blackburn Drive, Gloucester, MA 01930, and the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) (Attention NOAA Desk Officer), Washington, DC 20503. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Paul H. Jones, Fishery Policy Analyst, 508&hyph;281&hyph;9273. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background Amendment 4 to the Atlantic Sea Scallop Fishery Management Plan (FMP) was prepared by the New England Fishery Management Council (Council) in consultation with the Mid-Atlantic and South Atlantic Fishery Management Councils, under the provisions of the Magnuson Fishery Conservation and Management Act (Magnuson Act) as amended, 16 U.S.C. 1801 et seq . A notice of availability for the proposed Amendment was published on August 10, 1993, (58 FR 42522) and a proposed implementing rule was published on September 2, 1993, (58 FR 46606). Approval of Amendment 4 Amendment 4 was approved on November 5, 1993. However, concerns were raised about the potential for Amendment 4 to cause excessive harvest of small sea scallops the first few years of implementation, if a supplemental average minimum meat count measure were not included as a management measure in the Amendment. The Assistant Administrator for Fisheries, NOAA (AA), approved the Amendment, concurring with the Regional Director who stated that the issue of increased mortality on small scallops in the early years of the program was considered by the Council during deliberations by the Plan Development Team (where representatives of both the Northeast Fisheries Science Center and the NMFS Northeast Regional Office participate), the Sea Scallop Oversight Committee, and the Council. The rebuilding schedule and effort reductions in the Amendment are designed to strike a balance between an accelerated rate of recovery and the minimization of economic and social disruption to the fishery. Although the Amendment was approved, NMFS remains concerned about the near-term level of protection of small sea scallops. This concern is reflected in the Regional Director's approval letter to the Council, dated November 5, 1993, which advised the Council that the Regional Director will be carefully monitoring the initial impact of the Amendment on fishing mortality rates of small sea scallops. If fishing mortality rates increase beyond anticipated levels, the Council is expected to implement immediately adjustments under the framework measures of the Amendment to protect sea scallop stocks adequately. Overfishing Definition Amendment 4 includes a definition of overfishing and a determination that the sea scallop resource is overfished. The preamble to the proposed rule included the definition of overfishing. It is not repeated here. To reduce fishing mortality below the overfishing definition threshold, the Council will reduce fishing effort by approximately 40 percent over seven years. Because the impact of effort controls and gear restrictions on the resource is uncertain, the Council estimates that actual effort reduction needed could be as low as 35 percent or as high as 70 percent. Approved Vessel Tracking System (VTS) Vendors In the proposed rule for Amendment 4, NMFS requested that vendors interested in having their VTS certified for use in this fishery submit information showing that the VTS meets the specifications contained in the proposed rule. NMFS has reviewed the information submitted by several vendors and will make available to interested parties the names and addresses of those vendors who appear to meet the specifications. The opportunity remains open for interested parties to submit their information to the NMFS and to be added to the list of approved vendors if it appears to the NMFS that they can meet the specifications. It is not the intent of the NMFS to assure that the acquisition and installation of a VTS unit from any one of these vendors meets the requirement of this rule as specified at ยง650.25. Vessel owners must demonstrate that the system purchased, from the list of approved vendors, is capable of meeting the operational requirements of the regulations by providing information on vessel position and vessel status. It is the intent of the NMFS that until the vessel owner can demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Regional Director that the VTS unit is fully operational and is providing the required information to the NMFS, the vessel owner/operator will not be eligible to receive a permit unless the Regional Director authorizes the use of a call-in system in accordance with ยง650.26(a)(3).
