FR940916-1-00168 FR940916-1-00017 In addition to the cost savings expected from harmonization, the proposed rule would result in airplane designs that are based on more rational evaluations of conditions expected in flight. Regulatory Flexibility Determination The Regulatory Flexibility Act of 1980 (RFA) was enacted by Congress to ensure that small entities are not unnecessarily and disproportionately burdened by Federal regulations. The RFA requires A Regulatory Flexibility Analysis if a proposed rule would have ``a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities.'' FAA Order 2100.14A outlines FAA's procedures and criteria for implementing the RFA. An aircraft manufacturer must employ 75 or fewer employees to be designated as a ``small'' entity. A substantial number of small entities is defined as a number that is 11 or more and which is more than one-third of the small entities subject to a proposed or final rule. None of the manufacturers of transport category airplanes qualify as small entities under this definition. Therefore, the proposed rule would not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. International Trade Impact Assessment The proposed rule would not constitute a barrier to international trade, including the export of American goods and services to foreign countries and the import of foreign goods and services into the United States. The discrete gust load requirements in this rule would harmonize with those of the JAA and would, in fact, lessen the restraints on trade. Federalism Implications The regulations proposed herein would not have substantial direct effects on the states, on the relationship between the national government and the states, or on the distribution of power and responsibilities among the various levels of government. Thus, in accordance with Executive Order 12612, it is determined that this proposal does not have sufficient federalism implications to warrant the preparation of a Federalism Assessment. Conclusion: Because the proposed changes to the gust design criteria are not expected to result in a substantial economic cost, the FAA has determined that this proposed regulation would not be significant under Executive Order 12866. Because this is an issue that has not prompted a great deal of public concern, the FAA has determined that this action is not significant under DOT Regulatory Policies and Procedures (44 FR 11034; February 25, 1979). In addition, since there are no small entities affected by this rulemaking, the FAA certifies that the rule, if promulgated, would not have a significant economic impact, positive or negative, on a substantial number of small entities under the criteria of the Regulatory Flexibility Act, since none would be affected. A copy of the regulatory evaluation prepared for this project may be examined in the Rules Docket or obtained from the person identified under the caption FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT. List of Subjects in 14 CFR Part 25 Air transportation, Aircraft, Aviation safety, Safety, Gusts. The Proposed Amendments Accordingly, the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) proposes to amend 14 CFR part 25 of the Federal Aviation Regulations (FAR) as follows: PART 25_AIRWORTHINESS STANDARDS: TRANSPORT CATEGORY AIRPLANES 1. The authority citation for Part 25 continues to read as follows: Authority: 49 U.S.C. 1344, 1354(a), 1355, 1421, 1423, 1424, 1425, 1428, 1429, 1430; 49 U.S.C. 106(g), and 49 CFR 1.47(a). §25.305 [Amended] 2. By amending §25.305 by removing and reserving paragraph (d). 3. By amending §25.321 by adding new paragraphs (c) and (d) to read as follows: §25.321 General. * * * * * (c) Enough points on and within the boundaries of the design envelope must be investigated to ensure that the maximum load for each part of the airplane structure is obtained. (d) The significant forces acting on the airplane must be placed in equilibrium in a rational or conservative manner. The linear inertia forces must be considered in equilibrium with the thrust and all aerodynamic loads, while the angular (pitching) inertia forces must be considered in equilibrium with thrust and all aerodynamic moments, including moments due to loads on components such as tail surfaces and nacelles. Critical thrust values in the range from zero to maximum continuous thrust must be considered. 4. By amending §25.331 by revising the title and paragraph (a) to read as follows, and by removing and reserving paragraph (d). §25.331 Symmetric maneuvering conditions. (a) Procedure. For the analysis of the maneuvering flight conditions specified in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, the following provisions apply: (1) Where sudden displacement of a control is specified, the assumed rate of control surface displacement may not be less than the rate that could be applied by the pilot through the control system. (2) In determining elevator angles and chordwise load distribution in the maneuvering conditions of paragraph (b) and (c) of this section, the effect of corresponding pitching velocities must be taken into account. The in-trim and out-of-trim flight conditions specified in §25.255 must be considered. * * * * * 5. By amending §25.333 by revising the title and paragraph (a) to read as follows, and by removing and reserving paragraph (c). §25.333 Flight maneuvering envelope. (a) General. The strength requirements must be met at each combination of airspeed and load factor on and within the boundaries of the representative maneuvering envelop ( V&hyph;n diagram) of paragraph (b) of this section. This envelope must also be used in determining the airplane structural operating limitations as specified in §25.1501. * * * * * 6. By amending §25.335 by revising paragraph (d) to read as follows: §25.335 Design airspeeds. * * * * * (d) Design speed for maximum gust intensity, V B . (1) V B may not be less than E:GRAPHICSEP16SE94.011 where_ V S1 =the 1&hyph;g stalling speed based on C NAmax with the flaps retracted at the particular weight under consideration; V c =design cruise speed (knots equivalent airspeed); U ref =the reference gust velocity (feet per second equivalent airspeed) from §25.341(a)(5)(i); w=average wing loading (pounds per square foot) at the particular weight under consideration. E:GRAPHICSEP16SE94.012 r =density of air (slugs/ft 3 ); c=mean geometric chord of the wing (feet); g=acceleration due to gravity (ft/sec 2 ); a=slope of the airplane normal force coefficient curve, C NA per radian; (2) At altitudes where V C is limited by Mach number_ (i) V B may be chosen to provide an optimum margin between low and high speed buffet boundaries; and, (ii) V B need not be greater than V C . * * * * * 7. By revising §25.341 to read as follows: §25.341 Gust and turbulence loads. (a) Discrete Gust Design Criteria. The airplane is assumed to be subjected to symmetrical vertical and lateral gusts in level flight. Limit gust loads must be determined in accordance with the following provisions: (1) Loads on each part of the structure must be determined by dynamic analysis. The analysis must take into account unsteady aerodynamic characteristics and all significant structural degrees of freedom including rigid body motions. (2) The shape of the gust must be:
