FR940617-0-00115 FR940617-0-00026 Comments that EPA assumed a uniform distribution of equipment within areas evaluated in the Nonroad Study, thereby resulting in an equal number of farm tractors in both downtown New York City and the surrounding countryside, are incorrect. The equipment population distributions used in the Nonroad Study were derived from estimates of activity levels within specific counties of each CMSA. A county, such as that containing Manhattan, would presumably show an activity index for agricultural equipment presumably at or near zero. Therefore, the agricultural equipment population estimate for Manhattan would also be at or near zero. 11 11 The methodology is documented in the Energy and Environmental Analysis final report entitled ``Methodology to Estimate Nonroad Equipment Populations by Nonattainment Areas,'' available for review in Docket # A&hyph;91&hyph;24, Item No. II&hyph;A&hyph;3. 7. Support of the Agency's Determination of Significance Some commenters supported the Agency's proposed significance determination. One engine manufacturer supported grouping the 80-plus types of nonroad equipment together instead of evaluating and regulating each type of equipment separately. This commenter also stated that it is not cost effective to build parallel regulated/unregulated engine families for the U.S. market to support regulated and unregulated applications. A State commented that it is particularly important that any EPA regulation control emissions from construction and farm equipment, as those emissions cannot be controlled by state or local agencies. It cited its own estimates that agricultural equipment contributes over 90 tons per day of NO X in the State of California. Much of these emissions occur in the San Joaquin valley and are a primary contributor to the nonattainment status of that overwhelmingly agricultural area. In addition, a major city agreed with the Agency's significance determination, stating that further reductions in VOC, CO, and NO X were essential to achieving attainment. A regional association of states also supported the Agency's determination of significance, stating that engines subject to the proposed standards are responsible for approximately 11 percent of all NO X emitted in its region, making control of emissions from these sources critical to their efforts to meet the statutory requirements of the CAA. An environmental association stated that without significant reductions from nonroad engines, states will not be able to develop long-term plans for the attainment and maintenance of ambient air quality standards. IV. Definition of Nonroad Engine CAA section 216(10) defines the term ``nonroad engine'' as ``an internal combustion engine (including the fuel system) that is not used in a motor vehicle or a vehicle used solely for competition, or that is not subject to standards promulgated under section 111 or 202.'' Section 111(a)(3) of the CAA notes, however, that ``Nothing in Title II of this Act relating to nonroad engines shall be construed to apply to stationary internal combustion engines.'' 1. Original Proposed Definition of Nonroad Engine In the May 17, 1993 NPRM, EPA proposed that the engines encompassed by the statutory definition of nonroad engine included internal combustion engines meeting one of the following criteria: (1) Any internal combustion engine (including the fuel system) of any size which is used to propel any vehicle if the engine is not otherwise excluded from this definition (see below). This includes any internal combustion engine which serves a dual function (that is, to both propel a vehicle and operate a device while stationary), such as a mobile crane; (2) Any internal combustion engine which is located in (or on) a nonroad vehicle and which is an integral part of the nonroad vehicle at the time of the nonroad vehicle's manufacture and which is not otherwise excluded from this definition (see below); or (3) Any internal combustion engine or combination of internal combustion engines arranged to function together, regardless of application, with a combined output of less than 175 hp, unless otherwise excluded from this definition (see below). Several specific exclusions were included in the proposed definition of nonroad engines. An internal combustion engine would not be considered a nonroad engine if: (1) The engine is used to propel a motor vehicle or a vehicle used solely for competition;
