FR940902-2-00025 FR940902-2-00020 [FRL&hyph;5064&hyph;1] National Oil and Hazardous Substances Pollution Contingency Plan; National Priorities List Update AGENCY: Environmental Protection Agency. ACTION: Notice of intent to delete Allied Plating from the National Priorities List: request for comments. SUMMARY: The United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Region 10 announces its intent to delete the Allied Plating Site (Site) from the National Priorities List (NPL) and requests public comment on this proposed action. The NPL constitutes Appendix B to the National Oil and Hazardous Substances Pollution Contingency Plan (NCP), which EPA promulgated pursuant to Section 105 of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (CERCLA) of 1980, as amended. EPA and the state of Oregon Department of Environmental Quality (DEQ) have determined that all appropriate actions under CERCLA have been implemented and that no further cleanup of the Site under CERCLA is necessary. Moreover, EPA and DEQ have determined that remedial activities conducted at the Site to date have been protective of public health, welfare and the environment. DATES: Comments concerning this Site may be submitted on or before October 3, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments may be mailed to: Kevin Rochlin, Remedial Project Manager, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Region 10, 1200 6th Avenue, Mail Stop: HW&hyph;113, Seattle, Washington 98101. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Kevin Rochlin, Remedial Project Manager, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Region 10, 1200 6th Avenue, Mail Stop: HW&hyph;113, Seattle, Washington 98101, (206) 553&hyph;2106. Comprehensive information on this Site is available through the Region 10 public docket. Copies of the docket are available for viewing at the following three locations: Portland State University, Miller Library, Business/Documents Section, Portland, Oregon 97207. NE Neighborhood Association, 4815 NE 7th Avenue, Portland, Oregon 97211. United States Environmental Protection Agency Region 10, Hazardous Waste Division_Records Center, 1200 6th Avenue, Seattle, Washington 98101. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Table of Contents I. Introduction II. NPL Deletion Criteria III. Deletion Procedures IV. Basis of Intended Site Deletion I. Introduction EPA Region 10 announces its intent to delete the Allied Plating site from the National Priorities List (NPL), Appendix B of the National Oil and Hazardous Substances Contingency Plan (NCP), 40 CFR Part 300, and requests comments on this deletion. EPA identifies sites that appear to present a significant risk to human health or the environment, and places these sites on the NPL. EPA has the discretion to use its authorities under CERCLA or RCRA, or to designate a state with remedial authorities to accomplish appropriate cleanup at sites listed on the NPL. As described in ยง300.425(e)(3) of the NCP, sites deleted from the NPL remain eligible for Fund-financed remedial actions in the unlikely event that conditions at the site warrant such actions. EPA plans to delete the site, located at 8135 Martin Luther King, Jr. Boulevard, Portland, Oregon, from the NPL. EPA will accept comments on this proposal to delete this Site for thirty days after publication of this notice in the Federal Register . Section II of this Notice explains the criteria for deleting sites from the NPL. Section III discusses procedures that EPA is using for this action. Section IV discusses the Allied Plating Site and explains how the Site meets the deletion criteria. II. NPL Deletion Criteria Section 300.425(e) of the NCP, 40 CFR 300.425(e), provides that sites may be deleted from, or recategorized on, the NPL where no further response is appropriate. In making a determination to delete a site from the NPL, EPA shall consider, in consultation with the State, whether any of the following criteria have been met: (1) EPA has determined that responsible or other parties have implemented all appropriate response actions required; or (2) All appropriate Fund-financed responses under CERCLA have been implemented, no further cleanup by responsible parties is appropriate; or (3) The remedial investigation has shown that the release poses no significant threat to public health or the environment and therefore, taking remedial measures is not appropriate. III. Deletion Procedures Followed for the Allied Plating Site
