FR941207-2-00105 FR941207-2-00072 A combination of these techniques _An applicant could employ a combination of these techniques in order to implement a strategy that carries out an economic development project. (D) Timing of Grant Awards EDI applications will be evaluated concurrently with request(s) or application(s) for Section 108 guarantee commitments or request(s) or application(s) for approval of amendments to previously approved Section 108 applications that will be enhanced by the EDI assistance. (See II.B. of this NOFA.) HUD notification to the grantee of the amount and conditions (if any) of EDI funds awarded based upon review of the EDI application shall constitute an obligation of grant funds, subject to compliance with the conditions of award and execution of a grant agreement. (E) Limitations on Grant Amounts HUD expects to approve EDI grant amounts of up to $100 million each with the ratio of EDI to Section 108 funds of 1:1. Applicants cannot request grants exceeding a one-to-one ratio of EDI funds to Section 108 funds. In the case of requested amendments to an approved Section 108 loan guarantee commitment, the EDI assistance approved will be based on the increased amount of Section 108 loan guarantee assistance. HUD reserves the right to determine a minimum and a maximum amount of any EDI award per application or project and to modify requests accordingly. The applicant will be required to modify its project plans and application to conform to the terms of HUD approval (final obligation) before execution of a grant agreement. HUD reserves the right to reduce or de-obligate the EDI award if approvable Section 108 loan guarantee applications are not submitted by the grantee in the required amounts on a timely basis. (F) Eligible Applicants for EDI Grant Assistance Generally, eligible applicants for EDI grants under section 108(q) of the Act are those public entities eligible to apply for loan guarantee assistance pursuant to §570.702. However, this NOFA further limits eligible applicants to those communities that submitted applications on behalf of areas that qualify for designation as an urban Empowerment Zone, and that have remaining Section 108 loan guarantee authority of at least $40 million; or in the case of an urban Empowerment Zone application from joint entities, an aggregate Section 108 loan authority for all of the entities that submitted the Empowerment Zone application of at least $40 million. In the case of a joint Empowerment Zone application for two or more entities, HUD will accept a joint EDI application from the same public entities eligible to apply for loan guarantee assistance pursuant to §570.702. However, each of the joint applications will be expected to execute separate EDI grant agreements and separate loan commitments and issuance documents for their related section 108 loan guarantees. (G) Eligible Activities EDI grant funds may be used for: (1) Activities listed at §570.703, provided such activities are carried out in the qualifying Empowerment Zone area. (2) Payment of costs of private financial guaranty insurance policies, letters of credit, or other credit enhancements for the notes or other obligations guaranteed by HUD pursuant to Section 108, provided such notes or obligations are used to finance an economic development project. Such enhancements shall be specified in the contract required by §570.705(b)(1), and shall be satisfactory in form and substance to HUD for security purposes. (3) The payment of principal or interest due (including such servicing, underwriting, or other costs as may be authorized by HUD) on the notes or other obligations guaranteed pursuant to the Section 108 loan guarantee program. II. The Application Process Public entities applying for EDI assistance under this NOFA must make a specific request for that assistance, in accordance with this NOFA. The EDI application shall be accompanied by a request or requests for Section 108 loan guarantee commitment(s), as further described in Section II.B. of this NOFA below. Application guidelines for the Section 108 program are found at §570.704. (A) Timing of Submission Applications for EDI assistance shall be received at HUD Headquarters at the address listed above at Addresses by close of business on December 16, 1994. Applicants are encouraged to submit applications to Room 7180. However, any application received by the Office of Community Planning and Development in Headquarters, Washington, DC, by the deadline date will be accepted. HUD will not accept applications which are submitted to HUD via facsimile (FAX) transmission. (B) Submission Requirements (1) The EDI application (an original and two copies) shall be accompanied by a request for loan guarantee assistance under Section 108. The request for Section 108 loan guarantee can be either one or more of the following: (a) A formal application for Section 108 loan guarantee(s), including the documents listed at §570.704(b); (b) A brief description of a Section 108 loan guarantee application(s) to be submitted within 60 days (with HUD reserving the right to extend such period for good cause, generally, on a case-by-case basis) of a notice of EDI selection (EDI awards will be conditioned on approval of actual Section 108 loan commitments). This description must be sufficient to support the basic eligibility of the proposed project or activities for Section 108 assistance;
