FR940426-2-00082 FR940426-2-00056 [Docket Nos. 50&hyph;325 and 50&hyph;324] Carolina Power & Light Co., Brunswick Steam Electric Plant, Units 1 & 2; Consideration of Issuance of Amendment to Facility Operating License, Proposed No Significant Hazards Consideration Determination, and Opportunity for a Hearing The U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission (the Commission) is considering issuance of amendments to Facility Operating License Nos. DPR&hyph;71 and DPR&hyph;62 issued to Carolina Power & Light Company (the licensee) for operation of the Brunswick Steam Electric Plant, Units 1 and 2, located in Brunswick County, North Carolina. The proposed amendment would relocate the instrument response time tables 3.3.1&hyph;2, Reactor Protection System (RPS) Response Times; 3.3.2&hyph;3, Isolation System Instrumentation (ISI) Response Time; and 3.3.3&hyph;3, Emergency Core Cooling System (ECCS) Response Times, from the Technical Specifications to the Updated Final Safety Analysis Report (FSAR). The RPS, ISI, and ECCS instrument Limiting Conditions for Operation (LCO) will be reviewed to read that the instruments ``shall be operable'' without a reference to a specific response time table in these LCOs. The references to the response time tables will also be deleted from the Surveillance Requirements. Before issuance of the proposed license amendment, the Commission will have made findings required by the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended (the Act) and the Commission's regulations. The Commission has made a proposed determination that the amendment request involves no significant hazards consideration. Under the Commission's regulations in 10 CFR 50.92, this means that operation of the facility in accordance with the proposed amendment would not (1) involve a significant increase in the probability or consequences of an accident previously evaluated; or (2) create the possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any accident previously evaluated; or (3) involve a significant reduction in a margin of safety. As required by 10 CFR 50.91(a), the licensee has provided its analysis of the issue of no significant hazards consideration, which is presented below: 1. The proposed amendment does not involve a significant increase in the probability or consequences of an accident previously evaluated. Relocating the instrument response time tables to the Updated FSAR is an administrative change which in no way affects the design or operation of equipment that could initiate or mitigate any accident previously evaluated. 2. The proposed amendment would not create the possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any accident previously evaluated. This amendment is involves [sic] administratively relocating the response time testing to the Updated FSAR. The amendment would not affect the operation or design of the plant equipment; therefore, no new credible accidents are created. In addition, the proposed amendment would not affect the capability of the response systems to mitigate the consequences of any accident previously evaluated; therefore, no new or different accident would result from this change. 3. The proposed amendment does not involve a significant reduction in a margin of safety. The amendment would allow increases to administratively control changes to response time limits for the involved instrumentation under the provisions of 10 CFR 50.59 and existing Section 6 Administrative Technical Specifications. No safety limits are affected by this change. Therefore, the amendment would not result in a reduction in any margin of safety.
