FR941202-0-00030 FR941202-0-00001 (c) Aside from the notification requirement, nothing in this section affects any rights or duties of licensees and physicians in relation to each other, patients, or human research subjects (or the patient's or the human research subject's responsible relative or guardian). 25. Section 35.49 is revised to read as follows: §35.49 Suppliers for sealed sources or devices for medical use. A licensee may use for medical use only: (a) Sealed sources or devices manufactured, labeled, packaged, and distributed in accordance with a license issued pursuant to 10 CFR Part 30 and 10 CFR 32.74 or the equivalent requirements of an Agreement State; or (b) Teletherapy sources manufactured and distributed in accordance with a license issued pursuant to 10 CFR Part 30 or the equivalent requirements of an Agreement State. 26. In §35.50, paragraphs (a), (b)(3), and (e)(2) through (e)(4) are revised to read as follows: §35.50 Possession, use, calibration, and check of dose calibrators. (a) A licensee shall possess and use a dose calibrator to measure the activity of dosages of photon-emitting radionuclides prior to administration to each patient or human research subject. (b) *␣*␣* (3) Test each dose calibrator for linearity upon installation and at least quarterly thereafter over a range from the highest dosage that will be administered to a patient or human research subject to 1.1 megabecquerels (30 microcuries); and * * * * * (e) *␣*␣* (2) For paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the model and serial number of the dose calibrator, the model and serial number of each source used, the identity of the radionuclide contained in the source and its activity, the date of the test, the results of the test, and the identity of the individual performing the test. (3) For paragraph (b)(3) of this section, the model and serial number of the dose calibrator, the calculated activities, the measured activities, the date of the test, and the identity of the individual performing the test. (4) For paragraph (b)(4) of this section, the model and serial number of the dose calibrator, the configuration of the source measured, the activity measured for each volume measured, the date of the test, and the identity of the individual performing the test. 27. Section 35.52 is added to read as follows: §35.52 Possession, use, calibration, and check of instruments to measure dosages of alpha- or beta-emitting radionuclides. (a) This section does not apply to unit dosages of alpha- or beta- emitting radionuclides that are obtained from a manufacturer or preparer licensed pursuant to 10 CFR 32.72 or equivalent Agreement State requirements. (b) For other than unit dosages obtained pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, a licensee shall possess and use instrumentation to measure the radioactivity of alpha- or beta-emitting radionuclides. The licensee shall have procedures for use of the instrumentation. The licensee shall measure, by direct measurement or by combination of measurements and calculations, the amount of radioactivity in dosages of alpha- or beta-emitting radionuclides prior to administration to each patient or human research subject. In addition, the licensee shall: (1) Perform tests before initial use, periodically, and following repair, on each instrument for accuracy, linearity, and geometry dependence, as appropriate for the use of the instrument; and make adjustments when necessary; and (2) Check each instrument for constancy and proper operation at the beginning of each day of use. 28. In §35.53, the section heading and paragraphs (a), (b), (c)(2), and (c)(3) are revised as follows: §35.53 Measurement of dosages of unsealed byproduct material for medical use. * * * * * (a) Measure the activity of each dosage of a photon-emitting radionuclide prior to medical use. (b) Measure, by direct measurement or by combination of measurements and calculations, the activity of each dosage of an alpha- or a beta-emitting radionuclide prior to medical use, except for unit dosages obtained from a manufacturer or preparer licensed pursuant to 10 CFR 32.72 or equivalent Agreement State requirements;
