FR940907-2-00131 FR940907-2-00091 Proposed Priority A D&U project on improving access to disability data shall_ •Assess the needs of a range of target audiences for specific types of disability data and the availability of such data; •Identify the most effective channels and formats for conveying information to various target populations, including individuals with various types of disabilities, those associated with special communication needs, and individuals who are members of minority or traditionally underserved groups; •Identify and define the nature of the access problems to disability data faced by various segments of the target population; •Identify, collect, summarize, repackage, and disseminate selected disability statistics (proposed by the applicant) in a number of formats and through a number of media that will most effectively reach various segments of the target population, and evaluate the effectiveness of the selected mechanisms; •Develop innovative and attractive informational products in a variety of accessible formats; develop guidelines for the dissemination of these materials, and provide training to relevant target populations in the use and dissemination of the materials; •Develop, test, and market innovative uses of information technologies, including on-line data services, 800 numbers, and a system for reimbursable data services, as appropriate; •Assess the need for and, if necessary, develop informational materials to facilitate the use of disability data derived from State and local entities by legislators, policy makers, service providers, advocates, manufacturers and retailers; •Coordinate with other OSERS-supported and other Federal agency data dissemination activities to avoid duplication of effort; and •Maintain all print materials created in full 3 1/2'' disk format in Word Perfect 5.2 for IBM, Microsoft Word 5 for Macintosh, and ASCII format for easier translation into Braille and for read back using a screen reader, and maintain a library and on-line database of all products. Invitation To Comment Interested persons are invited to submit comments and recommendations regarding this proposed priority. All comments submitted in response to this proposed priority will be available for public inspection, during and after the comment period, in Room 3423, Switzer Building, 330 C Street, S.W., Washington, D.C. between the hours of 8:30 a.m. and 4:00 p.m., Monday through Friday of each week except Federal holidays. Applicable Program Regulations 34 CFR Parts 350 and 355. Program Authority: 29 U.S.C. 760&hyph;762. (Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance Number 84.133D, Knowledge Dissemination and Utilization Program) Dated: August 31, 1994. Howard R. Moses, Acting Assistant Secretary for Special Education and Rehabilitative Services. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;21915 Filed 9&hyph;6&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4000&hyph;01&hyph;P
