FR940707-2-00078 FR940707-2-00049 4. Staff Background and Organization's Experience (25 points) The application identifies the background of the project director/principal investigator and key project staff (including name, address, training, educational background and other qualifying experience) and the experience of the organization to demonstrate the applicant's ability to effectively and efficiently administer this project. The application describes the relationship between this project and other work planned, anticipated or underway by the applicant which is being supported by Federal assistance. D. Structure of Priority Area Descriptions Each priority area description is composed of the following sections: • Eligible Applicants: This section specifies the type of organization which is eligible to apply under the particular priority area. • Purpose: This section presents the basic focus and/or broad goal(s) of the priority area. • Background Information: This section briefly discusses the legislative background as well as the current state-of-the-art and/or current state-of-practice that supports the need for the particular priority area activity. Relevant information on projects previously funded by ACF and/or other State models are noted, where applicable. • Minimum Requirements for Project Design: This section presents the basic set of issues that must be addressed in the application. Typically, they relate to project design, evaluation, and community involvement. This section also asks for specific information on the proposed project. Inclusion and discussion of these items is important since they will be used by the reviewers in evaluating the applications against the evaluation criteria. Project products, continuation of the project effort after the Federal support ceases, and dissemination/utilization activities, if appropriate, are also addressed. • Project Duration: This section specifies the maximum allowable length of time for the project period; it refers to the amount of time for which Federal funding is available. • Federal Share of Project Costs: This section specifies the maximum amount of Federal support for the project. • Matching Requirement: This section specifies the minimum non-Federal contribution, either through cash or in-kind match, that is required to the maximum Federal funds requested for the project. • Anticipated Number of Projects To Be Funded: This section specifies the number of projects that ADD anticipates it will fund in the priority area. • CFDA: This section identifies the Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance (CFDA) number and title of the program under which applications in this priority area will be funded. This information is needed to complete item 10 on the SF 424. Please note that applicants that do not comply with the specific priority area requirements in the section on `` Eligible Applicants '' will not be reviewed. Applicants must clearly identify the specific priority area under which they wish to have their applications considered, and tailor their applications accordingly. In addition, previous experience has shown that an application which is broader and more general in concept than outlined in the priority area description is less likely to score as well as one which is more clearly focused on and directly responsive to the concerns of that specific priority area. E. Available Funds ADD intends to award new grants resulting from this announcement during the fourth quarter of fiscal year 1994, subject to the availability of funding. The size of the actual awards will vary. Each priority area description includes information on the maximum Federal share of the project costs and the anticipated number of projects to be funded. The term ``budget period'' refers to the interval of time (usually 12 months) into which a multi-year period of assistance (project period) is divided for budgetary and funding purposes. The term ``project period'' refers to the total time a project is approved for support, including any extensions.
