FR941110-0-00040 FR941110-0-00016 OBRA '87 included revised and expanded authority for enforcement of the Federal participation requirements for long-term care facilities. We proposed adding a new subpart, subpart F (Remedies for Long Term Care Facilities with Deficiencies) to part 488 to implement these new provisions. 2. Determination of Deficiencies Effective October 1, 1990, providers of nursing services participating in the Medicare or Medicaid programs were subject to the requirements of participation that were published on February 2, 1989 (54 FR 5316). These requirements focus more sharply on the resident care practices and outcomes, and facility practices with respect to resident rights. In the proposed rule we explained that the collective exercise of surveyor judgments, which has always been the vehicle for the identification of deficiencies would remain unchanged. For this reason, we concluded that there was no more reason to have specific regulations governing this process than there had been in the past. Thus, we proposed that, surveyors would gather information based upon direct observations, record review, and interviews with residents, staff, and family members. Based on their collection of information, they would collectively compile and analyze it, and match the data to the legal standards facilities are obliged to meet to determine if deficiencies exist. As is true now, these conclusions would be based upon single observations or groups of observations, either one of which may sustain a finding that a requirement has not been met. We proposed that once the survey team made its judgments about whether the facts supported a conclusion that deficiencies exist, it would be the team's responsibility to assess the scope and severity of those deficiencies (in the manner described later in this preamble) in order to recommend one or more remedies to either HCFA or the Medicaid State agency for the enforcement of the requirements. 3. Remedies To Be Imposed as Alternative or Intermediate Sanctions Consistent with sections 1819(h) and 1919(h) of the Act as added by OBRA '87, we proposed to add a new §488.206, listing the available remedies. It stated that, in addition to termination of the provider agreement, the following remedies would be available: •Temporary management; •Denial of payment including_ +␣Denial of payment for all new admissions; +␣Denial of payment for all new admissions in certain diagnostic categories or requiring specialized care; and +␣Denial of all payment (to be imposed only by HCFA) to facilities, for Medicare and to States, for Medicaid. •Directed plan of corrections; •State monitoring; and •Civil money penalties.
