FR940208-2-00163 FR940208-2-00092 65. (1) A panel may dispose of a motion based upon the pleadings filed pertaining to the motion. (2) The panel may hear oral argument or, subject to subrule 26(b), direct that a motion be heard by means of a telephone conference call with the participants. (3) A panel may deny a motion before responses to the Notice of Motion have been filed. 66. Where a panel chooses to hear oral argument or, pursuant to subrule 65(2), directs that a motion be heard by means of a telephone conference call with the participants, the responsible Secretary shall, at the direction of the chairperson, fix a date, time and place for the hearing of the motion and shall notify all participants of the same. Part VI_Oral Proceedings Location 67. Oral proceedings in a panel review shall take place at the office of the responsible Secretariat or at such other location as the responsible Secretary may arrange. Pre-hearing Conference 68. (1) A panel may hold a pre-hearing conference, in which case the responsible Secretary shall give notice of the conference to all participants. (2) A participant may request that the panel hold a pre-hearing conference by filing with the responsible Secretariat a written request setting out the matters that the participant proposes to raise at the conference. (3) The purpose of a pre-hearing conference shall be to facilitate the expeditious advancement of the panel review by addressing such matters as (a) the clarification and simplification of the issues; (b) the procedure to be followed at the hearing of oral argument; and (c) any outstanding motions. (4) Subject to subrule 26(b), a pre-hearing conference may be conducted by means of a telephone conference call. (5) Following a pre-hearing conference, the panel shall promptly issue an order setting out its rulings with respect to the matters considered at the conference. Oral Argument 69. (1) A panel shall commence the hearing of oral argument no later than 30 days after the expiration of the time period fixed under subrule 60(3) for filing reply briefs. At the direction of the panel, the responsible Secretary shall notify all participants of the date, time and place for the oral argument. (2) Oral argument shall be limited to the issues in dispute, shall be subject to the time constraints set by the panel and shall, unless the panel otherwise orders, be presented in the following order: (a) the complainants and any participant who filed a brief in support of the allegations set out in a Complaint or partly in support of the allegations set out in a Complaint and partly in opposition to the allegations set out in a Complaint; (b) the investigating authority and any participant who filed a brief in opposition to the allegations set out in a Complaint, other than a participant referred to in subrule (a); and (c) argument in reply, at the discretion of the panel. (3) If a participant fails to appear at oral argument, the panel may hear argument on behalf of the other participants who are present. If no participant appears, the panel may decide the case on the basis of briefs. (4) Oral argument on behalf of a participant on a motion or at a hearing shall be conducted by the counsel of record for that participant or, where the participant is an individual appearing pro se , by the participant. Subsequent Authorities 70. (1) A participant who has filed a brief may bring to the attention of the panel, (a) at any time before the conclusion of oral argument, an authority that is relevant to the panel review;
