FR940620-1-00028 FR940620-1-00006 (7) Individuals described in section 1902(u)(1) of the Act who are entitled to elect COBRA continuation coverage (as specified in §435.240). 8. A new undesignated center heading and §435.240 are added at the end of subpart C to read as follows: Options for Coverage of Special Groups Who Have Limited Eligibility §435.240 COBRA continuation beneficiaries. (a) Scope and applicability. The provisions of this section are optional in the 50 States, the District of Columbia, the Northern Mariana Islands, and American Samoa. (b) Basic requirements. The agency that elects this option must include in its Medicaid State plan the payment of group health insurance premiums on behalf of any individual who_ (1) Is entitled to elect COBRA continuation coverage as defined in paragraph (c) of this section; (2) Has resources, as determined in accordance with the SSI methodology at section 1613 of the Act, that do not exceed twice the maximum amount established for SSI eligibility for that individual; (3) Has income, as determined in accordance with the SSI methodology at section 1612 of the Act, that does not exceed 100 percent of the Federal poverty guidelines (as defined by the Office of Management and Budget, and revised and published annually by the Department of Health and Human Services) applicable to a family of the size involved; and (4) The State has determined that COBRA continuation coverage premiums to be paid by the State with respect to enrolling an individual are expected to be less than the likely Medicaid expenditures on behalf of the individual in the absence of enrollment. (c) Definitions. As used in this subpart_ COBRA continuation coverage means coverage under a group health plan provided by an employer with 75 or more employees under title XXII of the Public Health Service Act, section 4980B of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, or title VI of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974. COBRA premiums means the applicable premium imposed with respect to COBRA continuation coverage. (d) Determination of COBRA continuation coverage_ (1) Except as provided in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, States must use the SSI methodologies in sections 1612 and 1613 of the Act to determine income and resource eligibility for COBRA continuation benefits. (2) States that have exercised their option under section 1902(f) of the Act may use more restrictive income and resource standards, methodologies, and criteria in determining eligibility for COBRA continuation coverage. (3) States may not apply more liberal income and resource methodologies under section 1902(r)(2) of the Act to this group. (e) Services available to COBRA continuation beneficiaries_ (1) A COBRA continuation beneficiary (CCB) who is not otherwise eligible for Medicaid (that is, does not belong to any other eligibility group covered under the State plan) is only eligible to have Medicaid pay premiums specified under the COBRA plan on his or her behalf. (2) A CCB who belongs to one of the other eligibility groups covered under the Medicaid State plan may also be eligible for the full range of Medicaid services provided under the State plan to members of the other group to which the CCB belongs. 9. In §435.301, the introductory text of paragraph (b) and (b)(2) are republished, paragraphs (b)(2)(vi) through (ix) are added and reserved and paragraph (b)(2)(x) is added to read as follows: §435.301 General rules. * * * * * (b) If the agency chooses this option, the following provisions apply:
