FR940214-2-00077 FR940214-2-00047 Agreement Pertaining to the Emergency Response Data System Between the State of Kansas and the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission I. Authority The U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) and the State of Kansas enter into this Agreement under the authority of Section 274i of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended. Kansas recognizes the Federal Government, primarily the NRC, as having the exclusive authority and responsibility to regulate the radiological and national security aspects of the construction and operation of nuclear production or utilization facilities, except for certain authority over air emissions granted to States by the Clean Air Act. II. Background A. The Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, and the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974, as amended, authorize the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NCR) to license and regulate, among other activities, the manufacture, construction, and operation of utilization facilities (nuclear power plants) in order to assure common defense and security and to protect the public health and safety. Under these statutes, the NRC is the responsible agency regulating nuclear power plant safety. B. NRC believes that its mission to protect the public health and safety can be served by a policy of cooperation with State governments and has formally adopted a policy statement on ``Cooperation with States at Commercial Nuclear Power Plants and Other Nuclear Production or Utilization Facilities'' (54 FR 7530, February 22, 1989). The policy statement provides that NRC will consider State proposals to enter into instruments of cooperation for certain programs when these programs have provisions to ensure close cooperation with NRC. This agreement is intended to be consistent with, and implement the provisions of the NRC's policy statement. C. NRC fulfills its statutory mandate to regulate nuclear power plant safety by, among other things, responding to emergencies at licensee's facilities and monitoring the status and adequacy of the licensee's responses to emergency situations. D. Kansas fulfills its statutory mandate to provide for preparedness, response, mitigation, and recovery in the event of an accident at a nuclear power plant through the Kansas Department of Health and Environment(KDHE) and the Kansas Division of Emergency Preparedness(KDEP) of the Adjutant General's Department. III. Scope A. This Agreement defines the way in which NRC and KDHE and KDEP will cooperate in planning and maintaining the capability to transfer reactor plant data via the Emergency Response Data System during emergencies at nuclear power plants in the State of Kansas. B. It is understood by the NRC and the State of Kansas that ERDS data will only be transmitted by a licensee during emergencies classified at the Alert level or above, during scheduled tests, or during exercises when available. C. Nothing in this Agreement is intended to restrict or expand the statutory authority of NRC, the State of Kansas, or to affect or otherwise alter the terms of any agreement in effect under the authority of Section 274b of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended; nor is anything in this Agreement intended to restrict or expand the authority of the State of Kansas on matters not within the scope of this Agreement. D. Nothing in this Agreement confers upon the State of Kansas authority to (1) interpret or modify NRC regulations and NRC requirements imposed on the licensee; (2) take enforcement actions; (3) issue confirmatory letters; (4) amend, modify, or revoke a license issued by NRC; or (5) direct or recommend nuclear power plant employees to take or not take any action. Authority for all such actions is reserved exclusively to the NRC. IV. NRC's General Responsibilities Under this agreement, NRC is responsible for maintaining the Emergency Response Data System (ERDS). ERDS is a system designed to receive, store, and retransmit data from in-plant data systems at nuclear power plants during emergencies. The NRC will provide user access to ERDS data to one user terminal for the State of Kansas during emergencies at nuclear power plants which have implemented an ERDS interface and for which any portion of the plant's 10 mile Emergency Planning Zone (EPZ) lies within the State of Kansas. The NRC agrees to provide unique software already available to NRC (not commercially available) that was developed under NRC contract for configuring an ERDS workstation. V. Kansas General Responsibilities A. KDHE will, in cooperation with the NRC, establish a capability to receive ERDS data. To this end, KDHE will provide the necessary computer hardware and commercially licensed software required for ERDS data transfer to users. B. KDHE agrees not to use ERDS to access data from nuclear power plants for which a portion of the 10 mile Emergency Planning Zone does not fall within its State boundary.
