FR940119-1-00008 FR940119-1-00002 SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION 13 CFR Part 116 Policies of General Application; Flood Insurance Protection AGENCY: Small Business Administration. ACTION: Proposed rule. SUMMARY: This proposed rule would amend the amount of flood insurance coverage required of recipients of certain SBA assistance. Under this proposal, flood insurance would be required in an amount equal to the lesser of the sum of all liens on the property (including any SBA lien) plus, if the SBA assistance is unsecured, the outstanding balance of the SBA assistance or the insurable value of the property, but in no event would the required insurance exceed the maximum flood insurance available under the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968. DATES: Written comments must be received on or before February 18, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments may be sent to Bernard Kulik, Assistant Administrator or Disaster Assistance, U.S. Small Business Administration, 409 Third Street, SW., Washington, DC 20416. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Bernard Kulik, Assistant Administrator for Disaster Assistance, (202) 205&hyph;6734. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Prior to May 10, 1983, a borrower under any of SBA's financial assistance programs was required to carry and maintain flood insurance in the amount of the SBA loan balance, even if the insurable value of the collateral for the loan were greater and higher amounts of flood insurance were available under the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, as amended (the ``NFI Act''). See 13 CFR 116.11(c) (1983). On May 10, 1983, SBA amended this regulation to require borrowers to purchase the maximum amount of insurance available under the NFI Act, not to exceed the insurable value of the property. 48 FR 20933. The purpose of the amendment was to assure that the value of SBA's collateral would be protected from floods in flood prone areas. SBA had realized that flood insurance in the amount of the SBA loan balance was inadequate protection when SBA's interest in the collateral was junior to another lender. If, for example, a disaster loan applicant had an existing mortgage on his property in favor of a commercial lender, SBA would assume a junior lienholder's position as security for the disaster loan. If a subsequent flood disaster occurred and the borrower had been carrying flood insurance only in the amount of the SBA loan, the insurance proceeds would be applied first to the commercial loan and would be insufficient to repay SBA. The requirement of ``full insurable value'' insurance prevented this outcome. However, it also forced many borrowers to purchase insurance far in excess of the loan they would receive from the Agency. Moreover, in the ten years since the adoption of the May 10, 1983 final rule, SBA has observed a number of loan application cancellations as a result of the high cost of full insurable value insurance relative to the principal amount of the SBA loan. In some of those cases, the cost of the insurance may have even approached or exceeded the amount of the SBA assistance. SBA recognizes that full insurable value insurance confers a benefit on the borrower (protection for his equity in the property), the Agency (reduction in the need for future disaster assistance), and the national flood insurance fund (bolstering of the fund's reserves). Nevertheless, the benefit comes at an additional cost to the borrower at a time when the borrower may be suffering significant economic distress from a flood disaster. SBA has come to the conclusion that it can adequately protect its interest in the collateral or in the general credit of the borrower without forcing the borrower to purchase full insurable value flood insurance. Without returning to the pre-1983 rule, which placed SBA's interest in the collateral at risk if there were senior lienholders, SBA believes it can improve the present rule to protect SBA's interest without unnecessarily burdening the borrower. Because SBA's real interest in the collateral exists only to the extent of the outstanding balance of the loan, SBA loans can be adequately protected even if insurance does not cover the full value of the collateral, so long as insurance does cover the amount of all outstanding liens (including any SBA lien) on the property plus, in the event SBA's assistance is unsecured, the outstanding balance of such assistance. Then, if a borrower were to suffer a subsequent flooding loss and recover insurance proceeds, SBA would likely be reimbursed in full for the outstanding amount of its loan. Of course, if that flooding were to cause damage in excess of all liens (plus the amount of SBA's loan if SBA were unsecured), such ``excess'' damage would not be covered by insurance and would erode any equity the borrower might have had in the property. After considering the issues discussed above, SBA has concluded that its flood insurance requirement should be amended. Accordingly, SBA is hereby proposing to revise Section 116.11(c) to require that applicants for SBA financial assistance who are located in a special flood hazard area obtain and maintain flood insurance in an amount equal to the lesser of: (1) All outstanding liens (including SBA's lien) on the property plus, if the SBA assistance is unsecured, the outstanding balance of the SBA assistance or (2) the insurable value of the property, but in no event would the required insurance exceed the flood insurance available under the NFI Act. This provision applies to the following programs: 7(a) business loans, 7(b) disaster loans, sections 501, 502 and 503 development company loans, lease guarantees, small business investment companies and pollution control guarantees. (13 CFR 116.10 (1993))
