FR940204-0-00020 FR940204-0-00013 33 CFR Part 165 COTP Pittsburgh 94&hyph;003 RIN 2115&hyph;AA97 Safety Zone; Allegheny River AGENCY: Coast Guard, DOT. ACTION: Temporary final rule. SUMMARY: The Coast Guard is establishing a safety zone on the Allegheny River. This regulation is needed to control vessel traffic in the regulated area due to hazards posed by severe icing along the entire length of this river. This regulation will restrict general navigation in the regulated area for the safety of vessel traffic. EFFECTIVE DATE: This regulation is effective at 4 p.m. on January 18, 1994 and will terminate at 4 p.m. on February 15, 1994, unless terminated at an earlier date by the Captain of the Port, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Lt. John Meehan, Port Operations Officer, Captain of the Port, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania at (412) 644&hyph;5808. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Drafting Information The drafters of this regulation are Lt. John Meehan, Project Officer, Marine Safety Office, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania and LCDR A.O. Denny, Project Attorney, Second Coast Guard District Legal Office. Regulatory History In accordance with 5 U.S.C. 553, a notice of proposed rulemaking has not been published for this regulation and good cause exists for making it effective in less than 30 days from the date of publication. Following normal rulemaking procedures would have been impracticable. Specifically, extremely cold weather has blanketed the upper Ohio Valley during the first two weeks of January, 1994. The Allegheny River, the northernmost navigable river in the valley's watershed, has quickly frozen to ice thicknesses of up to one foot in several areas. Vessels attempting to transit this river recently have reported problems in maintaining steerage and in making way on the river's ice clogged channels. The severe icing of the Allegheny River and the subsequent navigation hazards posed by the ice developed rapidly and were unexpected, leaving insufficient time to publish a notice of proposed rulemaking. The Coast Guard deems it to be in the public's best interest to issue a regulation without waiting for a comment period, as immediate implementation of navigation restrictions is needed to ensure the safety of vessels transitting the area.
