FR940114-1-00096 FR940114-1-00018 (A) A guaranty agency shall notify the Secretary immediately whenever it becomes aware of reliable information indicating a participating school may have closed. The designated agency in the state in which the school is located shall promptly investigate whether the school has closed, and whether a teach-out of the closed school's program was made available to students, and report the results of its investigation to the Secretary no later than 30 days after receiving the information. (B) If a guaranty agency determines (or is informed by the Secretary) that a participating school has closed, it shall, within 30 days of making that determination or being informed by the Secretary, notify all lenders participating in its program to suspend collection efforts against individuals with respect to loans made for attendance at the closed school, if the student to whom (or on whose behalf) a loan was made was enrolled at the school on the closing date or withdrew not more than 90 days prior to the date the school closed. (C) Within 30 days after receiving notice from the Secretary that a school has closed, a guaranty agency shall review its records of loans that it holds and identify all borrowers (or students) who appear to have been enrolled at the closed school on the closing date or who withdrew not more than 90 days prior to the date the school closed. If the guaranty agency knows the borrower's address, it shall, within 30 days after identifying a borrower under paragraph (d) of this section, mail a discharge application and an explanation of the information that must be included in the sworn statement (which may be combined) to the borrower. The application shall inform the borrower of the procedures and eligibility criteria for obtaining a discharge. (D) If the guaranty agency determines that a borrower identified in paragraph (d)(6)(ii)(C) of this section does not qualify for a discharge, the agency shall notify the borrower in writing of that determination and the reasons for it within 30 days after receiving the borrower's completed application and sworn statement. (E) A borrower's request for discharge may not be denied solely on the basis of failing to meet any time limits set by the lender, guaranty agency, or the Secretary. (7) Lender responsibilities. (i) If the lender is notified by a guaranty agency or the Secretary, or receives information it believes to be reliable from another source indicating that the borrower may be eligible for a loan cancellation under paragraph (d) of this section, the lender shall immediately suspend any efforts to collect from the borrower on any loan received for the program of study for which the loan was made (but may continue to receive borrower payments), and, within 30 days of receiving the information or notification, inform the borrower of the procedures for requesting a discharge. (ii) If the borrower fails to submit the written request and sworn statement described in paragraph (d)(3) of this section within 60 days of being notified of that option, the lender shall resume collection and shall be deemed to have exercised forbearance of payment of principal and interest from the date the lender suspended collection activity. The lender may capitalize, in accordance with 682.202(b), any interest accrued and not paid during that period. (iii) The lender shall file a closed school claim with the guaranty agency in accordance with ยง682.402(g) no later than 60 days after the lender receives the borrower's written request and sworn statement described in paragraph (d)(3) of this section. If a lender receives a payment made by or on behalf of the borrower on the loan after the lender files a claim on the loan with the guaranty agency, the lender shall forward the payment to the guaranty agency within 30 days of its receipt. The lender shall assist the guaranty agency and the borrower in determining whether the borrower is eligible for discharge of the loan. (iv) Within 30 days after receiving reimbursement from the guaranty agency for a closed school claim, the lender shall notify the borrower that the loan obligation has been discharged, and request that all credit bureaus to which it previously reported the status of the loan delete all adverse credit history assigned to the loan. (e) False certification by a school of a student's eligibility to borrow. (1) General. The Secretary reimburses the holder of a loan received by a borrower on or after January 1, 1986, and discharges the borrower's obligation with respect to the loan in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (e) of this section, if the borrower's (or the student for whom a parent received a PLUS loan) eligibility to receive the loan was falsely certified by an eligible school. For purposes of a false certification discharge, the term ``borrower'' includes all endorsers on a loan. (2) Relief available pursuant to discharge. (i) Discharge under paragraph (e) of this section relieves the borrower of an existing obligation to repay the loan and any charges imposed or costs incurred by the holder with respect to the loan that the borrower is otherwise obligated to pay. (ii) A discharge of a loan under paragraph (e) of this section qualifies the borrower for reimbursement of amounts paid voluntarily or through enforced collection on a loan obligation discharged under paragraph (e) of this section. (iii) A borrower who has defaulted on a loan discharged under paragraph (e) of this section is not regarded as in default on the loan after discharge, and is eligible to receive assistance under the Title IV, HEA programs. (iv) A discharge of a loan under paragraph (e) of this section is reported by the loan holder to all credit reporting agencies to which the holder previously reported the status of the loan, so as to delete all adverse credit history assigned to the loan. (3) Borrower eligibility for discharge. A borrower qualifies for discharge of a loan under paragraph (e) of this section if the borrower submits to the holder of the loan a written request and a sworn statement. The statement need not be notarized, but must be made by the borrower under penalty of perjury, and, in the statement, the borrower shall state_ (i) Whether the student has made a claim with respect to the school's false certification with any third party, such as the holder of a performance bond or a tuition recovery program, and if so, the amount of any payment received by the borrower (or student) or credited to the borrower's loan obligation; (ii) That the borrower (or the student for whom a parent received a PLUS loan)_ (A) Received the proceeds of a loan on or after January 1, 1986 to attend a school; (B) Was admitted to that school on the basis of ability to benefit from its training and did not meet the applicable requirements for admission on the basis of ability to benefit as described in paragraph (e)(8) of this section; (C) Was certified by the school on the application for the loan as an eligible student; and (D) Withdrew from the school and did not find employment in the occupation for which the program was intended to provide training, or completed the training program for which the loan was made and made a reasonable attempt to obtain employment in the occupation for which the program was intended to provide training, and_ ( 1 ) Was not able to find employment in that occupation; or
