FR940204-1-00016 FR940204-1-00002 The FCA currently has no regulations that specifically govern disclosure of the System financial information contained in the Information Statement. To prevent any inconsistency with the FCA regulations regarding System institutions' disclosure to shareholders and accounting and reporting requirements and to delineate the disclosure responsibilities of System institutions in this area, the FCA proposes regulations for a new part 630, Disclosure to Investors in Systemwide and Consolidated Bank Debt Obligations of the Farm Credit System. The proposed rule would govern the System's preparation and reporting of financial information to investors. The authority for the proposed regulations is section 5.17(a)(8) of the Farm Credit Act of 1971, as amended (1971 Act), 12 U.S.C. 2252(a)(8), which authorizes the FCA to ``Regulate the preparation by System institutions and the dissemination to stockholders and investors of information on the financial condition and operations of such institutions.'' The proposed regulations generally parallel the System Disclosure Program. They reflect the division of responsibilities among the institutions participating in the System Disclosure Program, and the disclosures that would be required are similar to those contained in the Information Statements currently published by the System. Under the proposed regulations, the institutions participating in the System Disclosure Program, including each of the System banks, the Funding Corporation, and the Financial Assistance Corporation, 1 would continue to share the responsibility for disclosure of Systemwide financial information to investors and the public. These institutions would be designated as the ``disclosure entities'' under the proposed regulations. In addition, the Funding Corporation would be responsible for filing the report to investors with the FCA. Although associations' financial statements are required by 12 CFR part 620, Disclosure to Shareholders, to be combined with their related banks' financial statements and such combined statements are included in the Information Statement, associations have no direct role in the System Disclosure Program. Consistent with the existing System Disclosure Program, the proposed regulations do not affect the current reporting relationship between a bank and its related associations, and imposes no additional reporting responsibilities on associations. 1 Since the board of the Funding Corporation is also the board of the Farm Credit System Financial Assistance Corporation (FAC), FAC's participation in the System Disclosure Program is implied. The FCA has added requirements designed to improve the disclosure entities' internal controls over Systemwide financial reporting. Because these proposed requirements are generally compatible with the System Disclosure Program, the FCA does not believe they will result in significant additional regulatory burden. In general, the proposed regulations would (1) require the System to publish a report to investors; (2) delineate the responsibilities relating to the preparation of the report; (3) reinforce internal controls over the Systemwide financial disclosure; and (4) establish reporting standards for the report to ensure that relevant information concerning the combined financial condition and results of operations of the System is disclosed to investors and potential investors. Under the proposed regulations, the Funding Corporation would be required to maintain a Farm Credit System Audit Committee (System Audit Committee) to oversee the Systemwide financial disclosure to investors. Each bank would also be required to establish or utilize any existing bank audit committee to oversee the bank's financial reporting to shareholders and the Funding Corporation for disclosure to investors. The proposed rule also would implement section 514 of the Farm Credit Banks and Associations Safety and Soundness Act of 1992 (1992 Act) regarding disclosures to investors. Section 514(c)(2) and (d) of the 1992 Act requires the FCA to review and, if necessary, amend its financial disclosure regulations to ensure that the disclosure of financial and conflict-of-interest information by System personnel provides investors and potential investors with information necessary to assist them in making investment decisions regarding FCS debt obligations or System institutions. Below is a section-by-section explanation of significant provisions of the proposed regulations. II. Subpart A_General A. Purpose and Definitions Proposed ยง630.1 articulates the purpose of the regulations_to require the System to publish annual and quarterly reports that will provide combined financial information on a Systemwide basis to investors and potential investors in Systemwide and consolidated bank debt obligations of the System, as well as to other users of the reports. The reports would contain combined financial statements, supplemental financial statement information, and related information pertaining to all System institutions as a whole.
