FR940902-0-00014 FR940902-0-00005 The Final Rule Accordingly, the Parole Commission adopts the following amendment to 28 CFR part 2: PART 2_[AMENDED] 1. The authority citation for 28 CFR part 2 continues to read as follows: Authority: 18 U.S.C. 4203(a)(1) and 4204(a)(6). 2. 28 CFR part 2, §2.13 is amended by revising paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) to read as follows: §2.13 Initial hearing; procedure. (a) An initial hearing shall be conducted by a single hearing examiner unless the Regional Commissioner orders that the hearing be conducted by a panel of two examiners. The examiner shall discuss with the prisoner his offense severity rating and salient factor score as described in §2.20, his institutional conduct and, in addition, any other matter the examiner may deem relevant. (b) A prisoner may be represented at a hearing by a person of his or her choice. The function of the prisoner's representative shall be to offer a statement at the conclusion of the interview of the prisoner by the examiner, and to provide such additional information as the examiner shall request. Interested parties who oppose parole may select a representative to appear and offer a statement. The hearing examiner shall limit or exclude any irrelevant or repetitious statement. (c) At the conclusion of the hearing, the examiner shall discuss the decision to be recommended by the examiner, and the reasons therefor, except in the extraordinary circumstance of a complex issue that requires further deliberation before a recommendation can be made. * * * * * 3. 28 CFR part 2, §2.23 is amended by revising paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) to read as follows: §2.23 Delegation to hearing examiners. (a) There is hereby delegated to hearing examiners the authority necessary to conduct hearings and to make recommendations relative to the grant or denial of parole or reparole, revocation or reinstatement of parole or mandatory release, and conditions of parole. Any hearing may be conducted by a single examiner or by a panel of examiners. A Regional Administrator shall function as a hearing examiner for the purpose of obtaining a panel recommendation whenever the Regional Commissioner has not ordered that a hearing be conducted by a panel of two examiners. (b) The concurrence of two hearing examiners, or of a hearing examiner and the Regional Administrator, shall be required to obtain a panel recommendation to the Regional Commissioner. A panel recommendation is required in each case decided by a Regional Commissioner after the holding of a hearing. (c) An examiner panel recommendation consists of two concurring examiner votes. In the event of divergent votes, the case shall be referred to another hearing examiner (or to the Regional Administrator in the case of a hearing conducted by a panel of examiners) for another vote. If concurring votes do not result from such a referral, the case shall be referred to any available hearing examiner until a panel recommendation is obtained. * * * * * Dated: August 22, 1994. Jasper R. Clay, Jr., Vice Chairman, U.S. Parole Commission. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;21722 Filed 9&hyph;1&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4410&hyph;01&hyph;P
