FR941221-1-00003 FR941221-1-00001 Discussion The FAA has received numerous reports of fatigue cracking and/or corrosion in the strut-to-wing attachments on Boeing Model 747 series airplanes. In two cases, such cracking resulted in the failure of a strut load path and the subsequent loss of the number 3 engine and strut. In both cases, catastrophic accidents occurred when the number 3 engine and strut separated from the wing of the airplane and struck the number 4 engine, causing it to separate from the airplane. Investigation into the cause of these accidents and other reported incidents revealed not only that fatigue cracks and corrosion in the strut-to-wing attachments, if not detected and corrected in a timely manner, can result in failure of the strut and subsequent separation of the engine from the airplane, but that the structural fail-safe capability of the strut-to-wing attachment is inadequate on these airplanes. The FAA has previously issued 17 AD's that address various problems associated with the strut attachment assembly on Boeing Model 747 series airplanes. These AD's have required, among other things, inspections of the strut, strut-to-wing attachment structure, and wing backup structure of Model 747 series airplanes that are equipped with Pratt & Whitney Model JT9D series engines (excluding Model JT9D&hyph;70 series engines). Explanation of Service Information Boeing recently has developed a modification of the strut-to-wing attachment structure installed on certain Model 747 series airplanes equipped with Pratt & Whitney Model JT9D series engines (excluding Model JT9D&hyph;70 engines) that significantly improves the load-carrying capability and durability of the strut-to-wing attachments. Such improvement also will substantially reduce the possibility of fatigue cracking and corrosion from developing in the attachment assembly. The FAA has reviewed and approved Boeing Alert Service Bulletin 747&hyph;54A2159, dated November 3, 1994, which describes procedures for modification of the nacelle strut and wing structure. This modification entails the following: 1. Providing a new fail-safe load path by installing a new dual side load fitting to the strut and the underwing structure and the associated wing back-up fitting, front spar post, and side links; 2. Strengthening the strut by installing a new midspar web and a new lower spar web and/or channel stiffener; 3. Strengthening the internal wing structure by installing a new stiffener at the wing midspar; 4. Improving the strut-to-wing attachments by installing new stainless steel midspar fittings on the strut, replacing aluminum fittings with new titanium midspar underwing fittings, and replacing the upper link and the diagonal brace; 5. Enhancing the diagonal brace underwing fitting by installing certain new nuts and tension bolts; and 6. Modifying the electrical wiring and hydraulics by rerouting certain wire bundles around the new dual side load fitting and installing new hydraulic tubes. This alert service bulletin specifies that the modification of the nacelle strut and wing structure is to be accomplished prior to, or concurrently with, the terminating actions described in the service bulletins listed in paragraph I.C., Table 2, ``Prior or Concurrent Service Bulletins,'' on page 13 of this alert service bulletin. These terminating actions include the following: 1. Replacement of the diagonal brace, midspar, and upper link fusepins with new third generation 15&hyph;5 corrosion-resistant steel fusepins; 2. Replacement of the diagonal brace strut and wing attachment fittings; 3. Strengthening of the wing front spar; and 4. Replacement of the forward engine mounting nut. Paragraph III, NOTES 8, 9, 10, and 11 of the Accomplishment Instructions on pages 149 and 150 of the alert service bulletin also describe procedures for inspections and checks to detect discrepancies of the adjacent structure, and correction of any discrepancies. Explanation of the Provisions of the Proposed AD Since an unsafe condition has been identified that is likely to exist or develop on other products of this same type design, the proposed AD would require modification of the nacelle strut and wing structure, inspections and checks to detect discrepancies in the adjacent structure, and correction of discrepancies. The actions would be required to be accomplished in accordance with the alert service bulletin described previously. The FAA has determined that long term continued operational safety will be better assured by design changes to remove the source of the problem, rather than by repetitive inspections. Long term inspections may not be providing the degree of safety assurance necessary for the transport airplane fleet. This, coupled with a better understanding of the human factors associated with numerous continual inspections, has led the FAA to consider placing less emphasis on inspections and more emphasis on design improvements. The proposed modification requirement is in consonance with these considerations. Accomplishment of the modification of the nacelle strut and wing structure would terminate the inspections currently required by the following AD's:
