FR940831-2-00069 FR940831-2-00051 Program Announcement for Grants for Programs for Physician Assistants_Fiscal Year 1995 The Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA) announces that applications for fiscal year (FY) 1995 Grants for Programs for Physician Assistants are being accepted under the authority of section 750 title VII of the Public Health Service (PHS) Act, as amended by the Health Professions Education Extension Amendments of 1992, Public Law 102&hyph;408, dated October 13, 1992. The Administration's FY 1995 budget request for this program is $6.5 million. Total continuation support recommended is $2.0 million. It is anticipated that $4.5 million will be available to support approximately 35 competing awards averaging $130,000. This program announcement is subject to the appropriation of funds. Applicants are advised that this application announcement is a contingency action being taken to assure that should funds become available for this purpose, they can be awarded in a timely fashion consistent with the needs of the program as well as to provide for an even distribution of funds throughout the fiscal year. Faculty Development Activities Section 750 of the PHS Act limits the total amount of support for faculty development activities to no more than 10 percent of the total annual appropriation for this program. Previous Funding Experience Previous funding experience information is provided to assist potential applicants to make better informed decisions regarding submission of an application for this program. In FY 1994, HRSA reviewed 30 applications. Of those applications, 77 percent were approved and 23 percent were disapproved. Twenty-two projects, or 73 percent of the applications received, were funded. In FY 1993, there was no competitive cycle for this program. In FY 1992, HRSA reviewed 40 applications. Of those applications, 88 percent were approved and 12 percent were disapproved. Twenty-seven projects, or 68 percent of applications received, were funded. Purpose Section 750 of the PHS Act authorizes the award of grants to accredited schools of medicine or osteopathic medicine and other public or nonprofit private entities to assist in meeting the cost of planning, developing and operating or maintaining programs for the training of physician assistants; and to train faculty to teach in such programs as defined under section 799(3) of the Public Health Service Act. To receive support, programs must meet the requirements of section 750 of the Act and program regulations implementing these sections published at 42 CFR part 57, subparts H and I and section 791(b) of the PHS Act. Eligibility Eligible applicants are accredited schools of medicine or osteopathic medicine and other public or nonprofit private entities. Eligible physician assistant programs are those which are either accredited by the American Medical Association's Committee on Allied Health Education and Accreditation (AMA&hyph;CAHEA) or its successor organization, the Commission on Accreditation of Allied Health Education Programs (CAAHEP), or have received a Letter of Review from the Accreditation Review Committee on Education for the Physician Assistant (ARC&hyph;PA). Period of Support The initial period of Federal support will not exceed 5 years. Assurance In accordance with section 750(c) of the Act, eligible applicant institutions must provide assurances that the institutions have appropriate mechanisms for placing graduates of the training program in positions for which they have been trained. ``Program for the Training of Physician Assistants'' is defined in section 799 of the PHS Act as an educational program that (a) Has as its objective the education of individuals who will, upon completion of their studies in the program, be qualified to provide primary health care under the supervision of a physician; and (b) meets regulations prescribed by the Secretary in accordance with section 750(b). National Health Objectives for the Year 2000 The Public Health Service (PHS) is committed to achieving the health promotion and disease prevention objectives of Healthy People 2000, a PHS-led national activity for setting priority areas. The Grants for Programs for Physician Assistants Program is related to the priority area of Educational and Community-Based Programs. Potential applicants may obtain a copy of Healthy People 2000 (Full Report; Stock No. 017&hyph;001&hyph;00474&hyph;0) or Healthy People 2000 (Summary Report; Stock No. 017&hyph;001&hyph;00473&hyph;1) through the Superintendent of Documents, Government Printing Office, Washington, D.C. 20402&hyph;9325 (Telephone (202) 783&hyph;3238). Education and Service Linkage As part of its long-range planning, HRSA will be targeting its efforts to strengthening linkages between U.S. Public Health Service education programs and programs which provide comprehensive primary care services to the underserved. Smoke-Free Workplace The Public Health Service strongly encourages all grant recipients to provide a smoke-free workplace and promote the non-use of all tobacco products. This is consistent with the PHS mission to protect and advance the physical and mental health of the American people. Review Criteria The review of applications will take into consideration the following criteria: 1. The degree to which the project plan adequately provides for meeting the requirements set forth in the regulations; 2. The potential effectiveness of the project in carrying out the purposes of section 750 of the PHS Act and 42 CFR part 57, subparts H&hyph;I; 3. The capability of the applicant to carry out the proposed project; 4. The local, regional and national needs the project proposes to serve; 5. The adequacy of the project's plan for placing graduates in health professional shortage areas; 6. The soundness of the fiscal plan for assuring effective use of grant funds;
