FR940707-2-00183 FR940707-2-00098 The Commission believes that the rule change will enhance investor confidence by improving the quality of executions for customers. By giving a customer's limit order priority over the market maker's proprietary trading, more trade volume will be available to be matched with the customer's order, resulting in quicker and more frequent executions for customers. The NASD's proposal will also improve the price discovery process in NASDAQ securities. Limit orders aid price discovery by adding liquidity to the market and by tightening the spread between the bid and ask price of a security. In the past, customers may have refrained from placing limit orders because of the uncertainty of and difficulty in obtaining an execution at a price between the spread. The new rule will encourage dealers to execute customer limit orders in a timely fashion so that they may resume their proprietary trading activities. The practice of delaying executions until the inside price reaches the customer's limit order also impedes price discovery by shielding those orders from the rest of the investing public. More expeditious handling of customer limit orders under the proposed Interpretation will provide investors with a more accurate indication of the buy and sell interest at a given moment. The NASD proposal seeks to prevent a market maker from trading ahead of its own customer's limit order, but will not prevent the same market maker from trading ahead of the limit orders of other firms' customers that are sent to the market maker for handling. 14 The NASD has determined to defer temporarily application of the Interpretation to member-to-member orders in order to avoid any unintended consequences from a broader application of the rule and to permit a special NASD task force to complete its examination of the ramifications of extending limit order protection to these limit orders. The Market 2000 study concluded that the adverse effects of trading ahead of a customer exist whether the customer's limit order is handled by a customer's firm or by another market maker. The Commission, at this time, strongly believes that the ban on trading ahead should be applied to these member-to-member trades. The NASD has requested the opportunity to examine and report the potential impact of the ban on market liquidity and market maker capital commitment. While such a report could be helpful to a future determination of the issue if it offers specific data regarding the potential consequences for market liquidity and market maker capital commitment rather than the anecdotal observations of NASD members, the Commission continues to believe that member-to-member trades raise significant concerns that should be addressed, and if necessary, the Commission would consider instituting its own rulemaking proceeding for that purpose. The Commission has expressed to the NASD its view that expanded limit order protection is desirable and will be expecting their response soon after the approval of this rule filing. 14 The Commission would consider any order swapping arrangements between firms for the purpose of evading the Interpretation to constitute a violation of NASD rules. The NASD has stated that, while it is not aware of any instances of this practice, it would likewise consider it to be a violation of Article III, Section 1 of the NASD's Rules of Fair Practice. See Letter from Richard Ketchum, Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, NASD, to Katherine England, Assistant Director, Division, Commission (June 29, 1994). As reflected in the Market 2000 study, the Commission agrees that institutional orders may qualify for special treatment. Because most market makers cannot typically fill institution-size orders out of inventory, institutions generally only hold market makers to a ``best efforts'' standard in return for the willingness of the market maker to put up substantial capital to provide liquidity for large orders. In order to permit a member firm to employ the necessary trading strategy without being subjected to the requirements of the proposed ban, the Interpretation allows the parties to set the specific ``terms and conditions'' for acceptance of institutional orders. Finally, the Commission believes that the proposal does not impose any burden on competition that is not necessary or appropriate in furtherance of the purposes of the Act. Because the rule will apply to all NASD members, individual brokers and dealers will not be disparately affected by the rule change. V. Conclusion For the foregoing reasons, the Commission finds that the proposed rule change is consistent with the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder applicable to the NASD and, in particular, Sections 15A(b)(6), 15A(b)(9) and 11A(a)(1)(C) of the Act. It is therefore ordered, pursuant to Section 19(b)(2) of the Act, that the proposed rule change (SR&hyph;NASD&hyph;93&hyph;58) be and hereby is approved, effective July 7, 1994. By the Commission. Jonathan G. Katz, Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;16369 Filed 7&hyph;6&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
