FR940721-2-00061 FR940721-2-00035 •Diagnosis requiring treatment. •Onset of condition for which treatment is being sought. •Dates of previous therapy for same diagnosis. •Other therapy outpatient is currently receiving. •Observations. •Precautions and medical equipment. •Functional status immediately prior to this therapy. •Types of treatment_modalities. •Frequency of treatment. •Expected duration of treatment. •Rehabilitation potential. •Level of communication potential. •Average time per visits. •Goals. •Statement of problem at beginning of billing period. •Changes in problem at end of billing period. •Signature of therapist. •Certification and recertification by physician that services are to be provided from an established plan of care. •Tests results. •Biopsy reports. •Methods of administration, e.g., pill vs. injection. •Physician orders. •Procedure codes. •Changes. •Weekly progress notes. •National Drug Code (NDC). Authority for maintenance of the system: Sections 1816, 1862(b) and 1874 of Title XVIII of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395h, 1395y(b) and 1395kk). Purpose(s): To process and pay Medicare benefits to or on behalf of eligible individuals. Routine uses of records maintained in the system, including categories of users and the purposes of such uses: Disclosure may be made to: (1) Claimants, their authorized representatives or representative payees to the extent necessary to pursue claims made under title XVIII of the Social Security Act (Medicare). (2) Third-party contacts, without the consent of the individual to whom the information pertains, in situations where the party to be contacted has, or is expected to have information relating to the individual's capability to manage his or her affairs or to his or her eligibility for or entitlement to benefits under the Medicare program when: (a) The individual is unable to provide the information being sought (an individual is considered to be unable to provide certain types of information when any of the following conditions exist: Individual is incapable or of questionable mental capability, cannot read or write, cannot afford the cost of obtaining the information, a language barrier exists, or the custodian of the information will not, as a matter of policy provide to the individual), or (b) The data are needed to establish to validity of evidence or to verify the accuracy of information presented by the individual, and it concerns one or more of the following: The individual's eligibility to benefits under the Medicare program; the amount of reimbursement of any case in which the evidence is being reviewed as a result of suspected abuse or fraud, concern for program integrity, or for quality appraisal, or evaluation and measurement of systems activities. (3) Third-party contacts where necessary to establish or verify information provided by representative payees or payee applicants. (4) The Treasury Department for investigating alleged theft, forgery, or unlawful negotiations of Medicare reimbursement checks. (5) The U.S. Postal Service for investigating alleged forgery or theft of Medicare checks.
