FR940112-0-00111 FR940112-0-00024 One of the FTC regulations issued under the FPLA allows the optional use of metric units in addition to the mandated inch/pound units. Section 500.21 (16 CFR 500.21) states: A separate statement of the net quantity of contents in terms of the metric system is not regarded as a supplemental net quantity statement and an accurate statement of the net quantity of contents in terms of the metric system of weight or measure may also appear on the principal display panel or on other panels. Standard metric abbreviations may be used. Thus, under the original regulations, manufacturers, packers, and distributors of consumer commodities subject to FTC regulations were required to make net quantity of contents disclosure using inch/pound units but had the option of making additional disclosure in metric units. C. The 1992 Metric Amendments to the FPLA In 1992, the FPLA was amended to require that the International System of Units (``SI metric system'') as well as the customary inch/pound system of measure be used in the label declaration of net quantity of contents of consumer commodities. (Pub. L. 102&hyph;329, August 3, 1992.) It is these statutory changes which the FTC is implementing in adopting the regulations set out in this notice. The 1992 substantive amendments to the FPLA relate to metric. The basic change that the amendments make is that all labels for consumer commodities printed after February 14, 1994, must state the net quantity of contents in both the customary inch/pound system of measure and the SI metric system. Apart from the changes made to section 4 (15 U.S.C. 1453), section 5 (15 U.S.C. 1454), and section 13 (15 U.S.C. 1461), the FPLA remains the same. Specifically, the statutory amendments are as follows. Section 4 of FPLA requires that a consumer commodity bear a label which specifies the identity of the commodity, the name and place of business of the manufacturer, packer, or distributor, and the net quantity of contents. The amendments to Section 4 require that the contents label be in both the customary inch/pound and metric systems of measurement. Subsection (a)(2) has been amended to mandate the disclosure of contents in terms of mass as well as weight. The original FPLA only required weight, a unit of the customary system of measure. Mass (measured in kilograms and multiples and submultiples) is the metric term for the quantity of matter in an object. Subsection (a)(2) specifies that the metric disclosure shall use the ``SI metric system.'' The ``SI'' system is the International System of Units (Le Systeme International d'Unites) as interpreted or modified for use in the United States by the Secretary of Commerce. (55 FR 52242, Dec. 20, 1990.) There are several government publications giving guidance on use of the SI. 6 6 See, ``The International System of Units (SI),'' NIST Special Publication 330, U.S. Department of Commerce, August, 1991; ``Guide for the Use of the International System of Units,'' NIST Special Publication 811, U.S. Department of Commerce, September, 1991; and ``Preferred Metric Units for General Use by the Federal Government,'' Federal Standards 376B (Preprint Copy), General Services Administration, January 27, 1993. Subsection (a)(3)(A)(ii) states that decimal fractions of the pound and decimal fractions of the SI metric system units shall be carried out to no more than three places on random packages, which are packages with varying weight or mass from a lot of the same consumer commodity. The original FPLA required that decimal fractions of the pound be carried out to no more than two places. Subsection (a)(6) states that content labels containing SI metric disclosure are not required for foods that are packaged at the retail store level. This amendment affects FDA, rather than FTC, regulations. Section 13 of the amended FPLA states that the effective date for the changes to sections 4 and 5 is February 14, 1994. However, it also provides that, ``The amendments *␣*␣* have no effect on the sale or distribution of products whose labels have been printed before such effective date.'' Thus, companies with labels on hand that were printed before the effective date may continue to use the supply until exhausted. D. Identification of Comments Received Below is an alphabetical list of the comments submitted in response to the NPR. The list includes the document number assigned to the comment on the public record and a general description of the commenter (for those comments that included a description or where the commenter is a publicly recognized company). 7 7 All public comments are filed in the Commission's Rulemaking Record P938902. In this notice, comments are cited by an identification of the commenter, the comment number assigned by the Secretary of the Commission, and the relevant page number(s), e.g., ``NCWM, 19, 3.'' 1. Amway Corporation (``Am'')_14. Amway sells products subject to the Commission's FPLA regulations. 2. Mr. Jeffrey S. Berke (``Berk'')_1.
