FR940505-1-00471 FR940505-1-00012 (iv) NO X emissions from locomotives owned or operated by a railroad company and operated in the South Coast shall average 5.5 g/bhp-hr or less effective January 1, 2007. (v) NO X emissions from locomotives owned or operated by a railroad company and operated in the South Coast shall average 4 g/bhp-hr or less effective January 1, 2010. (5) Test methods and procedures. Test methods and procedures which will be adopted for the national locomotive emission control program shall apply in this South Coast Locomotive FIP. The applicable reference for the national locomotive emission control program will be provided when promulgated. (6) Enforcement. (i) Inspections. All sources subject to provisions of this section shall be subject to unannounced inspections by representatives of EPA pursuant to section 114 of the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7401&hyph;7671q). (ii) Information requests. Documentation maintained by all sources, facilities, and persons subject to paragraph (c) of this section must be sufficient to demonstrate compliance with all the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section and must be provided to representatives of EPA in response to information requests pursuant to section 114 of the Clean Air Act. (iii) Testing. All sources subject to provisions of this section shall be subject to testing by representatives of EPA pursuant to section 114 of the Clean Air Act. (iv) Failure to comply with any provisions of this section is a violation of the applicable implementation plan for purposes of section 113 of the Clean Air Act. (b) Compliance. (1) Average emission rate. Immediately following the end of each year, each railroad company shall calculate its average emission rate in the control area for the preceding year as follows: E:GraphicsEP05MY94.116 Where: LEV=RR Company Annual Emission Level EL i =Emission level of each locomotive (i) owned or operated by the railroad company in g/bhp-hr FU i =Fuel used by each locomotive (i) owned or operated by the railroad company in gallons n=Number of locomotives/engines the company owns i=The ith locomotive of the company's locomotive fleet (2) Labelling. All locomotive or locomotive engines that are designated to operate in the South Coast subject to the requirements of this section shall have labels affixed such that the labels clearly identify the locomotive and locomotive engine as being a designated South Coast locomotive or locomotive engine. The locations and sizes of the labels shall be as follows: (i) Each locomotive shall display two labels measuring 15 inches (38 centimeters) by 15 inches (38 centimeters). One label shall be attached to each side of the locomotive in a location that will allow the label to be visible from outside of the locomotive. The labels shall be permanently attached to a part of the locomotive necessary for normal operation, and not to parts of the locomotive that can be easily removed. The labels shall consist of the green letters ``SC'' set upon a white background. Each letter shall be 13 inches (33 centimeters) high by 6 inches (15 centimeters) wide. (ii) A permanent legible label shall be affixed to the engine in a position in which it will be readily visible after installation in a locomotive and shall be attached to an engine part necessary for normal engine operation and not normally requiring replacement during engine life. The labels shall have dimensions of 6 inches (15 centimeters) x 6 inches (15 centimeters)and shall contain the green letters ``SC'' set upon a white background. Each letter shall be 4 inches (10 centimeters) high by 2 inches (5 centimeters) wide.
