FR940513-1-00083 FR940513-1-00017 I. Selection of Recordkeeping and Reporting Requirements For enforcement purposes, it is necessary to require records and reports of various parameters at all facilities. Two types of records would be required to ensure compliance of facilities required to install controls: (1) Monitoring results from the most recent performance test and (2) results from periods when the measurement of parameters significantly deviated from measurements of the same parameters during the most recent performance test. Reports of those periods when monitored parameters were significantly outside the specified range would be submitted quarterly. These reports are necessary to ensure that the control equipment is maintained in good operating condition. Additionally, owners or operators would be required to keep vapor tightness documentation for marine vessels loaded on file in a permanent form available for inspection. The owner or operator would be required to update the vapor tightness documentation at least once per year to ensure that only vapor tight marine vessels are loaded. Owners or operators of affected facilities seeking to demonstrate compliance with the 93 percent emission reduction standard must maintain records of their determination of HAP control efficiency and must submit quarterly reports of the source's HAP control efficiency calculated from their actual throughputs. The Agency is soliciting comment on these requirements. Specifically, the Agency requests information on the type and method of documentation that should be required to assure compliance with the 93 percent emission reduction standard. J. Solicitation of Comments The Administrator specifically requests comments on the topics discussed in this section. Commenters should provide available data and rationale to support their comments on each topic. 1. Subcategories The Agency has proposed to establish a subcategory for terminals emitting less than 1 Mg/yr of HAP. The Agency is also requesting comment on whether off-shore terminals and the Valdez Marine Terminal should be placed in separate subcategories under section 112 of the Act. The Agency requests comment regarding whether subcategories should be established for other types of terminals based on particular characteristics of these types of terminals of which the Agency currently has no information. EPA also requests comments on whether further subcategorization based on size is warranted. a. Offshore terminals. The Agency does not believe that a facility which is at least one-half mile offshore is part of a land-based contiguous site. Offshore terminals (both those with subsea lines and platforms) that are part of a contiguous terminal (i.e., offshore terminals less than 1/2 mile from shore) present unique regulatory challenges such as the cost and environmental impacts of installing additional subsea lines to carry vapors to land-based equipment. Size constraints, permitting difficulties, and other concerns may be issues with an offshore control system. The EPA is proposing that offshore terminals exceeding the throughput cutoffs and emission limits be subject to the proposed regulations and control vapors to the same extent as onshore facilities. The EPA is soliciting information and comments regarding the feasibility and cost of controlling emissions from offshore terminals. Comments are also requested on the grouping of offshore facilities into a separate subcategory with different control requirements under MACT. b. Additional subcategory for the valdez marine terminal. On December 29, 1993, the Alyeska Pipeline Service Company (``Alyeska'') sent a letter to the Agency regarding this proposed rule (see Docket A&hyph;90&hyph;44, item II&hyph;D&hyph; 65). In the letter, Alyeska discussed an alternative regulatory approach that would allow the use of less stringent controls at Alyeska's Alaska Valdez Marine Terminal (VMT). Alyeska ``believes that the optimal vapor emission control system for the VMT is a system that captures and recovers vapors from tanker loading, rather than one that incinerates captured vapors.'' Alyeska believes that it can successfully design a vapor recovery system for the VMT but intuitively believes that the emission reduction that such a system can achieve will be less than the percentage emissions reduction achieved by significantly smaller systems and particularly those which address emissions from refined petroleum products rather than crude oil. Alyeska also believes that a vapor recovery system for the VMT is unlikely to meet today's proposed requirements of a 95-percent emission reduction of VOC and HAP for recovery devices under section 183(f) and section 112, respectively. In addition, Alyeska states that the VMT should be placed in a separate category or subcategory under section 112(d) because Alyeska believes the VMT is unique among U.S. marine terminals. Alyeska has also suggested separately (see Docket A&hyph;90&hyph; 44, item II&hyph;D&hyph;71) that a recovery device may be available to VMT that could meet a HAP emission reduction requirement approaching 93 percent but that would likely not meet a VOC reduction requirement above 70 percent. Alyeska suggests that as it is located in an ozone attainment area in an extreme northern climate where formation of ozone is not a practical concern, a lesser VOC reduction requirement may be reasonable under section 183(f). The proposed format for the Section 112 emission limit requires the VMT to reduce all the crude emissions by 95 percent when using a recovery device. The EPA requests comments on whether this format could be changed to allow for a 93-percent reduction of emissions for less efficient control technologies. The EPA made no changes to the proposed standard in response to Alyeska's letter. However, the EPA is seeking public comment on the issues addressed by Alyeska. In addition, Alyeska intends to provide the EPA with further documentation supporting its position before the end of the public comment period. The EPA will consider this new information in addition to currently available information in deciding the final standard. Currently available information which will be considered is described in the following paragraphs.
