FR940208-2-00155 FR940208-2-00092 (iii) the panel review will be limited to the allegations of error of fact or law, including challenges to the jurisdiction of the investigating authority, that are set out in the Complaints filed in the panel review and to the procedural and substantive defenses raised in the panel review. (2) On the filing of a first Request for Panel Review, each Secretary shall forthwith cause a notice of that Request to be published in the Canada Gazette and the Federal Register . The notice shall state that a Request for Panel Review has been received and shall specify the date on which the Request was filed, the final determination for which panel review is requested and the information set out in subrule (1)(c). Joint Panel Reviews 36. Reserved. 37. (1) Where a panel is established to review a final determination made under subsection 41(1)(a) of the Special Import Measures Act, as amended, that applies with respect to particular goods of the United States and a Request for Panel Review of a negative final determination made under paragraph 43(1) of that Act with respect to those goods is filed, the final determinations shall be reviewed jointly by one panel. (2) Where a panel is established to review a final determination made under section 705(a) or 735(a) of the Tariff Act of 1930, as amended, that applies with respect to particular goods of Canada and a Request for Panel Review of a negative final determination made under section 705(b) or 735(b) of that Act with respect to those goods is filed, the final determinations shall be reviewed jointly by one panel. 38. (1) Subject to subrules (2) and (3), where final determinations are reviewed jointly pursuant to rule 37, the time periods fixed under these rules for the review of the final determination made under subsection 43(1) of the Special Import Measures Act, as amended, or section 705(b) or 735(b) of the Tariff Act of 1930, as amended, shall apply, commencing with the date fixed for filing briefs pursuant to rule 60. (2) Unless otherwise ordered by a panel as a result of a motion under subrule (3), where final determinations are reviewed jointly pursuant to rule 37, the panel shall issue its decision with respect to the final determination made under subsection 43(1) of the Special Import Measures Act, as amended, or section 705(b) or 735(b) of the Tariff Act of 1930, as amended, and where the panel remands the final determination to the investigating authority and the Determination on Remand is affirmative, the panel shall thereafter issue its decision with respect to the final determination made under subsection 41(1)(a) of the Special Import Measures Act, as amended, or section 705(a) or 735(a) of the Tariff Act of 1930, as amended. (3) Where the final determinations are reviewed jointly pursuant to rule 37, any participant may, unilaterally or with the consent of the other participants, request by motion that time periods, other than the time periods referred to in subrule (1), be fixed for the filing of pleadings, oral proceedings, decisions and other matters. (4) A Notice of Motion pursuant to subrule (3) shall be filed no later than 10 days after the date fixed for filing Notices of Appearance in the review of the final determination made under subsection 43(1) of the Special Import Measures Act, as amended, or section 705(b) or 735(b) of the Tariff Act of 1930, as amended. (5) Unless otherwise ordered by a panel, where the panel has not issued a ruling on a motion filed pursuant to subrule (3) within 30 days after the filing of the Notice of Motion, the motion shall be deemed denied. Complaint 39. (1) Subject to subrule (3), any interested person who intends to make allegations of errors of fact or law, including challenges to the jurisdiction of the investigating authority, with respect to a final determination, shall file with the responsible Secretariat, within 30 days after the filing of a first Request for Panel Review of the final determination, a Complaint, together with proof of service on the investigating authority and on all persons listed on the service list. (2) Every Complaint referred to in subrule (1) shall contain the following information (model form provided in the Schedule): (a) the information set out in subrule 58(1);
