FR940105-1-00003 FR940105-1-00001 This proposed rule is not intended to have retroactive effect, and no applicable administrative procedures must be exhausted before any judicial challenge to the provisions of this rule. However, the applicable administrative procedures specified in 9 CFR 306.5 must be exhausted prior to any judicial challenge to the application of the provisions of this rule, if the challenge involves any decision of an inspector relating to inspection services provided under the FMIA. The applicable administrative procedures specified in 9 CFR part 335 must be exhausted prior to any judicial challenge to the application of the provisions of this rule with respect to labeling decisions. Effect on Small Entities The Administrator has determined that this proposed rule will not have a significant impact on a substantial number of small entities, as defined by the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. 601). The proposed regulation would make available to meat processors an additional, alternative tripe-denuding formulation that would contain sodium citrate as an ingredient. The sodium citrate formulation could be manufactured and sold in liquid form and used in existing or newly developed tripe denuding equipment. The sodium citrate-containing formulation could be used most efficiently in the new equipment and contribute to improved tripe production. Small establishments could benefit from the use of the sodium citrate product. Background Under the Federal Meat Inspection Act (21 U.S.C. 601 et seq. ), FSIS provides for mandatory inspection of meat and meat food products shipped in interstate and foreign commerce. The Act prohibits the addition of any substance to any meat or meat food product that may render the product adulterated (21 U.S.C. 601). Section 318.7(a)(1) of the Federal meat inspection regulations (9 CFR 318.7) prohibits the use of any substance in the preparation of any product unless its use is approved in ยง318.7(c)(4) of the Federal meat inspection regulations (9 CFR 318.7), which is the chart of substances acceptable for use in the preparation of products, or unless it is approved elsewhere in the regulations or it is approved by the Administrator. In 1990, a manufacturer of processing aids and other direct food ingredients petitioned the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and FSIS to approve the use of several compounds, including sodium citrate, for use in denuding tripe. Tripe denudation_the removal of mucous membranes from beef stomachs_is a necessary step in the cleaning and preparation of tripe for use as human food. FSIS has reviewed the data and other information submitted by the petitioner and has determined that the proposed use of sodium citrate would not result in product adulteration or misbranding. FDA lists sodium citrate as generally recognized as safe when used in accordance with good manufacturing practice in an amount not in excess of that required to achieve its intended effect (21 CFR 182.1751). In an August 24, 1992, letter to the petitioner, FDA reported this fact and stated that it would have ``no objection to [sodium citrate's] addition to the tripe-denuding mixture [contemplated by the petitioner] providing that it is used in accordance with good manufacturing practice.'' 1 FDA further stipulated that the sodium citrate used be of food-grade quality and that the quantity used not be in excess of the amount reasonably required to accomplish its intended effect. 1 A copy of this letter is available from the FSIS Hearing Clerk, USDA, 14th & Independence Avenue, SW., room 3175, South Agriculture Building, Washington, DC 20250. FSIS is proposing to amend ยง318.7(c)(4) of the Federal meat inspection regulations to permit the use of sodium citrate as a tripe denuding agent in combination with other approved agents, in an amount sufficient to accomplish the intended effect. Use of sodium citrate for this purpose would be subject to the condition that the substance be removed from the denuded tripe by rinsing with potable water. List of Subjects in 9 CFR Part 318 Food additives, Meat inspection. For the reasons set out in the preamble, 9 CFR part 318 is proposed to be amended as follows: PART 318_ENTRY INTO OFFICIAL ESTABLISHMENTS; REINSPECTION AND PREPARATION OF PRODUCTS 1. The authority citation for part 318 would continue to read as follows: Authority: 7 U.S.C. 450, 1901&hyph;1906; 21 U.S.C. 601&hyph;695; 7 CFR 2.17, 2.55.
