FR940707-0-00018 FR940707-0-00008 (1) Picture ID. (2) Address and telephone number. (3) Vehicle identification and license number, if a vehicle is to be brought on post. (4) Names and ages of minor family members who will accompany a sponsor or permit holder. (5) Liability release signature. (6) Certification that intended activities are on the authorized list and are not for profit or fund-raising. Persons who submit false certificates are subject to prosecution in Federal Court under Title 18, United States Code, Section 1001, and the provisions of §552.165 of this subpart. (d) A wallet-sized permit (HFL Form 653) and a vehicle pass (HFL Form 652) will be issued to each person authorized access. The permit is not transferable. Entry to the Fort Lewis range complex without the permit is prohibited. (e) A collective permit will be issued to an organization desiring to conduct a one-time group event not tied to a specific area or site, maximum length 3 days. The group leader must register in person at the Area Access Office and must be 21 years of age or older except for active duty military personnel. (1) Group registration requires the information listed for individual permits above for the group leader(s), plus a list of names of all persons in the group. (2) Group permits require that all members of the group be with the leader throughout the event. If the group plans to separate while on Fort Lewis, sub-group leaders must be appointed and must obtain separate group permits. The group leader permit is not transferable. (3) Events requiring commitment of land must be processed per §552.166. (f) Aside from the land commitment coordination time requirement in §552.166, there is no deadline for permit application. Permits for authorized activities that do not require commitment of land may be obtained on the day of the event. (g) Group event permits for specialized one-time activities are valid for the duration of the event, not to exceed 3 days. Individuals activities permits are valid for one year. When a permit expires, the holder must re-register to renew privileges, and a new permit will be issued. (h) Access hours are 30 minutes after daylight to 30 minutes before dark, except for authorized overnight activities and as outlined in FL Reg 215&hyph;1. (i) All permit holders must check in with Area Access, either telephonically or in person, no earlier than 0800 the day prior to the event. It is the responsibility of each permit holder to inform a friend or relative of the area being used, the estimated time of return, and the vehicle being used. (j) Except when land commitment has been coordinated and approved, Area Access will determine when called for entry whether the area requested is available. If the requested area is not open for permit holders and an alternate area cannot be provided or is not acceptable to the requestor, access will be denied. §552.169 Yakima Training Center area access office. The Yakima Training Center DPCA functions as the Area Access Officer (AAO). §552.170 Camp Bonneville area access office. Camp Bonneville Range Control (CBRC) functions as Area Access. §552.171 Compatible use. (a) Military unit commanders may request during initial scheduling or subsequent training event coordination that no permit holders be allowed in areas they have scheduled for training. If this restriction is granted, the Installation Range Control will close appropriate areas. The following military activities are considered incompatible with non-training access and automatically close affected areas: (1) Live-fire training events with danger zones extending into training areas. (2) Parachute and air assault operations. (3) Field Artillery firing. The numbered training area occupied by the weapons will be closed. (4) Training involving riot agents or smoke generating equipment. (b) The Installation Range Officer may also close training areas based on density of occupation by military units, unit size, or training to be conducted. (c) Areas allocated to modern firearm deer hunting are closed to both training and other recreational activities. At Fort Lewis, when pheasant release sites can be isolated by swamps, streams, or roads from the rest of a training area, multiple use of the affected training area (TA) is authorized. §552.172 Violations. Anyone observing violators of this or other regulations must report the activity, time, and location to the appropriate Area Access Office or the Military Police (MP) as soon as possible.
