FR940926-1-00016 FR940926-1-00007 49 CFR Part 567 Certification AGENCY: National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA), Department of Transportation (DOT). ACTION: Denial of petition for rulemaking. SUMMARY: This notice denies a petition for rulemaking submitted by the American Association of Motor Vehicle Administrators (AAMVA) concerning vehicle identification numbers (VINs). One of this agency's Federal motor vehicle safety standards requires all motor vehicles to have a VIN. In addition, NHTSA's certification regulation requires the certification label on each motor vehicle to bear that vehicle's VIN. AAMVA suggested that NHTSA amend its certification regulation to require the VIN of each trailer to be marked in a second location on the trailer to ensure the VIN is present on the vehicle in the event the certification label becomes illegible or lost. The petitioner also believes marking the VIN in a second location will help state officials find the VIN during vehicle inspections. NHTSA is denying the petition because the agency has an ongoing rulemaking on the issue of improving the permanency and legibility of vehicle certification labels on trailers and other motor vehicles. Since those labels include the VIN, possible improvements to certification labels would address petitioner's concerns about the permanency and legibility of the VIN. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Dr. Leon DeLarm, Chief, Pedestrian, Heavy Truck and Child Crash Protection Division, Office of Vehicle Safety Standards, National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, 400 Seventh Street, SW, Washington, DC 20590; (202) 366&hyph;4920. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: NHTSA's certification regulation, 49 CFR 567, Certification, requires motor vehicle manufacturers to affix a certification label to each motor vehicle. The label constitutes the manufacturer's certification that the vehicle complies with all applicable Federal motor vehicle safety standards. Section 567.4 specifies where the label must be located and what information it must include. With respect to trailers, the label must be located on the forward half of the left side of the vehicle such that it is easily readable from outside the vehicle without moving any part of the vehicle. One of the items of information required to be displayed on the label is the VIN. The VIN is a unique identifier that facilitates NHTSA's analysis of accident data and assessment of vehicle recall campaigns. Standard No. 115, Vehicle Identification Number_Basic Requirements, 49 CFR 571.115, requires each motor vehicle to have a VIN. It further requires the VIN to be marked clearly and indelibly either on a part of the vehicle that is not designed to be removed or on a separate plate or label, such as the vehicle certification label required by 49 CFR 567. 49 CFR 565, Vehicle Identification Number_Content Requirements, specifies the content and format for the VIN. Among other things, Part 565 requires the VIN to provide information on the characteristics of the vehicle, such as its gross vehicle weight rating (GVWR). Since a trailer's VIN is placed on the certification label, the extent to which a trailer's VIN remains legible throughout the life of the vehicle depends on the permanency of that label. Part 567 specifies that, unless riveted, the label must be permanently affixed such that it cannot be removed without destroying it (ยง567.4(b)). However, Part 567 does not specify any other requirements that ensure the permanency of the certification label, such as requiring the label to be fabricated from a durable material. The Petition AAMVA petitioned NHTSA to improve the permanency of the VIN marking. AAMVA petitioned on behalf of its members, state motor vehicle administrators. They use the VIN to register vehicles, to determine proper ownership of vehicles, and to find the GVWR that the vehicle manufacturer assigned to the vehicle. The petitioner said that state officials use the GVWR information for, among other purposes, determining whether a vehicle is overloaded on the highways. AAMVA suggested that NHTSA require trailers to have the VIN stamped, etched or otherwise permanently marked in a location other than the certification label. AAMVA stated that certification labels are typically plastic coated and become illegible with age and exposure to the elements. Thus, the information on the label_particularly the VIN_becomes ``illegible long before the useful life of the trailer'' ends. Petitioner believed that a second VIN marking would provide a backup means for determining the weight ratings and other pertinent information for the trailer. Agency Decision NHTSA is denying AAMVA's petition. The petitioner's justification for its suggestion, missing GVWR information, is being addressed for trailers in a separate NHTSA rulemaking. That rulemaking action seeks to improve the permanency and legibility of the certification labels used on commercial motor vehicles. It was initiated when NHTSA granted in part a petition for rulemaking submitted by the Michigan Department of State Police (MDSP). The MDSP raised concerns similar to those of the AAMVA regarding the ability of state officials to locate GVWR and VIN information on commercial vehicles. The MDSP stated that law enforcement officers often have difficulty determining the GVWRs of commercial vehicles because the labels on those vehicles are often damaged, painted over or removed, usually accidently, during the life of the vehicle. The petitioner believed that a vehicle's VIN and GVWR information should be made more accessible and legible on commercial vehicles to enable police officers to more readily inspect and investigate commercial vehicles during routine traffic stops. Among other things, the MDSP suggested requiring certification labels for large commercial vehicles, including trailers, to be made of metal, with raised or recessed letters and numbers (see RIN 2127&hyph;AE71). In response to the MDSP petition, NHTSA will consider the need to improve the permanency and legibility of the certification labels for large trailers, and possible ways to improve the labels. Since these labels include the VIN, any improvements to the certification label will have the effect of improving the permanency and legibility of the VIN. In addition, NHTSA will request comments in that rulemaking on whether small trailers should also meet the requirements being proposed for large trailers, and whether some different approach, other than the proposed metal label requirement, would be more effective for the certification labels. Since that rulemaking will address AAMVA's concerns about the permanency and legibility of VIN markings, AAMVA's petition is moot. Authority: 49 U.S.C. 322, 30111, 30162; delegations of authority at 49 CFR 1.50 and 501.8. Issued on September 21, 1994. Barry Felrice, Associate Administrator, for Rulemaking. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;23731 Filed 9&hyph;23&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;59&hyph;P
