FR940128-1-00075 FR940128-1-00006 Oven temperatures for hot processing ranged from 90 to 240 ○F (32 to 116 ○C) and from 38 to 125 ○F (4.4 to 52 ○C) for cold processing. Water-phase salt content in hot-process products ranged from 0.88 to 27.5 percent and in cold-process products from 1.33 to 18.1 percent. Twenty-eight firms (43.7 percent) vacuum packed cold-process products, but 60.7 percent of those firms did not test final products for water-phase salt content or for residual sodium nitrite. Twenty-five firms (39.1 percent) vacuum packed hot-process products, but 68 percent of those firms did not test final products for water-phase salt content or for residual sodium nitrite. Seventy-five percent of the firms surveyed did not test final products for water-phase salt content or for residual sodium nitrite, where used. Since this survey was conducted, the frequency of FDA inspections of smoked fish establishments has been increased over 50 percent each year. Therefore, FDA is providing guidance on the appropriate parameters for processing smoked fishery products in Appendix 1 to this document. The guidance addresses critical control points that apply to these products as a class and that will typically be identified in the HACCP plans of most processors of smoke and smoke-flavored products. The guidance also addresses ways of controlling hazards at these critical control points. The key processing parameters that must be controlled to ensure the safety of these products involve time, temperature, and salinity. While a range of time-temperature-salinity (TTS) values will provide a safe product, there are now known safety minimums for these values that have been developed through years of research. Processors whose TTS values fall below these minimums do not produce a safe product and shift much of the burden of preventing botulism toxin outgrowth to those who take possession of these products after they leave the processing plant, including the ultimate consumer. This burden includes, among other things, maintaining strict temperature control at 40 ○F or lower even though it is known that many commercial and home refrigerators are unable to maintain this temperature (Ref. 201). These TTS minimums are known to produce a marketable product, because there are processors that operate in conformance with them. Moreover, because they are minimums, these values allow for the production of a variety of products, such as different types of lox with varying amounts of saltiness, to suit different tastes. These minimum TTS values provide the only scientifically valid way developed to date of ensuring that no botulism toxin will be produced over the shelf life of the product under proper refrigeration conditions or under conditions of moderate temperature abuse. The minimum values, coupled with the sanitation practices proposed in this document, should also ensure against the presence of detectable L. monocytogenes. These minimum TTS values are being issued at this time as proposed guidance to ensure maximum flexibility. If these values are reflected in the HACCP plans that are required by proposed subpart A of 21 CFR part 123, and are being effectively implemented by the processor, the agency is likely to find that the plan and its implementation are adequate with regard to those critical limits and critical control points. The same holds true for the other types of controls recommended in the guidance. The agency is requesting comment on this approach, and on the following alternatives: (1) Issue all or part of the materials relating to smoked and smoke-flavored fishery products in Appendix 1 as regulations, rather than guidance. Given the public health concerns associated with these products and the scientific basis for the TTS minimums, it may well be appropriate to issue them as regulations. Such regulations would take into account advances in knowledge and technology by allowing processors to use alternative processing parameters so long as these alternatives were scientifically demonstrated to produce an equivalent level of safety. (Section 11 of the guidance relating to smoked and smoke-flavored fishery products in Appendix 1 contains such a feature.) (2) Issue a performance standard as a regulation, while leaving the materials in Appendix 1 as guidelines on how processors could meet the performance standard. The likely performance standard would be, as suggested above (and included in section 11 of the guidance relating to smoked and smoke- flavored fishery products in Appendix 1): (a) for botulism, zero toxin production in the product during a time period through_and slightly beyond_the shelf life of the product, demonstrated through inoculated pack studies under normal and moderate abuse conditions; and (b) no detectable L. monocytogenes in the final product. (3) Maintain the guidance relating to smoked and smoke-flavored fishery products in the FDA Fish and Fishery Products Hazards and Controls Guide and control safety through the HACCP requirements for all seafood in proposed subpart A. FDA requests comment on which of these alternatives is most likely to ensure that smoked fish will be safe and is most consistent with the agency's obligations under the act. In the absence of a regulation or guideline, how can the agency best ensure that the results of the research that it has conducted will be available for use by the industry? FDA solicits comments on these and the matters raised above. N. Verification Issues As described in section IV.A. of this document, one of the NACMCF's seven HACCP principles involves verification that the HACCP system is working. NACMCF recommends that HACCP plans include procedures for verification of the HACCP system (Ref. 34, p. 200). FDA advises processors to consider adopting this recommendation, but has not proposed to require it because the agency expects verification to occur through: (1) A firm's consistency with the controls and limits to be provided by FDA in the HACCP guidance described in section VII.C. and M. of this document; (2) third-party technical assistance provided through trade associations, universities and government agencies; and (3) review of all HACCP monitoring records by trained individuals before distribution of product (see proposed §123.8(b)); the proposed corrective action requirements (see proposed §123.7), especially the provision for assessment of HACCP plans as a consequence of deviations (§123.7(a)(4)); the recommended use of process authorities for cooked, ready-to-eat products (see Appendix A); the proposed general training requirements (see proposed §123.9); and inspector review during routine agency inspections. FDA invites comment on whether this approach is adequate to ensure that the NACMCF verification principle is being properly addressed, both for individual firms and for the overall HACCP program. For individual firms, NACMCF specifically discourages the sole reliance on end-product sampling for verification purposes (Ref. 34, p. 201). FDA also has questions concerning the efficacy of end-product sampling as the only way to measure the success of HACCP. These caveats notwithstanding, FDA invites comment on what tests should be used to measure success, both in terms of individual firms and the program as a whole, and how frequently such tests should be administered. VIII. Other Approaches to HACCP This preamble has described in great detail the HACCP system that is being proposed and the reasoning behind each proposed provision. While the agency is inviting comment on the merits of each provision, FDA also invites comment on the overall system, including whether some other approach to HACCP or some variation of the proposed approach might be preferable. Variations on the proposed approach include, but are not limited to: (1) Requiring HACCP only for higher risk seafood products; (2) exempting small firms from HACCP requirements; (3) staggering the effective date for implementation based on size of firm or risk; and (4) deleting or altering some of the requirements in this proposal in order to facilitate implementation and lower costs. A brief discussion of each of these variations follows: A. Higher Risk Only An alternative to requiring HACCP for all commercial seafood products would be to require it for products or processes that have been linked to significant numbers reported seafood-borne illnesses. As section II.B. of this document explains in detail, many of the reported illnesses from seafood involve raw molluscan shellfish and certain species of finfish that can accumulate scombrotoxin and ciguatoxin. Other seafood products cause illness but are not as commonly reported. FDA invites comment on whether this proposed regulation should apply only to molluscan shellfish and the species responsible for scombrotoxin and ciguatoxin poisonings. A variation on this approach would be to have the proposed regulation apply to those species and processes with a higher potential for harm, even if actual illnesses from them cannot be documented from the foodborne illness reporting system. As described earlier in the preamble, the fact that the system is not recording illnesses from a particular food does not mean that illnesses are not occurring. Also, potential for harm need not always be measured in terms of the number of illnesses that are actually occurring. For example, some problems, like botulism, may occur infrequently, but when they do, the consequences can be devastating. Based on the potential for harm, other candidates for inclusion would be: (1) Hot-process smoked and hot-process smoke-flavored fish, cold-process smoked and cold-process smoke- flavored fish, because of the hazards of botulism and listeria; (2) cooked, ready-to-eat products, because of the microbiological hazards associated with products that are not intended to be cooked by the consumer; (3) low acid canned foods, because of the hazard of botulism and general complexity of the processing operation; (4) raw, ready-to-eat products, because of the risk of parasites; and (5) species that require a judgment as to appropriate location of harvest to avoid unsafe pesticide or industrial contaminant levels.
