FR940217-2-00050 FR940217-2-00030 Previous Funding Experience Previous funding experience information is provided to assist potential applicants to make better informed decisions regarding submission of an application for this program. In FY 1993, HRSA reviewed 17 applications for Cooperative Agreements for the Area Health Education Centers Program. Of those applications, 58.9 percent were approved and 41.1 percent were disapproved. Eight projects, or 47 percent of the applications received, were funded. In FY 1992, HRSA reviewed 11 applications. Of those applications, 73 percent were approved and 27 percent were disapproved. Three projects or 27 percent of the applications received, were funded. Purpose Section 746(a)(1) of the PHS Act authorizes Federal assistance to schools of medicine and osteopathic medicine which have cooperative arrangements with one or more public or nonprofit private area health education centers for the planning, development and operation of area health education center programs. Eligibility To be eligible to receive support for an area health education center cooperative agreement, the applicant must be a public or nonprofit private accredited school of medicine or osteopathic medicine or consortium of such schools, or the parent institution on behalf of such school(s). Applicants may request up to 3 years of support with the expectation that AHECs planned and developed in years 1 and 2 would be fully operational no later than the 3rd year. The period of Federal support should not exceed 12 years for an area health education center program and 6 years for an area health education center. The Health Professions Reauthorization Act of 1988, title VI of Public Law 100&hyph;607, amended the authority for the area health education center program by: 1. Providing for a waiver, under specified circumstances, of the provision now contained in section 746(a)(2)(C) prohibiting an AHEC from being a school of medicine or osteopathic medicine, the parent institution of such a school, or a branch campus or other subunit of a school of medicine or osteopathic medicine or its parent institution, or a consortium of such entities. The waiver of this provision applies to an AHEC having, at the time of initial application, an operating program supported by appropriations of a State legislature as well as local resources; 2. Reducing the minimum number of individuals enrolled in first-year positions in a rotating osteopathic internship or a medical residency training program in family medicine, general internal medicine, or general pediatrics from six individuals to four; and 3. Revising the requirement that each AHEC shall ``conduct interdisciplinary training and practice involving physicians and other health personnel including, where practicable, physician assistants and nurse practitioners'' to add ``and nurse midwives.'' To receive support, programs must meet the requirements of the regulations as set forth in 42 CFR part 57, subpart MM. Degree of Federal Involvement in the Planning, Development and Operation of Area Health Education Centers Program The Bureau of Health Professions, within the Health Resources and Services Administration, has substantial programmatic involvement in the planning, development, and administration of the AHEC projects by: 1. Reviewing and approving plans upon which continuation of the cooperative agreement is contingent in order to permit appropriate direction and redirection of activities;
