FR941110-0-00163 FR941110-0-00016 Response: We agree that a temporary manager would not be able to do his or her job effectively without being oriented to the task, and will direct the State survey agencies in our State Operations Manual to provide an orientation, the form of which shall be determined by them. Comment: Many commenters requested that we impose an enforceable limit on the salary of the temporary manager, and a large number of those recommended that we use the prevailing salary limit set forth in the preamble to the NPRM. Other commenters proposed that we require compensation for the temporary manager to be set at a rate sufficient to attract people with the necessary qualifications, and they recommended that we not limit the salary of the temporary manager to the rate mentioned in the preamble. These commenters were concerned that it would be unlikely to draw the expertise needed. A few commenters requested that we identify who will determine the salary of the temporary manager, and certain of those asked whether it will be negotiable. Another commenter asked if the facility will be obligated to provide benefits to the temporary manager. Response: After reviewing the comments we received, we have concluded that the salary limit put forth in the preamble to the proposed rule would not be in the best interests of facilities or their residents because it would make it difficult to attract qualified temporary managers. The temporary managers that are available are sometimes located long distances from the facilities which need them, and unless the salary offered is sufficiently attractive, it will not induce individuals to temporarily upset their normal routines and accept the challenge of managing a severely deficient facility. If temporary managers cannot be secured, we will have no choice but to proceed with termination. In order to avoid this result and promote the use of temporary management as an alternative remedy, we will give facilities the flexibility to exceed the salary floor specified below if the State is otherwise unable to attract a qualified temporary manager and the facility considers a higher payment preferable to termination. The salary of the temporary manager must be at least equivalent to the prevailing salary paid by providers in the facility's geographic area for positions of this type, plus the prevailing cost of certain additional allowances. The additional allowances will include costs that would have reasonably been incurred by the provider if the temporary manager had been in an employment relationship, such as the cost of a benefits package, prorated for the amount of time the temporary manager is working in the facility. The facility will also be responsible for any other costs incurred by the temporary manager in furnishing services under such an arrangement or as otherwise set by the State. Because the State is in a better position than HCFA to determine the prevailing salary and other employment related costs of a nursing home administrator within what the State considers to be the facility's geographic area, it will be responsible for setting the salary/benefits floor of the temporary manager and for determining whether or not it is necessary to exceed it. The State may consult with a provider while it determines the appropriate salary, but we will not require that the salary of the temporary manager be negotiable. Comment: One commenter asked what would happen if a facility agreed to temporary management, but then failed to pay the salary. Response: We are considering requiring that facilities pay the salary of the temporary manager before the remedy begins, which would eliminate the need for a recoupment strategy. Until a decision is made, the mechanism that is currently used to recover Medicare and Medicaid funds from facilities which have been overpaid will be used to collect money from any facilities that owe the salary of the temporary manager. The amount owed would be withheld from future amounts due to the facility from HCFA or the State. Because Medicare and Medicaid payments may continue for up to 30 days after termination, salaries may be recouped even when they are owed by terminated facilities. Comment: A large number of commenters disagreed with the provision that the temporary manager's salary be paid by the facility. A few commenters stated that the money spent on temporary management would be better spent by the facility on its own improvements. Certain commenters complained that a lack of sufficient funds is often what leads to noncompliance, and so they were concerned that this remedy would be worthless without additional funding. A number of commenters argued that a facility's inability to pay for temporary management should not preclude its use as a remedy. Many commenters recommended that the temporary manager's salary be paid out of a fund composed of civil money penalties collected by the State, and certain commenters cited 42 U.S.C. 1396r(h)(2)(A)(ii) (section 1919(h)(2)(A)(ii) of the Act) as establishing the authority to do so. Other commenters believed that States should be required to use funds collected through imposition of civil money penalties to cover the costs of correcting deficiencies incurred by the temporary manager, but only if the facility cannot afford to pay these costs itself. Certain commenters believed that the facility and its operators should be liable to the fund for reimbursement of expenses. One commenter recommended that the States should be authorized to impose liens on the facility and other assets of the corporate entity until the facility reimburses the fund. Another commenter believed that the States should be charged with the duty of using all available collection methods afforded by law to recoup expenditures from the fund. One commenter noted that 42 U.S.C. 1396r(h)(2)(E) (section 1919(h)(2)(e) of the Act) provides that temporary management costs are legitimately payable administrative expenses of the State. Therefore, this commenter and others believed that the temporary manager's salary and the costs that he or she incurs while managing the facility should be borne by the State and reimbursed under the State's Medicaid reimbursement system.
