FR940513-1-00076 FR940513-1-00017 3. Determination of the MACT Floor The MACT floors were determined for the following types of operations: Product loading and ballasting. a. Product loading. The marine vessel data base is based on throughput data for marine vessel loading terminals. The throughput data are divided into crude oil, gasoline, and 11 other commodity categories. Additional information on these data are available in the TSD for this proposed regulation (see ADDRESSES section of this preamble). The EPA estimated the emissions of HAP from each of these terminals using these throughput data and incorporating assumptions about how many of these facilities were controlled, and the extent of their control. These assumptions are based on existing Federal and State regulations. For example, benzene loadings are already controlled by the benzene NESHAP (40 CFR part 61, subpart BB). In addition, four States have regulations requiring control of emissions from marine tank vessel loading operations: New Jersey, Louisiana, Pennsylvania, and California (District regulations). (Additional information on the derivation of the MACT floor is found in Docket A&hyph;90&hyph;44, item II&hyph;A&hyph;44.) Additional discussion of the Agency's interpretation of the MACT floor is presented in section J. Solicitation of Comments. Of the approximately 360 terminals estimated to be affected by the proposed regulation, 43 facilities comprise the best performing 12 percent of facilities used in calculating the MACT floor for terminals emitting over 1 Mg of HAP emissions. These terminals are subject to State regulations in California, New Jersey, and Louisiana. Averaging the required control levels of these facilities results in a MACT floor of 93 percent control for facilities emitting more than 1 Mg of HAP per year. Although this derived average does not precisely match a control technology, for all practical purposes it is equivalent the emission reduction achieved by recovery techniques (i.e., 95 percent). Additional information on the derivation of the MACT floor may be found in the docket for this proposed rulemaking effort. There are approximately 1,440 facilities that would emit less than 1 Mg of HAP emissions annually if uncontrolled. The average control level of the best performing 12 percent of facilities is 36 percent control. This control level does not represent an existing technology. Therefore using the average of the best performing 12 percent is inappropriate for establishing the MACT floor. Taking the median of the best performing 12 percent of these sources (94th percentile) results in a control level of zero because the median facility is uncontrolled. This is a more appropriate portrayal of the level of control that exists in this subcategory. Therefore, this level of control (i.e., no control) represents the MACT floor for terminals emitting less than 1 Mg/yr. The MACT floor for new facilities, regardless of size, is a 98-percent overall control of emissions. This control level represents the best performing similar source. The Agency will take comment on whether the MACT floor for new sources could, consistent with the requirements of section 112(d) of the Act, be equal to a control requirement of 95 percent when a recovery device is used. As discussed elsewhere in this preamble, the Agency wishes to encourage the use of recovery devices. However, a 95 percent reduction requirement for recovery devices may be considered inconsistent with the requirement of section 112(d)(3) of the Act that emission standards for new sources shall not be less stringent than the emission control achieved by the best controlled similar source. The EPA requests comments on whether the secondary benefits of recovery devices provide the Administrator with the ability to determine that a 95 percent reduction requirement for those sources using recovery is ``not less stringent'' than a 98 percent reduction requirement for all other sources. b. Ballasting. According to the Marine Board report, most tankships have segregated or clean ballast tanks due to Coast Guard regulations and international agreements that effectively prohibit ballast emissions from occurring. Since the Marine Board report was issued in 1987, as older vessels have been retired, the proportion of ``uncontrolled'' vessels has decreased further. However, the Agency does not have any information available to it to evaluate the percentage of vessels that still emit ballasting emissions, particularly those vessels that are not in crude oil service (where the vast majority of ballasting occurs). The Administrator determined that the MACT floor for ballasting at new or existing sources would be a prohibition of ballasting emissions. The Agency is requesting comment on this decision to prohibit ballasting emissions. E. Selection of Basis and Level of Proposed MACT Standards 1. Development of Regulatory Alternatives a. Product loading. Two regulatory alternatives were developed for the subcategory represented by major source marine tank vessel loading and unloading operations that emit less than or equal to 1 Mg of HAP annually. The regulatory alternatives are summarized in Table 4. The first alternative, Regulatory Alternative A, represents the MACT floor of no control. Regulatory Alternative B represents the control of a facility's total HAP throughput resulting in an overall emission reduction of 95 percent. Two regulatory alternatives were considered for the subcategory represented by existing facilities emitting more than 1 Mg of HAP per year. Regulatory Alternative A represents the MACT floor level of control (93 percent overall control). Regulatory Alternative B represents the control of a facility's total HAP throughput to an overall control of 95 percent. There are no regulatory alternatives for new facilities that exceed the MACT floor of 98 percent control because no other alternatives that are more stringent than the floor were considered technically feasible.
