FR940304-2-00089 FR940304-2-00040 Contesting records procedures: Contesting Record Procedures are contained in Rules Safeguarding Personal Information in IAF Records. Record source categories: Individual himself and people named by individual to supply information. IAF&hyph;2 System name: Foundation Fellowship Application Files_IAF. System location: Inter-American Foundation, 901 N. Stuart Street, Arlington, VA 22203. Categories of individuals covered by the system: Candidates who submitted applications in a fellowship competition for fellowship awards. Categories of records in the system: The application file contains such general personal information as home and work addresses and phone numbers, citizenship, date and place of birth, age, name and citizenship of spouse, social security number, number and ages of children, educational history, employment history, career information, travel experience, language capability, honors and publications, personal statement, letters of recommendation, grade transcripts, research/study prospectus, comments by Foundation staff and contracted evaluators. In addition, other general competition files provide scores by contracted evaluators of the individual candidate's application for fellowship award recommendations. Authority for maintenance of the system: 44 U.S.C. 3101. Routine uses of records maintained in the system, including categories of users and the purposes of such uses: Information is used by contracted specialists for evaluating applications and Foundation staff for managing the fellowship competition. Notwithstanding the above, access may also be gained to these records under the following conditions: (a) In the event that a system of records maintained by this agency to carry out its functions indicates a violation or potential violation of law, whether civil, criminal or regulatory in nature, and whether arising by general statute or particular program statute, or by regulation, rule or order issued pursuant thereto, the relevant records in the system of records may be referred, as a routine use, to the appropriate agency, whether federal, state, local or foreign, charged with the responsibility of investigating or prosecuting such violation or charged with enforcing or implementing the statute, or rule, regulation or order issued pursuant thereto. (b) A record from the system of records may be disclosed as a ``routine use'' to a federal, state or local agency maintaining civil, criminal or other relevant enforcement information or other pertinent information, such as current licenses, if necessary to obtain information relevant to an agency decision concerning the hiring or retention of an employee, the issuance of a security clearance, the letting of a contract, or the issuance of a license, grant or other benefit. (c) A record from this system of records may be disclosed to a federal agency, in response to its request, in connection with the hiring or retention of an employee, the issuance of a security clearance, the reporting of an investigation of an employee, the letting of a contract, or the issuance of a license, grant or other benefits by the requesting agency, to the extent that the information is relevant and necessary to the requesting agency's decision on the matter. Policies and practices for storing, retrieving, accessing, retaining, and disposing of records in the system: Storage: Paper Files. Retrievability: Manual. Identifier_Name and Program. Safeguards: Filed in locked, steel cabinets; records available to authorized persons only. Retention and disposal: Disposed of in accordance with the General Records Schedule issued by the Archivist of the United States. System manager(s) and address: Fellowship Assistant. Inter-American Foundation, 901 N. Stuart Street, Arlington, VA 22203.
