FR940927-2-00091 FR940927-2-00065 Aransas Pass, TX_This is the site of an existing marine radiobeacon. It is collocated with Coast Guard Station Port Aransas in Port Aransas, TX. This site has previously been partially upgraded and is transmitting prototype DGPS signals for test and evaluation purposes. Galveston, TX_This is the site of an existing marine radiobeacon. It is located on East Beach near the South Jetty of Galveston Bay. This site has previously been partially upgraded and is transmitting prototype DGPS signals for test and evaluation purposes. English Turn, LA_The site is collocated at the USCG Communication Station, which is approximately 10 miles Southeast of New Orleans. This site has previously been partially upgraded and is transmitting prototype DGPS signals for test and evaluation purposes. Mobile Point, AL_The site is collocated at the Mobile Point Light, which is adjacent to Fort Morgan. Fort Morgan is listed in the National Register of Historic Places. The Coast Guard and AL State Historic Preservation Officer (SHPO) agree that the proposed project will have no effect on the adjacent fort. Egmont Key, FL_Located approximately 5 miles Southwest of St. Petersburg at the entrance to Tampa Bay. This radiobeacon transmitting site is collocated at the Egmont Key Lighthouse, which is listed on the National Register of Historic Places. This site has previously been partially upgraded and is transmitting prototype DGPS signals for test and evaluation purposes in conjunction with the State of Florida. The Coast Guard and FL State Historic Preservation Officer (SHPO) agree that the proposed project will have no effect on the adjacent lightstation. Implementation of a DGPS service in the Gulf Intercoastal Corridor Region is determined to have no significant effect on the quality of the human environment or require preparation of an Environmental Impact Statement. Dated: September 19, 1994. R.C. Houle, Captain, U.S. Coast Guard, Acting Chief, Office of Navigation Safety and Waterway Services. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;23894 Filed 9&hyph;26&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;14&hyph;M
