FR940525-2-00152 FR940525-2-00078 The BSE states, and the NYSE notes, that all BSE market and marketable limit orders routed to a designated specialist will still continue to be exposed for 15 seconds to allow the specialist to execute the order at a price better than the ITS/BBO before automatic execution at the ITS/BBO. 36 36 In contrast, the NYSE asserts that in the CSE pilot agency at-the-market and marketable limit orders are executed immediately and automatically at the ITS/BBO without exposure for price betterment. See NYSE letter 1. Finally, the Amex further asserts that increased internalization resulting from the BSE proposal will lead to more order flow to the BSE, which will in turn increase the amount of risk incurred by BSE specialists. As a result, the Amex alleges, BSE specialists will ``lay off'' their risk on the primary market specialist by means of offsetting executions following a BSE transaction, 37 thus increasing the risk factor to the Amex specialists. The Amex concludes that this potential increased risk, and the desire to foster protection of customer orders, is the basis for its pending competing dealer proposal. 37 See Amex letter 2. C. Effect on Auction Market Principles The NYSE and Amex assert that the proposal represents a departure from agency/auction principles and a movement toward ``dealerization'' of regional exchange markets by encouraging firms to set up CSs in order to internalize preferenced order flow which is thereby denied the chief benefits of auction market trading. 38 The Amex further asserts that: 38 See Amex letter 1. This development can only increase concerns *␣*␣* regarding regional exchange market making in primary exchange listed securities_namely, increased market fragmentation, passive quotations and autoquoting, failure to enhance price discovery and provide price betterment, and failure to reflect full bid/offer size. 39 39 See Amex letter 1 (citing the Amex Market 2000 comment letter, pp. 14&hyph;17). The Amex also does not believe the BSE proposal will benefit the investing public, asserting that for most securities there is little evidence to support the proposition that increasing the number of market making participants increases competition and provides price betterment. 40 40 See Amex Letter. The CHX letter, although more of a commentary on the CSE pilot than on the BSE proposal, reaches the conclusion that it would be inconsistent for the Commission to permit the CSE pilot to operate without permitting the more traditional exchanges to compete by providing similar systems of their own. 41 In addition, the CHX takes the position that the BSE proposal is a type of preferencing system, but contains fewer negative aspects than does CSE's pilot. Therefore, the CHX believes it would be illogical to permit the CSE pilot to continue while disapproving the BSE proposal. 42 41 See CHX letter. 42 See CHX letter. D. Payment for Order Flow Both the CSE pilot and the BSE proposal include a prohibition against cash payments, by preferencing market makers and CSs respectively, for preferenced order flow. 43 The NYSE suggest that the BSE's restriction may be broader than the CSE's because it appears to apply to regular specialists as well as CSs. 44 The BSE response, however, emphasized that its restriction only applies to a CS in those stocks in which he becomes registered as a CS. The NYSE, Amex, and BSE, however, concur that the Commission should address the payment for order flow issue on a national level. The NYSE suggests that the Commission prohibit all dealers and specialists in all markets from paying for order flow. 45 The BSE response advocated a clear standard for all industry participants, suggesting that the Commission either prohibit all dealers and specialists in all markets from paying for order flow or allow all such market participants to decide the issue for themselves. 46 The Amex agreed with the BSE in so far as the issue should be addressed in a conceptually consistent manner rather than a piecemeal approach. 47 43 See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 28866 (February 7, 1991), 56 FR 5854 (February 13, 1991); and Securities Exchange Act Release No. 33089 (October 22, 1993), 58 FR 58205 (October 29, 1993). 44 See NYSE letter 2, FN 2. 45 See NYSE letter 1; NYSE letter 2. 46 See BSE letter 2; BSE letter 1; BSE letter 3. 47 See Amex letter 1. E. Information Barriers The NYSE and Amex commented on the BSE's original requirement that competing specialists affiliated with upstairs firms must have and maintain appropriate information barrier procedures as approved by any SRO, noting that the BSE had no actual rules in place on the establishment or enforcement of such procedures. 48 In response, the BSE separately filed information barrier procedures with the Commission. 49 48 See NYSE letter 1; Amex letter 1. The NYSE's Rule 98 and the Amex's Rule 193 are those exchanges' procedures that deal with integrated, or diversified, number firms acting as specialists on the primary markets. 49 See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 33090 (October 22, 1993), 58 FR 58206 (October 29, 1993). That proposal is being approved concurrently with the instant proposed rule change. IV. Discussion For the reasons discussed below, the Commission is approving the BSE competing specialist proposal on a one-year pilot basis. During the pilot the BSE will be required to monitor the pilot, collect data, and submit reports as outlined below. As a preliminary matter, the Commission supports efforts by exchanges to provide increased market making and competition on their trading floors or trading systems. Such efforts should increase the provision of liquidity services by an exchange and enable it to compete more effectively with other markets. The addition of specialist competition on the BSE floor could help in this regard. At the same time, the Commission is sensitive to the concerns of many of the commentators about the structural implications of the preferencing feature of the BSE proposal. The Commission believes that it is important that the competing specialist program provide real quote competition for the benefit of investors, and not simply a means for firms to internalize their customer order flow while receiving specialist designation and treatment. Accordingly, as discussed in more detail below, the Commission only is approving the BSE proposal on a one-year pilot basis. During that time, the BSE is expected to monitor its pilot and provide the Commission with a report on its operation detailing how the proposal has affected the quality of BSE's market, including its effect on quote competition. The Commission expects the BSE to adequately demonstrate, through the periodic reporting requirements outlined below and other such data as the Exchange may wish to generate, that there are in fact beneficial competitive effects from the CS program. Specifically, the Commission expects the Exchange to analyze the effects of the program on the quality of the market making by BSE specialists as a result of competition. For the reasons outlined below, if the BSE cannot provide such an analysis, the Commission would have serious reservations about continuing the preferencing feature of the program.
