FR940705-2-00168 FR940705-2-00091 Section III-B&hyph;3. Minor Modifications to Human Gene Transfer Experiments A minor modification in a human gene transfer protocol is a modification that does not significantly alter the basic design of the protocol and that does not increase risk to human subjects or the environment. After approval has been obtained by the relevant Institutional Biosafety Committee and Institutional Review Board, NIH/ORDA will consider the change in consultation with the RAC Chair and one or more RAC members, as necessary. Submit minor modifications to the Office of Recombinant DNA Activities, National Institutes of Health, Building 31, Room 4B11, Bethesda, Maryland 20892, (301) 496&hyph;9838. The RAC Chair will provide a report on any such approvals at the next regularly scheduled RAC meeting. Section III-C. Experiments that Require Institutional Biosafety Committee Approval Before Initiation Prior to the initiation of an experiment that falls into this category, the Principal Investigator must submit a registration document to the Institutional Biosafety Committee which contains the following information: (i) The source(s) of DNA; (ii) the nature of the inserted DNA sequences; (iii) the host(s) and vector(s) to be used; (iv) if an attempt will be made to obtain expression of a foreign gene, and if so, indicate the protein that will be produced; and (v) the containment conditions that will be implemented as specified in the NIH Guidelines. For experiments in this category, the registration document shall be dated, signed by the Principal Investigator, and filed with the Institutional Biosafety Committee. The Institutional Biosafety Committee shall review and approve all experiments in this category prior to their initiation. Requests to decrease the level of containment specified for experiments in this category will be considered by NIH (see Section IV-C&hyph;1-b-(2)-(c)). Section III-C&hyph;1. Experiments Using Human or Animal Pathogens (Class 2, Class 3, Class 4, or Class 5 Agents (see Section V-A) as Host-Vector Systems Section III-C&hyph;1-a. Experiments involving the introduction of recombinant DNA into Class 2 agents shall be conducted at Biosafety Level (BL) 2 containment. Experiments with such agents shall be conducted with whole animals at BL2 or BL2&hyph;N (Animals) containment. Section III-C&hyph;1-b. Experiments involving the introduction of recombinant DNA into Class 3 agents shall be conducted at BL3 containment. Experiments with such agents shall be conducted with whole animals at BL3 or BL3&hyph;N containment. Section III-C&hyph;1-c. Experiments involving the introduction of recombinant DNA into Class 4 agents shall be conducted at BL4 containment. Experiments with such agents shall be conducted with whole animals at BL4 or BL4&hyph;N containment. Section III-C&hyph;1-d. Containment conditions for experiments involving the introduction of recombinant DNA into Class 5 agents shall be set on a case-by-case basis following NIH/ORDA review. A U.S. Department of Agriculture permit is required for work with Class 5 agents (see Sections V-R and V-T). Experiments with such agents shall be conducted with whole animals at BL4 or BL4&hyph;N containment. Section III-C&hyph;2. Experiments in Which DNA From Human or Animal Pathogens (Class 2, Class 3, Class 4, or Class 5 Agents (see Section V-A) is Cloned Into Nonpathogenic Prokaryotic or Lower Eukaryotic Host-Vector Systems Section III-C&hyph;2-a. Experiments in which DNA from Class 2 or Class 3 agents (see Section V-A) is transferred into nonpathogenic prokaryotes or lower eukaryotes may be performed under BL2 containment. Experiments in which DNA from Class 4 agents is transferred into nonpathogenic prokaryotes or lower eukaryotes may be performed under BL2 containment after demonstration that only a totally and irreversibly defective fraction of the agent's genome is present in a given recombinant. In the absence of such a demonstration, BL4 containment shall be used. The Institutional Biosafety Committee may approve the specific lowering of containment for particular experiments to BL1. Many experiments in this category are exempt from the NIH Guidelines (see Section III-E). Experiments involving the formation of recombinant DNA for certain genes coding for molecules toxic for vertebrates require NIH/ORDA approval (see Section III-B&hyph;1) or shall be conducted under NIH specified conditions as described in Appendix F. Section III-C&hyph;2-b. Containment conditions for experiments in which DNA from Class 5 agents is transferred into nonpathogenic prokaryotes or lower eukaryotes shall be determined by NIH/ORDA following a case-by-case review. A U.S. Department of Agriculture permit is required for work with Class 5 agents (see Sections V-R and V-T). Section III-C&hyph;3. Experiments Involving the Use of Infectious Animal or Plant DNA or RNA Viruses or Defective Animal or Plant DNA or RNA Viruses in the Presence of Helper Virus in Tissue Culture Systems Caution: Special care should be used in the evaluation of containment levels for experiments which are likely to either enhance the pathogenicity (e.g., insertion of a host oncogene) or to extend the host range (e.g., introduction of novel control elements) of viral vectors under conditions that permit a productive infection. In such cases, serious consideration should be given to increasing physical containment by at least one level.
