FR940128-2-00168 FR940128-2-00107 (a) International agencies or bodies, either governmental or non-governmental, and national governmental agencies and bodies; and (b) National non-governmental agencies or bodies which have been approved for this purpose by the State in which they are located. Once admitted, these observers shall have the right to participate but not to vote. Persons wishing to be observers representing United States national non-governmental organizations must receive prior approval of the Fish and Wildlife Service. After granting of that approval, a national non-governmental organization is eligible to register with the CITES Secretariat to participate in the COP as an observer. Requests for such approval should include evidence of technical qualification in protection, conservation or management of wild fauna and flora, on the part of both the organization and the individual representative. Organizations previously approved by the Service shall submit a request but do not need to provide as detailed information concerning their qualifications as those seeking approval for the first time. Organizations seeking approval for the first time should detail their experience in the protection, conservation, or management of wild fauna and/or flora, as well as their purposes for wishing to participate in the COP as an observer. Such requests should be sent to the Office of Management Authority (OMA; see ADDRESSES , above). Upon approval by OMA, an organization will receive instructions for registration with the CITES Secretariat in Switzerland. Any organization requesting approval for observer status at COP9 will be added to the Service's CITES Mailing List, and will receive copies of all future Federal Register notices and other information pertaining to COP9. A list of organizations approved for COP9 observer status will be available from OMA just prior to COP9. Other Meetings and Notices The CITES Secretariat has notified the Parties that they must submit by June 10, 1994 any draft resolutions, other documents for consideration, proposals to register the first commercial captive-breeding operation for an Appendix I animal species, and proposed amendments to the Appendices. The Service plans to publish additional Federal Register notices containing the following information: Species it intends to propose for amendments to the CITES Appendices; resolutions the U.S. intends to propose for consideration at COP9; a list of resolutions and proposed amendments to the Appendices received by the CITES Secretariat, for consideration at COP9, from other Party governments; proposed U.S. negotiating positions on these resolutions and proposals; and the final U.S. negotiating positions for COP9. The Service plans to hold a public meeting in September, 1994 to receive public input on its proposed negotiating positions. Author This notice was prepared by Dr. Susan S. Lieberman, Office of Management Authority, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (703/358&hyph;2093; FAX 703/358&hyph;2280). Dated: January 24, 1994. Bruce Blanchard, Deputy Director. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;1923 Filed 1&hyph;27&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4310&hyph;55&hyph;P
