FR941011-2-00008 FR941011-2-00002 Policies and practices for storing, retrieving, accessing, retaining, and disposing of records in the system: Storage: Records are maintained on computers and automated image filing systems, and in file folders, notebooks, and card file boxes. Retrievability: By name of individual employee and by social security number. Safeguards: Computer files are password protected and other records are kept in limited-access areas during duty hours and in locked offices during nonduty hours. Retention and disposal: Retention periods and disposal methods vary by record categories as set forth in National Archives and Records Administration General Records Schedules 1 (Civilian Personnel Records) and 2 (Payrolling and Pay Administration Records). Personal information that the agency deems to be potentially derogatory or embarrassing, is shredded when retention period expires. System manager(s) and address: Director, Resources Management Division, Policy Development and Resources Management, Office of Inspector General, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250&hyph;2307. Notification procedure: Any individual may request information regarding this system of records, or information as to whether the system contains records pertaining to him/her from the Director, Information Management Division, Policy Development and Resources Management, Office of Inspector General, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250&hyph;2309. Record access procedures: An individual may request access to a record in this system which pertains to him/her by submitting a written request to the Director, Information Management Division, Policy Development and Resources Management, Office of Inspector General, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250&hyph;2309. Contesting record procedures: An individual may contest information in this system which pertains to him/her by submitting a written request to the Assistant Inspector General for Policy Development and Resources Management, Office of Inspector General, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250&hyph;2310. Record source categories: The primary information is furnished by the individual employee. Additional information is provided by supervisors, coworkers, references, and others. USDA/OIG&hyph;2 System name: Informant and Undercover Agent Records, USDA/OIG. System location: In the OIG headquarters office in the Agriculture Administration Building, 14th Street and Independence Avenue SW, Washington, DC 20250&hyph;2317, and in the OIG regional offices and Investigations suboffices listed in the system of records designated USDA/OIG&hyph;1. Categories of individuals covered by the system: Confidential informants, investigative operatives, and undercover OIG special agents or other law enforcement personnel. Categories of records in the system: Names, occupations, criminal histories, and other information about confidential informants and investigative operatives, together with allegations against them, and the types of information previously furnished by or to be expected from them. Types, dates of issuance and destruction, and details of false identification documents used by OIG special agents and other law enforcement personnel for undercover activities. Authority for maintenance of the system: Pub. L. 95&hyph;452, as amended, 5 U.S.C. APP.; 5 U.S.C. 301; 7 U.S.C. 2270. Routine uses of records maintained in the system, including categories of users and the purposes of such uses: Routine uses (1) through (12) listed in the system of records designated USDA/OIG&hyph;1. Policies and practices for storing, retrieving, accessing, retaining, and disposing of records in the system: Storage: Stored on sheets of paper and index cards, and in file folders and computers.
