FR941222-1-00039 FR941222-1-00008 To estimate the concentration of constituents at the hypothetical residential well, the Agency attempted to use the MULTIMED model to simulate the subsurface attenuation and dilution of the surface impoundment leachate. However, there are limitations of the MULTIMED model that preclude its use in this analysis. These include the large volume of leachate estimated to be released from the surface impoundment and a conservative approach to predict the horizontal transport of the leachate within the aquifer. This resulted in an infiltration rate that is so high that it overwhelms the aquifer and dilution was not expected. Therefore, to evaluate risk for those wastewaters that the Agency is proposing to list, the Agency assumed for this proposal that a dilution and attenuation factor (DAF) of 100 is achievable during migration to the nearest drinking water well. The Agency's toxicity characteristic (TC) rule (55 FR 11798, 1990) adopts a DAF of 100 to estimate the subsurface fate and transport between an unlined landfill and a receptor drinking water well. For purposes of the risk analyses, the concentrations in the residential wells near the on-site disposal facility were estimated to be equal to 0.01 times the concentrations measured in the wastewater. The residents using this well are assumed on average to consume 1.4 L/day or 2L/day of contaminated water for an exposure duration of 9 years or 30 years. The Agency believes that it is more reasonable to use the TC rule approach to support a proposed determination to list, rather than developing a model more sophisticated than the MULTIMED model because the Agency believes a more sophisticated analysis would suggest greater estimated risks than the analysis using a DAF of 100 for the following reasons. First, the DAF of 100 was derived for the TC rule for a range of municipal landfill leachate volumes that are generally lower than leachate volumes from surface impoundments. Surface impoundment DAFs are expected to be lower (and risks subsequently higher) compared to landfill DAFs as a result of both the liquid in the impoundment and subsequent increase in hydraulic head. Second, in the TC analysis, the location of the receptor well was varied anywhere within the extent of the contaminant plume. For listing determinations, the Agency generally assumes that the well is located on the centerline of the plume. This assumption would lead to a lower DAF and higher risks. Thus, because the use of the TC DAF of 100 underestimates risk, use of the TC to estimate risk can support a proposal to list. A more sophisticated model would show only higher risk numbers. The wastewaters that the Agency proposes not to list were evaluated using MULTIMED and creating a bounding estimate. The Agency believes that it is reasonable to use the MULTIMED model to support this proposed determination not to list certain wastewaters because it overestimates risks. Ecological Risks In addition to evaluating the risk to human health, the analysis also estimates risks to fish and wildlife from exposure to dye and pigment wastes. The concentrations of contaminants of concern in water bodies near dye and pigment waste facilities were estimated using the indirect exposure methodology and a few high-end input parameters. As a screening analysis, the estimated surface-water concentrations were compared with the National Ambient Water Quality Criteria (NAWQC), or LC 50 values for bluegill and/or rainbow trout if NAWQC were not available. The risks to terrestrial and avian species were evaluated by comparing the waste concentration with the oral rat LD 50 , dermal rabbit LD 50 , any available avian LD 50 values, and if available, a Lowest Observed Adverse Effects Level (LOAEL). Aniline from the manufacture of triarylmethane pigment using aniline as a reactant was the only compound identified as a potential risk to the aquatic or terrestrial environment by this method. Details of these analyses are presented in the Risk Assessment for Dye and Pigment Waste Listing Determination available in the public docket (see ADDRESSES section). The Agency requests comments on methodology used by the Agency in selecting plausible mismanagement scenarios and assessing risks and on the plausible management scenarios selected for the wastestreams generated from the manufacture of dyes and pigments.
