FR940426-1-00153 FR940426-1-00018 (ii) Where assignments are technically in such offices, such assignments actually are program activities not in any way involved in political functions. (5) No enrollee may be assigned to perform political activities in the offices of other elected officials. However, placement of enrollees in such nonpolitical assignments within the offices of such elected officials is permissible, provided that recipients develop safeguards to ensure that enrollees placed in these assignments are not involved in political activities. These safeguards shall be described in the grant agreement and shall be subject to review and monitoring by the recipient and the Department. (b) Hatch Act. (1) State and local employees governed by 5 U.S.C. chapter 15 shall comply with the Hatch Act provisions as interpreted and applied by the United States Office of Personnel Management (OPM). (2) Each project subject to 5 U.S.C. chapter 15 shall display a notice and shall make available to each person associated with such project a written explanation, clarifying the law with respect to allowable and unallowable political activities under 5 U.S.C. chapter 15 which are applicable to the project and each category of individuals associated with such project. This notice, which shall be submitted for approval to the Department, shall contain the telephone number and address of the DOL Inspector General. [Section 502(b)(1)(O).] Enforcement of the Hatch Act shall be as provided at 5 U.S.C. chapter 15. ยง641.322 Unionization. No funds provided under title V or this part may be used in any way to assist, promote, or deter union organizing. ยง641.323 Nepotism. (a) No recipient or subrecipient may hire, and no host agency may be a work site for a person, in an administrative capacity, staff position, or community service employment position funded under title V or this part if a member of that person's immediate family is engaged in a decision-making capacity (whether compensated or not) for that project, subproject, recipient, subrecipient or host agency. This provision may be waived by the Department at work sites on Native American reservations provided that adequate justification can be documented, such as that no other persons are eligible for participation, the total service population is 2,000 or less and is isolated, or where there is a history of dependence on public assistance. (b) To the extent that an applicable State or local legal requirement regarding nepotism is more restrictive than this provision, that requirement shall be followed. (c) For purposes of this section: (1) Immediate family means wife, husband, son, daughter, mother, father, brother, sister, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, mother-in-law, father-in-law, brother-in-law, sister-in-law, aunt, uncle, niece, nephew, stepparent, stepchild, grandparent, and grandchild. (2) Engaged in an administrative capacity includes those persons who, in the administration of projects, or host agencies, have responsibility for, or authority over, those with responsibility for the selection of enrollees from among eligible applicants. ยง641.324 Enrollee and applicant complaint resolution. (a) Each recipient shall establish and describe in the grant agreement procedures for resolving complaints, other than those described in paragraph (c) of this section, arising between the recipient and an enrollee. (b) Allegations of violations of federal law, other than those described in paragraph (c) of this section, which cannot be resolved within 60 days as a result of the recipient's procedures, may be filed with the Chief, Division of Older Worker Programs, Employment and Training Administration, U.S. Department of Labor, Washington, DC 20210. (c) Recipients that do not receive any funds under the JTPA shall process complaints of discrimination in accordance with title 29 CFR parts 31 and 32. Recipients that receive any funds under JTPA shall process complaints of discrimination in accordance with Title 29 CFR part 34. (d) Except for complaints described in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, the Department shall limit its review to determining whether the recipient's appeal procedures were followed. ยง641.325 Maintenance of effort. (a) Employment of an enrollee funded under title V or this part shall be only in addition to budgeted employment which would otherwise be funded by the recipient, subrecipient and the host agency(ies) without assistance under the Act. [Section 502(b)(1)(F).] (b) Each project funded under title V or this part: (1) Should result in an increase in employment opportunities in addition to those which would otherwise be available; (2) Shall not result in the displacement of currently employed workers, including partial displacement such as a reduction in hours of non-overtime work, wages, or employment benefits; (3) Shall not impair existing contracts for service or result in the substitution of Federal funds for other funds in connection with work that would otherwise be performed; (4) Shall not substitute project jobs for existing Federally-assisted jobs; and
