FR940106-2-00112 FR940106-2-00061 NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION [Docket No. 50&hyph;441] Cleveland Electric Illuminating Co., et al., Perry Nuclear Power Plant, Unit 2; Environmental Assessment and Finding of No Significant Impact The U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission (the Commission) is considering issuance of an extension to the latest construction completion date specified in Construction Permit No. CPPR&hyph;149 issued to The Cleveland Electric Illuminating Company, et al., for the Perry Nuclear Power Plant, Unit 2. The facility is located on the applicant's site in Lake County, Ohio, approximately 35 miles northeast of Cleveland, Ohio and approximately 7 miles northeast of Painesville, Ohio. Environmental Assessment Identification of Proposed Action The proposed action would extend the latest construction completion date of Construction Permit No. CPPR&hyph;149 to November 30, 2001. The proposed action is in response to the applicant's request of October 28, 1991, as supplemented on February 20, 1992. The Need for the Proposed Action The proposed action is needed because the construction of the facility is not yet completed and the licensee wants to maintain the facility as a potential electrical power source. Environmental Impact of the Proposed Action Since the proposed action involves extending the construction permit, there are no radiological impacts associated with this action. The impacts that are involved are all non-radiological and are associated with continued construction. The impact of construction was evaluated in the Final Environmental Statement for the Perry Nuclear Power Plant, Units 1 and 2 (NUREG&hyph;0844, dated August 1982). Based on the foregoing, the NRC staff concludes that the proposed extension of the construction permit would have no significant environmental impact. Alternatives Considered A possible alternative to the proposed action would be to deny the request. Under this alternative, the applicant would not be able to complete construction of the facility. This would result in denial of the potential benefit of the facility. This option would not eliminate the environmental impacts of construction already incurred. If construction were halted and not completed, site redress activities would restore some small areas to their natural state. This would be a slight environmental benefit, but much outweighed by the economic losses from denial of the use of the facility, if completed. Therefore, this alternative is rejected. Another alternative is to take no action on the request for extension. The construction permit would not be deemed to have expired until the application has been finally processed (10 CFR 2.109). In effect, the construction permit could be in effect as long as no action was taken on a timely application for an extension. To take no action on the applicant's request would not be responsive; therefore, this alternative is rejected. Alternative Use of Resources This action does not involve the use of resources other that those evaluated in the Final Environmental Statement, NUREG&hyph;0884, dated August 1982, prepared as part of the NRC staff's review of the construction permit application. Agencies and Persons Consulted The NRC staff reviewed the applicant's request and applicable documents referenced therein that support this extension. The NRC did not consult other agencies or persons. Finding of No Significant Impact The Commission has determined not to prepare an environmental impact statement for this action. Based upon the environmental assessment, we conclude that this action will not have a significant effect on the quality of the human environment. For details with respect to this action, see the request for extension of October 28, 1991, as supplemented on February 20, 1992, which is available for public inspection in the Commission's Public Document Room, the Gelman Building, 2120 L Street, NW., Washington, DC. 20555, and at the Local Public Document Room, located at the Perry Public Library, 3753 Main Street, Perry, Ohio 44081. Dated at Rockville, Maryland, this 29th day of December 1993. For the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. John N. Hannon, Director, Project Directorate III&hyph;3, Division of Reactor Projects III/IV/V, Office of Nuclear Reactor Regulation. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;251 Filed 1&hyph;5&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 7590&hyph;01&hyph;M
