FR940830-0-00072 FR940830-0-00013 CLPHA disagreed with the level of detail being proposed for the Five-Year Action Plan and for the P&E Report. They suggested that in the Five-Year Action Plan, references to quantities be eliminated and that the ``major work category'' along with a general description be considered acceptable. They acknowledged that PHAs must plan in detail, and HUD could require them to maintain documentation in their files to support the work activities proposed. CLPHA indicated that it would be desirable to keep the detail in the P&E statements no greater than in the Five-Year Action Plan. A further breakdown of work items in the P&E Report would be a heavy administrative burden for PHAs and contractors, and would be of questionable value and accuracy. For purposes of audits, HUD could reasonably require a PHA to keep detailed cost documentation in its files, to support any work items that HUD would like to examine more closely. They considered the Two-Year Application a better option for reducing paperwork and the burden of review. The HA supported the current level of detail required by the Annual Statement and Five-Year Action Plan versus the proposed Five-Year Action Plan with one level of detail. Several comments regarding the P&E Report were mentioned and responded to above. The level of detail was the greatest concern. One commenter noted that the proposed amendments will require them to develop the annual P&E Report in greater detail to cover a lack of detail in the Five-Year Action Plan. Generally, they had been moving from more detail in the Physical Needs Assessment to lesser detail in their Annual P&E Report. They wished to continue this practice. They also hoped that HUD would continue to allow HA's to develop facsimiles of required HUD forms for the CGP that work better with their housing stock while allowing them to work on the forms in spreadsheet format. To satisfy the proposed rule, one commenter thought it would have to keep two sets of records (one to prepare the limited detail of the Five-Year Action Plan and another to write the P&E Report). This change was found to not result in any real saving of time or effort for HUD. It may reduce by, at most, two months the up-front processing time reviewing HA submissions; however, HUD would still have to review each HA's P&E Report in detail for line-item eligibility. It was proposed that if it is beneficial for a HA to keep the current level of detail in its submitted plans and P&E Report, it should be able to do so. They suggested the following amendment: ``The Work Statement for all five years will be, at least, at the current level of detail so that the HA may interchange work items as discussed in ยง968.320(d)(5)(i).'' Adding any additional post-program review and evaluation was not found to be in the spirit of providing HAs with regulatory relief. The time saved up-front is not worth the additional time spent responding to audits later on. Commenters recommended combining the two processes (P&E Report and Annual Submission of Activities and Expenditures) into one. One HA also requested that HAs not be burdened with generating resident interest in the preparation of this report. Response: In order to permit full fungibility of work items in the Five-Year Action Plan, the level of detail with regard to work items must be consistent in all five years. HUD proposed limiting the level of detail up-front to reduce administrative burden to HAs. It was further proposed that HAs provide additional detail in the P&E Report for purposes of determining eligibility. However, after reviewing the comments, HUD agrees that the level of detail should be consistent in the Annual Statement, the Five-Year Action Plan and the P&E Report. Also, in keeping with HUD's commitment to simplify the CGP and provide maximum flexibility wherever possible, HUD has streamlined the level of detail that must be provided. The rule now requires HAs to specify major work categories, quantities and costs. For example, 100 kitchens at Development X for a total of $100,000. The level of detail for administrative and management improvement costs must be sufficient enough for HUD to make a determination of eligibility. HUD already may request additional information ( e.g., for eligibility determinations) to facilitate review and approval of the Annual Submission during the 75-day review period. HUD notes that HAs have the responsibility for ensuring that only eligible modernization work items are charged to the CGP. As previously noted, work items, including the purchase of equipment, must be directly related to carrying out physical and management improvements identified in the Needs Assessments. Such work must be modest in design and cost, but still blend in with the design and architecture of the surrounding community. HAs are advised to keep supporting documentation relative to work items within the major work category for monitoring and auditing purposes and such information must be made available to HUD upon request. HUD wishes to maintain a partnership with HAs throughout the CGP process and minimize concerns regarding the eligibility of work items. Eligible work items include those which are modest in design and cost, but still blend in with the design and architecture of the surrounding communities by including amenities, quality materials and design and landscaping features that are customary for the locality and culture. However, if a HA has a question on the possible eligibility of a work item, it should consult with the Field Office. Should a HA expend funds for ineligible work items, HUD will require repayment. HAs may develop facsimiles of required HUD forms as long as they contain all of the required information in a format that reasonably approximates the actual format.
