FR940613-2-00058 FR940613-2-00032 (1) Should a mutual institution be required, as a threshold issue, to demonstrate a need to convert_or is it sufficient that it provide an adequate business plan for the future? (2) In the absence of legislation, could and should the FDIC adopt guidelines or set standards for the distribution of the existing value of a converting institution, or could or should the matter be left entirely to the trustees? (3) Whether it is legislation or the FDIC or the board of trustees that sets standards, what should they be? Who should get some of the value, how much, and how specific should the rules be? (4) If depositors (or creditors or borrowers or employees) are to receive some of the value, how should it be allocated among them? Should amount of deposit or tenure of association be accorded more weight? Must depositors and debtholders be treated identically? What practical constraints exist, based on mutuals' information systems and resources? What should the record date be? (5) If charitable organizations or foundations are to receive a portion of the value, how should the suitability of the recipients be determined? Should there be a presumption that the trustees' selection of recipients is reasonable? Do there need to be rules to prevent abuse of such entities_ e.g. , through ``consulting contracts'' with trustees? Should such entities be required to sell at the time of conversion, or should they be permitted to diversify over time, in accordance with existing federal tax and banking laws? (6) Does ``pressure to convert'' from parties who would receive value if an institution did so represent a legitimate public policy concern? How great might that pressure be? How can trustees of institutions which have not elected to convert be protected from unreasonable litigation? (7) What potential problems (including tax issues and insider abuses) are there with the proposed new form of transaction, and how can they be avoided or alleviated? On the assumption that the market will gradually improve on any form of transaction, how specific does legislation or regulation need to be in that area? (8) Should converting institutions (including those doing merger conversions) be required or encouraged to obtain ``fairness opinions'' from independent financial advisors? Should the FDIC attempt to ``police'' the market judgements involved in the process in any way? (9) Should new mutual holding company creations be permitted? If not, how should existing ones be regulated? By the order of the Board of Directors. Dated at Washington, D.C., this 31 day of May, 1994. Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. Robert E. Feldman, Acting Executive Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;14006 Filed 6&hyph;10&hyph;94; 8:45am] BILLING CODE 6714&hyph;01&hyph;P
