FR940426-2-00012 FR940426-2-00004 (b) Increase in the industry's foreign market share. Applicant should provide quantifiable estimates of expected project results, along with detailed explanations, for (1)a and (1)b above. (2) Anticipated (a) Increase in the number of U.S. companies operating in the market(s) selected (multiplier effect); and/or (b) Increase in the number of current companies in the market undertaking new export initiatives. Applicant should provide quantifiable estimates of expected project results for either (2)a or (2)b above, or for both where proposed project increases are anticipated. (3) Export potential of the good(s) and/or service(s) to be promoted. (4) Willingness and ability of the applicant to back up promotional activities with aggressive marketing and after-sales service and probability that the project can be continued on a self-sustained basis after the completion of the award. (5) Intent and capability of the applicant to enlist the participation of small and medium size American companies in consortia and activities that are to be part of the proposed project; (6) Size of the cash portion of the applicant's funding for the proposed project and institutional capacity of the applicant to carry out the work plan; (7) Creativity and innovation displayed by the work plan while at the same time being realistic; and (8) Reasonableness of the itemized budget for project activities. Evaluation criteria 1&hyph;3 are of utmost importance in the selection process and will be worth 60 out of a possible 100 points as follows: Criterion # 1_maximum 20 points. Criterion # 2_maximum 20 points. Criterion # 3_maximum 20 points. Evaluation criteria 4&hyph;8 together will be worth a total of 40 points. Evaluation criteria 4&hyph;8 will be weighed equally. Selection Procedures Each application will receive an independent, objective review by a panel qualified to evaluate the applications submitted under the program. The Review Panel, consisting of at least three people, will review all applications based on the criteria stated above. The Review Panel will identify and rank the top ten proposals and make recommendations to the Assistant Secretary for Trade Development concerning which of the ten should receive awards. The Assistant Secretary for Trade Development will make the final selection regarding the funding of applications from the group of ten identified by the Review Panel. Other Requirements (1) Federal Policies and Procedures Recipients and subrecipients are subject to all Federal laws and Federal and DOC policies, regulations, and procedures applicable to Federal financial assistance awards. (2) Past Performance Unsatisfactory performance under prior Federal awards may result in an application not being considered for funding. (3) Preaward Activities If applicants incur any costs prior to an award being made, they do so solely at their own risk of not being reimbursed by the Government. Notwithstanding any verbal or written assurance that they may have received, there is no obligation on the part of the Department of Commerce to cover preaward costs. (4) No Obligation for Future Funding If an application is selected for funding, the Department of Commerce has no obligation to provide any additional future funding in connection with that award. Renewal of an award to increase funding or extend the period of performance is at the total discretion of the Department of Commerce.
