FR940817-2-00157 FR940817-2-00080 7. For investments in the Funds on behalf of Client Plans subsequent to the transfer of the CIF assets to the Funds where the assets involved were not previously invested in any CIFs, M&I currently offsets its investment management or advisory fees for assets invested in the Funds in accordance with one of the methods for offsetting double investment advisory fees described in Prohibited Transaction Exemption 77&hyph;4 (PTE 77&hyph;4, 42 FR 18732, April 8, 1977). 20 Consequently, the applicant represents that the fee structure for these investments complies with the fee structure under PTE 77&hyph;4, and that the other conditions of PTE 77&hyph;4 are met. 21 However, for Client Plan investments in the Funds with respect to assets that were previously held in the CIFs prior to the investment of such assets in the Funds, M&I uses the fee structure (the Fee Structure) described below. M&I anticipates using the Fee Structure for future Client Plan investments in the Funds where the assets involved were not previously invested in the CIFs if the Second Fiduciary for the Client Plan elects to use the Fee Structure in lieu of the offset or credit methods prescribed by PTE 77&hyph;4. M&I states that the Fee Structure preserves a Client Plan's existing fee rates for investment management services by M&I when such Plan invests in the Funds or when such Plan's assets are transferred from the CIFs to the Funds. The Fee Structure is described as follows: 20 PTE 77&hyph;4, in pertinent part, permits the purchase and sale by an employee benefit plan of shares of a registered, open-end investment company when a fiduciary with respect to the plan is also the investment adviser for the investment company, provided that, among other things, the plan does not pay an investment management, investment advisory or similar fee with respect to the plan assets invested in such shares for the entire period of such investment. Section II(c) of PTE 77&hyph;4 states that this condition does not preclude the payment of investment advisory fees by the investment company under the terms of an investment advisory agreement adopted in accordance with section 15 of the Investment Company Act of 1940. Section II(c) states further that this condition does not preclude payment of an investment advisory fee by the plan based on total plan assets from which a credit has been subtracted representing the plan's pro rata share of investment advisory fees paid by the investment company. 21 The Department is expressing no opinion in this proposed exemption regarding whether any transactions with the Funds under the circumstances described herein would be covered by PTE 77&hyph;4. (a) M&I charges its standard fees to all the Client Plans for serving as a trustee, directed trustee, investment manager, or custodian for the Client Plans. 22 All fees are billed on a quarterly basis. The annual charges for a Client Plan account are based on fee schedules negotiated with M&I. For example, if the fee is unbundled, the standard charge by M&I to a Client Plan for serving as a trustee with solely custodial responsibilities varies from 17.5 basis points for account assets under $5 million to 5 basis points for account assets over $75 million, subject to a base annual charge of $1,500 and additional charges for specific services. Where M&I serves as investment manager to a Client Plan account, depending on the type of portfolio, the charge may vary from 30 basis points up to 80 basis points. This charge is separate from, and would be in addition to, the fee for custodial services described above. M&I provides services to the Client Plans for which it acts as a trustee with investment discretion, including sweep services for uninvested cash balances in such Plans, under a bundled or single fee arrangement which is calculated as a percentage of the market value of the Plan assets under management. Thus, in such instances, there are no separate charges for the provision of particular services to the Client Plans. However, for Client Plans where investment decisions are directed by a Second Fiduciary, a separate charge is assessed for particular services, including sweep services, where the Second Fiduciary specifically agrees to have M&I provide such services to the Client Plan. 23 M&I states that in many cases fees charged by M&I to a Client Plan are paid by the Client Plan sponsor rather than by the Client Plan. 22 The applicant represents that all fees paid by Client Plans directly to M&I for services performed by M&I are exempt from the prohibited transaction provisions of the Act by reason of section 408(b)(2) of the Act and the regulations thereunder (see 29 CFR 2550.408b&hyph;2). The Department notes that to the extent there are prohibited transactions under the Act as a result of services provided by M&I directly to the Client Plans which are not covered by section 408(b)(2), no relief is being proposed herein for such transactions. 23 See DOL Letter dated August 1, 1986 to Robert S. Plotkin, Assistant Director, Division of Banking Supervision and Regulation, Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, stating the Department's views regarding the application of the prohibited transaction provisions of the Act to sweep services provided to plans by fiduciary banks and the potential applicability of certain statutory exemptions as described therein. (b) M&I Management charges the Funds for its services to the Funds as investment adviser, in accordance with the Agreements between M&I and the Funds. Under the Agreements, M&I Management charges fees at a different rate for each Fund, computed based on the average daily net assets for the respective Fund. The fee differentials among the Funds result from the particular level of services rendered by M&I Management to the Funds.
