FR941213-0-00069 FR941213-0-00016 6. In the Fifth Report and Order, the Commission chose to divide broadband PCS licenses into three groups and to hold a simultaneous multiple round auction for the licenses in each group. The license group to be auctioned first consisted of blocks A and B, each with 30 MHz of spectrum and MTA geographic scope. The next group consisted of blocks C and F (the entrepreneurs' blocks), which have been reserved for bidding by smaller entrepreneurial firms. The group to be auctioned last consisted of blocks D and E, with 10 MHz of spectrum each and BTA geographic scope. 6 We concluded that in order to promote efficient license allocation, highly interdependent licenses should be grouped together and put up for bid at the same time in a multiple round auction. Doing so, we concluded, would provide bidders information about the prices of complementary and substitutable licenses while such licenses were still up for bid, and thus would facilitate awarding licenses to the bidders who value them most highly. Nevertheless, we noted that the cost and complexity of auctioning a very large number of interdependent licenses simultaneously might outweigh the informational and bidding flexibility advantages. 7 In the Fourth Memorandum Opinion and Order we reaffirmed our decision concerning the sequence of auctions. 8 6 Id. at ¶36. 7 Id. 8 Fourth Memorandum Opinion and Order at ¶29. 7. We now believe that we may wish to hold two separate auctions for the C and F block licenses. 9 In light of our experience with the narrowband auctions, we are concerned that auctioning simultaneously the 986 licenses in the two entrepreneurs' blocks may create excessive administrative complexity for the Commission and for bidders, particularly when neither will have had experience with more than 99 licenses in a single auction. In addition, we have found that as we gain experience with license auctions we identify certain modifications that are necessary to improve the efficiency and administration of the auction process. We may wish to benefit from such experience in administering the highly complex designated entity provisions that apply to competitive bidding for licenses on the C and F blocks. Further, it appears now that few, if any, potential applicants have any interest in aggregating block C and block F licenses, so that the interdependence between license values in the two blocks may be less than we initially believed. Consequently, we reserve the discretion to hold two separate simultaneous multiple round auctions for the entrepreneurs' block licenses, one auction for block C and one for block F. We will announce by Public Notice in advance of the application deadline whether one or two entrepreneurs' block auctions will be held and the date of those auctions. 9 Potential bidders or their representatives have requested that the Commission auction the C and F blocks separately. See ex parte comments of the National Association of Black Owned Broadcasters, Inc., filed November 3, 1994 at 2; ex parte comments of North American Wireless, Inc., filed November 3, 1994 at 3&hyph;4; ex parte comments of National Association of Investment Companies, filed November 4, 1994 at 7. IV. Anti-Collusion Rules
