FR940513-0-00115 FR940513-0-00029 (4) Down payments. Within five (5) business days after an oral outcry auction is over, or within five (5) business days after being notified that it is the high bidder in a single round sealed bid auction, a high bidder on a particular license(s) must submit to the Commission's lockbox bank such additional funds as are necessary to bring total deposits (upfront payment plus down payment) up to twenty (20) percent of the high bid(s). Small businesses eligible and electing to use installment payments pursuant to ยง95.816(d)(3) are required to bring their total deposits up to ten (10) percent of their winning bid. The remainder of the twenty (20) percent down payment must be submitted within five (5) business days of the grant of their license(s). See 47 CFR 1.2107(b). (5) Full payment. Auction winners, except for small businesses eligible for installment payments, must pay the balance of their winning bids in a lump sum within five (5) business days following the grant of their license(s). The grant of a license(s) to an auction winner(s) will be conditioned on the timely payment of all monies due the Commission. See 47 CFR 1.2109(a). (6) Default or disqualification, see 47 CFR 1.2104(g). (i) Sequential oral auctions. If a high bidder, after signing a bid confirmation form, fails to make the required down payment, fails to pay for a license, or is otherwise disqualified, it will be assessed a penalty equal to the difference between its winning bid and the winning bid the next time the license is auctioned by the Commission, plus three (3) percent of the lower of these two amounts. (ii) Single round sealed bid auctions. If a high bidder withdraws its bid prior to making the required down payment, it will be assessed a penalty equal to the difference between its bid and the next highest bid. If a high bidder, after having made the required down payment for a license, fails to pay the remaining amount for the license, or is otherwise disqualified, it will be assessed a penalty equal to the difference between its winning bid and the winning bid the next time the license is auctioned by the Commission plus three (3) percent of the lower of these two amounts. (d) Designated entities. Designated entities are small businesses, and businesses owned by members of minority groups and/or women, as defined in 47 CFR 1.2110(b). (1) Bidding credits. A winning bidder that qualifies as a business owned by women and/or minorities may use a bidding credit of twenty-five (25) percent to lower the cost of its winning bid. A bidding credit is available for a license for either frequency segment A or frequency segment B in each service area. A bidding credit, however, may be applied to only one of the two licenses available in each service area. (2) Tax certificates. Any initial investor in a business owned by minorities and/or women and who provides ``start-up'' financing, which allows such business to acquire a IVDS license(s), and any investor who purchases ownership in an interest in a IVDS license owned by minorities and/or women within the first year after license issuance, which allows for the stabilization of the entity's capital base, may, upon the sale of such investment or interest, request from the Commission a tax certificate, so long as such investor transaction does not reduce minority or female ownership or control in the entity below 50.1 percent. Any IVDS licensee who assigns or transfers control of its license to a business owned by minorities and/or women may request that the Commission issue it a tax certificate. (3) Installment payments. Small businesses, including small businesses owned by women and/or minorities may elect to pay the full amount of their bid in installments over the term of their licenses. See 47 CFR 1.2110(d). (e) Unjust enrichment. Any business owned by minorities and/or women that obtains a IVDS license through the benefit of tax certificates shall not assign or transfer control of its license within one year of its license grant date. If the assignee or transferee is a business owned by minorities and/or women, this paragraph shall not apply; Provided, however, that the assignee or transferee shall not assign or transfer control of the license within one year of the grant date of the assignment or transfer. 9. Section 95.819 is revised to read as follows: ยง95.819 License transferability. (a) IVDS system licenses acquired through competitive bidding procedures may be transferred, assigned, sold, or given away only in accordance with the provisions and procedures set forth in 47 CFR 1.2111. (b) Except for licenses acquired through competitive bidding procedures, the licensees may not transfer, assign, sell, or give the IVDS system licenses or any component CTS licenses to any other entity until the five year construction benchmark (50 percent coverage) has been met. (c) Once the five year construction benchmark has been met, licensees of IVDS systems that were not acquired through competitive bidding may transfer, sell, assign, or give the IVDS system licenses together with all of its component CTS licenses to any other entity in accordance with the provisions of ยง95.821. If the licensee sells or gives away the apparatus the new owner must obtain a new IVDS system license and CTS licenses before placing it in operation. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;11779 Filed 5&hyph;12&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6712&hyph;01&hyph;M
