FR941230-1-00015 FR941230-1-00004 5. Exception for general public use. The proposed regulations provide more complete guidance, including certain bright line tests and numerous examples, for purposes of determining whether use is use as a member of the general public. These rules include a definition of general public use, guidance on the circumstances when general public use is insubstantial, special rules for system improvements, and guidance for facilities that are integrally related to other facilities. 6. De minimis exceptions. In order to simplify the application of the private business use test, the regulations provide that certain de minimis uses are disregarded. First, leases and similar arrangements that are not renewed or renewable and have terms of less than 1 year are generally disregarded. Second, certain temporary use by developers of property that will be sold to the general public is also disregarded in applying the private business use test. Third, as under Notice 87&hyph;69, both incidental uses of a financed facility and qualified improvements of a facility are disregarded. The proposed regulations revise the qualified improvement exception to simplify the application of these rules. E. Section 1.141&hyph;4␣Private security or payment test 1. General rules. Under the private business tests, a bond is a private activity bond only if the issue of which it is a part satisfies the private security or payment test of section 141(b)(2). The private security or payment test relates to the security for, and the source of the amounts used to pay, debt service on the bonds. 2. Application. The proposed regulations provide that the private security or payment test is applied by comparing the present value of the private payments and security to the present value of the debt service on the issue. Present values are computed using the yield on the issue as determined under the arbitrage regulations, with special rules provided for variable yield issues. The private security or payment test is generally met if more than 10 percent of the principal of and interest on the issue in the aggregate is to be secured or derived from certain property or payments described below. 3. Private payments. The private payments taken into account are payments, whether to the issuer or any related party, in respect of property or borrowed money to be used for a private business use. Generally, any payments made by persons that satisfy the private business use test are taken into account and the payments taken into account cannot exceed the corresponding proportion of proceeds used by that person. In addition, payments from persons that are not private business users are taken into account if those payments are made in respect of a private business use. For example, payments by the general public for use of a facility that is managed by a nongovernmental person under a management contract that is not a qualified management contract are taken into account as private payments. 4. Private security test. Private security includes any interest in property to be used for a private business use or payments in respect of property or borrowed money to be used for a private business use that secures principal of and interest on the issue. Unlike private payments, private security is taken into account if privately used property is the security for the bonds even if that property is not financed with the proceeds of the issue. 5. Exception for generally applicable taxes. The proposed regulations provide that generally applicable taxes are disregarded under the private security or payment test. Generally applicable taxes do not include special assessment or payments for a special privilege granted or service rendered. Generally applicable taxes must have a general manner of determination and collection. The regulations provide guidance on whether this requirement is satisfied if the taxpayer makes special arrangements with respect to the tax (for example, agreements to be personally liable for a tax). 6. Waste remediation bonds. The proposed regulations incorporate the guidance in Notice 89&hyph;9, relating to bonds issued to finance certain hazardous waste clean-up activities. F. Section 1.141&hyph;5␣Private loan financing test 1. General rules. Under the private loan financing test, a bond is a private activity bond if issued as part of an issue more than 5 percent of the proceeds of which (or $5 million, if less) are used to make loans to nongovernmental persons. As with the private business tests, both direct and indirect uses of proceeds are taken into account.
