FR940511-1-00085 FR940511-1-00013 D. Basis for Listing Determinations Decisions 1. Waste Specific Risk Analyses Risk analyses were performed on eleven individual waste streams. The models selected for individual mismanagement scenarios are described in the individual sections which follow. a. Wastes From Production of Bromochloromethane/Dibromomethane _i. Solids. Dibromomethane is a low-volume product with limited commercial applications; therefore, it is unlikely that other firms will enter the marketplace. The only solid wastes generated from the production of dibromomethane are spent filters used to remove rust and other particulate matter from the product. About two drums of the material are generated per year. As a result, the Agency feels the quantity is de minimis. The filters are changed yearly and the spent filter material is sent to a Subtitle C incinerator. The waste is generated in small quantities and is mixed with other halogenated solids prior to incineration at the Subtitle C facility. As a result, the Agency believes that although the waste generated from the production of dibromomethane contains toxic constituents, it does not pose a threat to human health and the environment because of the small quantities generated and current management practices. The Agency is proposing a no-list decision. ii. Wastewaters. Dibromomethane and bromochloromethane are manufactured as co-products at only one facility in the U.S., which has an approved no-migration petition for its deep well injection unit. The approved petition means that the waste will not migrate from the formation into which it is being injected and will therefore not pose risk sufficient to warrant listing. b. Wastes From the Production of Ethyl Bromide_ i. Solids. Ethyl bromide is manufactured in low volumes at only one facility. The only solid waste stream consists of spent filter materials used to remove impurities from the product. This waste contains about 90,000 parts per million ethyl bromide and is generated in quantities of 6 drums per year which is sent to Subtitle C facilities for treatment and disposal. High dilution with other wastes placed in the landfill would reduce leachate concentration levels to below those for reasonable concern. The Agency feels that although the waste does contain toxic constituents, based on the production history of this chemical, it is unlikely that other firms will enter the market and that, because of the minimal waste quantities generated and the current waste management practice, there is no need for a specific listing of the filters. ii. Wastewaters. The wastewater stream is condensate water containing only small amounts of ethanol as a contaminant. This wastestream contains no other contaminants of concern and is managed by deepwell injection. Prior to injection, the ethanol-containing stream is mixed with wastewaters from other processes and the resulting mixed stream thus is diluted by a factor of over 1,000. As a result, the Agency believes that the ethanol content of the combined stream poses little to no risk to human health or the environment, and proposes not to list this wastestream.
