FR940916-0-00012 FR940916-0-00004 Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service 9 CFR Part 78 [Docket No. 94&hyph;009&hyph;2] Brucellosis in Cattle; State and Area Classifications; California AGENCY: Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service, USDA. ACTION: Interim rule and request for comments. SUMMARY: We are amending the brucellosis regulations concerning the interstate movement of cattle by changing the classification of California from Class Free to Class A. We have determined that California no longer meets the standards for Class Free status. This action imposes certain restrictions on the interstate movement of cattle from California. DATES: Interim rule effective September 16, 1994. Consideration will be given only to comments received on or before November 15, 1994. ADDRESSES: Please send an original and three copies of your comments to Chief, Regulatory Analysis and Development, PPD, APHIS, USDA, room 804, Federal Building, 6505 Belcrest Road, Hyattsville, MD 20782. Please state that your comments refer to Docket No. 94&hyph;009&hyph;2. Comments received may be inspected at USDA, room 1141, South Building, 14th Street and Independence Avenue SW., Washington, DC, between 8 a.m. and 4:30 p.m., Monday through Friday, except holidays. Persons wishing to inspect comments are requested to call ahead on (202) 690&hyph;2817 to facilitate entry into the comment reading room. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Dr. Michael J. Gilsdorf, Senior Staff Veterinarian, Cattle Diseases and Surveillance Staff, Veterinary Services, APHIS, USDA, room 729, Federal Building, 6505 Belcrest Road, Hyattsville, MD 20782, (301) 436&hyph;4918. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background Brucellosis is a contagious disease affecting animals and man, caused by bacteria of the genus Brucella. The brucellosis regulations, contained in 9 CFR part 78 (referred to below as the regulations), provide a system for classifying States or portions of States according to the rate of Brucella infection present, and the general effectiveness of a brucellosis control and eradication program. The classifications are Class Free, Class A, Class B, and Class C. States or areas that do not meet the minimum standards for Class C are required to be placed under Federal quarantine. The brucellosis Class Free classification is based on a finding of no known brucellosis in cattle for the 12 months preceding classification as Class Free. The Class C classification is for States or areas with the highest rate of brucellosis. Class B and Class A fall between these two extremes. Restrictions on moving cattle interstate become less stringent as a State approaches or achieves Class Free status. The standards for the different classifications of States or areas entail: (1) Maintaining a cattle herd infection rate not to exceed a stated level during 12 consecutive months; (2) tracing back and successfully closing (investigating and resolving) a certain percentage of cases of brucellosis infection detected by the Market Cattle Identification (MCI) program, a program of testing at stockyards, farms, ranches, and slaughter establishments; (3) maintaining a surveillance system that includes testing of dairy herds, participation of all recognized slaughtering establishments in the MCI program, identification and monitoring of herds at high risk of infection (including herds adjacent to infected herds and herds from which infected animals have been sold or received), and having an individual herd plan in effect within a stated number of days after the herd owner is notified of the finding of brucellosis in a herd he or she owns; and (4) maintaining minimum procedural standards for administering the program. Because of its herd infection rate, California was classified as a Class Free State on April 4, 1994, in an interim rule published in the Federal Register (59 FR 15612&hyph;15613, Docket No. 94&hyph;009&hyph;1); there had been no known brucellosis in cattle in California for 12 consecutive months. Since then, however, two cattle herds in California have been found to be infected with brucellosis. To attain and maintain Class A status, a State or area must: (1) Not exceed a cattle herd infection rate, due to field strain Brucella abortus, of 0.25 percent or 2.5 herds per 1,000 based on the number of reactors found within the State during any 12 consecutive months, except in States with 10,000 or fewer herds; (2) trace to the farm of origin 90 percent of all brucellosis reactors found in the course of MCI testing; (3) successfully close at least 95 percent of the MCI reactor cases traced to the farm of origin during the 12-consecutive-month period immediately prior to the most recent anniversary of the date the State or area was classified Class A; and (4) have a specified surveillance system, as described above, including an approved individual herd plan in effect within 15 days of locating the source herd or recipient herd. After reviewing California's brucellosis program records, we have concluded that California meets the standards for Class A status. Therefore, we are removing California from the list of Class Free States or areas in ยง78.41(a) and adding it to the list of Class A States or areas in ยง78.41(b). This action will place certain restrictions on the interstate movement of cattle from California. Immediate Action The Administrator of the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service has determined that there is good cause for publishing this interim rule without prior opportunity for public comment. Immediate action is warranted to prevent the interstate spread of brucellosis. Because prior notice and other public procedures with respect to this action are impracticable and contrary to the public interest under these conditions, we find good cause under 5 U.S.C. 553 to make it effective upon publication in the Federal Register . We will consider comments that are received within 60 days of publication of this rule in the Federal Register . After the comment period closes, we will publish another document in the Federal Register . It will include a discussion of any comments we receive and any amendments we are making to the rule as a result of the comments. Executive Order 12866 and Regulatory Flexibility Act This interim rule has been reviewed under Executive Order 12866. For this action, the Office of Management and Budget has waived its review process required by Executive Order 12866. Cattle moved interstate are moved for slaughter, for use as breeding stock, or for feeding. Changing the brucellosis status of California from Class Free to Class A increases testing requirements governing the interstate movement of cattle. However, testing requirements for cattle moved interstate for immediate slaughter or to quarantined feedlots are not affected by this change. Cattle from certified brucellosis-free herds moving interstate are not affected by this change. The groups affected by this action will be herd owners in California, as well as buyers and importers of cattle from the State. There are an estimated 28,000 cattle herds in California that would be affected by this rule. Ninety-eight percent of these are owned by small entities. Most of these herds are not certified brucellosis-free. Test-eligible cattle offered for sale from other than certified brucellosis-free herds must have a negative test under Class A status regulations, but not under regulations concerning Class Free status. This testing costs approximately $3.25 per head. If such testing were distributed equally among all herds affected by this rule, the change to Class A status would cost approximately $16 per herd. Therefore, we believe that changing the brucellosis status of California to Class A would not have a significant economic impact on the small entities affected by this interim rule. Under these circumstances, the Administrator of the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service has determined that this action will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities.
