FR940721-2-00167 FR940721-2-00086 •Clearly indicate Tribal Government, as appropriate, and the community's active involvement demonstrating continuing participation of Native American speakers; •Are measurable and/or quantifiable in terms of results and outcomes; •Clearly relate to the community's long-range language goals which the project addresses; •Can be accomplished with available or expected resources during the proposed project period; •Indicate when the objective, and major activities under each objective will be accomplished; •Specify who will conduct the activities under each objective; and •Support a project that will be completed, self-sustaining, or financed by other than ANA funds at the end of the project period. (4) Evaluation plan. (15 points). The proposed objectives will result in specific, measurable outcomes to be achieved that will clearly contribute to the completion of the overall project and will help the applicant meet its goal to ensure the survival and continuing vitality of the Native American language(s) addressed. A detailed evaluation plan is provided to measure project outcomes, including, but not limited to, a demonstration of effective language growth (e.g., increase of ``language use''). (5) Replication plan and product preservation plan. (10 points). (a) Identify opportunities for the replication of the project or the modification of the project for use by other Native Americans, if appropriate. If replication is not appropriate, applicant must provide reasons why replication is inappropriate. (b) Describe the plan for the preservation of the products of the Native American languages project for the benefit of future generations of Native Americans and other interested persons. (6) Organizational capabilities/qualifications and budget. (15 points). (a) The management and administrative structure of the applicant is explained. Evidence of the applicant's ability to manage a project of the proposed scope is well defined. The application clearly demonstrates the successful management of projects of similar scope by the organization and/or by the individuals designated to manage the project. (b) Position descriptions or resumes of key personnel, including those of consultants, are presented. The position descriptions and resumes relate specifically to the staff proposed in the Approach Page and in the proposed Budget of the application. Position descriptions clearly describe the position and its duties and clearly relate to the personnel staffing required for implementation of the project activities. Either the position descriptions or the resumes contain the qualifications, and/or specialized skills, necessary for overall quality management of the project. Note: Applicants are strongly encouraged to give preference to Native Americans in hiring staff and subcontracting services under an approved ANA grant. (c) There is detailed budget provided for each budget period requested which is fully explained. It justifies each line item in the budget categories in Section B of the Budget Information of the application, including the applicant's non-Federal share and its source. (Applicants from the Native American Pacific Islands are exempt from the non-Federal share requirement.) Sufficient cost and other necessary details are included and explained to facilitate the determination of cost allowability and the relevance of these costs to the proposed project. The funds requested are appropriate and necessary for the scope of the project. G. Application Due Date The closing date for submission of applications under this competitive area is March 17, 1995. H. For Further Information Contact Dr. Gerald Gipp (202) 690&hyph;6662 or Ginny Gorman (202) 401&hyph;7260, Department of Health and Human Services, Administration for Children and Families, Administration for Native Americans, 200 Independence Ave., S.W., Room 348&hyph;F, Washington, D.C. 20201&hyph;0001. PART III_GENERAL APPLICATION INFORMATION AND GUIDANCE A. Definitions Funding areas in this program announcement are based on the following definitions: •A multi-purpose community-based Native American organization is an association and/or corporation whose charter specifies that the community designates the Board of Directors and/or officers of the organization through an elective procedure and that the organization functions in several different areas of concern to the members of the local Native American community. These areas are specified in the by-laws and/or policies adopted by the organization. They may include, but need not be limited to, economic, artistic, cultural, and recreational activities, and the delivery of human services such as health care, day care, counseling, education, and training. •A multi-year project is a project on a single theme that requires more than 12 months to complete and affords the applicant an opportunity to develop and address more complex and in-depth strategies than can be completed in one year. A multi-year project cannot be a series of unrelated objectives with activities presented in chronological order over a two or three year period. • Core administration is funding for staff salaries for those functions which support the organization as a whole, or for purposes unrelated to the actual management or implementation of work conducted under an ANA approved project.
