FR941019-1-00031 FR941019-1-00004 In 1976, these proposed rules were withdrawn by the Commission in response to opposition from commenters. 11 In withdrawing the proposals, the Commission stated its hope that forward-looking information and the need for a safe harbor would be among those issues considered by the newly formed Advisory Committee on Corporate Disclosure. 12 11 See Securities Act Release No. 5699 (Apr. 23, 1976). 12 See id . At the same time, the Commission expressed initial approval of new Division of Corporation Finance guides designed to encourage the inclusion of projections in Commission filings. These guides called for: (1) A good faith assessment of the reliability of the projection; (2) a reasonable basis for that assessment; (3) outside review of the projections; (4) the use of reasonable ranges; (5) the use of a reasonable period of projection; (6) the inclusion of assumptions on which the projection is based; (7) the inclusion of cautionary language; and (8) disclosure of the accuracy of the issuer's prior projections. The Commission authorized issuance of substantially similar final guides in Securities Act Release No. 5992 (Nov. 7, 1978). 3. Advisory Committee Report The Advisory Committee on Corporate Disclosure was formed in 1976 to evaluate certain of the Division of Corporation Finance's disclosure policies_among them the Division's policy on disclosure of forward-looking information. 13 On November 3, 1977, the Advisory Committee submitted its report to the Commission. 14 13 See Exchange Act Release No. 12454 (May 18, 1976). 14 Advisory Committee Report, supra note 2. In the course of its deliberations, the Advisory Committee had sought input from all interested persons on the costs and benefits of forward-looking information. 15 The Advisory Committee recommended in its report that the Commission act to encourage forward-looking disclosures, and made several specific recommendations regarding the form and substance of proposed Commission action. 15 Id.; see also Exchange Act Release No. 12454 (May 18, 1976) (noting public meetings held by the Advisory Committee and case studies to be conducted by the Advisory Committee of thirty public companies, financial analysts and investment decision makers). First, in recognition that the Commission needed experience with projections disclosure in order to evaluate the wisdom of establishing a regulatory framework for such disclosure, the Committee stated that its recommendations were intended to encourage projections on an experimental basis. Such voluntary disclosure would enable the Commission to assess both the usefulness of the information to investors, and the costs to issuers of providing that information. 16 If forward-looking information disclosures ultimately were found to be beneficial to investors, the Committee believed that market forces, rather than a Commission mandate, would operate effectively to compel issuers to make such disclosures. 17 16 Advisory Committee Report, supra note 2, at 353. 17 Id. at 354. Second, the Committee recommended that the Commission adopt a safe harbor that would protect forward-looking statements made in good faith and with a reasonable basis, regardless of whether those statements were included in documents filed with the Commission. The Committee recommended that the burden be placed on the person seeking to establish antifraud liability for the forward-looking statement to show a lack of good faith or reasonable basis. 18 18 Id. at 344. Third, the Committee opined that a safe harbor should be available to all registrants, regardless of size and reporting history. It also recommended that companies be required to publish cautionary language along with the projection, to indicate clearly the nature of the projection and caution investors against ascribing undue weight thereto. 19 The Committee believed that disclosure of assumptions should be encouraged, but not required. 20 Further, the Committee concluded that companies should be encouraged, but not required, to compare actual results with earlier projections and to explain any significant variance. 19 See id. 20 Although the Committee recognized the value of assumptions, it opted against requiring disclosure of assumptions for two reasons: (a) because of the experimental nature of the program, the Committee apparently concluded that fewer mandatory disclosure items were appropriate; and (b) in order to encourage as many issuers to use the safe harbor rule as possible, the Committee wanted to keep the rule simple and thus facilitate compliance. Id. While the Committee recommended that companies be reminded of their obligations to keep a published projection from becoming misleading in light of subsequent events, it urged that no formal requirement to update projections be imposed. In the Committee's view, companies should be permitted either to discontinue making projections or to resume such projections after discontinuation, but should not do so without a reasonable basis. The Committee had a different view of mandatory disclosure and updating in connection with forward-looking information disseminated during the Securities Act registration process. Specifically, the Committee expressed its opinion that ``the Commission should require companies to include such current projections covering the current period in their registration statements (updated as necessary) filed under the Securities Act.'' 21 21 Id. at 361. With respect to the type of information that should be disclosed, the Committee believed that companies should have the flexibility to choose which items to disclose, but should not be permitted to disclose only ``favorable'' items. Finally, the Committee recommended that the Commission permit third-party review of projections, provided that the third-party reviewer's credentials, extent of review, and relationship with the issuer were disclosed. 22 22 The Committee believed that any such reviewer should be deemed an expert and should file an appropriate consent with the registration statement. Id. 4. Adoption of Safe Harbor Provision In response to the Advisory Committee Report, the Commission announced in early 1978 that the Committee's recommended safe harbor rule would receive formal Commission consideration, along with any alternatives the Commission deemed appropriate. 23 Later that year, the Commission issued for public comment two versions of a safe harbor rule for forward-looking information: the Advisory Committee version, in the same form as the Committee had proposed, and another version formulated by the Commission. 24 23 Securities Act Release No. 5906 (Feb. 15, 1978). 24 See Securities Act Release No. 5993 (Nov. 7, 1978). As set forth in the Commission's proposing release, the differences between the two proposals, as well as the questions asked and comments requested, reflected the Commission's reservations with respect to certain aspects of the Advisory Committee proposal. First, the Commission was particularly concerned that the burden of proving a lack of reasonable basis, which the Committee recommended be imposed on the plaintiff, ``could be insurmountable.'' 25 The Commission therefore proposed an alternative rule that would have placed the burden on the defendant to prove that a challenged projection was made in good faith and with a reasonable basis. 25 Id.
