FR941205-0-00010 FR941205-0-00002 b. Qualifications and Training of Asylum Officers (8 CFR 208.1(b)) Comments: Two comments suggested that both immigration judges and asylum officers receive special training in international human rights law, conditions in countries of origin, and other relevant national and international refugee laws. One comment observed that the current rule that provides for extensive training of asylum officers has improved their decision-making, and reasoned that the same requirement would have a similar effect on the decisions of immigration judges. Response and Disposition: The Department provides extensive initial training and continuing education to immigration judges that includes training related to asylum adjudications. The Department will continue to work to improve such training programs. However, the Department does not consider it necessary that there be specific regulatory requirements regarding the training of immigration judges. 6. Form of Application (Section 208.3) a. Required Copies of Forms (8 CFR 208.3(a)) Proposed Rule: Section 208.3(a) of the proposed rule stated that the applicant file three copies of any supporting documentation and one completed fingerprint card (Form FD&hyph;258) for all individuals ages 14 years and older who are included on the application. Comments: One comment stated that it is not clear whether two or three copies of the application are required, and another questioned the reason for requiring three copies of supporting documentation. Response and Disposition: The final rule has been clarified to make clear that the I&hyph;589 and supporting documents, plus two copies, are required. Three copies of supporting documentation are required because one copy is retained by the INS in the applicant's alien registration file, one copy is forwarded to the Department of State under 8 CFR 208.4(a), and, if the application is not granted by the asylum officer, a copy of the application with all supporting documents is forwarded to the immigration judge under the referral process described in 8 CFR 208.14(b). This provision of the proposed rule has been amended to clarify that the original and two copies of the application are required. b. Use of Information in Application (8 CFR 208.3(c)(2)) Proposed Rule: Section 208.3(c)(2) of the proposed rule stated that information provided in an asylum application may be used to satisfy the Government's burden of proof in establishing deportability under section 242 of the Act, 8 U.S.C. 1252. Comment: One comment asserted that the proposed rule should state that the information in the asylum application may not satisfy the clear, convincing, and unequivocal standard of evidence for deportability. Response and Disposition: The Department believes that an alien's written admission of alienage and of having no lawful status in the United States is sufficient to satisfy the standard of evidence for establishing deportability. Consequently, the new asylum application will contain a clear warning that the application may be used to establish deportability. This part of the final rule will not be applied retroactively and will affect only those persons who make an application on the new form after the effective date of this rule. Accordingly, this provision of the proposed rule will be adopted without amendment in the final rule.
