FR941110-2-00111 FR941110-2-00064 Parties seeking to file responsive applications must do so no later than February 8, 1995. Responsive applications include inconsistent applications, petitions for inclusion, or any other affirmative relief that requires an application to be filed with the Commission (such as trackage rights, purchase, purchase of a portion, acquisition, extension, construction, operation, pooling, terminal operations, abandonment, etc.). Parties should contact Chris Oehrle (202) 927&hyph;6288 to obtain docket numbers for their responsive applications. Petitions for waiver or clarification by responsive applicants shall be filed no later than December 27, 1994. Each responsive application filed and accepted will be consolidated with the primary application in this proceeding. 5 5 In addition to submitting an original and 20 copies of all documents filed with the Commission, the parties are encouraged to submit all pleadings and attachments as computer data contained on a 3.5-inch floppy diskette which is formatted for WordPerfect 5.1 (or formatted so that it can be converted by WordPerfect 5.1). The computer data contained on the computer diskettes submitted are subject to the protective order attached to the Commission's decision served July 15, 1994, and are for the exclusive use of Commission employees working directly with review of substantive matters in this proceeding. The flexibility provided by such computer file data will facilitate expedited review by the Commission and its staff. Discovery may begin immediately. The Commission will not tolerate dilatory tactics in response to discovery requests designed to elicit relevant evidence. A refusal voluntarily to supply information will be treated as an objection to the request for discovery. Responses must be served upon all parties of record, and five copies of those responses must be concurrently filed with the Commission. We plan to conclude the evidentiary phase of this proceeding by January 2, 1996. The initial decision will be waived, and the determination of the merits of the application(s) will be made in the first instance by the entire Commission under 49 U.S.C. 11345. Any traffic studies and data submitted in opposition to the primary application must use calendar year 1993 data and, where relevant, use depreciation accounting, in order to be comparable with the evidence submitted by applicants. Evidence supporting protestants' responsive applications must use 1993 as the base year and the depreciation accounting system, and applicants' evidence in opposition to the responsive applications must use 1993 and depreciation accounting. We advise protestants that, if they seek to have the primary application denied, or seek conditions if approved, because they contend their ability to provide essential service and/or competition will be harmed, they must present substantial evidence in support of their positions. See Lamoille Valley R.R. Co. v. ICC, 711 F.2d 295 (D.C. Cir. 1983). This action will not significantly affect either the quality of the human environment or the conservation of energy resources. It is ordered: 1. The application in Finance Docket No. 32549 is accepted for consideration. 2. The parties shall comply with all provisions as stated above. 3. Applicants are directed to provide the Commission's Office of Compliance and Enforcement with a current complete set of employee operating timetables for both BN and Santa Fe within 30 days of the effective date of this decision. 4. Applicants are directed to provide copies of any agreement concerning use of property operated by WUTR within 10 days of the effective date of this decision. 5. Applicants are directed to provide the following information within 10 days of the effective date of this decision: a. Identify the owners of HBT and their respective ownership percentages. b. Identify any railroads dependent on HBT in order to interchange with other carriers (specify which carriers) or to connect their own lines through the city. Explain each dependent circumstance. c. Explain whether the agreement or agreements governing the use of the property held or owned by HBT could adversely affect any other owners of HBT in the event of consolidation. Provide copies of any agreement concerning use of that property. 6. This decision is effective on November 10, 1994. Decided: November 3, 1994. By the Commission, Chairman McDonald, Vice Chairman Phillips, and Commissioners Simmons, Morgan, and Owen. Vice Chairman Phillips recused herself in this proceeding. Vernon A. Williams, Secretary.
