FR940919-0-00115 FR940919-0-00016 This section provides results for the air pathway, for the baseline and post-regulatory scenarios. It should be noted that the high end scenario models hypothetical receptors. Approximately 26 of the 35 modeled facilities (74 percent) have individual cancer risks exceeding 10 ^6 for the high end scenario in the baseline. For the high end scenario, the non-cancer risk ratio exceeds one at one facility. In the post-regulatory scenario, individual cancer risk is lowered considerably, indicating that at most of the facilities risk is driven by TC constituents. In the high end scenario, eight facility(s) have risks exceeding 10 ^6 . Doses of all non-carcinogens are well below reference doses. For the population risk estimates, the Agency determined that the central tendency incremental benefits are approximately 0.037. For the incremental benefits of today's rule, the Agency performed a sensitivity analysis, described in the RIA background document, which examines the risk implications of changing volatilization rates under different assumptions of landfill cover and frequency of waste placement. There are a number of limitations to the air pathway analysis. Facilities which were modeled in the analysis were assumed to continue to dispose of treated waste on-site, which, for some facilities, may not be the case. In addition, due to limitations in the model employed, wastes were assumed to be disposed of only one time per year. A sensitivity analysis was conducted and is included in the RIA Background Document, which examines the effect on the emissions rate from this assumption. Finally, only wastestreams with all the necessary information were analyzed. This limitation could have the effect of either under- or overestimating the risks from the air pathway. B. Regulatory Flexibility Analysis Pursuant to the Regulatory Flexibility Act of 1980, 5 U.S.C. 601 et seq. , when an agency publishes a notice of rulemaking, for a rule that will have a significant effect on a substantial number of small entities, the agency must prepare and make available for public comment a regulatory flexibility analysis that considers the effect of the rule on small entities (i.e.: small businesses, small organizations, and small governmental jurisdictions). Under the Agency's Revised Guidelines for Implementing The Regulatory Flexibility Act, dated May 4, 1992, the Agency committed to considering regulatory alternatives in rulemakings when there were any economic impacts estimated on any small entities. Previous guidance required regulatory alternatives to be examined only when significant economic effects were estimated on a substantial number of small entities. In assessing the regulatory approach for dealing with small entities in today's final rule, for both surface disposal of wastes and underground injection control, the Agency considered two factors. First, data on potentially affected small entities are unavailable. Second, due to the statutory requirements of the RCRA LDR program, no legal avenues exist for the Agency to provide relief from the LDR's for small entities. The only relief available for small entities is the existing small quantity generator provisions and conditionally exempt small quantity generator exemptions found in 40 CFR 262.11&hyph;12, and 261.5, respectively. These exemptions basically prescribe 100 kilograms (kg) per calendar month generation of hazardous waste as the limit below which one is exempted from complying with the RCRA standards. Given these two factors, the Agency was unable to frame a series of small entity options from which to select the lowest cost approach; rather, the Agency was legally bound to regulate the land disposal of the hazardous wastes covered in today's rule without regard to the size of the entity being regulated. C. Paperwork Reduction Act The information collection requirements in this rule have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) under the Paperwork Reduction Act, 44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq . and have been assigned control number 2050&hyph;0085. This rule will reduce the average reporting burden an estimated 0.75 hours per response, due to decreased paperwork requirements. Send comments regarding the burden estimate or any other aspect of this collection of information, including suggestions for reducing this burden to Chief, Information Policy Branch; EPA; 401 M St., S.W. (Mail Code 2138); Washington, DC 20460; and to the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, Office of Management and Budget, Washington, DC 20503, marked ``Attention: Desk Officer for EPA.''
