FR941006-0-00041 FR941006-0-00012 §806.4 FOIA requests. (a) Under FOIA, members of the public, including foreign citizens, military and civilian personnel acting as private citizens, organizations and businesses, and individual members of the Congress, for themselves or constituents, may request records in writing. Federal agencies or fugitives from the law cannot make FOIA requests. (b) Requesters should not use Government equipment, supplies, stationery, postage, telephones, or official mail channels to make FOIA requests. FOIA managers will process such requests and tell requesters that using government resources to make FOIA requests is not an authorized official use. §806.5 Submitting FOIA requests. Submit written requests that reasonably describe the desired records and include a statement on fees. Address letters to the FOIA office of the activity that has the record. List other addressees to save time. §806.6 Processing requests under FOIA and Privacy Act (PA). Process requests under the Act that gives the most information. If the requester cites both Acts, address each in the reply. §806.7 Describing records. The requester is responsible for identifying the desired record. He or she should sufficiently describe the record to help locate it with a reasonable amount of effort. Generally a reasonable description contains enough information for an organized, nonrandom search. Offices must make reasonable efforts to find the records described. This means searching all activities and locations most likely to have the records, including staged or retired records. If the description is unclear, ask for more specific information. When possible, tell the requester what information would help. §806.8 Creating a record. (a) The Air Force is not required to create, compile, or obtain a record from outside the Air Force to fulfill a request. You may want to create a new record when it would be a more useful response to the requester or is less burdensome for the agency than providing an existing record and the requester agrees. Do not charge the requester more for creating a record than you would charge for the existing record. (b) Apply a standard of reasonableness for electronic data when there is a question on whether you are creating, programming, or formatting a record. If you can respond with a ``business as usual'' approach, process the request, otherwise offer the requester appeal rights. §806.9 Special disclosure procedures. Some instructions have disclosure procedures for certain types of records. Refer to those instructions for specific disclosure procedures when you process FOIA requests. The only reason to deny a request is a FOIA exemption. (a) Process FOIA requests from foreign citizens, foreign governments, their representatives, or international commands under this part, and coordinate with your foreign disclosure office. If the command has no foreign disclosure office, refer the request to SAF/AAIS (FOIA) for SAF/IAD coordination through the MAJCOM FOIA office. (b) If requests from foreign government officials do not cite the FOIA, refer them to your foreign disclosure office and notify the requester.
