FR940124-1-00037 FR940124-1-00007 For the reasons stated above, EPA cannot further analyze the economic impacts of this action on small entities. The statements in this package constitute EPA's full regulatory flexibility analysis. C. Reporting and Recordkeeping Requirements This rule does not contain any information collection requirements which require OMB approval under the Paperwork Reduction Act (44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq. ). Should the highway sanctions become effective, the Secretary of the U.S. Department of Transportation (USDOT) is required to determine which projects or grants should not be affected by the sanction and which, therefore, are exempt. This determination will be based on information readily available in existing documentation gathered for the purpose of evaluating the environmental, social, and economic impacts of different alternatives for transportation projects. These analyses are already required for the preparation of environmental assessments and impact statements under the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA). Historically, exemption determinations by USDOT for sanctions have been based on such NEPA documentation and have not necessitated additional information gathering and analysis by the states. In addition, since under NEPA, final environmental documents must be approved by USDOT, in most cases the NEPA documentation will already be in USDOT's possession. Therefore, USEPA does not believe that the highway sanctions, when applied, will impose an additional information collection burden on the states. When the offset sanction applies, sources subject to it will not incur an additional information collection burden because sources are already required under section 173 offset requirements to obtain an emission offset from between 1 to 1 and 1.5 to 1 (depending on the classification of the nonattainment area in which they are located). Should the offset sanction apply, if would not impose an additional information collection burden because sources will not have to provide additional information in the application beyond that which they would already have to provide in the absence of the sanction. (For the information collection burden of new requirements of the amended Act for nonattainment new source review (NSR) and prevention of significant deterioration, an information collection request is being prepared to support rulemaking changes to parts 51 and 52.) List of Subjects in 40 CFR Part 52 Environmental protection, Air pollution control, Carbon monoxide, Motor vehicle pollution, Nitrogen oxide, Volatile organic compounds. Dated: January 7, 1994. Carol M. Browner, Administrator.
