FR941003-2-00090 FR941003-2-00049 (b) Naval Academy, Naval Postgraduate School, and Naval War College. (1) Professors, instructors, and teachers; the Director of Academic Planning, Naval Postgraduate School; and the librarian, organist-choirmaster, registrar, the dean of admissions, and social counselors at the Naval Academy. (c) Chief of Naval Operations. (1) One position at grade GS&hyph;12 or above that will provide technical, managerial, or administrative support on highly classified functions to the Deputy Chief of Naval Operations (Plans, Policy, and Operations). (d) Military Sealift Command. (1) All positions on vessels operated by the Military Sealift Command. (e) Pacific Missile Range Facility, Barking Sands, Hawaii. (1) All positions. This authority applies only to positions that must be filled pending final decision on contracting of Facility operations. No new appointments may be made under this authority after July 29, 1988. (f) (Reserved). (g) Office of Naval Research. (1) Not to exceed five positions of Liaison Scientists, GS&hyph;13/15, in the Naval Research Branch Office in Japan, when filled by research scientists who have specialized experience in scientific disciplines of current interest to the Department and who have a demonstrated ability to deal with the Japanese scientific community in their disciplines. An appointment under this authority may be made initially for a period of not to exceed 2 years. With the prior approval of OPM, total employment under this authority may be for as long as 3 years. Section 213.3109␣Department of the Air Force (a) Office of the Secretary. (1) One Special Assistant in the Office of the Secretary of the Air Force. This position has advisory rather than operating duties except as operating or administrative responsibilities may be exercised in connection with the pilot studies. (b) General. (1) Professional, technical, managerial and administrative positions supporting space activities, when approved by the Secretary of the Air Force. (2) Seventy positions engaged in interdepartmental defense projects involving scientific and technical evaluations. (c) Not to exceed 20 professional positions, GS&hyph;11 through GS&hyph;15, in Detachments 6 and 51, SM&hyph;ALC, Norton and McClellan Air Force Bases, California, which will provide logistic support management to specialized research and development projects. (d) U.S. Air Force Academy, Colorado. (1) Positions of Cadet Hostesses, Instructors in Physical Education, Instructors in Music (choirmasters), one Training Instructor (Parachuting), one Training Instructor (Code of Conduct and Evasion), and two Physical Therapists (Athletic Trainers). (2) Positions of professor, associate professor, assistant professor, and instructor, in the Dean of Faculty, Commandant of Cadets, and Director of Athletics organizations of the United States Air Force Academy. (e) Not to exceed five positions, GS&hyph;12 through GS&hyph;15, in the Specialized Management Office (WR&hyph;ALC/QL) at Robins Air Force Base, Georgia, which will provide logistic support management staff guidance for highly sensitive and high priority programs and projects. Employment under this authority is not to exceed May 30, 1988. (f) Air Force Office of Special Investigations. (1) Not to exceed 250 positions of Criminal Investigators/Intelligence Research Specialists, GS&hyph;5 through GS&hyph;15. (g) Not to exceed eight positions, GS&hyph;12 through 15, in Headquarters Air Force Logistics Command, DCS Material Management, Office of Special Activities, Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, Ohio, which will provide logistic support management staff guidance to classified research and development projects. (h) Air University, Maxwell Air Force Base, Alabama. (1) Positions of professor, instructor, or lecturer. (i) Air Force Institute of Technology, Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, Ohio. (1) Civilian deans and professors. (j) Air Force Logistics Command. (1) One Supervisory Logistics Management Specialist, GM&hyph;346&hyph;14, in Detachment 2, 2762 Logistics Management Squadron (Special), Greenville, Texas. (k) One position of Supervisory Logistics Management Specialist, GS&hyph;346&hyph;15, in the 2762nd Logistics Squadron (Special), at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, Ohio. (l) One position of Commander, Air National Guard Readiness Center, Andrews Air Force Base, Maryland.
