FR940217-1-00095 FR940217-1-00014 (ii) The servicer shall have an audit performed at least once every year. (iii) Notwithstanding paragraph (c)(3)(ii) of this section, the servicer shall have an audit performed at least once every two years if_ (A) The servicer administers less than $1,000,000 under the Title IV, HEA programs for the period covered by the audit; or (B) The servicer had no material exceptions identified in the servicer's most recently submitted audit report and that report was submitted in a timely fashion. (iv) The servicer is not required to have an audit performed for any year in which the servicer administers less than $250,000 under the Title IV, HEA programs. (v) The servicer's first audit must cover the servicer's activities for its first full fiscal year beginning after July 1, 1994, and include any period from that date to the beginning of the first full fiscal year. Each subsequent audit that the servicer has performed must cover the servicer's activities for the entire period of time since the servicer's preceding audit. (vi) Notwithstanding paragraph (c)(3)(iii) of this section, the Secretary may, as the Secretary deems necessary, request any third-party servicer to have an audit performed on an annual basis. (4) *␣*␣* (iii) The servicer shall submit its audit to the Department of Education's Inspector General in accordance with the deadlines established in audit guides developed by the Department of Education's Office of Inspector General. (5)(i) An institution or third-party servicer that has an audit conducted in accordance with this section shall_ (A) Give the Secretary and the Inspector General access to records or other documents necessary to review the audit; and (B) Include in any arrangement with an individual or firm conducting an audit described in this section a requirement that the individual or firm shall give the Secretary and the Inspector General access to records or other documents necessary to review the audit. (ii) A third-party servicer shall give the Secretary and the Inspector General access to records or other documents necessary to review an institution's audit. (iii) An institution shall give the Secretary and the Inspector General access to records or other documents necessary to review a third-party servicer's audit. (6) The Secretary may require the institution or servicer to provide, upon request, to cognizant guaranty agencies and eligible lenders under the FFEL programs, State agencies, nationally recognized accrediting agencies, and State postsecondary review entities designated under Subpart 1 of part H of Title IV of the HEA, the results of any audit conducted under this section. * * * * * (e) Upon written request, an institution or third-party servicer shall give the Secretary access to all Title IV, HEA program and fiscal records, including records reflecting transactions with any financial institution with which the institution or servicer deposits or has deposited any Title IV, HEA program funds. * * * * * (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1088, 1094, 1099c, 1141 and section 4 of Pub. L. 95&hyph;452, 92 Stat. 1101&hyph;1109) 8. Section 668.24 is revised to read as follows: §668.24 Audit exceptions and repayments. (a)(1) If, as a result of a Federal audit or an audit performed at the direction of an institution or third-party servicer, an expenditure made by the institution or servicer or the institution's or servicer's compliance with an applicable requirement (including the lack of proper documentation), is questioned, the Secretary notifies the institution or servicer of the questioned expenditure or compliance. (2) If the institution or servicer believes that the questioned expenditure or compliance was proper, the institution or servicer shall notify the Secretary in writing of the institution's or servicer's position and the reasons for that position. (3) The institution's or servicer's response must be certified as to accuracy and completeness by an independent auditor in accordance with the general standards and the standards for audits in the U.S. General Accounting Office's (GAO's) Standards for Audit of Governmental Organizations, Programs, Activities, and Functions and must be received by the Secretary within 45 days of the date of the Secretary's notification to the institution or servicer. (b)(1) Based on the audit finding and the institution's or third-party servicer's response, the Secretary determines the amount of liability, if any, owed by the institution or servicer and instructs the institution or servicer as to the manner of repayment. (2) If the Secretary determines that a third-party servicer owes a liability for its administration of an institution's Title IV, HEA programs, the servicer shall notify each institution under whose contract the servicer owes a liability of the determination. The servicer shall also notify every institution that contracts with the servicer for the same service that the Secretary determined that a liability was owed. (c)(1) An institution or third-party servicer that must repay funds under the procedures in this section shall repay those funds at the direction of the Secretary within 45 days of the date of the Secretary's notification, unless_ (i) The institution or servicer files an appeal under the procedures established in subpart H of this part; or (ii) The Secretary permits a longer repayment period. (2) Notwithstanding paragraphs (b) and (c)(1) of this section_
