FR940526-0-00052 FR940526-0-00021 NMFS believes this final rule meets the intent of the Council regarding anchoring in the HAPC, to the extent allowable under the Magnuson Act. Comment: Two fishermen stated that anchoring in the HAPC should not be prohibited because of safety reasons. Response: NMFS agrees; this final rule merely establishes a rebuttable presumption that a vessel fishing while at anchor in the HAPC is fishing for snapper-grouper. Comment: One fisherman stated that the HAPC coordinates were not published in the public hearing draft of Amendment 6; therefore, no one knew where the area was proposed to be situated. He concluded that this resulted in reduced public comment during public hearings. Response: The coordinates of the HAPC were published on page 25 of the public hearing draft under Action 9. Figure 3 of the same document showed the location of the HAPC, including major cities in the immediate area. Each participant at the public hearings received a copy of Figure 3. Final Amendment 6 and the proposed rule provide similar information. Moreover, the coordinates of the HAPC have been established in Federal regulations since July 23, 1984 (50 CFR 638.22(c)). Appendix E (Summary of Public Comments) in Amendment 6 shows that five comments favored closing the HAPC to fishing, while seven comments opposed it. The above information indicates that the public had adequate notice concerning the location of the HAPC during the public hearing and proposed rule stages. Comment: One fisherman stated that a plan for scientific study of fish stocks in the HAPC was lacking and this was a violation of the Magnuson Act. Response: Basic research needs are listed and updated periodically for each fishery management plan in the southeastern United States. In addition, NMFS and Council staff prepare annual research plans for each fishery management plan. Research pertaining to the HAPC will be addressed by the NMFS Science and Research Director and incorporated into the annual research plans. NMFS must present the results of the research to the Council no later than the end of the year 2000. Finally, sections III. B. and III. C. of FMP Amendment 4 also specifically provide for fishery data collection and periodic scientific assessment of the condition of managed snapper and grouper stocks; these particular FMP provisions fulfill sections 303(a) (3) and (5) of the Magnuson Act requiring the evaluation of the condition of fish stocks. In summary, the Council and NMFS are meeting research needs indicated in this instance and are in compliance with the Magnuson Act. Comment: Two commercial fishermen opposed the quotas for snowy grouper and golden tilefish because they believed that the quotas would discriminate against fishermen with smaller vessels, especially those that fished in the Florida Keys. A representative of a commercial fishing organization opposed the quotas because he felt they were not needed. Response: Both snowy grouper and golden tilefish are overfished. Therefore, regulatory guidelines require stock rebuilding programs. The Council and NMFS believe that fishing pressure must be reduced to rebuild these species. The use of commercial quotas is an acceptable and traditional method to reduce fishing pressure. The Council has chosen to implement quota reductions over a 3-year period to minimize the economic impact upon commercial fishermen. Also, the Council recognizes that some snowy grouper and golden tilefish would likely be taken as bycatch by fishermen targeting other species. Consequently, the Council is reserving a portion of the annual snowy grouper and golden tilefish quotas as a bycatch allowance. Fishermen will be allowed a trip limit (allowance) of 300 pounds (lb) (136 kilograms (kg)) after initial quotas are reached. Since fishermen in the Florida Keys with smaller vessels rarely catch 300 lb (136 kg) of either species in a trip, their catches should not be affected by either quota. Comment: Two fishermen in the Florida Keys, who represented fishermen with smaller vessels, supported trip limits for snowy grouper and golden tilefish. A representative of a commercial fishing organization located in the Florida Keys did not think trip limits would adversely affect the members of that organization. Response: NMFS agrees that the commercial trip limits for snowy grouper and golden tilefish, together with the bycatch allowance (300 lb (136 kg)) that applies after the fishing year quotas are filled, should not adversely affect fishermen with smaller vessels. Comment: Three commercial fishermen and a representative of a commercial fishing organization were opposed to the prohibition on sale of warsaw grouper and speckled hind. They stated that harvest of warsaw grouper and speckled hind is rare, and these species would not survive release because of the depth of capture. One of the fishermen stated that it would not be practical to donate these fish to a charitable organization. The representative of the commercial fishing organization stated that the prohibition on sale would create confusion in the market and result in law enforcement difficulties.
