FR940119-1-00003 FR940119-1-00001 Background Under section 6(d)(4) of the Food Stamp Act of 1977, as amended (7 U.S.C. 2015(d)(4)), State agencies are required to operate the Food Stamp Employment and Training (E&T) program. The purpose of the E&T program is to place able-bodied food stamp recipients in educational or work-related activities that will increase their chances of obtaining regular employment, and thus, reduce their need for public assistance. Food stamp recipients who are required to register for work as specified under section 6(d)(4) of the Food Stamp Act are expected, if assigned, to participate in an E&T component as a condition of eligibility for receiving food stamps. Work registrants who refuse or fail to comply with an assigned E&T activity or component are ineligible to receive benefits for two months or until they comply with the assigned activity, whichever comes first. The Food Stamp Act provides State agencies flexibility in operating their E&T programs. To meet the needs of their work registrant populations, the State agencies have discretion in determining which components will be offered to E&T participants and in targeting services toward certain work registrants. However, to avoid fiscal sanction, State agencies must meet performance standards specified under 7 CFR 273.7(o). In Fiscal Years (FYs) 1990 and 1991, the State agencies were required to place at least 50 percent of their mandatory E&T participants into E&T components. In FY 1992 performance standards were lowered to 10 percent in response to section 907(b) of Public Law 102&hyph;237. For the purpose of determining each State agency's performance level, a person is considered ``placed'' in a component each time they begin a component or fail to comply with an assigned activity and are sent a Notice of Adverse Action (NOAA). The performance formula also includes participants who are exempt from work registration but elect to participate in the E&T program (i.e., volunteers). State agencies may, but are not required to, serve volunteers. Federal Funding for E&T Programs Section 16(h), 7 U.S.C. 2025(h) of the Food Stamp Act authorizes the Secretary to distribute $75 million each year in unmatched Federal funds to State agencies to operate their E&T programs. The State agencies may also receive Federal matching funds for administrative costs above the initial Federal E&T grant. The Federal and State governments equally share the costs for transportation or dependent care reimbursements that are provided to E&T participants. Currently, participants must receive monthly reimbursements of up to $25 for transportation and other expenses related E&T to E&T participation. Public Law 103&hyph;66 removes the monthly cap on dependent care expenses effective September 1, 1994. Participants may be reimbursed for actual expenses incurred, not to exceed the applicable local market rate for the services. As specified under section 16(h)(1)(C) of the Food Stamp Act, $60 million of the Federal E&T grant_the nonperformance based portion_is distributed on the basis of each State agency's work registrant population as a percent of the total work registrant population nationwide. Pursuant to Section 16(h)(1)(B), the remaining $15 million of the Federal E&T grant must be distributed on the basis of State agency performance. The Food Stamp Act does not address the methodology for distributing performance-based funds. The Department published final rules on June 9, 1989 (54 FR 24664) that specify how these funds are distributed. Under 7 CFR 273.7(d)(1)(i)(B), performance-based E&T funds are distributed on the basis of the number of people placed into E&T components. A person is considered placed for the purpose of distributing performance-based funds if the person is required to work register and (1) begins an E&T component; or (2) fails to comply with the E&T requirement and is sent a Notice of Adverse Action (NOAA) by the State agency. Volunteers are not included in the calculations for distributing performance-based funds. To be eligible to receive performance-based funds, the State agency must meet the performance standard as set forth under 7 CFR 273.7(o).
