FR941116-0-00051 FR941116-0-00011 A. Authority for Filing Requirements AOPL argues that the Commission's proposed cost-of-service rate filing requirements represents an improper attempt to modify the Interstate Commerce Act's (ICA) 9 rate filing scheme, ignores the mandate of the Act of 1992 to reduce regulatory burdens and costs through streamlined procedures, and imposes undue burdens on pipelines proposing cost-based rates. 10 AOPL asserts that a pipeline need only file a notice of a rate change, not the supporting documents underlying that rate change, unless its rates have been called into question. 11 9 49 App. U.S.C. 1 (1988). 10 AOPL, pp. 29&hyph;39. 11 AOPL, pp. 36&hyph;39. The Commission's filing requirements for oil pipeline rate changes fully comport with the Act of 1992 and the ICA. The Act of 1992 required the Commission to establish a simplified and generally applicable ratemaking methodology for oil pipelines in accordance with the just and reasonable standard of the ICA. Order No. 561 has done so by adopting an index method. Cost-based rates are a part of this scheme but are allowed a pipeline only as an alternative to indexing, and only if the pipeline can meet certain threshold conditions. Thus, the pipeline must demonstrate at the outset that it meets the substantial divergence test of Order No. 561_ i.e. , that there is a substantial divergence between the actual costs experienced by the pipeline and the rate resulting from application of the index such that rates at the indexed ceiling level would preclude the pipeline from charging a just and reasonable rate. 12 The threshold filing requirements for cost-of-service ratemaking adopted in this rule are the means that the Commission has decided are necessary for a pipeline to make a prima facia demonstration that it should be allowed to pursue the cost-of-service alternative as a means of establishing just and reasonable rates. The materials required to be filed with a cost-of-service optional filing thus are designed to address the threshold issue of whether there is such a substantial divergence as to warrant a cost-of-service filing. A mere notice of rate change alone would fail to show good cause for a pipeline's departure from indexing, or why it should be allowed to change its rates outside the basic indexing scheme. As to AOPL's claim that the cost-of-service filing requirements impose undue burdens, 13 a pipeline can always choose not to pursue this alternative to indexing and stay with rate changes under indexing. 12 18 CFR 342.4(a). 13 AOPL, p. 8. Contrary to AOPL's assertion, 14 the Commission is following the statutory scheme applicable to oil pipeline rate filings. If a pipeline desires to depart from the ordinary scheme of rate changes based on the index and seek rate changes based on its cost of service, it is up to the pipeline to meet the special circumstances of the rules, and it is reasonable for the Commission to require a threshold filing from the pipeline to demonstrate that it does. 15 14 AOPL, p. 36. 15 Section 12(1) of the ICA provides: ``The Commission is authorized and required to execute and enforce the provisions of this chapter.'' AOPL claims that the pipeline should not be required to establish an initial case for cost-based rates at the initial filing stage. 16 It claims that to require the pipeline to shoulder a burden of proof regarding cost-based rates prior to knowing whether the rate has been challenged is contrary to any notion of streamlining, and it argues that the pipeline should not be required to provide extensive threshold justification for each cost-based rate. 17 Further, AOPL asserts that the pipeline may choose some method other than the Opinion No. 154&hyph;B method to justify its cost-based rates, such as a stand-alone cost showing. 16 AOPL, pp. 36&hyph;39. 17 AOPL, p. 37. The Commission's cost-of-service filing requirements are not designed to provide information in sufficient detail for a pipeline to shoulder its burden of proof regarding cost-based rates if they are challenged. Rather, the burden is on the pipeline to demonstrate only that its rates at the index ceiling would substantially diverge from its actual costs to such an extent that the indexed ceiling rates would not be just and reasonable. If a pipeline's rates are challenged, it must demonstrate that the challenged rate, if based on cost, is just and reasonable, which may include an appropriate rate design and cost allocation to justify the rate. Additional information can be supplied by the pipeline to justify its challenged rates, including, if it chooses, a stand-alone cost showing. This, however, does not negate the importance of the initial showing that is required of the pipeline in order to justify departure from indexing.
