FR940603-1-00189 FR940603-1-00009 R1&hyph;30. This unit is identical with R1&hyph;10 except that the width is 30 feet (to be measured 15 feet on each side of the pole line). R1&hyph;40. This unit is identical with R1&hyph;10 except that width is 40 feet (to be measured 20 feet on each side of the pole line). RC1&hyph;10, RC1&hyph;20, RC1&hyph;30, RC1&hyph;40. These units are identical to the respective R1 units except that chemical treatment of stumps is required in addition to the clearing of underbrush, tree removal and tree trimming. Additional Requirements (When specifying R1 units denote type of disposal (A or B).) A. Trees, brush, branches and refuse shall, without delay, be disposed of by one of the following methods as the Engineer will direct (Engineer to strike out methods not to be used): 1. Burned 2. Piled on one side of right-of-way 3. Roller chopped and left on right-of-way in such a manner as not to obstruct roads, ditches, drains, etc. 4. Other (describe) XXXX B. Trees that are felled shall be cut to commercial wood lengths, stacked neatly, and left on the right-of-way for the landowner. Commercial wood length means the length designated by the Engineer but in no case shall it be required to be less than XXXX ( XXXX ) feet. Brush, branches, and refuse shall, without delay, be disposed of by such of the following methods as the Engineer will direct (Engineer to strike out methods not to be used): 1. Burned 2. Piled on one side of right-of-way 3. Roller chopped and left on right-of-way in such a manner as not to obstruct roads, ditches, drains, etc. 4. Other (describe) XXXX ␣ 1Unit No. 1Number of units 1Unit Price 2Labor 2Materials 2Labor and materials 1Extended price_labor and materials R Total, Section R_ XXXX Section UD_Underground Cable Assembly Units An underground cable assembly unit consists of 1,000 feet of cable for underground primaries, secondaries or services. It does not include the conduit, plowing, trenching and backfilling, or the termination of the primary cable which are provided for in other assembly units. It includes the termination, connection and sealing of secondary and service cables and conductors as shown in the specifications and construction drawings, and all primary, secondary and service cable splices (buried cable may be spliced only when and where permitted by the Owner 3 4 .) In computing the compensation to the Bidder for underground cable assembly units, only the distance between stakes, paralleling the cable shall be used. The number of units so computed will include all cable installed in place in all specified trenches, risers, conduits, crossings, manholes, transformers, terminal housings and meter boxes. 5 The conductor or cables listed are the manufacturer's designation of types, size, voltage rating and material. The Bidder and the Owner shall jointly perform cable acceptance tests on installed cable in accordance with the specifications using test equipment furnished by the XXXX . (Engineer to insert Owner or Bidder). 3 XXXX Engineer check here if primary splices are permitted. 4 XXXX Engineer check here if secondary and service splices are permitted. 5 XXXX Engineer check here if 12 feet of service conductor is to be left as a coil 3 feet from the building with ends capped instead of connection to meter box. ␣ 1Unit No. 1Number of units 1Unit price 2Labor 2Materials 2Labor and materials 1Extended price_labor and materials UD Total, Section UD_ XXXX Section UG_Underground Transformer Assembly Units An underground transformer assembly unit consists of the transformer, its housing, warning sign, switches, over-current protective devices, grounding loop, and hardware and leads with their connectors and supporting insulators installed in place. This unit includes the cable terminations but does not include lightning arresters, fault indicators, ground rods or trenching.
