FR940613-2-00055 FR940613-2-00032 This approach raises the question, `` Which organizations?''_which could be extremely hard to answer. As with the matter of dividing up the value in the first place, leaving the decision to the trustees places a burden on them. Nevertheless, under this approach, the trustees are the ones to decide. If no appropriate vehicles existed, a trust might be established to receive the transferred value and make grants over time. The responsibility for allocating funds is borne by thousands of trustees of colleges and hospitals and foundations and charities all over the country; there are plenty of examples to follow_and laws to prevent abuse. An alternative to endowing a new or existing charitable organization is for the converted institution to accept special obligations to serve the convenience and needs of the community for banking services. This is a very broad subject, which we are not prepared to explore exhaustively here. We would make three basic points, however. First, while all banks clearly have public obligations, it seems likely that imposing different burdens on institutions which are otherwise direct competitors will ultimately create safety and soundness concerns. For that reason alone we would oppose this approach. Second, the value transfer inherent in an institution's voluntary acceptance of a special obligation to the community_ e.g., a promise to make affordable housing loans, or to open branches in distressed neighborhoods_is difficult to measure against immediately cashable value delivered to depositors or others. We think it would be difficult for trustees to know what they'd actually done. Third, the history of mutual savings banks does suggest that organizations to which any portion of the value of a converting institution might be transferred should be locally focussed, and should have the encouragement of self-help as a major objective. To give only two of many possible examples, helping to capitalize a community development bank, or establishing a day care facility which permitted single mothers to work, would have satisfying historic resonance. No Entitlement; No Forced Conversion The idea that some of the value of a converting institution should be delivered to the ``community'' it was chartered to serve is as strongly opposed by some as it is supported by others. This is another excellent example of the political (rather than regulatory) character of the issue. At least two arguments against a ``community'' share have been advanced. The first is that the ``wrong'' charities and community organizations would be chosen_wrong from the speaker's point of view, that is_because of their skill and persistence in lobbying the board. The second is that such organizations, seeing latent wealth available, would put pressure on boards to convert. This second argument is also advanced, as it was in the early '70s, against giving depositors transferrable rights: if value is ``available,'' they will put pressure on institutions to convert. Being exempt from constituent ``pressure'' is unhealthy for any organization. Legislators have to face the voters. Independent agencies are subject to oversight. Stock organizations can be taken over. We do not believe that the trustees of mutuals should be allowed to ignore completely the views of those the institution exists to serve. Nevertheless, we would emphasize that however one decides the value-distribution issue, that does not answer the (misguided) question, ``Who owns a mutual?'' It does not, in our view, give anyone standing to demand that an institution convert_any more than a group of private citizens could demand that the Red Cross ``convert''! Conversion is a decision for the trustees, and until they make such a decision, the FDIC will not get involved_except where inadequate capital makes it desirable from a safety and soundness standpoint. Mutuality has a distinguished history in America. In the aggregate, mutuals have cost the FDIC proportionately less than have stock institutions. We would not endorse a system that compelled mutual institutions to change their character. New Form of Transaction Having adopted an answer to the question, ``Who gets the existing value?'', the problem of delivering that value is easier to address. We would suggest the following approach: •The trustees decide how much capital they need to raise as a business matter. (There is no ``appraisal'' process.) •The trustees hire underwriters to conduct an initial public offering_and an escrow agent for the purposes described below. •Rights to subscribe for the stock of the converted institution are distributed to ``rightholders'' in accordance with the principles outlined above. •Each of these rights will have value. For example, if a mutual with $100 million of net worth elected to raise $20 million, and distributed 4 million rights to buy 4 million shares (at $5 each), and the market valued the converted institution at 80% of resulting book (or $96 million), the shares would trade at $24 each, and the right to buy a share for $5 would be worth $19. •The rights would be ``transferrable'' only in the sense that, at the end of the subscription period, the escrow agent would exercise on behalf of any rightholder who had not done so, turn the stock over to the underwriter for sale, give $5/share of the proceeds to the company and send the difference to the rightholder.
