FR940711-0-00011 FR940711-0-00002 (ii) Informal meetings with an interview of the employee; or (iii) Formal written submissions with an opportunity for oral presentation. (3) Paper hearing. If the hearing official determines that an oral hearing is not necessary, he or she will make a determination based upon a review of the available written record (4 CFR 102.3(c) (2) and (3)). (4) Record. The hearing official must maintain a summary record of any hearing provided by this subpart (4 CFR 102.3(c)(1)(ii)). Witnesses who testify in oral hearings will do so under oath or affirmation. (h) Date of decision. The hearing official shall issue a written opinion stating his or her decision, based upon documentary evidence and information developed at the hearing, as soon as practicable after the hearing, but not later than 60 days after the date on which the petition was received by the creditor agency, unless the employee requests a delay in the proceedings. In such case the 60-day decision period shall be extended by the number of days by which the hearing was postponed. (i) Content of decision. The written decision shall include: (1) A statement of the facts presented to support the origin, nature, and amount of the debt; (2) The hearing official's findings, analysis, and conclusions including a determination whether the debtor's petition for hearing was baseless and resulted from an intent to delay creditor agency collection activity and whether the Office should pursue other actions against the debtor as provided by 5 CFR 550.1104(d)(11); and (3) The terms of any repayment schedules, if applicable. (j) Failure to appear. In the absence of good cause shown (e.g., illness), an employee who fails to appear at a hearing shall be deemed, for the purpose of this subpart, to admit the existence and amount of the debt as described in the notice of intent. If the representative of the creditor agency fails to appear, the hearing official shall proceed with the hearing as scheduled and make his/her determination based upon the oral testimony presented and the documentary evidence submitted by both parties. With the agreement of both parties, the hearing official shall schedule a new hearing date. Both parties shall be given reasonable notice of the time and place of the new hearing. ยง179.208 Certification. (a) OPM salary offset coordinator shall provide a certification to the paying agency in all cases where: (1) The hearing official determines that a debt exists; (2) The employee fails to contest the existence and amount of the debt by failing to request a hearing; or (3) The employee fails to contest the existence of the debt by failing to appear at a hearing. (b) The certification must be in writing and must state: (1) That the employee owes the debt; (2) The amount and basis of the debt; (3) The date the Government's right to collect the debt first accrued;
