FR941107-2-00205 FR941107-2-00109 FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Ernest E. Hairston, U.S. Department of Education, 600 Independence Avenue, S.W., Switzer Building, Room 4629, Washington, D.C. 20202&hyph;2731. Telephone: (202) 205&hyph;9172; Individuals who use a telecommunications devices for the deaf (TDD) may call (202) 205&hyph;8169; or the Federal Information Relay Service (FIRS) at 1&hyph;800&hyph;877&hyph;8339 between 8 a.m. and 8 p.m., Eastern time, Monday through Friday. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: This notice contains five priorities under the Educational Media Research, Production, Distribution, and Training Program authorized under Part F of the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA). The purposes of the program are to promote the general welfare of deaf and hard of hearing individuals and individuals with visual impairments, and to promote the educational advancement of individuals with disabilities. The priorities in this notice would ensure the continued availability of closed-captioned daytime television programming. In addition, the priorities would support activities that provide cultural experiences to enrich the lives of deaf and hard-of-hearing individuals, including children and youth, as well as adults. The priorities would provide educational reading materials and textbooks on audiotape to persons who are visually or print disabled. Additional priorities would support a captioned films and videos distribution system to provide hearing impaired and other qualified individuals with access to captioned educational and general interest films and videos on a nonprofit free loan basis, and video description of national television programming in order to make television more accessible to persons with visual impairments. This program supports the National Education Goals by assisting those with disabilities in school readiness and adult literacy. On July 28, 1994 the Secretary published a notice of proposed priorities in the Federal Register (59 FR 38516). Note: This notice of final priorities does not solicit applications. A notice inviting applications under these competitions is published in a separate notice in this issue of the Federal Register . Analysis of Comments and Changes In response to the Secretary's invitation in the notice of proposed priorities, seven parties submitted comments. An analysis of the comments and of changes in the priorities since publication of the notice of the proposed priorities follows. Technical and other minor changes_and suggested changes the Secretary is not legally authorized to make under applicable statutory authority_are not addressed. General Comment: Three commenters expressed general support for all of the proposed priorities. Two of the three had additional comments as follows under respective priorities. Proposed Absolute Priority 1_Closed-Captioned Daytime Television Programs Comment: One commenter suggested that the priority for Closed-Captioned Daytime Television Programs be modified to require by law that television networks caption all television programming. Discussion: Priorities cannot be used to impose mandates on third parties such as television networks. Changes: None. Comment: One commenter suggested that private sector support for daytime programming should be required while another commenter indicated that a targeted level of private sector funding should not be required for the first project year. Discussion: The Secretary cannot require private sector funding for captioning of television programming. However, projects are encouraged to seek any support that might become available. Changes: None. Comment: One commenter expressed a concern that the priority should be defined in such a way as to not give undue competitive advantage to nonprofit organizations. Discussion: The priority as written gives no competitive advantage to nonprofit organizations. Changes: None. Comment: One commenter indicated that significant weight should be given to consumer preference and how effectively that preference is measured.
