FR940921-0-00040 FR940921-0-00016 Today's rule allows gaseous-fueled vehicles to demonstrate compliance with emission standards through averaging, trading and banking in the same manner as vehicles operated on other fuels. Gaseous-fueled vehicles will be treated similarly to methanol-fueled vehicles with respect to the constraints of the various programs. For a more detailed discussion of how gaseous-fueled vehicles fit into these programs please consult the public docket for this rulemaking. 7 As explained above, in addition to new vehicles and engines, today's rule allows manufacturers to include in the averaging, trading and banking programs 1994 model year vehicles and engines manufactured before the rule's effective date, but identical to 1994 model year vehicles and engines manufactured after the effective date. 7 Public docket A&hyph;92&hyph;14, item III&hyph;B&hyph;2. Today's rule delays the applicability of federal on-board diagnostics (OBD) requirements for natural gas-fueled light-duty vehicles and light-duty trucks until the 1998 model year. As finalized in the February 19, 1993 OBD rule 8 those requirements were scheduled to take effect with the 1994 model year for all vehicles for which emission standards exist. However, due to the feasibility issues unique to natural gas-fueled vehicles, these requirements are being delayed until the 1998 model year. OBD I requirements will apply to natural gas vehicles in the 1997 model year, as well as those natural gas vehicles optionally certified prior to the 1997 model year. The OBD requirements contained in the OBD rule will apply to liquefied petroleum gas-fueled light-duty vehicles and light-duty trucks beginning with optionally certified vehicles in the 1994 model year. 8 58 FR 9468, February 19, 1993. C. Certification Test Fuel Specification The certification test fuels in today's rule are intended to represent the actual fuels gaseous-fueled vehicles are likely to see in-use. Given the wide range of in-use fuel compositions, the certification fuels are broadly defined. In the case of natural gas, the certification fuel specifications include a minimum methane content of 89 percent, as well as maximum levels for the other prominent hydrocarbons found in natural gas ( e.g., ethane, propane). Certification fuel under this approach reflects over 90 percent of the natural gas available in the United States. Most of the gas not meeting this criteria is gas being sold in high altitude areas, where higher levels of inert gases are added to the natural gas. Significantly less is known about the variability of in-use LPG composition. However, the Agency believes that the composition of LPG is more consistent than that of natural gas due to common carrier pipeline and import tariff constraints. Thus, the Agency is adopting commercially available LPG as the certification fuel for LPG vehicles. As more information becomes available on LPG composition, and as experience with LPG vehicles increases, the need for a more well-defined LPG certification fuel may become apparent. Should this happen, EPA would take steps at that time to develop an appropriate LPG certification fuel specification. It should be noted that the Agency is not including any controls on in-use natural gas or LPG in today's rule, but intends to monitor in-use fuels to ensure that the certification fuels remain representative. D. Test Procedures For the most part, the current test cycles, and measurement and analytical procedures can be directly applied to gaseous-fueled vehicles. Thus, the test procedures contained in today's rule are largely the same as those which apply to other, currently regulated vehicles. The only exception of note is the procedure for measuring NMHC emissions from natural gas-fueled vehicles. The current procedure for measuring NMHC emissions was adopted in the Tier 1 rule. 9 While this procedure works fairly well for currently regulated vehicles, it is not nearly as accurate for natural gas-fueled vehicles due to their much higher levels of exhaust methane. Thus, today's rule contains some slight modifications to the NMHC test procedures adopted for the Tier 1 standards 10 to allow more accurate NMHC measurement from natural gas-fueled vehicles. These changes include accounting for the different flame ionization detector (FID) response to methane as opposed to the other hydrocarbons, as well as the use of fuel densities and H/C ratios in the calculations which are more appropriate to natural gas vehicles. The Agency views this as an interim measure and is currently working with the California Air Resources Board and the American Automobile Manufacturers Association as part of a cooperative research and development agreement to develop a more accurate procedure for the direct measurement of NMHC. 9 56 FR 25724, June 5, 1991. 10 56 FR 25724, June 5, 1994.
