FR940921-0-00007 FR940921-0-00004 14 CFR Part 39 [Docket No. 94&hyph;NM&hyph;154&hyph;AD; Amendment 39&hyph;9028; AD 94&hyph;19&hyph;06] Airworthiness Directives; Puritan Bennett Sweep-On Model 2000 Crew Masks AGENCY: Federal Aviation Administration, DOT. ACTION: Final rule; request for comments. SUMMARY: This amendment adopts a new airworthiness directive (AD) that is applicable to certain Puritan Bennett Sweep-On Model 2000 crew masks installed on various transport and commuter category airplanes. This action requires modification of certain crew oxygen masks. This amendment is prompted by reports of difficulty in exhaling into certain crew oxygen masks due to misalignment of the demand diaphragm. The actions specified in this AD are intended to prevent the flight crew from experiencing difficulty in exhaling into the affected crew oxygen masks in the event oxygen masks are required for the crew, such as during depressurization of the airplane. DATES: Effective October 6, 1994. The incorporation by reference of certain publications listed in the regulations is approved by the Director of the Federal Register as of October 6, 1994. Comments for inclusion in the Rules Docket must be received on or before November 21, 1994. ADDRESSES: Submit comments in triplicate to the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), Transport Airplane Directorate, ANM&hyph;103, Attention: Rules Docket No. 94&hyph;NM&hyph;154&hyph;AD, 1601 Lind Avenue, SW., Renton, Washington 98055&hyph;4056. The service information referenced in this AD may be obtained from Puritan Bennett Aero Systems Company, 108000 Pflumm Road, Lenexa, Kansas 66215. This information may be examined at the FAA, Transport Airplane Directorate, 1601 Lind Avenue, SW., Renton, Washington; or at the FAA, Transport Airplane Directorate, Los Angeles Aircraft Certification Office, 3229 East Spring Street, Long Beach, California; or at the Office of the Federal Register, 800 North Capitol Street, NW., suite 700, Washington, DC. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Walter Eierman, Aerospace Engineer, Systems and Equipment Branch, ANM&hyph;131L, FAA, Transport Airplane Directorate, Los Angeles Aircraft Certification Office, 3229 East Spring Street, Long Beach, California 90806&hyph;2425; telephone (310) 988&hyph;5336; fax (310) 988&hyph;5310. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Recently, the flight crews from various transport and commuter category airplanes reported that they experienced difficulty in exhaling into certain Puritan Bennett Sweep-On Model 2000 crew oxygen masks. Investigation revealed that the demand diaphragm on these crew oxygen masks were misaligned, which may have resulted in the seizure of the exhalation valve. This condition, if not corrected, could result in the flight crew experiencing difficulty in exhaling into the affected crew oxygen masks in the event oxygen masks are required for the crew, such as during depressurization of the airplane. The FAA has reviewed and approved Puritan Bennett Service Bulletin 174250&hyph;35&hyph;1, dated August 1994, which describes procedures for modification of certain crew oxygen masks. This modification entails aligning the demand diaphragm in the vertical position, which would prevent the seizure of the exhalation valve. Since an unsafe condition has been identified that is likely to exist or develop on other Puritan Bennett Sweep-On Model 2000 crew oxygen masks that are installed on various transport and commuter category airplanes, this AD is being issued to prevent the flight crew from experiencing difficulty in exhaling into the affected crew oxygen masks. This AD requires modification of certain crew oxygen masks. The actions are required to be accomplished in accordance with the service bulletin described previously. Since a situation exists that requires the immediate adoption of this regulation, it is found that notice and opportunity for prior public comment hereon are impracticable, and that good cause exists for making this amendment effective in less than 30 days. Comments Invited Although this action is in the form of a final rule that involves requirements affecting flight safety and, thus, was not preceded by notice and an opportunity for public comment, comments are invited on this rule. Interested persons are invited to comment on this rule by submitting such written data, views, or arguments as they may desire. Communications shall identify the Rules Docket number and be submitted in triplicate to the address specified under the caption ADDRESSES. All communications received on or before the closing date for comments will be considered, and this rule may be amended in light of the comments received. Factual information that supports the commenter's ideas and suggestions is extremely helpful in evaluating the effectiveness of the AD action and determining whether additional rulemaking action would be needed. Comments are specifically invited on the overall regulatory, economic, environmental, and energy aspects of the rule that might suggest a need to modify the rule. All comments submitted will be available, both before and after the closing date for comments, in the Rules Docket for examination by interested persons. A report that summarizes each FAA-public contact concerned with the substance of this AD will be filed in the Rules Docket. Commenters wishing the FAA to acknowledge receipt of their comments submitted in response to this rule must submit a self-addressed, stamped postcard on which the following statement is made: ``Comments to Docket Number 94&hyph;NM&hyph;154&hyph;AD.'' The postcard will be date stamped and returned to the commenter.
