FR941026-0-00068 FR941026-0-00020 (2) Authority. The Secretary has the authority to impose civil penalties under section 10(d) of RESPA (12 U.S.C. 2609(d)). (3) Notice of intent to impose civil money penalties. Whenever the Secretary intends to impose a civil money penalty for violations of section 10(c) of RESPA (12 U.S.C. 2609(c)), the responsible program official, or his or her designee, shall serve a written Notice of Intent to Impose Civil Money Penalties (Notice of Intent) upon any servicer on which the Secretary intends to impose the penalty. A copy of the Notice of Intent must be filed with the Chief Docket Clerk, Office of Administrative Law Judges, at the address provided in the Notice of Intent. The Notice of Intent will provide: (i) A short, plain statement of the facts upon which the Secretary has determined that a civil money penalty should be imposed, including a brief description of the specific violations under 12 U.S.C. 2609(c) with which the servicer is charged and whether such violations are believed to be intentional or unintentional in nature, or a combination thereof; (ii) The amount of the civil money penalty that the Secretary intends to impose and whether the limitations in 12 U.S.C. 2609(d)(1), apply; (iii) The right of the servicer to a hearing on the record to appeal the Secretary's preliminary determination to impose a civil penalty; (iv) The procedures to appeal the penalty; (v) The consequences of failure to appeal the penalty; and (vi) The name, address, and telephone number of the representative of the Department, and the address of the Chief Docket Clerk, Office of Administrative Law Judges, should the servicer decide to appeal the penalty. (4) Appeal procedures. (i) Answer. To appeal the imposition of a penalty, a servicer shall, within 30 days after receiving service of the Notice of Intent, file a written Answer with the Chief Docket Clerk, Office of Administrative Law Judges, Department of Housing and Urban Development, at the address provided in the Notice of Intent. The Answer shall include a statement that the servicer admits, denies, or does not have (and is unable to obtain) sufficient information to admit or deny each allegation made in the Notice of Intent. A statement of lack of information shall have the effect of a denial. Any allegation that is not denied shall be deemed admitted. Failure to submit an Answer within the required period of time will result in a decision by the Administrative Law Judge based upon the Department's submission of evidence in the Notice of Intent. (ii) Submission of evidence. A servicer that receives the Notice of Intent has a right to present evidence. Evidence must be submitted within 45 calendar days from the date of service of the Notice of Intent, or by such other time as may be established by the Administrative Law Judge (ALJ). The servicer's failure to submit evidence within the required period of time will result in a decision by the Administrative Law Judge based upon the Department's submission of evidence in the Notice of Intent. The servicer may present evidence of the following: (A) The servicer did submit the required escrow account statement(s) to the borrower(s); or (B) Even if the servicer did not submit the required statement(s), that the failure was not the result of an intentional disregard of the requirements of the RESPA (for purposes of determining the penalty). (iii) Review of the record. The Administrative Law Judge will review the evidence submitted by the servicer, if any, and that submitted by the Department. The Administrative Law Judge shall make a determination based upon a review of the written record, except that the Administrative Law Judge may order an oral hearing if he or she finds that the determination turns on the credibility or veracity of a witness, or that the matter cannot be resolved by review of the documentary evidence. If the Administrative Law Judge decides that an oral hearing is appropriate, then the procedural rules set forth at 24 CFR part 30, subpart E, shall apply, to the extent that they are not inconsistent with this section. (iv) Burden of Proof. The burden of proof or the burden of going forward with the evidence shall be upon the proponent of an action. The Department's submission of evidence that the servicer's system of records lacks information that the servicer submitted the escrow account statement(s) to the borrower(s) shall satisfy the Department's burden. Upon the Department's presentation of evidence of this lack of information in the servicer's system of records, the burden of proof shifts from the Secretary to the servicer to provide evidence that it submitted the statement(s) to the borrower. (v) Standard of Proof. The standard of proof shall be the preponderance of the evidence. (5) Determination of the Administrative Law Judge. (i) Following the hearing or the review of the written record, the Administrative Law Judge shall issue a decision that shall contain findings of fact, conclusions of law, and the amount of any penalties imposed. The decision shall include a determination of whether the servicer has failed to submit any required statements and, if so, whether the servicer's failure was the result of an intentional disregard for the law's requirements. (ii) The Administrative Law Judge shall issue the decision to all parties within 30 days of the submission of the evidence or the post-hearing briefs, whichever is the last to occur. (iii) The decision of the Administrative Law Judge shall constitute the final decision of the Department and shall be final and binding on the parties. (6) Judicial review. (i) A person against whom the Department has imposed a civil money penalty under this part may obtain a review of the Department's final decision by filing a written petition for a review of the record with the appropriate United States district court. (ii) The petition must be filed within 30 days after the decision is filed with the Chief Docket Clerk, Office of Administrative Law Judges. (7) Collection of penalties. (i) If any person fails to comply with the Department's final decision imposing a civil money penalty, the Secretary, if the time for judicial review of the decision has expired, may request the Attorney General to bring an action in an appropriate United States district court to obtain a judgment against the person that has failed to comply with the Department's final decision. (ii) In any such collection action, the validity and appropriateness of the Department's final decision imposing the civil penalty shall not be subject to review in the district court. (iii) The Secretary may obtain such other relief as may be available, including attorney fees and other expenses in connection with the collection action. (iv) Interest on and other charges for any unpaid penalty may be assessed in accordance with 31 U.S.C. 3717. (8) Offset. In addition to any other rights as a creditor, the Secretary may seek to collect a civil money penalty through administrative offset. (9) At any time before the decision of the Administrative Law Judge, the Secretary and the servicer may enter into an administrative settlement. The settlement may include provisions for interest, attorney's fees, and costs related to the proceeding. Such settlement will terminate the appearance before the Administrative Law Judge. (Approved by the Office of Management and Budget under control number 2502-0501) 9. Appendix A is amended by adding two new paragraphs after the paragraph for Lines 1000&hyph;1008 under the heading ``Line Item Instructions'' and by adding Appendices F, G, H, I, and J, to read as follows: Appendix A to Part 3500_Instructions for Completing HUD&hyph;1 and HUD&hyph;1a Settlement Statements * * * * * Line Item Instructions * * * * * If the settlement agent uses a cushion in determining the initial entries for lines 1000&hyph;1008 of the HUD&hyph;1 or HUD&hyph;1A settlement statement, then the settlement agent shall make an adjustment to reflect the appropriate starting balance in the escrow account under an aggregate accounting method. The cushion using the aggregate accounting is computed according to the steps set out in ยง3500.17(d). The adjustment reflects the difference between the amounts collected as a cushion on the lines 1000&hyph;1008 for individual escrow items and the permissible cushion under the aggregate accounting method. The servicer shall enter the aggregate adjustment amount on the final line of the 1000 series of the HUD&hyph;1 or the HUD&hyph;1A statement. The amount will always be $&hyph;0&hyph; or a negative number. During the phase-in period, as defined in ยง3500.17(b), an alternative procedure is available. If a servicer has not yet conducted the escrow account analysis to determine the aggregate accounting starting balance, the settlement agent may initially calculate the 1000 series deposits for the HUD&hyph;1 and HUD&hyph;1A settlement statement using single-item analysis with a one-month cushion (unless the mortgage loan documents indicate a smaller amount). In the escrow account analysis conducted within 45 days of settlement, the servicer shall adjust the escrow account to reflect the aggregate accounting balance. * * * * * Appendix F to Part 3500_[Added]
