FR941003-0-00117 FR941003-0-00018 9. A new part 267, consisting of subparts A through C, is added to read as follows: PART 267_APPRAISAL AND PROPERTY VALUATION Subpart A_General Sec. 267.1␣Applicability. 267.2␣Definitions applicable to both single family and multifamily programs. 267.3␣Professional association membership; nondiscrimination; lender reporting and competency. 267.4␣Waiver. Subpart B_Single Family Programs 267.5␣Definitions applicable to single family programs. 267.6␣Transactions requiring a state certified or state licensed appraiser. 267.7␣Appraisal standards. 267.8␣Selection of appraisers by mortgagees; HUD Appraiser Roster; appraiser independence. Subpart C_Multifamily Programs 267.9␣Definitions applicable to multifamily programs. 267.10␣Qualified appraisers and appraisals. 267.11␣Appraisal standards. 267.12␣Selection of appraisers; appraiser independence. Authority: 12 U.S.C. 1708(e), 1715b; 42 U.S.C. 3535 (d). Subpart A_General §267.1 Applicability. (a) General rule. If the maximum insurable amount for a mortgage insured under any National Housing Act program covered by this subchapter is based in whole or in part upon the value of security as determined by an appraisal, the appraisal must comply with this part 267. (b) Exceptions. This part does not apply: (1) If title to the property is held by the Secretary and a determination of value is needed for disposition of the property or for an insured mortgage to finance the property; (2) To appraisals of manufactured homes under §201.10 (b) or (d) of this chapter or §201.23(b)(3) of this chapter where the manufactured home is classified as personal property; (3) To appraisals of property for purposes of property improvement loans under Title I of the National Housing Act if the principal balance of the loan is not required to be based on the borrower's equity in the property; or (4) If the insured mortgage is secured by a hospital. §267.2 Definitions applicable to both single family and multifamily programs. The following definitions apply to subparts A, B and C of this part: Appraisal Foundation means the Appraisal Foundation established on November 30, 1987, as a not-for-profit corporation under the laws of Illinois. Appraisal Subcommittee means the Appraisal Subcommittee of the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council. FIRREA means Title XI of the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery and Enforcement Act of 1989; Market analysis means a study of real estate market conditions for a specific type of property. Market value means: (1) The most probable price which a property should bring in a competitive and open market under all conditions requisite to a fair sale, the buyer and seller each acting prudently and knowledgeably, provided that the price is not affected by undue stimulus. Implicit in this definition is the consummation of a sale as of a specified date and the passing of title from seller to buyer under conditions whereby: (i) Buyer and seller are typically motivated; (ii) Both parties are well informed or well advised, and acting in what they consider their own best interests; (iii) A reasonable time is allowed for sales exposure in the open market; (iv) Payment is made in terms of cash in U.S. dollars or in terms of comparable financial arrangements; and (v) The price represents the normal consideration for the property sold unaffected by special or creative financing or by a sales concession from anyone associated with the sale. (2) For purposes of this definition, market value cannot exceed replacement cost, i.e., the reasonable estimated cost of replacing the property. Mortgage means a mortgage as defined in this chapter, or a loan authorized for insurance under the National Housing Act. Mortgagee means the holder of a mortgage and includes a lender holding a Title I contract of insurance and a Title I loan correspondent. Replacement cost means the Secretary's estimate of the construction cost of the property or project when the proposed improvements are completed. The replacement cost may include the land, the proposed physical improvements, utilities within the boundaries of the land, architect's fees, taxes, interest during construction, and other miscellaneous charges incident to construction and approved by the Secretary. For substantial rehabilitation proposals, the replacement cost estimate includes the ``as is'' value of the property before rehabilitation, plus the cost of rehabilitation and appropriate carrying and financing charges.
