FR941207-2-00058 FR941207-2-00044 [TA&hyph;W&hyph;29,808] Smith System Manufacturing Company Princeton, Minnesota; Notice of Negative Determination Regarding Application for Reconsideration By an application dated September 10, 1994, after being granted a filing extension, Local # 1996 of the Machinists Union (IAM), requested administrative reconsideration of the subject petition for trade adjustment assistance (TAA). The denial notice was published in the Federal Register on August 15, 1994 (59 FR 41792). Pursuant to 29 CFR 90.18(c) reconsideration may be granted under the following circumstances: (1) If it appears on the basis of facts not previously considered that the determination complained of was erroneous; (2) if it appears that the determination complained of was based on a mistake in the determination of facts not previously considered; or (3) if in the opinion of the Certifying Officer, a misinterpretation of facts or of the law justified reconsideration of the decision. The investigation files show that the workers produce school and office furniture. The union submitted annual U.S. import data from the Department of Commerce for furniture which would include the products produced by Smith System. This impact data, however, was included in the Department's investigation. The Department's denial is based on the fact that the ``contributed importantly'' test of the Group Eligibility Requirements of the Trade Act was not met. worker separations were the result of a corporate decision to consolidate its production of furniture at other domestic locations. During the consolidation period, employment at the Princeton plant decreased while employment at the corporate transfer plants increased commensurately. There was no decline in corporate sales during this period. The Trade Act was not intended to provide TAA Benefits to everyone who is in some way affected by foreign competition but only to those who experienced a decline in sales or production and employment and an increase in imports of like or directly competitive articles which contributed importantly to declines in sales or production and employment at the workers' firm. Conclusion After review of the application and investigative findings, I conclude that there has been no error or misinterpretation of the law or of the facts which would justify reconsideration of the Department of Labor's Prior decision. Accordingly, the application is denied. Signed at Washington, DC, this 25th day of November 1994. Victor J. Trunzo, Program Manager, Policy and Reemployment Services, Office of Trade Adjustment Assistance. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;30100 Filed 12&hyph;6&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4510&hyph;30&hyph;M
