FR940921-1-00017 FR940921-1-00007 Beaches (Pages 186&hyph;187) The outdoor developed areas subcommittee also examined beach facilities and recommended that an accessible route be provided to a point 36 inches beyond the water's edge at high tide. The subcommittee stated that a stable, firm and slip resistant surface may be accomplished by using permanent materials (e.g., concrete, wood, or plastic decking); temporary, removable materials (e.g., mats or mesh) during daylight hours; or a combination of both. Water level changes due to tides, shifting shorelines, and erosion may impact on potential solutions. Question 14: Should an accessible route be required to the water? If so, where should it be located? Should a temporary accessible route be allowed where a permanent one is not practicable or feasible? Snow Facilities (Pages 190&hyph;201) The outdoor developed areas subcommittee also examined skiing and a variety of other snow activities. The subcommittee recommended that accessible parking spaces be located a maximum of 300 feet from base area facilities or other snow area activities, unless an accessible transportation option is provided. The subcommittee also proposed the concept of a snow access route. The subcommittee noted that the ANSI B77.1 committee is conducting research on accessibility requirements for lifts and has recommended that guidelines for lifts be reserved pending the research, except for loading and unloading areas and lift corrals and waiting areas. Question 15: What are the critical access issues for individuals with disabilities in snow facilities? The Access Board is interested in receiving additional information on ski lift access. Other Facility Types Question 16: Are there other types of recreation facilities and outdoor developed areas that are not addressed in the committee's report? If so, the Access Board is interested in receiving information on providing access to those facilities and areas. The Recreation Access Advisory Committee has performed an invaluable public service by gathering information on diverse types of recreation facilities and outdoor developed areas; involving other interested persons in its work; and attempting to build consensus on possible solutions for providing access to these facilities and areas. The Access Board wants to encourage greater public participation as it develops a notice of proposed rulemaking establishing accessibility guidelines for newly constructed and altered recreation facilities and outdoor developed areas and invites comments on the committee's report. The comments will be considered along with the committee's report as the Access Board develops the notice of proposed rulemaking. Authorized by vote of the Access Board on July 13, 1994. Judith E. Heumann, Chairperson, Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;23180 Filed 9&hyph;20&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8150&hyph;01&hyph;P
