FR940719-2-00170 FR940719-2-00102 Section 1.3␣General Prohibition It shall be a violation of tribal law to manufacture for sale, sell, offer, or keep for sale, possess, transport or conduct any transaction involving any alcoholic beverage except in compliance with the terms, conditions, limitations and restrictions specified in this Ordinance. Section 1.4␣Tribal Control of Alcoholic Beverages The council shall have the sole and exclusive right to authorize the importation of alcoholic beverages for sale or for the purpose of conducting transactions therewith, and no person or organization shall so import any such alcoholic beverage into the Jamestown S'Klallam Indian Country unless authorized by the Council. Section 1.5␣Community Liquor Store The council may establish and maintain anywhere within the Jamestown S'Klallam Indian Country that the council may deem advisable, a community liquor store or stores for the sale of alcoholic beverages in accordance with the provisions of this ordinance. The council may set the prices of alcoholic beverages sold. Section 1.6␣Community On-Site Dealer The council may establish and maintain anywhere within the Jamestown S'Klallam Indian Country that the council may deem advisable, a community on-site dealer or dealers for storage and on-site sale of alcoholic beverages in accordance with the provisions of this Ordinance. The council may set the prices of alcoholic beverages sold. Section 1.7␣State of Washington Licenses and Agreements The council or operator may negotiate an agreement or obtain a State of Washington liquor license for any tribally operated establishment that sells alcoholic beverages or conducts transactions involving alcoholic beverages to the extent required by applicable law to allow the tribe to sell liquor in Indian Country under its control. Part II␣Compliance With the Laws of The State of Washington Section 2.1␣Applicability of State Law The council and its agents shall act in conformity with state laws regarding the sale of liquor to the extent required by applicable federal law including 18 U.S.C. 1161. Section 2.2␣Persons Under 21 Years of Age: Restrictions The council shall comply with the State of Washington laws regarding restrictions on those persons under the age of 21 years in any Tribal establishment operating pursuant to the provisions of this ordinance. Section 2.3␣Restrictions on Intoxicated Persons No tribally operated or licensed establishment shall sell, give, or furnish any alcoholic beverage or in any way allow any alcoholic beverage to be sold, given or furnished to a person who is obviously intoxicated. Section 2.4␣Hours and Days of Sale No tribally operated or licensed establishment shall sell or furnish alcoholic beverages for on-site purposes during hours or on days not in compliance with applicable law. Part III␣Tribal Licensing and Regulation Section 3.1␣Power to License and Tax The power to establish tribal licenses and levy taxes under the provisions of this ordinance is vested exclusively with the council. If the council enters into any agreements with the state regarding the sale of liquor, the agreement shall be deemed tribal law. Section 3.2␣Tribally Owned Establishments The council can issue by resolution an appropriate license to a tribally owned establishment upon determining the site for the establishment and obtaining the necessary licensing or agreement from the State of Washington. Section 3.3␣License of Retail Sales 3.3.1␣The council shall have the power to issue licenses to any tribal or state chartered corporation, individual or partnership or other entity to undertake any sale or transaction which the tribe itself has the power to undertake under this ordinance for the sale of alcoholic beverages at a retail store. 3.3.2␣Applications for licenses shall be submitted in the form prescribed by the council or its authorized employees. The council may, within its sole discretion and subject to the conditions in this ordinance issue or refuse to issue the license applied for upon payment of such fee as the council may prescribe. 3.3.3␣Every license shall be issued in the name of the applicant and no license shall be transferable or assignable without the written approval of the council nor shall the licensee allow any other person or entity to use the license. 3.3.4␣The council may, for violations of this ordinance, suspend or cancel any license. A license is a privilege and no person shall have vested rights therein. Prior to cancellation or suspension the council shall send notice of its intent to cancel or suspend the license to the licensee. 3.3.5␣No license under this ordinance shall be for a period longer than one year. Section 3.4␣Regulations The council may, consistent with this ordinance, adopt regulations it deems necessary to implement this ordinance. Part IV␣Construction Section 4.1␣Severability If any part of this ordinance, or the application thereof to any party, person, or entity or to any circumstances, shall be held invalid for any reason whatsoever, the remainder of the section or ordinance shall not be affected thereby, and shall remain in full force and effect as though no part thereof had been declared to be invalid. Section 4.2␣Amendment or Repeal of Ordinance This ordinance may be amended or repealed by a majority vote of the council. Section 4.3␣Sovereign Immunity Nothing in this ordinance is intended to nor shall be construed as a waiver of the sovereign immunity of the Jamestown S'Klallam Tribe. Section 4.4␣Effective Date This ordinance shall be effective upon the date that the Secretary of the Interior certifies this ordinance and publishes it in the Federal Register . Section 4.5␣Jurisdiction Notwithstanding anything in this ordinance to the contrary, nothing herein is intended to nor shall be construed as a grant of jurisdiction from the Jamestown S'Klallam Tribe to the State of Washington beyond that provided by applicable law. The Tribe shall operate in conformity with state law and tribal law to the extent provided pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 1161. Dated: May 12, 1994. Ada E. Deer, Assistant Secretary_Indian Affairs. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;12157 Filed 5&hyph;18&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4310&hyph;02&hyph;P
