FR941110-1-00090 FR941110-1-00011 Today's proposal includes procedures for refunding expended production allowances for controlled substances exported for transformation or destruction in the final control period. A person who requests additional production allowances for controlled substances exported for transformation or destruction must submit the same information required under the current rule for persons requesting additional consumption allowances in ยง82.10(a): _The identities and addresses of the exporter and the recipient of the exports; _The exporter's Employer Identification Number; _The names and telephone numbers of contact person for the exporter and recipient; _The quantity and type of controlled substance exported; _The source of the controlled substance and the date purchased; _The date on which and port from which the controlled substances are exported from the United States or its territories; _The country to which the controlled substances were exported; _The bill of lading and the invoice indicating the net quantity of controlled substances shipped and documenting the sale of the controlled substances to the purchaser for either transformation or destruction; _The commodity code of the controlled substance exported. In today's proposal, EPA wishes to accelerate the time when exporters of controlled substances to Parties can submit forms for the ``refund'' of consumption allowances, whether or not the substance is for transformation or destruction or for an emissive use. EPA is proposing that exporters submit the current ``Request for Additional Consumption Allowances'' form at the initiation of the export of a specific quantity of controlled substance to a Party rather than wait until a completed bill of lading and invoice are prepared. The proposed change accelerates the time taken to grant consumption allowances for exports. EPA proposes that the consumption allowances be granted for the quantity of controlled substance exported, with confirmation contingent upon receipt of the bill of lading and invoice. Granting of the consumption allowances will be confirmed upon review of the bill of lading and invoice. Such allowances may be used at the time granted, prior to confirmation. In the event, however, that EPA determines that the controlled substances are not exported for whatever reason, then EPA will consider that allowances were expended by the producer for the production of the controlled substance and the consumption allowances were never granted. Without the consumption allowances, the producer may have a negative balance, at which time the producer will be out of compliance. b. Reporting and recordkeeping for essential uses. Today's proposal creates a new category of allowances called essential-use allowances in anticipation of the special exemptions that Parties to the Protocol will most likely approve for essential-use production after January 1, 1996. In today's rule, EPA is proposing that the final allocation of essential-use allowances be published in the final rule based on the Decisions of the Parties at their meeting in October of 1994. Once the Parties have reached a final Decision in this first round of essential-uses designations, EPA will propose allocations of essential-use allowances that parallel the specific quantities of a controlled substance for the specific uses as nominated by specific U.S. entities to the Protocol. EPA is proposing a system whereby deductions will be made from the control period allocations of essential-use allowances based on quarterly reports submitted by producers and the recipient of the essential-use allowances. The producer or importer of controlled substances for essential uses must maintain, under today's proposal, the following records: (i) The letter conferring the essential-use allowances from the recipient of the allowances certifying that the controlled substance will be used only for the specified essential-use, and (ii) in the case of essential-use production for laboratory or analytical use, a certification from the laboratories that the quantity of the specific substance purchased will be used only for laboratory/analytical applications and will not be resold.
