FR940603-1-00130 FR940603-1-00009 Group M. Site Preparation. A Construction Unit consists of clearing, grading, drainage work, and surfacing, as specified in the drawings. Group N. Fence. A Construction Unit consists of the complete installation of the fence, gates, etc., as specified in the drawings. Group O. Station Grounding. A Construction Unit consists of the complete ground bus including ground rods, grounding mats or platforms, except as otherwise provided in other Groups, with connections to structures, equipment, and fence as specified in the drawings. Group P. Building. A Construction Unit consists of a control building or cabinet, on a foundation of Group L and the facilities and equipment installed therein as specified in the drawings, except as otherwise provided in other Groups. Other Groups. The Engineer shall specify such additional Groups as may be necessary for the completion of the Project. Description of these Groups shall be provided by an addition to this Section of the Specifications for Construction. XXXX STATION CONSTRUCTION UNITS Unit No. XXXX Name and Description of Construction Unit XXXX No. of Units XXXX Unit Prices Labor XXXX Materials XXXX Labor and Materials XXXX Extended Price_Labor and Materials XXXX Total Price XXXX Acceptance Subject to the approval of the Administrator, the Owner hereby accepts the foregoing Proposal of the Bidder, XXXX for the construction of the following substations or other major facilities: XXXX Substation, $ XXXX XXXX $ XXXX The total contract price is $ XXXX XXXX Owner By XXXX President XXXX Secretary XXXX Date of Contract [End of clause] ยง1726.341 Electric system communications and control equipment contract, REA Form 786. The contract form in this section shall be used when required by this part. Electric System Communications and Control Equipment Contract (Including Installation) Proposal to Furnish, Deliver, and Install Equipment and Materials To: XXXX (hereinafter called the ``Purchaser'') The undersigned (hereinafter called the ``Seller'') hereby proposes to furnish, deliver, install, align and test the equipment and materials, (hereinafter called the ``Equipment'') described in the plans, specifications and drawings (hereinafter called the ``Specifications'') attached hereto identified as XXXX and made a part hereof, and other Attachments identified as XXXX and made a part hereof, for the electric system designated XXXX , financed in whole or in part by a loan to the Purchaser by the United States of America, acting through the Administrator of the Rural Electrification Administration (hereinafter called the ``Administrator''). The Seller has become informed as to the location and characteristics of the proposed Equipment and the facilities over which the Equipment is to perform, has become informed as to the kind of facilities required before and during the delivery and installation of the Equipment and has become acquainted with the labor conditions which would affect the work as well as the ecological and environmental criteria to be followed. The Seller agrees that if its Proposal is accepted the following terms and conditions shall govern. If, in submitting this Proposal, the Seller has made any change in the form of Proposal furnished by the Purchaser, the Seller understands that the Purchaser and the Administrator may evaluate the effect of such change as they see fit or they may exclude the Proposal from consideration. ARTICLE I Section 1. Proposal Price. The Seller will furnish, deliver, install, align and test the Equipment described in the Specifications for the following sum:
