FR941117-0-00201 FR941117-0-00013 While NRMSIRs may charge reasonable fees 156 for the dissemination of information, they may not charge issuers for accepting information provided by issuers in accordance with Rule 15c2&hyph;12. 157 In response to concerns raised by commenters, the Commission also notes that giving preferential treatment to certain brokers, dealers, and municipal securities dealers by giving them market information before it is made available to all customers would be wholly inconsistent with recognition as a NRMSIR. 158 156 See 1989 Release. 157 See, e.g., Letter of Maine Municipal Bond Bank; Letter of National Association of Independent Public Financial Advisers (NRMSIR users, not issuers, should pay the NRMSIR costs). 158 See, e.g., Letter of Colonial Management Associates, Inc. Comment also was requested on the ability and willingness of both potential NRMSIRs, and those presently operating under no-action letters, to meet the dissemination standards discussed in the Proposing Release. NRMSIRs responded that they can meet these standards. 159 In order to implement these standards, the Commission has determined that existing NRMSIRs should reapply for recognition from the Commission under the revised criteria to continue to function as NRMSIRs. 159 Letter of Bloomberg L.P.; Letter of J.J. Kenny Co.; Letter of The Bond Buyer. 3. State Information Depositories The Commission also requested comment on whether a state-based depository could serve as an effective means to disseminate information to the market for a nationally traded security, thus enabling the appropriate parties to fulfill their disclosure obligations using a state-based depository. Commenters expressed divergent views on this issue. 160 No state responded directly in response to the Commission's request for comment on whether states are willing to make the necessary financial commitment to create a state-based system. The Comptroller of the State of New York pointed out, however, that his office already collects financial data from local governments, and that there ``is an appropriate and important function which the states may perform in the secondary market disclosure process.'' 161 A number of third party state-based information collectors also stated that they were in the process of creating state-based repositories. 162 Other such third party state-based information collectors pointed out that they already had working depositories in place. 163 160 With one notable exception, national information vendors generally did not see a need for state-based repositories and argued that state-based repositories would indeed add to the complexity of collecting and disseminating information. See, e.g., Letter of J.J. Kenny Co. Some state-based information gatherers and disseminators, however, argued that they already had created mechanisms for the collection and dissemination of information, and their systems are working well. The National Association of State Auditors, Comptrollers and Treasurers (``NASACT'') pointed out that issuers and other obligors will probably file with state-based repositories, with whom they are accustomed to working and with whom they typically must file in any event for regulatory purposes unrelated to secondary market disclosure. NASACT argued that while the state repositories do not wish to compete with NRMSIRs, state-based repositories can serve an important role in enhancing the accessibility of disclosure information for repackaging by the NRMSIRs. See Letter of NASACT. 161 See Letter of the Office of the State Comptroller, State of New York. 162 See, e.g., Letter of Cypress Capital Corporation (Louisiana Municipal Security Disclosure Board ``intends to be in a position to comply with the standards developed by the Commission for NRMSIRs''). 163 See Letter of Municipal Advisory Council of Texas; Letter of Ohio Municipal Advisory Council. Based on these comments, and in light of existing disclosure mechanisms and recent legislation in several states designed to enhance secondary market disclosure, 164 it appears that states can play a beneficial role in enhancing disclosure in the municipal securities market. 165 State-based depositories will be in a special relationship with filers of disclosure information to provide for convenient and efficient dissemination. The Commission therefore encourages states to develop state-based depositories. 164 South Carolina recently enacted legislation requiring issuers to agree in a bond indenture to file an annual independent audit within a specified number of days of the issuer's receipt thereof and certain event information with a central repository. South Carolina Senate Bill 1182, (effective September 1, 1994) to be codified in S.C. Code Ann. Chapter 1, Title 11, Section 11&hyph;1&hyph;85 (1976). Similarly, Tennessee recently adopted legislation authorizing the adoption of rules to facilitate secondary market disclosure by any public entity, including the form and content of that disclosure. Tenn. Code Ann. Sec. 9&hyph;21&hyph;151 (a) and (b)(2). 165 See, e.g., Letter of the Office of the State Comptroller, State of New York.
