FR941006-2-00114 FR941006-2-00083 C. Paired Securities The Commission believes that the CBOE's proposed listing standards for paired securities do not raise any substantial regulatory concerns. First, the proposed rule is identical to a rule previously adopted by the Amex. 47 Second, the Exchange will only list an issue of paired securities in response to competitive pressures resulting from the listing of an issue of paired securities by another securities exchange and where the securities to be listed by the CBOE are being paired for purposes other than for bypassing the Exchange's equity listing standards. 48 These standards should serve to protect investors by preventing an issuer from listing a security on the CBOE that does not satisfy the Exchange's listing criteria, terminating the pairing agreement, and then trading the securities as separate securities. The certificate requirement serves to further protect investors and minimize confusion by ensuring that investors are on notice when they receive such a certificate that the security is a paired security and cannot be traded separately from the security to which it is paired. Moreover, requiring that in the event of the termination of the pairing agreement that the security that did not originally meet the CBOE's listing criteria must satisfy those criteria at the time of the termination or else be delisted, minimizes the potential that the paired security vehicle will be used as a means of listing a security that otherwise could not be listed on the Exchange. 47 See Section 117 of the Amex Company Guide. 48 See Amendment No. 1, supra note 4. The Commission would be concerned about companies being paired simply to allow one or both companies to meet the listing standards. The Commission believes that paired securities should only be allowed to be listed where there is a special relationship or reason, other than listing requirements, that makes pairing necessary. The Commission finds good cause for approving Amendment Nos. 1 and 2 to the proposed rule change prior to the thirtieth day after the date of publication of notice thereof in the Federal Register in order to allow the CBOE to begin listing hybrid securities satisfying the listing standards discussed above without delay. With respect to CVRs, the Commission finds that Amendment Nos. 1 and 2 more closely conforms the Exchange's proposal to proposals previously approved by the Commission with respect to the listing and trading of CVRs by the Amex and the NYSE. For that reason and for the reasons stated above, the Commission believes that the proposal to list and trade CVRs does not raise any significant regulatory issues that were not addressed when the NYSE and the Amex proposals were approved.
