FR940627-0-00136 FR940627-0-00019 EPA has used CARB definitions and other available information to establish base fuel specifications for each alternative fuel family (see Tables F94&hyph;3_F94&hyph;6 in §79.55). However, due to rapidly developing technology, the fuel additive package requirements for these fuels are not as well established as for gasoline and diesel. In fact, there is only limited information available on the additive requirements for the successful long-term operation of each alternative fuel/vehicle combination. Hence, it is the responsibility of the F/FA manufacturers who are required to test such base fuels (in consultation with EPA), to comply with the additive requirements of the manufacturer of the particular vehicle/engine used for the testing of alternative F/FAs. If the manufacturer of an alternatively-fueled vehicle or engine specifies that additives (beyond those specified in the regulations), are essential for operation, then the F/FA manufacturer should submit a request to EPA to use those additional additives as components of the base fuel at the minimal effective level. EPA will publish a document in the Federal Register whenever approving such a request to modify a base fuel. 1. Methanol The methanol fuel family contains two fuel groups, one for M100 fuels and one for M85 fuels. Each of these methanol groups has its own base fuel. These base fuels may only contain the elements carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, nitrogen, sulfur, and chlorine. The chlorine (as chloride) is permitted as a contaminant remaining from methanol production, and is limited to no more than 0.0001 percent by mass. The sulfur content may not exceed 0.002 percent by mass in the base M100 fuel and may not exceed 0.004 percent by mass in the base M85 fuel. The M100 base fuel must consist of 100 percent chemical grade methanol by volume. The M85 base fuel is to contain 85 percent chemical grade methanol by volume, blended with 15 volume percent base gasoline fuel (meeting the gasoline base fuel specifications outlined in Section V.A., above). Specifications for the methanol base fuels are listed in Table F94&hyph;3 in §79.55(d) of the regulations. Some gasoline detergents have been shown to cause intake system deposits when used in M85 applications. Likewise, lubricating oils containing calcium have been shown to cause injector tip deposits in M100 applications. Therefore, EPA recommends that F/FA manufacturers determine the methanol compatibility of lubricating oils as well as fuel additives used in the gasoline portion of the M85 base fuel. 2. Ethanol The ethanol fuel family contains one group, represented by E85 base fuel. The E85 base fuel is to contain 85 percent chemical grade ethanol by volume, blended with 15 volume percent base gasoline. The ethanol base fuel may only contain the elements carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, nitrogen, sulfur, chlorine, and copper. The chlorine (as chloride) is permitted as a contaminant remaining from ethanol production, and is limited to no more than 0.0004 percent by mass. The sulfur content may not exceed 0.004 percent by mass. Copper, also a contaminant from ethanol production, is limited to 0.07 mg/L. Additives used in the gasoline component of E85 base fuel must be ethanol-compatible. The base fuel specifications for E85 are summarized in Table F94&hyph;4 in §79.55(e) of the regulatory text. 3. Methane The methane fuel family is represented by a natural gas base fuel whose specifications are within the proposed ranges for natural gas certification fuel (as proposed in 57 FR 52912). This base fuel may only contain the elements carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, nitrogen, and sulfur, with the sulfur limited to 16 parts per million (by volume). The methane base fuel must contain added odorant for leak detection purposes, used at a level such that at ambient conditions the fuel has a distinctive odor potent enough for its presence to be detected down to a concentration in air of not over 1/5 (one-fifth) of the lower limit of flammability. In the Reopening Notice, EPA proposed that any sulfur in the methane base fuel be limited to that contained in the odorant additive. In response to public comment, this restriction has been removed; however, the total sulfur in the methane base fuel formulation, including that contributed by any additives, may not exceed 16 parts per million. The methane base fuel specifications are listed in Table F94&hyph;5 in §79.55(f) of the accompanying regulations. 4. Propane The propane fuel family is represented by a commercial LPG base fuel. The propane base fuel may only contain the elements carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, nitrogen, and sulfur, with the sulfur limited to 123 ppm (by weight). The propane base fuel must contain added odorant, for leak detection purposes, at a level such that at ambient conditions the fuel has a distinctive odor potent enough for its presence to be detected down to a concentration in air of not over 1/5 (one-fifth) of the lower limit of flammability. As in the case of the methane base fuel, the final rule does not require the sulfur in the formulation to be contained only in the odorant additive. Rather, the sulfur limitation applies to the fuel/additive mixture in combination. The propane base fuel specifications are listed in Table F94&hyph;6 in §79.55(g) of the regulatory text.
