FR940505-1-00246 FR940505-1-00012 V es =volume of exempt compounds in liters. Person means any firm, business establishment, association, partnership, corporation or individual, whether acting as principal, agent, employee, or other capacity including any governmental entity or charitable organization. Rate per calendar year means the amount applied between 12 a.m. January 1 and 11:59 p.m. December 31. Rate per day means the amount applied between 12 a.m. and 11:59 p.m. on the same calendar day. Transfer efficiency means the ratio of the weight of coating solids deposited on an object to the total weight of coating solids used in a coating application step, expressed as a percentage. Volatile organic compound (VOC) means any compound of carbon, excluding carbon monoxide, carbon dioxide, carbonic acid, metallic carbides or carbonates, and ammonium carbonate, which participates in atmospheric photochemical reactions other than those defined as exempt compounds. These exempt compounds have been determined to have negligible photochemical reactivity. For purposes of determining compliance with emission limits, VOC will be measured by test methods given in this section. Where such a method also measures compounds with negligible photochemical reactivity, an owner or operator may exclude these negligibly reactive compounds when determining compliance with an emission standard. However, the U.S. EPA may require such owner or operator, as a precondition to excluding these compounds for purposes of determining compliance, to provide monitoring methods and monitoring results demonstrating, to the satisfaction of the U.S. EPA, the amount of negligibly reactive compounds in the source's emissions. §52.2951 New technology measures applicable to VOC and NO X . (a) The applicable area of control is the South Coast Air Basin Nonattainment Area for ozone, as defined in 40 CFR 81.305. For purposes of this regulation, the definitions of §52.2950 shall apply. (b) Stationary and area source VOC cap categories to be controlled. For the purpose of this paragraph, the following categories of VOC emissions sources shall constitute the control categories. The categories are further defined in §52.2954. Facilities which emit greater than or equal to 4 tons per year of VOCs from any of the following processes or combination of these processes are affected: (1) Industrial and commercial solvents and coatings; 1 1 In the alternative, rules may apply to any manufacturer, or consortium of manufacturers, of industrial solvents or industrial/commercial coatings for sale or use within the State of California. (2) VOC emissions associated with the manufacturing of products; (3) Disposal of materials containing VOCs; (4) Commercial food preparation and/or baking; and (5) Petroleum and natural gas extraction, processing, and storage. (c) Promulgation schedule and VOC reduction requirements for stationary and area sources. EPA commits to publish rules to control VOC emissions from the sources described in paragraph (b) of this section according to the following schedule: ␣ 1Proposal 1Promulgation 1Effective 1Percent reduction 1/1/2004 1/1/2005 1/1/2007 2007&hyph;2008_60% 1/1/2006 1/1/2007 1/1/2009 2009_90% The percent reduction requirement is a cumulative percent reduction from the baseline VOC emissions as defined in §52.2954. (d) Stationary and area source NO X categories to be controlled. For the purpose of this paragraph, the following categories of NO X emissions sources shall constitute the control categories. The categories are further defined in §52.2955. Facilities which emit greater than or equal to 4 tons per year of NO X from any of the following processes or combination of these processes are affected: (1) Boilers, heaters, furnaces, ovens, dryers, incinerators, test cells, and any solid, liquid or gaseous fueled equipment with a maximum rated capacity: (i) Greater than or equal to 40 but less than 500 million Btu per hour and an annual heat input greater than 90 billion Btu per year; (ii) 500 million Btu per hour or more irrespective of annual heat input; (2) Any internal combustion engine with rated brake horsepower (bhp) greater than or equal to 50 bhp, regardless of operating time; (3) Any gas turbine rated greater than or equal to 0.2 megawatts excluding any emergency standby equipment or peaking unit; (4) Any petroleum refinery fluid catalytic cracking unit; (5) Any petroleum refinery tail gas unit; (6) Any kiln or calciner with a rated process weight greater than or equal to 10 tons per hour; (7) Any equipment burning or incinerating solid fuels or materials; (8) Any sulfuric acid production unit; (9) Any existing equipment using NO X CEMS or that is required to install CEMS under State or local regulation to be implemented as of [Insert date of publication of the final rule]; (10) Any NO X source elected by the Facility Permit holder or required by the State or local agency to be monitored with a CEMS; (11) Any NO X source for which NO X emissions reported to the State or local agency were equal to or greater than 4 tons per year for the calendar year 1990. (e) Promulgation schedule and NO X reduction requirements for stationary and area sources. EPA commits to publish rules to control NO X emissions from the sources described in paragraph (d) of this section according to the following schedule:
