FR940428-2-00086 FR940428-2-00052 As the Technical Specifications permit pre-planned release even with an inoperable instrument, the margin of safety is not impacted by an extended surveillance interval provided that instrument operability is verified prior to release. This is also required by the Technical Specifications. [(3) Low Turbine Auto Stop Oil Pressure Reactor Trip:] The proposed change does not involve a significant hazards consideration since: 1. There is no significant increase in the probability or consequences of an accident. It is proposed that the channel calibration frequency for the Low Turbine Auto Stop Oil Pressure system be changed from every 18 months (+25%) to every 24 months (+25%). No credit is taken for a reactor trip from a low turbine auto stop oil pressure signal resulting from a turbine trip. Rather, the safety analysis assumes this reactor trip does not occur during full load rejection until an overpower delta T condition causes a reactor trip. In addition, no credit is taken for this system for turbine missile protection. Therefore, extending the surveillance interval for this parameter has no impact upon the probability or consequences of an accident. 2. The possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any previously analyzed has not been created. As no credit is taken in the safety analysis for this trip, the possibility of a new or different kind of accident has not been created by extending the surveillance interval. 3. There has been no reduction in the margin of safety. Past test results have not identified any failures. Therefore, pursuant to Generic Letter 91&hyph;04, it is reasonably expected that this system will continue to function in an acceptable manner over an extended operating cycle. [(4) 6.9 kv Undervoltage Relays:] The proposed change does not involve a significant hazards consideration since: 1. There is no significant increase in the probability or consequences of an accident. It is proposed that the calibration frequency for the 6.9 kv undervoltage channel be changed from every 18 months (+25%) to every 24 months (+25%). Quarterly testing of these relays is required by Technical Specifications. The data from the quarterly tests of the new relays will be used to assure that drift does not exceed projected values. The quarterly tests provide a means of maintaining calibration within specified values, virtually eliminating any impact upon safety from an extended operating cycle. 2. The possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any previously analyzed has not been created. Because the quarterly tests assure that relay performance remains within specified limits, there is no possibility of creating a new or different kind of accident from any previously analyzed. 3. There has been no reduction in the margin of safety. The requirement for a channel functional test each quarter minimizes any potential impact upon safety due to an extended operating cycle. [(5) Boric Acid Tank Level:] The proposed change does not involve a significant hazards consideration since: 1. A significant increase in the probability or consequence of an accident previously evaluated will not occur. It is proposed that the channel calibration frequency for the Boric Acid Tank Level instrumentation be changed from every 18 months (+25%) to every 24 months (+25%). A statistical analysis of channel uncertainty for a 30 month operating cycle has been performed. Based upon this analysis it has been concluded that sufficient margin exists between the existing Technical Specification limit and the licensing basis Safety Analysis limit to accommodate the channel statistical error resulting from a 30 month operating cycle. The existing margin between the Technical Specification limit and the Safety Analysis limit provides assurance that plant protective actions will occur as required. It is therefore concluded that changing the surveillance interval from 18 months (+25%) to 24 months (+25%) will not result in a significant increase in the probability or consequences of an accident previously evaluated. 2. The possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any accident previously evaluated has not been created. The proposed change in operating cycle length due to an increased surveillance interval will not result in a channel statistical allowance which exceeds the current margin between the existing Technical Specification limit and the Safety Analysis limit. Plant equipment, which will be set at (or more conservatively than) Technical Specification limits, will provide protective functions to assure that Safety Analysis limits are not exceeded. This will prevent the possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any previously evaluated from occurring. 3. A significant reduction in a margin of safety is not involved. The above change in surveillance interval resulting from an increased operating cycle will not result in a channel statistical allowance which exceeds the margin which exists between the current Technical Specification limit and the licensing basis Safety Analysis limit. This margin, which is equivalent to the existing margin, is necessary to assure that protective safety functions will occur so that Safety Analysis limits are not exceeded. [(6) Vapor Containment Sump Discharge Flow and Temperature Channel:] The proposed change does not involve a significant hazards consideration since: 1. A significant increase in the probability or consequences of an accident previously evaluated will not occur. It is proposed that the calibration frequency for the VC sump discharge flow and temperature channel be changed from every 18 months (+25%) to every 24 months (+25%). A statistical analysis of channel uncertainty for a 30 month operating cycle has been performed. Based upon this analysis it has been concluded that sufficient margin exists between the existing Technical Specification and the licensing basis Safety Analysis to accommodate the channel statistical error resulting from a 30 month operating cycle. The existing margin between the Technical Specification and the Safety Analysis provides assurance that plant protective actions will occur as required. It is therefore concluded that changing the surveillance interval from 18 months (+25%) to 24 months (+25%) will not result in a significant increase in the probability or consequences of an accident previously evaluated. 2. The possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any accident previously evaluated has not been created. The proposed change in operating cycle length due to an increased surveillance interval will not result in a channel statistical allowance which exceeds the current margin between the existing Technical Specification and the Safety Analysis. Plant equipment, which will be set at (or more conservatively than) Technical Specification limits, will provide protective functions to assure that Safety Analysis limits are not exceeded. This will prevent the possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any previously evaluated from occurring.
