FR940217-1-00088 FR940217-1-00014 Under these proposed regulations, the Secretary would follow the fine proceedings contained in 34 CFR part 668, subpart G, in imposing a fine against a third-party servicer. Section 682.414␣Records, reports, and inspection requirements for guaranty agency programs. The Secretary proposes to amend this section to make a third-party servicer's responsibilities under this part conform to currently existing regulations with respect to a guaranty agency's obligation to maintain current records. Under this provision, a third-party servicer acting as an agent for a guaranty agency would be required to maintain current, complete, and accurate records for all loans that it services for that agency. These records would have to be updated at least once every 10 business days. The Secretary is proposing this provision to ensure that a third-party servicer with which a guaranty agency contracts is responsible for maintaining accurate records. Section 682.416␣Requirements for third-party servicers and lenders contracting with third-party servicers. The Secretary proposes to add a new section to the FFEL program regulations that would set forth administrative and financial standards that a third-party servicer would be required to meet in order to be an eligible third-party servicer with which a lender or guaranty agency may contract for purposes of its responsibilities under the FFEL programs. Under these proposed regulations, a third-party servicer would be considered to be administratively responsible if it provides the services for which it has contracted to perform in accordance with the Federal laws and regulations that govern the FFEL programs, has business systems that are capable of meeting those requirements and has adequate personnel who are knowledgeable about the FFEL programs. The Secretary is proposing these standards because he believes that these are the minimum administrative standards that an agent or entity must meet to demonstrate satisfactorily to the Secretary that it is capable of performing FFEL program services in accordance with applicable statutes and regulations. The Secretary proposes to apply the standards governing financial responsibility under 34 CFR 668.13(c), (d), (g), and (h), governing the financial responsibility of institutions and third-party servicers contracting with those institutions, to a third-party servicer that administers any aspect of the FFEL programs under a contract with a guaranty agency or lender, for purposes of this part. During the negotiated rulemaking sessions, the proposed standards governing financial responsibility of third-party servicers and institutions generated disagreement among the negotiators. The Secretary intends that the financial responsibility standards in this section would parallel, as applicable, similar standards of financial responsibility for participating institutions that the Secretary intends to publish in proposed regulations to be published shortly after these. When published, this future NPRM will provide commenters with the opportunity to comment on financial responsibility standards governing both third-party servicers and institutions. The Secretary proposes these standards to ensure that a third-party servicer would not be able to maintain a contract with a lender or guaranty agency to administer any aspect of the lender's or guaranty agency's FFEL program unless that servicer periodically demonstrates to the Secretary the ability to meet its financial obligations with that lender or guaranty agency. Further, these standards would ensure that the servicer can demonstrate that it is financially stable and will be able to meet these obligations in the future. The Secretary believes that these standards are necessary because the financial failure of a third-party servicer could have an enormous impact on the FFEL programs that could create substantial losses for the Federal taxpayer. Under these proposed rules, the Secretary would, as determined necessary, conduct a special review of a third-party servicer to determine if it meets the administrative capability and financial responsibility standards proposed in this section. If the Secretary conducts that review, the servicer would be required to provide evidence to the Secretary that it meets these standards. Based on the review of the materials required by this section the Secretary could initiate a limitation, suspension, or termination action against the servicer. If the servicer is unable to demonstrate that it meets the established standards for administrative capability and financial responsibility, the servicer could provide evidence to the Secretary demonstrating that the limitation, suspension, or termination action is unwarranted. This latter provision was added at the request of negotiators to govern situations where a third-party servicer may not be able to meet the defined standards proposed in this section, but the servicer still considers itself to be administratively capable and financially responsible. This provision would allow a third-party servicer the opportunity to demonstrate to the Secretary that it is still administratively capable and financially responsible. This section would provide that a third-party servicer is not financially responsible under this section if the servicer, or the servicer's owner, majority shareholder, or chief executive officer is determined to have a questionable past performance. The past performance criteria in this section would parallel proposed requirements under 34 CFR 668.12 (implementing statutory requirements governing the past performance of persons or organizations associated with institutions that participate in Title IV, HEA programs) and under 34 CFR 668.82 (governing the standard of conduct of institutions and third-party servicers for purposes of the Title IV, HEA programs). Furthermore, the Secretary proposes to apply this provision to any person employed by the servicer or any person, entity, or any officer or employee of an entity that the servicer contracts with whose past performance is also questionable. In addition, in order to remain financially responsible, if a third-party servicer learns of such a conviction or determination, the servicer would have to take immediate action to safeguard the Title IV, HEA programs, as explained previously in the discussion concerning §668.82.
