FR940812-0-00072 FR940812-0-00019 (8) Grantees and subgrantees will make awards only to responsible contractors possessing the ability to perform successfully under the terms and conditions of a proposed procurement. Consideration will be given to such matters as contractor integrity, compliance with public policy, record of past performance, and financial and technical resources. (9) Grantees and subgrantees will maintain records sufficient to detail the significant history of a procurement. These records will include, but are not necessarily limited to the following: Rationale for the method of procurement, selection of contract type, contractor selection or rejection, and the basis for the contract price. (10) Grantees and subgrantees will use time and material type contracts only_ (i) After a determination that no other contract is suitable; and (ii) If the contract includes a ceiling price that the contractor exceeds at its own risk. (11) Grantees and subgrantees alone will be responsible, in accordance with good administrative practice and sound business judgment, for the settlement of all contractual and administrative issues arising out of procurements. These issues include, but are not limited to source evaluation, protests, disputes, and claims. These standards do not relieve the grantee or subgrantee of any contractual responsibilities under its contracts. Federal agencies will not substitute their judgment for that of the grantee or subgrantee unless the matter is primarily a Federal concern. Violations of law will be referred to the local, State, or Federal authority having proper jurisdiction. (12) Grantees and subgrantees will have protest procedures to handle and resolve disputes relating to their procurements and shall in all instances disclose information regarding the protest to the awarding agency. A protester must exhaust all administrative remedies with the grantee and subgrantee before pursuing a protest with the Federal agency. Reviews of protests by the Federal agency will be limited to: (i) Violations of Federal law or regulations and the standards of this section (violations of State or local law will be under the jurisdiction of State or local authorities); and (ii) Violations of the grantee's or sub-grantee's protest procedures for failure to review a complaint or protest. Protests received by the Federal agency other than those specified in this paragraph (b)(12)(ii) will be referred to the grantee or subgrantee. (c) Competition. (1) All procurement transactions will be conducted in a manner providing full and open competition consistent with the standards of this section. Some of the situations considered to be restrictive of competition include but are not limited to: (i) Placing unreasonable requirements on firms in order for them to qualify to do business; (ii) Requiring unnecessary experience and excessive bonding; (iii) Noncompetitive pricing practices between firms or between affiliated companies; (iv) Noncompetitive awards to consultants that are on retainer contracts;
