FR940711-1-00021 FR940711-1-00003 As discussed earlier, there are two general ways in which retail stranded costs are likely to occur: 50 (1) A retail franchise customer may, through State or local government action, become a wholesale customer who can then obtain unbundled transmission services in order to reach a new power supplier; 51 (2) a retail franchise customer may obtain voluntary unbundled retail transmission services from its existing power supplier in order to reach a new power supplier, or there may be a State or local action that results in the existing supplier providing such retail transmission services. 50 Retail stranded costs may result from ``self-help'' actions such as customer self-generation, and this has long been a fact of life for utilities. See, supra , n.18. This proceeding does not address these situations. 51 In addition, certain retail customers may become retail customers of a newly-created wholesale entity. In the first example (a retail franchise customer becomes an unbundled wholesale power and transmission customer), the Commission clearly has exclusive jurisdiction under sections 201, 205 and 206, or section 212 of the FPA, over the rate for the wholesale interstate transmission services 52 used by the new wholesale entity in order to reach its new generation supplier. In the second example, in which a retail franchise customer becomes a retail unbundled transmission customer of its former franchise utility, and a retail power customer of another utility, we conclude that we also have exclusive jurisdiction over the rates, terms and conditions for the retail interstate transmission services. 53 52 Under FPA section 211, the Commission's authority to order wheeling does not turn on whether the transmission services will be in interstate commerce. 53 We make no determination here regarding the physical or jurisdictional distinctions between transmission and local distribution. Section 201(b)(1) of the FPA states that the Commission has no jurisdiction, except as specifically provided in Parts II and III of the FPA, over facilities used for local distribution. Nor do we address here whether States have authority to order retail wheeling in interstate commerce. (i) Jurisdictional Analysis The Commission's jurisdiction over the rates, terms and conditions of transmission in interstate commerce derives from Congress' power to regulate interstate commerce under the United States Constitution 54 and the FPA. When Congress enacted the FPA, it gave the Commission exclusive jurisdiction over the rates, terms and conditions of transmission in interstate commerce by public utilities. The Supremacy Clause of the Constitution provides that federal laws enacted pursuant to the powers delegated to the federal government by the United States Constitution are the supreme law of the land. 55 Accordingly, to the extent that retail wheeling involves transmission in interstate commerce by public utilities, the rates, terms and conditions of such service are subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of the Commission, and the rates for such service must be filed with the Commission. 56 54 U.S. Const. Art. I, §8, cl.3. 55 U.S. Const. Art. VI, cl.2. 56 See Montana-Dakota Utilities Co. v. Northwestern Public Service Co., 341 U.S. 246, 251&hyph;52 (1951) ( Montana-Dakota ). Section 201 of the FPA, by its very words, does not limit the Commission's jurisdiction over transmission to transmission of electric energy in interstate commerce sold at wholesale. Subsection 201(b)(1) of the FPA provides: (b)(1) The provisions of this Part shall apply to the transmission of electric energy in interstate commerce and to the sale of electric energy at wholesale in interstate commerce *␣*␣* The Commission shall have jurisdiction over all facilities for such transmission or sale of electric energy *␣*␣* 16 U.S.C. §824(b)(1). Much of the legislative history of the FPA indicates that Congress intended the Commission's jurisdiction to extend only to those matters which the Attleboro decision 57 held to be beyond the reach of the States. For instance, the report accompanying the Senate bill states that subsection (b) ``leaves to the States the authority to fix local rates even in cases where the energy is brought in from another state.'' 58 The Senate report also states: 57 Public Utilities Commission v. Attleboro Steam & Electric Co., 273 U.S. 83 (1927) ( Attleboro ). In Attleboro , the Supreme Court held that State regulation of the interstate sale of electricity was barred by the Commerce Clause because such regulation would impose a ``direct burden'' on interstate commerce. 58 S. Rep. No. 621, 74th Cong., 1st Sess. 48 (1935). See also H.R. Rep. No. 1318, 74th Cong., 1st Sess. 8 (1935). The rate-making powers of the Commission are confined to those wholesale transactions which the Supreme Court held in [ Attleboro ] to be beyond the reach of the States. Jurisdiction is asserted also over all interstate transmission lines whether or not there is sale of the energy carried by those lines. *␣*␣* S. Rep. No. 621, 74th Cong., 1st Sess. 48 (1935). Thus, federal jurisdiction over transmission lines is not dependent on whether those lines are used to effect a sale, wholesale or otherwise. While the provisions of section 201 reserving certain regulatory authority to the States have been interpreted narrowly, 59 the courts have construed ``in interstate commerce'' broadly. The term does not turn on whether the contract path for a particular power or transmission sale crosses state lines, but rather follows the physical flow of electricity. Because of the highly integrated nature of the electric system, this results in most transmission of electric energy being ``in interstate commerce.'' 59 While Congress may exercise its Commerce Clause authority to grant the States that ``ability to restrict the flow of interstate commerce that they would not otherwise enjoy,'' Lewis v. BT Investment Managers, Inc., 447 U.S. 27, 44 (1980), States may not exercise such regulatory powers unless Congress has expressly stated its intention to make such an affirmative grant of power. New England Power Co. v. New Hampshire, 55 U.S. 331, 343 (1982). For example, in Jersey Central Power & Light Co. v. FPC , 319 U.S. 61 (1943), the Court stated: It is impossible for us to conclude that this definition [of transmission in interstate commerce] means less than it says and applies only to the energy at the instant it crosses the state line and so only to the facilities which cross the line and only to the company which owns the facilities that cross the line. 319 U.S. at 71. Thus, a critical question regarding the jurisdictional status of a wheeling transaction is whether the facilities used to provide the service transmit electric energy in interstate commerce. See also Connecticut Light & Power Co. v. FPC , 324 U.S. 515 (1945) ( CL&P ); FPC v. Florida Power & Light Co. , 404 U.S. 453 (1972). In CL&P , the Court emphasized that whether certain facilities transmit electric energy in interstate commerce is more a technical than a legal question. The Court stated, ``[f]ederal jurisdiction was to follow the flow of electric energy, an engineering and scientific, rather than a legalistic or governmental, test.'' 324 U.S. at 529.
