FR940204-1-00040 FR940204-1-00003 DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION Federal Aviation Administration 14 CFR Part 33 [Docket No. 93&hyph;ANE&hyph;14; Notice No. 33&hyph;ANE&hyph;01] Special Conditions; Soloy Dual Pac, Inc., Model Soloy Dual Pac Engine AGENCY: Federal Aviation Administration, DOT. ACTION: Notice of proposed special conditions. SUMMARY: This notice proposes special conditions for the Soloy Dual Pac engine. This engine will have a novel design feature associated with its configuration. The Dual Pac engine is a propulsion system in which two Pratt & Whitney (P&W) PT6 gas turbine engines are combined through a common gearbox to drive a single output propeller shaft. The Dual Pac engine is intended to provide a degree of continuous operation following the failure of one of the P&W PT6 engines. The applicable regulations do not contain adequate or appropriate safety standards for such a configuration. This notice proposes the additional safety standards which the Administrator considers necessary to establish a level of safety equivalent to that established by the airworthiness standards of part 33 of the Federal Aviation Regulations (FAR). DATES: Comments must be submitted on or before March 21, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments on this proposal may be submitted in triplicate to: Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), New England Region, Office of the Assistant Chief Counsel, Attn: Rules Docket No. 93&hyph;ANE&hyph;14, 12 New England Executive Park, Burlington, Massachusetts 01803&hyph;5299. Comments must be marked: Docket No. 93&hyph;ANE&hyph;14. Comments may be inspected at this location between 8 a.m. and 4:30 p.m., Monday through Friday, except Federal holidays. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Hania Younis, Seattle Aircraft Certification Office, Propulsion Branch, ANM&hyph;140S, FAA, Northwest Mountain Region, 1601 Lind Avenue SW., Renton, Washington 98055&hyph;4056, telephone (206) 227&hyph;2764; fax (206) 227&hyph;1181. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Comments Invited Interested persons are invited to participate in the making of the proposed special conditions by submitting such written data, views, or arguments as they may desire. Communications should identify the Rules Docket number and be submitted in triplicate to the address specified under ``ADDRESSES .'' All communications received on or before the closing date for comments, specified under `` DATES ,'' will be considered by the Administrator before taking action on the proposal. The proposal contained in this notice may be changed in light of the comments received. Comments are specifically invited on the overall regulatory, economic, environmental, and energy aspects of the proposed special conditions. All comments submitted will be available in the Rules Docket for examination by interested persons, both before and after the closing date for comments. A report summarizing each substantive public contact with FAA personnel concerning this proposal will be filed in the docket. Commenters wishing the FAA to acknowledge receipt of their comments submitted in response to this notice must submit with those comments a self-addressed, stamped postcard on which the following statement is made: ``Comments to Docket No. 93&hyph;ANE&hyph;14.'' The postcard will be date stamped and returned to the commenter. Background General On November 9, 1990, Soloy Dual Pac, Inc., applied for a supplemental type certificate for the Dual Pac engine. The Dual Pac engine is a propulsion concept in which two Pratt & Whitney PT6 engines, currently approved under Type Certificate No. E4EA, drive a single propeller shaft through a combining gearbox. The Dual Pac engine incorporates redundant freewheeling, drive, governing, and lubricating systems. A system of one-way clutches both prevents the propeller shaft from driving the engine input shafts and allows either engine to drive the propeller should the other engine fail. The supplemental type certificate for the Dual Pac engine is to be based on the type certificate of the Pratt & Whitney PT6 engine. Safety Analysis The certification basis of the P&W PT6 engine was established before the introduction of FAR ยง33.75 (Safety Analysis). Section 33.75 addresses four types of engine failure conditions which are particularly hazardous to the safety of the aircraft. The objective of ยง33.75 is to require an analysis to be performed at the engine level which establishes that any probable single or multiple failure, or any probable improper operation will not cause the engine to catch fire, burst, generate loads greater than the ultimate loads for the engine mount, or lose the capability to shut down. Consequently, it is considered appropriate to add a safety analysis requirement to the Dual Pac engine program. Also, one objective of the Dual Pac engine is to provide continued operation after the failure of one P&W PT6 engine. While the safety analysis regulations of ยง33.75 are more extensive than those of the P&W PT6 engine certification basis, they still do not address this special ``continue to run'' objective.
