FR940223-2-00244 FR940223-2-00104 _Describe the background, experience and major accomplishments of the program director and principal staff, and how their qualifications relate to their duties in and responsibilities for the proposed programs. (Attach resumes if appropriate.) _If the staff has not yet been hired, explain what qualifications the candidates must fulfill. _Give a name, address, and telephone number of a contact person for the program who can address any questions about the program. (ii) Training. Describe what kind of orientation and training, if any, will be provided for the staff. (iii) Institutional strengths. Explain what institutional resources or expertise the administering organization(s) provide that will contribute to the overall success of the program. g. Achievement of Transportation Goals. (i) DOT community service goals and objectives. Explain how the program will meet any of the following transportation-related community service goals: _Tie America together through an effective intermodal transportation system; _Promote safe and secure transportation; _Actively enhance our environment through wise transportation decisions; _Put people first in our transportation system by making it relevant and accessible to users. (ii) Consultation with State DOTs and local MPOs. _Consultation with your local Metropolitan Planning Organization (``MPO'') (or State Department of Transportation if you have no local MPO) is highly recommended. Explain in what manner you have consulted with the State DOT and local MPO in developing your proposal. (For information concerning the contact person for your local Metropolitan Planning Organization, please call Ms. Susan Gaskins at 202&hyph;366&hyph;5781.) _Explain in what way you will involve State DOTs and local MPOs and/or keep them informed as the program progresses. _For projects to be performed under the ``Rehabilitation, Reclamation, and Beautification of Transportation-Related Facilities'' Program, explain what coordination has been conducted with the organization having authority over the relevant transportation facility (such as the State Department of Transportation, the local MPO, the transit authority, etc.) to determine that the project is acceptable. (iii) DOT expertise. Explain to what extent you will use expertise or rely on information provided by the Federal DOT, your State DOT, or other local transportation agency. 5. Budget form page and budget narrative.
