FR940930-1-00017 FR940930-1-00007 DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION Coast Guard 33 CFR Part 117 [CGD08&hyph;94&hyph;025] RIN 2115&hyph;AE47 Drawbridge Operation Regulations; Sabine River, LA AGENCY: Coast Guard, DOT. ACTION: Notice of proposed rulemaking. SUMMARY: At the request of the Louisiana Department of Transportation and Development, the Coast Guard is considering a change to the regulation governing the operation of the swing span bridge on Route LA 12 over the Sabine River, mile 40.8 near Starks, between Calcasieu Parish, Louisiana and Newton County, Texas, by permitting the draw to remain closed to navigation at all times. The draw presently opens on call with 24 hours advance notice, however, there is no significant navigation on the waterway and there have been no requests to open the bridge for passage of marine traffic for 20 years. DATES: Comments must be received on or before November 29, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments may be mailed to Commander(ob), Eighth Coast Guard District, 501 Magazine Street, New Orleans, Louisiana 70130&hyph;3396 or may be delivered to Room 1313 at the same address between 8 a.m. and 3:30 p.m., Monday through Friday except Federal holidays. The comments and other materials referenced in this notice will be available for inspection and copying in room 1313 at this address. Normal office hours are between 8 a.m. and 3:30 p.m., Monday through Friday, except holidays. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mr. David Frank, Bridge Administration Branch, (504) 589&hyph;2965. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Request for Comments The Coast Guard encourages interested persons to participate in this rulemaking by submitting written data, views, or arguments. Persons submitting comments should include their names and addresses, identify this rulemaking (CGD08&hyph;94&hyph;025) and the specific section of this proposal to which each comment applies, and give the reason for each comment. The Coast Guard requests that all comments and attachments be submitted in an unbound format suitable for copying and electronic filing. If not practical, a second copy of any bound materials is requested. Persons wanting acknowledgment of receipt of comments should enclose a stamped, self-addressed postcard or envelope. The Coast Guard will consider all comments received during the comment period. It may change this proposal in view of the comments. The Coast Guard plans no public hearing. Persons may request a public hearing by writing to Mr. David Frank at the address under ``ADDRESSES .'' The request should include reasons why a hearing would be beneficial. If it determines that the opportunity for oral presentations will aid this rulemaking, the Coast Guard will hold a public hearing at a time and place announced by a later notice in the Federal Register . Drafting Information The principal persons involved in drafting this document are Mr. David Frank, Project Officer and Lieutenant Elisa Holland, Project Attorney. Background and Purpose Upon request by the bridge owner, the Coast Guard is considering permitting the draw to remain permanently closed. Navigation requiring openings is non-existent and the bridge has not been opened for twenty years. There is no commercial navigation on the waterway in the vicinity of the bridge crossing. Vertical clearance of the bridge in the closed position is 6 feet above mean high water and 20 feet above low water. The occasional small recreational boat which uses the waterway can transit the bridge without requiring an opening. Permitting the permanent closure of the draw would result in a significant savings in maintenance costs with no effect on navigational traffic. Regulatory Evaluation This rule is not a significant regulatory action under Section 3(f) of Executive Order 12866 and does not require an assessment of potential cost and benefits under section 6(a)(3) of that order. It has been exempted from review by the Office of Management and Budget under that order. It is not significant under the regulatory policies and procedures of the Department of Transportation (DOT) (44 FR 11040); February 26, 1979). The Coast Guard expects the economic impact of this rule to be so minimal that a full Regulatory Evaluation under paragraph 10e of the regulatory policies and procedures of DOT is unnecessary.
