FR940303-0-00043 FR940303-0-00011 (ii) Agency. The Agency must file with the Internal Revenue Service the original of the election statement and the corresponding Form 8609 for the building with the Agency's Form 8610 that reflects the year the Form 8609 is issued. The Agency must also retain a copy of the election statement and the Form 8609. ยง1.42&hyph;9 For use by the general public. (a) General rule. If a residential rental unit in a building is not for use by the general public, the unit is not eligible for a section 42 credit. A residential rental unit is for use by the general public if the unit is rented in a manner consistent with housing policy governing non- discrimination, as evidenced by rules or regulations of the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) (24 CFR subtitle A and chapters I through XX). See HUD Handbook 4350.3 (or its successor). A copy of HUD Handbook 4350.3 may be requested by writing to: HUD, Directives Distribution Section, room B&hyph;100, 451 7th Street, SW., Washington, DC 20410. (b) Limitations. Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, if a residential rental unit is provided only for a member of a social organization or provided by an employer for its employees, the unit is not for use by the general public and is not eligible for credit under section 42. In addition, any residential rental unit that is part of a hospital, nursing home, sanitarium, lifecare facility, trailer park, or intermediate care facility for the mentally and physically handicapped is not for use by the general public and is not eligible for credit under section 42. (c) Treatment of units not for use by the general public. The costs attributable to a residential rental unit that is not for use by the general public are not excludable from eligible basis by reason of the unit's ineligibility for the credit under this section. However, in calculating the applicable fraction, the unit is treated as a residential rental unit that is not a low-income unit. ยง1.42&hyph;10 Utility allowances. (a) Inclusion of utility allowances in gross rent. If the cost of any utilities (other than telephone) for a residential rental unit are paid directly by the tenant(s), the gross rent for that unit includes the applicable utility allowance determined under this section. This section only applies for purposes of determining gross rent under section 42(g)(2)(B)(ii) as to rent-restricted units. (b) Applicable utility allowances _(1) FmHA-assisted buildings. If a building receives assistance from the Farmers Home Administration (FmHA-assisted building), the applicable utility allowance for all rent-restricted units in the building is the utility allowance determined under the method prescribed by the Farmers Home Administration (FmHA) for the building. For example, if a building receives assistance under FmHA's section 515 program (whether or not the building or its tenants also receive other state or federal assistance), the applicable utility allowance for all rent- restricted units in the building is determined using Exhibit A&hyph;6 of 7 CFR part 1944, subpart E (or a successor method of determining utility allowances). (2) Buildings with FmHA assisted tenants. If any tenant in a building receives FmHA rental assistance payments (FmHA tenant assistance), the applicable utility allowance for all rent-restricted units in the building (including any units occupied by tenants receiving HUD rental assistance payments) is the applicable FmHA utility allowance. (3) HUD-regulated buildings. If neither a building nor any tenant in the building receives FmHA housing assistance, and the rents and utility allowances of the building are reviewed by HUD on an annual basis (HUD-regulated building), the applicable utility allowance for all rent-restricted units in the building is the applicable HUD utility allowance. (4) Other buildings. If a building is neither an FmHA- assisted nor a HUD-regulated building, and no tenant in the building receives FmHA tenant assistance, the applicable utility allowance for rent-restricted units in the building is determined under the following methods. (i) Tenants receiving HUD rental assistance. The applicable utility allowance for any rent-restricted units occupied by tenants receiving HUD rental assistance payments (HUD tenant assistance) is the applicable Public Housing Authority (PHA) utility allowance established for the Section 8 Existing Housing Program.
