FR940627-0-00210 FR940627-0-00019 (E) Non-Baseline Methane . The Non-Baseline methane category consists of one group. The group representative shall be the member fuel or fuel/additive formulation containing the highest concentration-in-use of non-methane hydrocarbons. If two or more member products have the same and the highest concentration-in-use, then the representative shall be chosen at random from such products. (F) Non-Baseline Propane . The Non-Baseline propane category consists of one group. The group representative shall be the member fuel or fuel/additive formulation containing the highest concentration-in-use of butane and higher hydrocarbons. If two or more products have the same and the highest concentration-in-use, then the representative shall be chosen at random from such products. (iii) Atypical groups . (A) As defined for each individual fuel family in ยง 79.56(e)(3), fuels and additives meeting any one of the following criteria are considered atypical. ( 1 ) Gasoline Atypical fuels and additives contain one or more elements in addition to carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, nitrogen, and sulfur. ( 2 ) Diesel Atypical fuels and additives contain one or more element in addition to carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, nitrogen, and sulfur. ( 3 ) Methanol Atypical fuels and additives contain: ( i ) one or more element in addition to carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, nitrogen, sulfur, and chlorine, and/or ( ii ) sulfur in excess of 0.004 percent by weight, and/or ( iii ) chlorine in excess of 0.0001 percent by weight. ( 4 ) Ethanol Atypical fuels and additives contain: ( i ) one or more element in addition to carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, nitrogen, sulfur, chlorine, and copper, and/or ( ii ) sulfur in excess of 0.004 percent by weight, and/or ( iii ) contain chlorine (as chloride) in excess of 0.0004 percent by weight, and/or ( iv ) contain copper in excess of 0.07 mg/L. ( 5 ) Methane Atypical fuels and additives contain: ( i ) one or more element in addition to carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, nitrogen, and sulfur, and/or ( ii ) sulfur in excess of 16 ppm by volume. ( 6 ) Propane Atypical fuels and additives contain: ( i ) one or more element in addition to carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, nitrogen, and sulfur, and/or ( ii ) sulfur in excess of 123 ppm by weight. (B) General rules for sorting these atypical fuels and additives into separate groups are as follows: ( 1 ) Pursuant to ยง79.51(j), a given atypical product may belong to more than one atypical group. ( 2 ) Fuels and additives in different fuel families may not be grouped together, even if they contain the same atypical element(s) or other atypical characteristic(s). ( 3 ) A fuel or additive containing one or more atypical elements attached to a polymer compound must be sorted into a separate group from atypical fuels or fuel additives containing the same atypical element(s) in non-polymer form. However, the occurrence of a polymer compound which does not contain an atypical element does not affect the grouping of a fuel or additive. (C) Specific rules for sorting each family's atypical fuels and additives into separate groups, and for choosing each such group's representative for testing, are as follows: ( 1 ) A separate group is created for each atypical element (or other atypical characteristic) occurring separately, i.e. , in the absence of any other atypical element or characteristic, in one or more fuels and/or additives within a given fuel family. ( i ) Consistent with the basic grouping guidelines provided in ยง79.56(d), a fuel product which is classified as atypical because its basic registration data or application lists a bulk additive containing an atypical characteristic, may be grouped with that additive and/or with other fuels and additives containing the same atypical characteristic. ( ii ) Within a group of products containing only one atypical element or characteristic, the fuel or additive/base fuel mixture with the highest concentration-in-use or recommended concentration-in-use of the atypical element or characteristic shall be the designated representative of that group. In the event that two or more fuels or additive/base fuel mixtures within the group contain the same and highest concentration of the single atypical element or characteristic, then the group representative shall be selected by a random method from among such candidate products.
