FR940111-2-00040 FR940111-2-00017 B. Comments Opposing Authorization A number of commenters identified problems associated with delegation, both in public participation issues and in other areas: ``If [program authorization] were to happen, South Dakota citizens, although they might not know it, would be without protection.'' ``DENR's activities last year demonstrate clearly the agency's tendency toward advocacy for, rather than regulation of, the entities it is, by law, required to oversee *␣*␣*. [This group] seeks denial of state delegation until the philosophy of DENR changes from that of advocate for the regulated community to one of regulator.'' An environmental group criticized the state's commitment to enforcement. An environmental group requested that EPA require monitoring data to be submitted and housed at DENR. They also suggested that issued and denied permits require equivalent levels of clearances. C. EPA's Response to Comments on Overall Authorization Issues EPA noted and considered all public comments considering the overall advantages and disadvantages of approving the NPDES program administration by the State of South Dakota. Many of the comments reflected the advantage of State program approval which the Clean Water Act envisioned: the program can be administered more effectively closer to the regulated community when the agency and its staff are competent and committed to protecting the environment and public health. Resources to be used meet the minimum requirements of the NPDES program as it now exists. The State would be responsible for devoting the resources needed to maintain this program and implement additional requirements, as they occur. EPA's responses to public participation issues are found under the sections on ``Unsigned Complaints'' and ``Citizen Intervention''. EPA typically does not require submission of monitoring data other than discharge monitoring reports (DMRs) when it administers the NPDES program in a state. Therefore, it does not require an approved state to do so. It appears that there are equivalent levels of clearance for permit issuance and denial. In both cases, the Secretary makes that decision. This is noted in the flow chart on page 9 of the Program Description. Conclusion The State of South Dakota has demonstrated that it adequately meets the requirements for program authorization as defined in the Clean Water Act, 40 CFR part 123, and 40 CFR part 403. The U.S. Fish & Wildlife Service concurred with the EPA ``no adverse affect'' determination regarding program authorization. The State Historic Preservation Office concurred with the EPA ``no effect'' determination. This authorization does not include the sludge management program. At this time, EPA is withholding authorization to administer the NPDES program on Indian Country located within South Dakota, including lands for which there is significant controversy over whether or not the land is Indian Country. Federal Register Notice of Approval of State NPDES Programs or Modifications EPA must provide Federal Register notice of any action by the Agency approving or modifying a State NPDES program. The following table will provide the public with an up-to-date list of the status of NPDES permitting authority throughout the country. Today's Federal Register notice is to announce the approval of South Dakota's authority to administer the NPDES permit program, including regulation of federal facilities and issuance of general permits and to administer the pretreatment program.
