FR941230-1-00030 FR941230-1-00004 (iv) The governmental person and the service provider under the contract are not related parties. (5) De minimis exception for functionally related use. The use of a financed facility pursuant to a qualified management contract does not result in use of the financed facility for purposes of the private business use test if that use is functionally related and subordinate to that management contract and that use is not, in substance, a separate contractual agreement (for example, a separate lease of a portion of the financed facility). Thus, for example, exclusive use of storage areas by the manager for equipment that is necessary for it to perform its required activities does not give rise to private business use. (6) Definitions. For purposes of this paragraph (c), the following definitions apply: (i) Adjusted gross revenues means gross revenues of all or a portion of a facility, less allowances for bad debts and contractual and similar allowances. (ii) Capitation fee means a fixed periodic amount for each person for whom the service provider or the governmental person assumes the responsibility to provide all needed services for a specified period so long as the quantity and type of services actually provided to covered persons varies substantially. For example, a capitation fee includes a fixed dollar amount payable per month to a medical service provider for each member of a health maintenance organization plan for whom the provider agrees to provide all needed medical services for a specified period. A capitation fee may include a variable component of up to 20 percent of total compensation designed to protect the service provider against risks such as catastrophic loss. (iii) Periodic fixed fee means a stated dollar amount for services rendered for a specified period of time. For example, a stated dollar amount per month is a periodic fixed fee. The stated dollar amount may automatically increase according to a specified, objective, external standard that is not linked to the output or efficiency of a facility. For example, the Consumer Price Index and similar external indices that track increases in prices in an area or increases in revenues or costs in an industry are objective external standards. Capitation fees and per-unit fees are not periodic fixed fees. (iv) Per-unit fee means a fee based on a unit of service provided. For example, a stated dollar amount for each specified medical procedure performed, car parked, or passenger mile is a per-unit fee. (v) Renewal option means a provision under which the service provider has a legally enforceable right to renew the contract. Thus, for example, a provision under which a contract is automatically renewed for one-year periods absent cancellation by either party is not a renewal option (even if it is expected to be renewed). (vi) Management contract means a management, service, or incentive payment contract between a governmental person and a service provider under which the service provider provides services involving all, a portion of, or any function of, a facility. For example, a management or incentive payment service contract includes a contract for the provision of management services for an entire hospital, management services for a specific department of a hospital, or an incentive payment contract for physician services to patients of a hospital. Management contracts do not include a customary contract for janitorial or similar services. The mere granting of admitting privileges by a hospital to a doctor does not result in a management contract even if those privileges are conditioned on the provision of de minimis services, if those privileges are available to all qualified physicians in the area, consistent with the size and nature of its facilities. A contract to provide for the operation of a mixed use facility described in ยง1.141&hyph;6(b)(2)(i)(B) (relating to certain undivided ownership interests) is not a management contract if the only compensation is the reimbursement of actual and direct expenses paid by the service provider. (vii) Service provider means any person other than a governmental person that provides services under a contract to or for the benefit of a governmental person. (viii) Penalties for terminating a contract include a limitation on the governmental person's right to compete with the service provider; a requirement that the governmental person purchase equipment, goods, or services from the service provider; and a requirement that the governmental person pay liquidated damages for cancellation of the contract. In contrast, a requirement effective on cancellation that the governmental person reimburse the service provider for ordinary and necessary expenses or a restriction on the governmental person against hiring key personnel of the service provider is generally not a contract termination penalty. The existence of another contract between the service provider and the governmental person, such as a loan or guarantee by the service provider, constitutes a contract termination penalty if that contract contains terms that are not customary or arm's-length that could operate to prevent the governmental person from terminating the contract (for example, provisions under which the contract terminates if the service contract is terminated or that place substantial restrictions on the selection of a substitute service contract provider).
