FR941202-0-00174 FR941202-0-00016 The representative of the pet industry and two aviculturists commented it was ``in error and misleading'' for the Service to list Bourke's parrot ( Neophema bourkii ) and the Scarlet-chested parrot ( Neophema splendida ) on the approved list of captive-bred species because they are listed as endangered under the U.S. Endangered Species Act (ESA). The Service disagrees and notes that we are aware of the species' listing under the ESA. The Service did not intend to mislead the public and was aware that these species were listed under the ESA and would require ESA permits to be imported. However, the Service found that these 2 species met the criteria in Section 15.31, and since a few captive-bred birds had been imported into the U.S. in past years, it was appropriate to list them and not require a WBCA permit for their import. The Service notes that, although the species is endangered in the wild in Australia, adequate enforcement controls exist such that wild-caught birds are not threatened by illegal trade. The Service does not have any evidence of any specimens in international trade that are not captive-bred. The Government of Australia agrees with this interpretation for these species. The Service has footnoted the species on the approved list of captive-bred species which require an ESA permit for importation to avoid any confusion. Effects of the Rule The Service has determined that this final rule is categorically excluded under Departmental procedures in complying with the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA). See 516 DM [Departmental Manual] 2, Appendix 1 Paragraph 1.10. The regulations are procedural in nature, and the environmental effects, while crafted to carry out the benign purposes of the WBCA, are judged to be minimal, speculative, and do not lend themselves to meaningful analysis. Future regulations implementing the WBCA may be subject to NEPA documentation requirements, on a case-by-case basis. Executive Orders 12866, 12612, and 12630 and the Regulatory Flexibility Act This rule was not subject to Office of Management and Budget review under Executive Order 12866. This action is not expected to have significant taking implications for United States citizens, as per Executive Order No. 12630. It has also been certified that these revisions will not have a significant economic effect on a substantial number of small entities as described by the Regulatory Flexibility Act. Since the rule applies to importation of live wild birds into the United States, it does not contain any Federalism impacts as described in Executive Order 12612. Paperwork Reduction This final rule does not contain any increase in information collection or record keeping requirements as defined by the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980. The information collection requirement(s) contained in this section have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget, as required by 44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq. List of Subjects in 50 CFR Part 15
