FR940128-1-00085 FR940128-1-00006 FDA has also evaluated the potential health benefits associated with increased consumption of seafood. Because of the negative publicity concerning water pollution and seafood safety, consumer perception of seafood safety may overestimate actual risk. In addition, contamination scares cause drastic short-term drops in consumer demand for seafood products and undoubtedly contribute to the chronic level of consumer concern about seafood safety. Thus, safety concerns about seafood are a likely factor preventing wider consumer acceptance of seafood as part of the U.S. diet. If this proposal is finalized, consumer concerns about seafood safety may be reduced which may, in turn, lead to increased consumption of seafood. FDA has evaluated the possibility that consumers may switch from higher fat flesh protein, such as meat and poultry, to seafood. The resulting reduced dietary fat in the diet of the general population would result in reduced incidence of coronary heart disease and cancer. Using the same methodology employed in an earlier analysis of the Nutrition Labeling and Education Act of 1990 (Pub. L. 101&hyph;535), FDA analyzed the benefits of a 1- and 5-pound per capita increase in consumption of seafood. These were estimated to decrease deaths by 673 and 2,782, respectively, over a 10-year period. The resulting benefits are valued at $3 and $14 billion. D. Small Business Impact The proposed rule will have a substantial impact on small seafood processors as defined by the Regulatory Flexibility Act. Eighty percent of the seafood processors covered by this proposed regulation are small, where small is defined for nonshrimp firms as less than $1 million in annual gross revenue and less than $2 million for shrimp firms. The provisions of this rule, such as monitoring and recordkeeping, are largely fixed costs (costs which do not vary significantly with the amount of the product produced) which will impose larger per unit costs on small rather than on large businesses. In addition, small firms may have as many critical control points as large firms because critical control points tend to be related to the complexity of the operation, not the size of the business. However, it may be that smaller firms are less complex than large firms, although the agency does not have sufficient data to determine if this is so. In some cases the increase in cost will be large enough to cause some firms to go out of business. For example, estimates of firm failure have been as low as 2 percent (96 firms) of all firms (from the Canadian experience) to 334 firms (estimated for compliance with MSSP). However, FDA does not have enough information to estimate the number of firms that will close if the proposed rule becomes final. There are several factors that affect the ability of small processors to comply with the proposed regulations. First, the basic HACCP requirements proposed in subpart A of part 123 deliberately include only the essentials of HACCP in order to keep fixed costs to a minimum. Second, FDA is developing considerable guidance in the form of a hazard guide and model HACCP plans to enable small processors to implement an effective HACCP system at the lowest possible cost. Third, FDA is also aware that academia and trade associations are available to assist processors to implement HACCP. Finally, for those small processors that have very simple operations requiring few critical control points, an inherent feature of HACCP is that it adjusts to the complexity and risks of an operation. While any closure is regrettable, the agency strongly believes that firms that are unable to identify the likely hazards associated with their products and take reasonable preventive controls to prevent those hazards from occurring should not be selling food in interstate commerce. As described in the preamble, FDA is keenly interested in keeping the costs of implementing HACCP to a minimum and is issuing guidance documents and model HACCP plans to facilitate such implementation. FDA is specifically requesting comment in areas where costs and benefit estimates are either very uncertain or potentially large. FDA will utilize answers received on these comments along with all other comments to help formulate the final rule.
