FR940616-2-00116 FR940616-2-00089 Undergraduate and Graduate Student Exchanges With the Baltic Countries, the New Independent States, and Central and Eastern Europe ACTION: Notice_Request for Proposals (RFP). SUMMARY: The United States Information Agency (USIA) invites applications from U.S. educational, cultural, and other not-for-profit organizations to conduct exchanges of college students with Albania, Armenia, Azerbaijan*, Belarus, Bulgaria, Croatia, the Czech Republic, Estonia, Georgia, Hungary, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzia, Latvia, Lithuania, Macedonia, Moldova, Poland, the Republic of Slovakia, Romania, the Russian Federation, Slovenia, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Ukraine, and Uzbekistan. These exchanges represent part of the activities of the Presidents' University Student Exchange (the 1000-1000 Student Exchange) and the Samantha Smith Memorial Exchange Program and are subject to the availability of funding. Interested applicants are urged to read the complete Federal Register announcement before addressing inquiries to the Office of Academic Programs, Academic Exchanges Division, European Branch or submitting their proposals. After the RFP deadline, the European Branch may not discuss this competition in any way with applicants until the final decisions are made. Support is offered for three categories of exchange programs: Category A: The Presidents' University Student Exchange Program (the 1000&hyph;1000 Student Exchange) with Armenia, Azerbaijan*, Belarus, Estonia, Georgia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzia, Latvia, Lithuania, Moldova, the Russian Federation, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Ukraine, and Uzbekistan; Category B: The Samantha Smith Memorial Exchange with Armenia, Azerbaijan*, Belarus, Estonia, Georgia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzia, Latvia, Lithuania, Moldova, the Russian Federation, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Ukraine, and Uzbekistan; and, Category C: The Samantha Smith Memorial Exchange with Albania, Bulgaria, Croatia, the Czech Republic, Hungary, Macedonia, Poland, the Republic of Slovakia, Romania, and Slovenia. * Please note: Programs with Azerbaijan are subject to the restrictions of Section 907 of the Freedom Support Act of 1992: Employees of the Government of Azerbaijan or any of its instrumentalities are excluded from participation and no U.S. participant overseas may work for the Government of Azerbaijan or any of its instrumentalities. In addition, the Government of Azerbaijan and/or its instrumentalities will have no control in the actual selection of participants. Each category has separate conditions and requirements, which are stated in this announcement. Organizations may compete in one, two or three of the categories, but must submit a separate proposal and budget for each category. If an institution submits proposals in more than one category which appear to be identical or nearly identical in content, the Agency reserves the right to consider only one of the proposals. Organizations applying under any or all categories must follow the requirements stipulated in this RFP, the application guidelines, and any additional material specific to a given category. Failure to do so may result in a proposal being deemed technically ineligible. Programs and projects must conform with all Agency requirements and guidelines, and are subject to final review by a USIA grants officer. Proposals must be for study programs for which academic credit is given. While programs may include internships, the focus of projects should be classroom work or research. Programs designed specifically for foreign participants to teach their native language or area studies in American institutions are ineligible for support. Eligible Applicants: Applications under Categories A, B or C for substantive academic exchanges will be accepted from accredited, degree-granting U.S. universities or colleges, including two-year community colleges, university systems, and not-for-profit organizations engaged in international educational exchange programs. DATES: Deadline for proposals: September 28, 1994. All copies of proposals for Categories A, B and C must be received at the U.S. Information Agency by 5 p.m. Washington, DC time on September 28, 1994. Faxed documents will not be accepted nor will documents postmarked on September 28, 1994, but received at a later date. It is the responsibility of each grant applicant to ensure that its proposals are received by the appropriate deadline. No funds may be expended until the grant agreement is signed with USIA's Office of Contracts.
