FR940719-2-00015 FR940719-2-00003 1. Ninety-five percent (95%) of the November Average Daily Settlement Price for Cotton to be delivered during the month of December, of the then current crop year, shall be established (hereinafter the ``Cotton Price''); 2. The Cotton Price shall be multiplied by 160% (1.60) to determine the ``ELS Cotton Futures Price''. 3. The ``ELS Cotton Base Price'' shall be established as the highest MPCI Policy price election for ELS Cotton available under the MPCI Policy, for the then current crop year, for the Farm Unit on which the ELS Cotton Crop suffering the loss is located. 4. The ELS Cotton Base Price shall be subtracted from the ELS Cotton Futures Price to determine the ``ELS Cotton Price Change''. 5. The ``Maximum Price Change'' per pound shall be that amount selected by You ($0.30, $0.50, or $0.70 per pound) on Your application for coverage and shown on the Summary of Coverage provided by Us to You. 6. The ``Indemnity Per Pound'' shall be the lesser of: a. The ELS Cotton Price Change; and b. The Maximum Price change. 7. The MPCI Policy Indemnity Payment shall be provided by Your MPCI Policy Crop Price Election for ELS Cotton to determine the ``ELS Cotton Production Loss'' in pounds; 8. The Indemnity Per Pound shall be multiplied by the ELS Cotton Production Loss to determine the total indemnity to be paid to You. B. ``Average Daily Settlement Price'' means the average derived by totaling the New York Cotton Exchange commodity futures daily final closing settlement price for Cotton for each full active trading day during the month and dividing this sum by the number of full active trading days during the month. For purposes of determining the Average Daily Settlement Price, there must be fifteen (15) or more full active trading days during the applicable month. If there are fourteen (14) or less full active trading days during the applicable month as to Cotton, no indemnity shall be payable as to Your ELS Cotton Crop. C. In the event that trading on the New York Cotton Exchange commodity futures market for Cotton is suspended or terminated so that for purposes of determining the Average Daily Settlement Price for Cotton there are fourteen (14) or less full active trading days during the applicable month, no indemnity shall be payable under this Policy as to Your ELS Cotton Crop, and that portion of the Premium paid by You which is applicable to Your ELS Cotton Crop shall be refunded by Us. Article XIV_Definitions is amended by adding the following new paragraphs: A. ``ELS Cotton'' is defined as only Extra Long Staple Cotton (also known as Pima Cotton and American-Egyptian Cotton) and specifically excludes, without limitation, American Upland Lint Cotton. B. ``Cotton'' is defined as only American Upland Lint Cotton and specifically excludes, without limitation, Extra Long Staple Cotton (also known as Pima Cotton and American-Egyptian Cotton). The coverage provided by the Policy and this endorsement does not extend to and no coverage exists under this endorsement as to any ELS cotton crop grown on acreage located in South Texas. Coverage under the policy for any ELS cotton crop grown on acreage located in South Texas is provided, if at all, only under a separate endorsement to this policy entitled ``Extra Long Staple Cotton Endorsement (South Texas)''. ``South Texas'' is defined as including only the following counties in Texas: Aranansas, Atacosa, Bee, Bexar, Brooks, Calhoun, Cameron, Dimmit, Duval, Frio, Goliad, Hidalgo, Jackson, Jim Hogg, Jim Wells, Karnes, Kenedy, Kinney, Kleberg, La Salle, Live Oak, McMullen, Maverick, Medina, Nueces, Refugio, San Patricio, Starr, Uvalde, Victoria, Webb, Willacy, Wilson, Zapata, and Zavala. Pursuant to the ``Insurance Period'' Section of Article III of the Policy: The coverage provided by the Policy and this endorsement for your cotton crop is not continuous. You must renew the coverage provided by the Policy and this endorsement on your cotton crop no later than April 15 of each year for coverage to be effective for the succeeding year. Extra Long Staple Cotton Endorsement (South Texas) Name Insured: Policy Period: Insured by (Insurance Company): Endorsement Number: Policy Number: Effective Date of Endorsement: The above needs to be completed only when this endorsement is issued subsequent to preparation and issuance of the Market Value Protection Policy. How this endorsement effects your coverage: The Losses Insured Against under the ``Cause of Loss'' Section of Article III of the Policy shall include: Unavoidable financial loss resulting directly from an increase in the New York Cotton Exchange commodity futures settlement prices for Cotton as specifically set forth in this endorsement and the Policy, and provided that You sustain a production loss on ELS Cotton grown in South Texas, during the Insurance Period, caused by an insured peril(s) under the MPCI Policy and an MPCI Policy Indemnity Payment is made to You. Under Paragraph ``A'' of the ``Indemnity Payment'' Section of Article V of the Policy, the indemnity payable to You for loss to Your ELS Cotton Crop grown in South Texas shall be calculated as follows: A. As to any loss under the MPCI Policy, during the Insurance Period, to any ELS Cotton Crop grown in South Texas:
