FR941019-0-00041 FR941019-0-00004 §1609.9 Suspension of marketing period for sales to nonprofit organizations and public agencies. (a) The RTC may, for such period of time as it determines appropriate, suspend any of the rules governing the marketing or sale of eligible residential property set forth in this part, if during such period the RTC negotiates the sale of any such property to a nonprofit organization or public agency. If the property is not sold pursuant to such negotiations, the requirements of any provisions suspended shall apply upon termination of the suspension. Any time periods applicable to the disposition of eligible residential property shall be tolled for the duration of any suspension under this section. (b) When an eligible multifamily property is ready for sale, and prior to sending the Notice of Marketing Period to clearinghouses pursuant to §1609.7(b)(1) of this part, the RTC shall suspend such marketing period and offer such property exclusively to public agencies and nonprofit organizations serving the jurisdiction or area in which such property is located. The marketing period for direct sales to public agencies and nonprofit organizations shall be forty-five (45) days from the date on which the notice of marketing period is mailed by the RTC. If the RTC receives no notices of serious interest from public agencies or nonprofit organizations during such marketing period, then the RTC shall offer such property to all qualifying multifamily purchasers pursuant to §1609.7(b) of this part. (c) Upon the sale of an eligible residential property to a nonprofit organization or a public agency pursuant to this section, such property and its purchaser shall be required to meet the requirements of this part, including, with respect to sales to a public agency, the provisions of §1609.11 of this part. §1609.10 Reporting. (a) Reports to Congress . The RTC shall submit to the Congress semiannual reports regarding the disposition of eligible multifamily property, eligible condominium property and eligible single family property during the most recently concluded reporting period. The first report to Congress shall be submitted not later than April 12, 1992. Subsequent reports shall be submitted not less than every 6 months thereafter. (b) Reporting Period . The term ``reporting period'' means the six-months period for which a report under this §1609.10 is made. The first reporting period shall be the period beginning on August 9, 1989, the date of enactment of the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989, and ending on December 12, 1991, the date of the enactment of the Resolution Trust Corporation Refinancing, Restructuring, and Improvement Act of 1991. Each successive reporting period shall begin upon the conclusion of the preceding reporting period. (c) Information Regarding Properties Sold . Each report under this §1609.10 shall contain information regarding each eligible multifamily property, eligible condominium property and eligible single family property sold by the RTC during the applicable reporting period, as follows: (1) A description of the property, the location of the property, and the number of dwelling units in the property; (2) The appraised value of the property; (3) The sale price of the property; (4) For eligible single family properties_ (i) The income and race (to the extent allowed by applicable federal law) of the purchaser of the property, if the property is sold to an occupying household, or is sold for resale to an occupying household; and
