FR940526-2-00004 FR940526-2-00001 6. Revise Provision (d) listed under ``Terms and Conditions of Certificate'' in NFE's current Export Trade Certificate of Review. The revised Provision should read as follows: (d) NFE will comply with requests made by the Department of Commerce on behalf of itself or the Department of Justice for information or documents relevant to conduct under the Certificate. The Department of Commerce will request such information or documents when either the Department of Justice or the Department of Commerce believes it requires the information or documents to determine that the Export Trade, Export Trade Activities or Methods of Operation of the persons protected by this Certificate of Review continue to comply with the standards of section 303(a) of the Act; 7. Revise the ``Protection Provided by Certificate'' paragraph. That paragraph should read as follows: This Certificate protects NFE and its directors, officers, and employees acting on its behalf, as well as its Members, from private treble damage actions and government criminal and civil suits under U.S. federal and state antitrust laws for the export conduct specified in the Certificate and carried out during its effective period in compliance with its terms and conditions; 8. Revise the ``Effective Period by Certificate'' paragraph. That paragraph should read as follows: This Certificate continues in effect until it is revoked or modified as provided in section 304(b) of the Act and ยง325.9 of the Regulations; and 9. Revise the ``Disclaimer'' paragraph. That paragraph should read as follows: The issuance of this Certificate of Review to NFE and its Members by the United States Government under the provisions of the Act, does not constitute, explicitly or implicitly, an endorsement or opinion of the United States Government concerning either (a) the viability or quality of the business plans of NFE or (b) the legality of such business plans of NFE under the laws of the United States (other than as provided in the Act) or under the laws of any foreign country. This Certificate does not apply to sales to the United States Government or to any sale more than half the cost of which is borne by the United States Government. In accordance with the authority granted under the Act and Regulations, this Certificate of Review is hereby issued to NFE. Dated: May 20, 1994. Friedrich R. Crupe, Deputy Director, Office of Export Trading Company Affairs. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;12907 Filed 5&hyph;25&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3510&hyph;25&hyph;P
