FR940613-2-00090 FR940613-2-00055 Definition of ``municipal securities business'' does not include competitive financial advisory activities. The definition of ``municipal securities business'' in rule G&hyph;37(g)(vii) includes certain dealer activities, such as acting as negotiated underwriters, financial advisors and consultants, placement agents, and negotiated remarketing agents. In its rule G&hyph;37 filing with the Commission, the Board noted that the rule would not prohibit dealers from acting as competitive underwriters or competitive remarketing agents. 5 The Board is amending this definition to clarify that the rule also would not prohibit dealers from engaging in competitive advisory activities. 5 See supra note 2. Only associated persons come under definition of ``municipal finance professional.'' The Board determined to amend the definition of ``municipal finance professional,'' as set forth in rule G&hyph;37(g)(iv), to clarify that only associated persons would fall within the rule's four categories of municipal finance professionals. 6 6 ``Associated persons'' is defined in Sections 3(a)(18) and 3(a)(32) of the Act; [15 U.S.C. 78c(a)(18), (32)]. Dealers shall send G&hyph;37 Reports to the Board by certified or registered mail or by some other means that provides a record of sending. Rule G&hyph;37(e)(i) currently requires dealers to submit quarterly reports to the Board on Form G&hyph;37 concerning political contributions and municipal securities business. The Board is concerned, however, that some confusion could arise over whether particular reports were actually sent and/or lost in the mail. To obviate any such problem, the Board is amending this paragraph to require that dealers send such reports to the Board ``by certified or registered mail, or some other equally prompt means that provides a record of sending.'' This will ensure that dealers have a record of all reports submitted to the Board. The Board also is amending this paragraph to correct an erroneous cross-reference to rule G&hyph;8, which requires dealers to submit to the Board reports on contributions that are required to be recorded pursuant to rule G&hyph;8(a)(xvi). The rule requires, among other things, that dealers disclose the name, company, role and compensation arrangement of any person, other than a municipal finance professional, employed by the dealer to obtain or retain business. Paragraph (e)(ii) of rule G&hyph;37 requires that the reports referred to in paragraph (e)(i) include, among other things, a list of issuers with which the dealer has engaged in municipal securities business, along with the type of municipal securities business and the name, company, role, and compensation arrangement of any person employed by the dealer to obtain or retain municipal securities business with such issuers. The Board intended that this provision apply to persons such as outside consultants that are not municipal finance professionals associated with the dealer. Thus, the amendment clarifies that this requirement does not require the dealer to disclose the name of such municipal finance professionals. Dealers complying with Commission Rule 17a&hyph;3 must maintain the information and records required by Board rule G&hyph;37. Board rule G&hyph;8(f) allows dealers, other than bank dealers, who are in compliance with Commission Rule 17a&hyph;3, on recordkeeping, to be deemed in compliance with Board rule G&hyph;8, on recordkeeping. However, the rule provides that specific information required by rule G&hyph;8 must be maintained, even though such information is not required by Rule 17a&hyph;3. The Board is amending rule G&hyph;8(f) to clarify that dealers complying with Rule 17a&hyph;3 are still required to maintain the information and records required by Board rule G&hyph;37. 7 7 In addition, the board is amending rule G&hyph;8(f) to include appropriate cross-references to rules G&hyph;27 on supervision, and G&hyph;36 on delivery to the Board of officials statements and advance refunding documents. This amendment, like the proposed rule change, clarifies that dealers complying with Rule 17a&hyph;3 must still maintain the information and records required by rules G&hyph;27 and G&hyph;36. These cross-references were inadvertently omitted when the Board previously amended these rules. The Board believes that the proposed rule change is consistent with Section 15B(b)(2)(C) of the Act, which provides that the Board's rules shall be designed to prevent fraudulent and manipulative acts and practices, to promote just and equitable principles of trade, to foster cooperation and coordination with persons engaged in regulating, clearing, settling, processing information with respect to, and facilitating transactions in municipal securities, to remove impediments to and perfect the mechanism of a free and open market in municipal securities, and, in general, to protect investors and the public interest. B. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Burden on Competition The board does not believe that the proposed rule change will impose any burden on competition not necessary or appropriate in furtherance of the purposes of the Act, since it will apply equally to brokers, dealers, and municipal securities dealers. C. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received From Members, Participants, or Others Written comments were neither solicited nor received. III. Date of Effectiveness of the Proposed Rule Change and Timing for Commission Action The Board has requested that the Commission find good cause, pursuant to Section 19(b)(2) of the Act, for approving the proposed rule change prior to the thirtieth day after publication of the notice of filing in the Federal Register . The Board believes that accelerated approval of the proposed rule change is necessary to facilitate dealer compliance with rules G&hyph;37 and G&hyph;8.
