FR941027-1-00004 FR941027-1-00001 ``REQUIREMENTS._For purposes of subparagraph (A), a telecommunications modernization plan must, at a minimum, meet the following objectives.'' REA believes that an objective that must be met is mandatory. In the interim regulation (7 CFR part 1751, published December 20, 1993), REA set forth both ``requirements'' and ``objectives'' to be contained in the Modernization Plan. Requirements were to be binding while objectives were only goals or targets. This may have led to confusion because both words are used in RELRA. In the proposed rule, REA has included only requirements. b. Comment Summary: REA went beyond the intent of RELRA by establishing timeframes for modernization. Response: REA set timeframes because a requirement with no due date is not a requirement. REA believes that advanced telecommunications services should be available to the public within a reasonable time after they are developed. Broad experience in bringing modern telephone service to rural America teaches the value of caution and reflection before imposing binding requirements on future business activities. Varying construction schedules, economic conditions and rates of technological innovation affect even the most careful projections. REA conservatively projected the reasonably expected growth of both the public's need for telecommunications services and the ability of Telecommunications Providers and equipment manufacturers to provide those services. REA consulted both its past experience and its expectations of future technological development before setting the short-, medium- and long-term deadlines in the regulation. Our experience with new technology such as buried cable, digital switching, and fiber optic systems where the widespread deployment into the telecommunications network took two to five years, lead us to adopt the five year phase-in concept. The timetable is achievable, given the telecommunications services presently available, the resources of the Telecommunications Providers, and the accelerating engineering achievements likely in the next few years. The regulations phase in the requirements in three steps to provide for an orderly deployment of these telecommunications services. Facilities constructed more than one year after REA approves a Modernization Plan are required to provide those services that can be produced by equipment now in existence. The one year delay allows for construction-in-progress to be completed before the Modernization Plan requirements go into effect. The requirements for the medium and long terms simply expand the coverage of the requirements so that when the long term period (11&hyph;16 years) is reached, all subscribers will have the services deployed during the short term period available to them. c. Comment Summary: RELRA does not require that telecommunications improvements be deployed ``concurrently'' in rural and nonrural areas but only that ``the plan must provide for uniform deployment schedules to ensure that advanced services are deployed at the same time in rural and nonrural areas''. Response: Several commenters thought that REA intended all improvements to be made simultaneously throughout a service area. REA understands that there is a logical order to providing improvements and that they will often happen first in nonrural areas. REA intends that they should be deployed and available at approximately the same time in rural and nonrural areas. For example, if digital switching technology is being deployed in a nonrural area, replacement switches in rural areas would also employ digital technology. This does not mean that if a switch was replaced in a nonrural area, a switch would have to be replaced in the rural area. In the proposed rule, REA has clarified this requirement. See ยง1751.106(a). d. Comment Summary: REA has no basis for requiring either the elimination of mileage and/or zone charges or that Telecommunications Providers adopt flexible tariffs. These issues concern rates and are not ``service standards''. Response: The stated requirement in RELRA is the elimination of party line service. REA's experience has been that imposing zone and mileage charges on one-party service creates a large disincentive for subscribers to choose this service. However, REA will not require the Modernization Plan contain a provision to eliminate zone and mileage charges. RELRA provides that the Modernization Plan ``must provide for the availability of telecommunications services for improved business, educational, and medical services.'' Rigid rate structures have served as the primary impediment to the provision of distance learning and medical link services. REA has seen cases where states have set wideband rates in direct proportion to the voiceband rate resulting in, for example, rates for schools far beyond what they can afford. REA has clarified its intent on this subject in ยง1751.106(e). e. Comment Summary: It is not always practical to build only non-loaded twisted pair plant. Response: REA concurs and has given the Plan Developer some discretion in this matter. Section 1751.106(g)(2)(ii) has been revised to allow a Telecommunications Provider to request additional time from the Plan Developer in the case of a PUC or State Legislature developed plan, or from the REA in the case of a REA Borrower developed plan. The Plan Developer or REA, as the case may be, must consider each request separately and can grant additional time only if either the best available telecommunications technology lacks the capability to enable the Telecommunications Provider to comply with the non-loaded requirement or complying with the requirement would impose prohibitive cost on the Telecommunications Provider. f. Comment Summary: Nothing in the law suggests the need for 150 Mb/sec transmission rate for video. Many compression technologies are available which allow video to be transmitted over ordinary telephone lines.
