FR940525-2-00108 FR940525-2-00064 Gulf States Utilities Company, Cajun Electric Power Cooperative, and Entergy Operations, Inc., Docket No. 50&hyph;458, River Bend Station, Unit 1, West Feliciana Parish, Louisiana Date of amendment request: March 15, 1994. Description of amendment request: The proposed amendment would revise the technical specifications (TS) by removing TS 3/4.3.8, ``Turbine Overspeed Protection System,'' from the TS and relocating it to an administratively controlled document. Basis for proposed no significant hazards consideration determination: As required by 10 CFR 50.91(a), the licensee has provided its analysis of the issue of no significant hazards consideration, which is presented below: Does the change involve a significant increase in the probability or consequences of an accident previously evaluated? This change request proposes deletion of Technical Specification 3/4.3.8, ``Turbine Overspeed Protection System'' and relocates this requirement to an existing plant program. The purpose of overspeed protection is to minimize the possible generation of turbine fragment missiles. Excessive overspeed could potentially result in the generation of missiles which could impact and damage safety related components, equipment or structures, depending on the size and trajectory of the missiles. The proposed deletion of this specification is based on the low probability of the generation of a damaging turbine missile and other existing performance verifications of the overspeed protection system. The turbine-generator orientation at RBS [River Bend Station] is a ``favorable'' orientation for reducing the probability of damage to safety-related equipment from turbine missiles since all safety-related components and structures are located in the axial direction from the turbine-generator. Turbine Overspeed Protection System is necessary for protection of the turbine from only an operational and economic point of view. The system is not essential to mitigating the consequences of an accident. The system is not used in an initial condition of a design basis accident or transient analysis. The probability of damage to safety-related equipment based on turbine manufacturer's turbine failure data was calculated to be 1.473×10 ^8 per year and is acceptably low based on the probability of turbine failure data of 4.75x10 ^7 per year as recommended by NUREG&hyph;0800. Therefore, this proposed change does not involve a significant increase in the probability or consequences of an accident previously evaluated. Does the change create the possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any accident previously evaluated? The change proposes to relocate this requirement to an existing plant program, whereby adequate control of information is maintained. The proposed change does not necessitate a physical alteration of the plant (no new or different type of equipment will be installed) or changes to parameters governing normal plant operation. The proposed change will not impose any different operational or surveillance requirements. No new failure modes are introduced. Therefore, this proposed change does not create the possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any accident previously evaluated. Does the change involve a significant reduction in a margin of safety? The proposed change will not reduce a margin of safety because it has no impact on any safety analysis assumption. The proposed change does not alter the scope of equipment currently required to be OPERABLE or subject to surveillance testing, nor does the proposed change affect any instrument setpoints or equipment safety functions. The favorable orientation of the turbine provides a margin of safety such that the possibility of missile damage to safety-related equipment is acceptably low. Therefore the change does not involve a significant reduction in a margin of safety. The NRC staff has reviewed the licensee's analysis and, based on this review, it appears that the three standards of 10 CFR 50.92(c) are satisfied. Therefore, the NRC staff proposes to determine that the amendment request involves no significant hazards consideration. Local Public Document Room location: Government Documents Department, Louisiana State University, Baton Rouge, Louisiana 70803. Attorney for licensee: Mark Wetterhahn, Esq., Winston & Strawn, 1400 L Street, NW., Washington, D.C. 20005. NRC Project Director: William D. Beckner. Houston Lighting & Power Company, City Public Service Board of San Antonio, Central Power and Light Company, City of Austin, Texas, Docket Nos. 50&hyph;498 and 50&hyph;499, South Texas Project, Units 1 and 2, Matagorda County, Texas Date of amendment request: April 28, 1994. Description of amendment request: The licensee proposes to revise Technical Specification Surveillance Requirement 4.6.1.3.e to add an option which will allow the personnel airlock pneumatic system leak test to be completed in 8 hours with a pressure drop of 0.50 psi. The technical specifications currently require that the door seal pneumatic system be demonstrated operable by verifying that the system pressure does not decay more than 1.5 psi within 24 hours. The change to an 8-hour test will expedite return to power following an outage since the test is on the critical path for restart following outages.
