FR940503-1-00034 FR940503-1-00010 Basis for Hearing Procedures Although the Act explicitly indicates that hearings in field citation cases are not subject to the provisions for formal APA adjudication, it does not prohibit the Agency from exercising its discretion and providing such procedural rights. There are two primary benefits in using part 22 to govern hearings on field citations: (1) It would consolidate Clean Air Act administrative penalty hearings under one set of procedural rules, minimizing the need for the Agency and the regulated community to learn and become proficient in more than one set of procedures; and (2) it would use a penalty assessment procedure with which both the Agency and the regulated community have a great deal of experience. The Act as amended in 1990 authorizes the Administrator to issue administrative penalty orders under section 113(d)(1). These administrative penalty orders, which may assess civil penalties of up to $25,000 per day of violation, are generally limited to situations where the total penalty sought does not exceed $200,000 and where the first alleged date of violation occurred no more than twelve months prior to initiation of the administrative action. Similar authority was provided under sections 205(c) and 211(d)(1) of the Act. The penalties contained in administrative penalty orders issued under section 113(d)(1) are assessed pursuant to the part 22 procedures, as are administrative penalties assessed under sections 205(c) and 211(d)(1). Part 22 was amended to incorporate these provisions on February 4, 1992 (57 FR 4318). Thus, using part 22 to govern hearings on field citations issued under section 113(d)(3) would consolidate all of the Clean Air Act administrative penalty hearings under one set of procedures. Additionally, the Agency has used part 22 for assessing administrative penalties under other environmental statutes since 1980. Consequently, both the regulated community and the Agency have considerable experience with these procedures, thereby simplifying the implementation of the field citation program. As discussed later, minor revisions to part 22 procedures would be adopted to account for certain statutory provisions in section 113(d)(3) and to account for the types of violations and penalties associated with field citations. Proposed Hearing Procedures Under part 22, the field citation would be issued by an EPA officer or employee as an administrative complaint. Within twenty days after service of the citation, the Respondent must file an answer. In the answer, the Respondent may contest the facts in the complaint, the size of the penalty, or claim that the Respondent is entitled to judgment as a matter of law. If requested by the Respondent, a hearing will be held on the issues raised in the citation and answer. The Presiding Officer has the discretion to allow the Respondent to amend his answer. A default order, which allows the full proposed penalty to be collected, may be issued upon motion if the Respondent fails to file an answer. The Respondent may simultaneously pursue informal settlement and a hearing. During settlement negotiations, the parties may informally exchange information, if appropriate. For example, the Agency may supply copies of the documentation used to support its case and the Respondent might provide any evidence that would tend to disprove the allegations or to mitigate the penalty. A written Consent Agreement and a proposed Consent Order are submitted for approval by the Regional Administrator, if the parties reach a settlement of the claim. Either party may file a preliminary motion for an accelerated decision if no genuine issues of material fact exist. The Respondent may file a motion for dismissal of the citation. A mandatory prehearing conference is held to simplify issues; to limit the number of potential witnesses; and to address other matters that may expedite the hearing. An exchange of witness lists and documents occurs at the prehearing conference. The hearing is held for the presentation of evidence and testimony concerning the facts relating to the violation and to the size of the penalty. Except as otherwise provided by the Presiding Officer, witnesses are to be examined orally, under oath or affirmation, at the hearing. The parties have the right to cross-examine witnesses who testify at the hearing. The Presiding Officer may take notice of any matter judicially noticed in the Federal courts and of any facts falling within the specialized knowledge and expertise of the Agency.
