FR940707-2-00083 FR940707-2-00049 •Describe how Federal, State, or other funds would be used. •Identify the potential for, and the strategies to avoid, duplication of activities funded by the State or by other Federal agencies. •Describe the anticipated changes in DDC board membership, agency policies and procedures, and other requirements necessary to respond to the needs of the expanded constituency. • Project Duration: This announcement is soliciting applications for a 15-month project period to meet the legislative provision for a 15-month investigation under this priority area. Awards, on a competitive basis, will be for a 15-month budget period. Applications for continuation grants will not be entertained. • Federal Share of Project Costs: The maximum Federal share is not to exceed $150,000 for the 15-month budget period for individual DD Council grants and/or $750,000 for one or more consortium grants to consortiums that include a total of no more than five States for the 15-month budget period. • Matching Requirement: The minimum non-Federal matching requirement in proportion to the maximum Federal share of $150,000 is $50,000 for a 15-month project period for individual DD Council grants. The minimum non-Federal matching requirement in proportion to the maximum Federal share of $750,000 is $250,000 for a 15-month project period for one consortium grant. This constitutes 25 percent of the total project budget. • Anticipated Number of Projects to be Funded: It is anticipated that up to five individual DD Council expansion studies and/or at least one consortium DD Council expansion project will be funded. • CFDA: ADD's CFDA (Code of Federal Domestic Assistance) number is 93.631_Developmental Disabilities_Projects of National Significance. This information is needed to complete item 10 on the SF 424. Fiscal Year 1994 Priority Area 3: Technical Assistance Projects (This priority area appeared in the February 1994 announcement without a priority area number designation) For this priority area, ADD will be awarding funds separately using the procurement process to provide technical assistance to improve the functions of the Developmental Disabilities Planning Councils. Protection and Advocacy Systems, and University Affiliated Programs have ongoing technical assistance contracts and will not be competing for funds this fiscal year. Part V. Instructions for the Development and Submission of Applications This Part contains information and instructions for submitting applications in response to this announcement. Application forms are provided along with a checklist for assembling an application package. Please copy and use these forms in submitting an application. Potential applicants should read this section carefully in conjunction with the information contained within the specific priority area under which the application is to be submitted. The priority area descriptions are in Part IV. A. Required Notification of the State Single Point of Contact All applications under the ADD priority areas are required to follow the Executive Order (E.O.) 12372 process, ``Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs,'' and 45 CFR part 100, ``Intergovernmental Review of Department of Health and Human Services Program and Activities.'' Under the Order, States may design their own processes for reviewing and commenting on proposed Federal assistance under covered programs. All States and territories, except Alabama, Alaska, Connecticut, Hawaii, Idaho, Kansas, Louisiana, Minnesota, Montana, Nebraska, Oklahoma, Oregon, Pennsylvania, South Dakota, Virginia, Washington, American Samoa and Palau, have elected to participate in the Executive Order process and have established a State Single Point of Contact (SPOC). Applicants from these 18 jurisdictions need take no action regarding E.O. 12372. Applications for projects to be administered by Federally-recognized Indian Tribes are also exempt from the requirements of E.O. 12372. Otherwise, applicants should contact their SPOCs as soon as possible to alert them of the prospective applications and receive any necessary instructions. Applicants must submit all required materials to the SPOC as soon as possible so that the program office can obtain and review SPOC comments as part of the award process. It is imperative that the applicant submit all required materials and indicate the date of this submittal (or date SPOC was contact, if no submittal is required) on the SF 424, item 16a.
