FR940825-0-00130 FR940825-0-00022 Discussion: The Secretary has reviewed the proposed regulations and determined that the inclusion of process and outcome objectives would provide relevant information about the quality of the proposed project. Further, to avoid duplication or overlap of information requested, additional changes within the selection criteria have been made to delete the criterion, `` Meeting the purpose of the McNair program ,'' to include a new criterion, `` Objectives ,'' and to revise the criterion, `` Plan of Operation .'' Also included is a redistribution of the points that may be earned under each criterion. Changes: Section 647.21 (b) and (c) has been modified to include a new criterion, `` Objectives ,'' a revision of the `` Plan of Operation '' criterion, and a modification of the point distribution. Comments: Several commenters suggested that §647.21(c)(2) appeared to be overly restrictive by requesting information on time commitments for all employees of the project rather than just those designated as ``key'' personnel. Discussion: As a result of the overall modification of the program selection criteria, the Secretary has concentrated all personnel concerns in §647.21(d) of the revised selection criteria. Changes: Section 647.21 has been modified. Comments: One commenter suggested that the `` Plan of Operation '' criterion failed to include language that mirrored section 402A(c)(6), which encourages coordination among TRIO programs and other programs for disadvantaged students regardless of their funding source. Discussion: The Secretary is aware of the legislative language to coordinate programs for disadvantaged students and agrees that it should be addressed in the regulations. Therefore, the selection criteria, specifically §647.21(c)(8), have been modified to include a request for pertinent information regarding any planned coordination activities. Changes: Section 647.21(c)(2) has been redesignated as §647.21(c)(8) and modified to include language requesting details of planned coordination activities by the applicant. Comments: Several commenters objected to the inclusion of fee waivers or tuition waivers as requirements for funding consideration and point assignment included in §647.21(e)(3). Discussion: The Secretary has reviewed the pertinent section under §647.21(e)(3) and has determined that the phrase in question is appropriate. The waiving of fees is not required as a condition of funding. Rather, the examples listed are but a few suggestions of the many kinds of support that could be construed as positive in nature and an indicator of institutional commitment. Changes: None. Comments: Several commenters questioned the requirement contained in the proposed plan of operation (§647.21(c)(4)(i)), which states that participants selected for the program be enrolled in programs of study in which a doctorate degree is the terminal degree. It was the consensus of the commenters that this language infers that students in some pre-professional programs (such as law or medical technology) might be ineligible for program participation. Discussion: The Secretary has reviewed the criterion and the language in question has been deleted due to the overall modification of the plan of operation. However, it should be noted that the intent of section 402A describes the purpose of the McNair program as one that motivates and prepares students for doctoral programs. Thus, this may preclude some fields of study that terminate at the master's level and some preprofessional programs. Changes: The plan of operation has been modified and the language in question has been deleted. Comments: One commenter questioned the failure of the selection criteria to include the award considerations contained in section 402E(d)(3) of the HEA that called for consideration of students enrolled in projects authorized under this ``section.'' Discussion: The reference in section 402E(d)(3) to this ``section'' refers to section 402E of the HEA, which is the section authorizing the McNair Program. Therefore, since the only Federal TRIO Program that serves students already enrolled in institutions of higher education is the Student Support Services program, the Secretary has interpreted that section as applying to the Student Support Services program and has revised §647.21(c)(3) accordingly. Changes: Section 647.21(c)(3) has been revised and redesignated as §647.21(c)(1). How Does the Secretary Evaluate Prior Experience? (Section 647.22)
