FR940407-2-00098 FR940407-2-00052 TA&hyph;W&hyph;29,384; Reynolds Metals Co., Troutdale, OR A certification was issued covering all workers separated on or after September 30, 1993. TA&hyph;W&hyph;29,478; Parkway Fabricators, South Amboy, NJ A certification was issued covering all workers separated on or after December 18, 1992. TA&hyph;W&hyph;29,371 and TA&hyph;W&hyph;29,371A; Sebago, Inc., Westbrook, ME and Bridgton, ME A certification was issued covering all workers separated on or after December 16, 1992. Also, pursuant to Title V of the North American Free Trade Agreement Implementation Act (Pub. L. 103&hyph;182) concerning transitional adjustment assistance hereinafter called (NAFTA&hyph;TAA) and in accordance with Section 250(a) Subchapter D, Chapter 2, Title II, of the Trade Act as amended, the Department of Labor presents summaries of determinations regarding eligibility to apply for NAFTA&hyph;TAA issued during the month of February, 1994. In order for an affirmative determination to be made and a certification of eligibility to apply for NAFTA&hyph;TAA the following group eligibility requirements of Section 250 of the Trade Act must be met: (1) That a significant number or proportion of the workers in the workers' firm, or an appropriate subdivision thereof, (including workers in any agricultural firm or appropriate subdivision thereof) have become totally or partially separated from employment and either_ (A) That sales or production, or both, of such firm or subdivision have decreased absolutely, (B) that imports from Mexico or Canada of articles like or directly competitive with articles produced by such firm or subdivision have increased. (C) That the increase in imports contributed importantly to such workers' separations or threat of separation and to the decline in sales or production of such firm or subdivision; or (2) That there has been a shift in production by such workers' firm or subdivision to Mexico or Canada of articles like or directly competitive with articles which are produced by the firm or subdivision. Negative Determinations NAFTA&hyph;TAA NAFTA&hyph;TAA&hyph;00029; Wundies Enterprises, Inc., Williamsport, PA The investigation revealed that criteria (3) and criteria (4) were not met. There was no shift in production from subject firm to Canada or Mexico during the relevant period. Workers layoffs at the Williamsport facility occurred as a result of the company increasing its imports of articles similar to those produced at the subject plant; these imports, however, were not sourced in Mexico or Canada. Workers at the subject firm were certified as eligible to apply for trade adjustment assistance on January 13, 1994 (TA&hyph;W&hyph;29,274) on the basis of increased company imports. NAFTA&hyph;TAA&hyph;00046; Sears Logistics Services, Inc., Philadelphia, PA The investigation revealed that workers of the subject firm do not produce an article within the meaning of the Act. The Department of Labor has consistently determined that the performance of services does not constitute production of an article as required by the Trade Act of 1974. NAFTA&hyph;TAA&hyph;00027; ACI America, Inc. (Currently VVP America, Inc.), DBA Glasscraft, Memphis, TN The investigation revealed that criterion (1) has not been met in conjunction with the requirements of Section 506 (b)(2) of the Act. Workers at the subject firm were not separated from employment on or after December 8, 1993, the earliest date for which certification under NAFTA&hyph;TAA applies. NAFTA&hyph;TAA&hyph;00031; Bus Industries of America, Inc., Oriskany, NY The investigation revealed that criterion (3) and criterion (4) have not been met. There was no shift of production by the subject firm to Canada or Mexico, and increased imports from Canada or Mexico did not contribute importantly to worker separations at the subject firm. Further, as a result of the Department's denial for NAFTA&hyph;TAA, an investigation is being immediately instituted for trade adjustment assistance under Section 221 of the Trade Act. The number assigned for this trade adjustment assistance investigation is TA&hyph;W&hyph;29,680. NAFTA&hyph;TAA&hyph;00028; McCreary Roofing Co., Erie, PA The investigation revealed that workers of the subject firm do not produce an article within the meaning of the Act. The Department of Labor has consistently determined that the performance of services does not constitute production of an article as required by the Trade Act of 1974. NAFTA&hyph;TAA&hyph;00033; Fisher-Price, Inc., East Aurora, NY The investigation revealed that workers of the subject firm do not produce an article within the meaning of the Act. The Department of Labor has consistently determined that the performance of services does not constitute production of an article as required by the Trade Act of 1974. Affirmative Determination NAFTA&hyph;TAA NAFTA&hyph;TAA&hyph;00030; Dee Fashions, Inc., Centralia, PA A certification was issued covering all workers separated on or after December 8, 1993.
