FR941206-0-00077 FR941206-0-00011 (B) For facilities with catalytic oxidizers or thermal oxidizers, operation of the facility with the oxidation temperature, averaged over the cycle, more than 5.6 ○C (10 ○F) below the baseline temperature shall constitute a violation of the chamber exhaust vent standard for sources using 1 to 10 tons. (f) For facilities complying with the emissions limits under §63.362 with a control technology other than acid- water scrubbers or catalytic or thermal oxidizers: (1) The owner or operator of the facility shall provide to the Administrator information describing the design and operation of the air pollution control system including recommendations for the operating parameters to be monitored to indicated proper operation and maintenance of the air pollution control system. Based on this information, the Administrator will determine the site-specific operating parameter(s) to be established during the performance test. During the performance test required in paragraph (a) of this section using the methods approved in §63.365(g), the owner or operator shall determine the site-specific operating parameter(s) approved by the Administrator. (2) Operation of the facility in a manner that exceeds a site-specific parameter established as a maximum requirement or falls below a site-specific parameter established as a minimum requirement (depending on the parameters monitored) shall constitute a violation of the applicable emissions standard under §63.362. §63.364 Monitoring requirements. (a)(1) The owner or operator of a source subject to emissions standards in §63.362 shall comply with the monitoring requirements in §63.8 of subpart A of this part, according to the applicability in Table 1 of §63.360, and in this section. (2) Each owner or operator of an ethylene oxide sterilization facility subject to these emissions standards shall monitor the parameters specified in this section. All monitoring equipment shall be installed such that representative measurements of emissions or process parameters from the source are obtained. For monitoring equipment purchased from a vendor, verification of the operational status of the monitoring equipment shall include completion of the manufacturer's written specifications or recommendations for installation, operation, and calibration of the system. (b) For sterilization facilities complying with §63.363 (b), (d), or (e) through the use of an acid-water scrubber, the owner or operator shall either: (1) Sample the scrubber liquor and analyze and record once per week the ethylene glycol concentration of the scrubber liquor using the test methods and procedures in §63.365(e)(1). Monitoring is required during a week only if the scrubber unit has been operated; or
