FR941003-0-00122 FR941003-0-00018 Appraisal means a written report independently and impartially prepared by a qualified appraiser setting forth an opinion: (1) In the case of a project requiring economic soundness, as to the market value of an adequately described property as of a specific date(s), which statement is supported by the presentation and analysis of relevant market information, and is in accordance with the supplemental standards as set forth in HUD's appraisal instructions; or (2) In the case of a project which does not require a determination of economic soundness, that is based on replacement cost, as estimated by HUD staff or by an appraiser who has contracted with HUD to perform a real estate consultation pursuant to §267.12(b). Consultant, which refers to an appraiser performing a real property consultation for HUD, means the person who provides such information, analysis, recommendations or conclusions. Consultation or consultancy means the act or process of providing information, analysis of real estate data, and recommendations or conclusions on diversified problems in real estate, other than estimating value. Economic soundness refers to a program under which a project has had its underwriting risk analyzed on the basis of three approaches to value. Multifamily project or multifamily property means a project containing five or more family units (or in the case of a mortgage to be insured under section 220(h) of the National Housing Act, two or more rental units), a nursing home, an intermediate care facility, a board and care home or a project insured under section 232 of the NHA. State certified appraiser means any individual who satisfies the requirements for certification as a certified general appraiser in a state which has adopted criteria that currently meet or exceed the minimum certification criteria issued by the Appraiser Qualifications Board of the Appraisal Foundation. The state criteria must include a requirement that the individual have achieved a satisfactory grade upon a state-administered examination that is consistent with and equivalent to the Uniform State Certification Examination issued or endorsed by the Appraiser Qualifications Board of the Appraisal Foundation. Furthermore, if the Appraisal Foundation has issued a finding that the policies, practices, or procedures of the state are inconsistent with FIRREA, an individual must comply with any additional standards for state certified appraisers imposed by HUD under §267.11(c)(1). §267.10 Qualified appraisers and appraisals. (a) Appraisal by a state certified general appraiser. Every appraisal shall be performed by a state certified general appraiser. With respect to appraisals performed by HUD employees, this requirement is satisfied whether or not the property being appraised is located in the state which certified the HUD employee. Each HUD employee who performs appraisals or consultations or who reviews appraisals or consultations will be qualified as a certified general appraiser under the laws of one or more states not later than December 31, 1996, unless, in an individual case, the Assistant Secretary for Housing-Federal Housing Commissioner decides that a different date is appropriate. All appraisers shall comply with HUD policies and procedures as set forth in HUD handbooks and other issuances. (b) Only appraisals and consultations complying with this part are recognized. Appraisals or consultations performed in accordance with the requirements of other agencies will not be recognized for HUD multifamily transactions that require appraisals or consultations complying with this part 267 unless those appraisals or consultations so comply. §267.11 Appraisal standards. (a) Minimum standards. Each appraisal or real estate consultation shall follow the requirements of this §267.11 as supplemented from time to time by HUD processing instructions which comprise supplemental standards authorized in accordance with USPAP. The appraisal shall, at a minimum: (1) Conform to USPAP, except to the extent that such compliance may conflict with the provisions of this part 267. (2) Disclose any steps taken that were necessary or appropriate to comply with the Competency Provision of the USPAP.
