FR940110-2-00073 FR940110-2-00058 In Phase 1 of NAFTA, Mexican domiciled or owned or controlled passenger carriers may now apply for authority under 49 U.S.C. 10922(c) to transport passengers in charter and tour bus service in the United States in foreign commerce, that is, the service must begin or end in Mexico (or Canada). Wholly domestic interstate operations in the United States cannot be authorized or permitted. NAFTA authorizes the granting of authority for charter operations and tour bus service only. By statute, we may authorize motor common carriers of passengers to operate over either regular or irregular routes, but irregular-route services must be limited to charter and special operations. Regular-route operations ordinarily involve the expeditious transportation of passengers between fixed termini, over defined routes and according to established schedules. Charter operations, on the other hand, ordinarily contemplate providing transportation for a group, assembled by someone other than the carrier, which group contracts for the exclusive use of certain equipment for the duration of a particular trip or tour. Generally, a flat rate for the use of the vehicle is charged, on either a ``mileage'' or an ``hourly'' basis, and the passengers travel together for the entire trip. As we recognized most recently in Adirondack Transit Lines, Inc._Adirondack Trailways, 8 I.C.C.2d 330, 334 n.5 (1992), special operations originally were described as services rendered (generally on weekends, holidays, or other special occasions) to a number of passengers that the carrier itself has assembled into a travel group through its own sales of a ticket to each individual passenger covering a particular trip or tour. Fordham Bus Corp. Common Carrier Application, 29 M.C.C. 293, 297 (1941). In Asbury Park-N.Y. Transit Corp. v. Bingler Vacation Tours, 62 M.C.C. 731, 740 (1954) ( Bingler ), aff'd sub nom. Bingler Vacation Tours v. United States , 132 F. Supp. 793 (D. N.J. 1955), aff'd per curiam, 350 U.S. 921 (1955), though, the Commission adopted the position that ``special operations'' is a catchall classification, which may include almost anything that is neither charter operations nor the usual operations of a regular-route carrier. Accordingly, ``tour service'' is only one form of special operations, as the Commission discussed in Passenger Transportation in Special Operations, 112 M.C.C. 160, 165&hyph;67, 171&hyph;74 (1970), which clearly distinguishes the requirements of ``tour service'' from those of ordinary special operations. Thus, under the Bingler criterion, to constitute a ``tour service'', the carrier must furnish something substantial in addition to, or different from, bare expeditious transportation between two points. This contemplates a common interest of passengers visiting a particular place(s) or event(s) and does not include ordinary, point-to-point transportation, over either regular or irregular routes. 3 It appears that the ``tour service'' that NAFTA is intended to cover is this type of special operations. 3 Special operations that are not ``tour services'' might include, for example, limousine services in which door-to-door service is provided, over irregular routes (according to the specific locations to be served on any particular trip), to and from any point in a given territory. Such services will not be authorized by authority to provide ``tour service''. Accordingly, certificates that we issue to Mexican carriers will usually be framed, in accord with our usual practices with regard to such authorities, to authorize service Over irregular routes, in foreign commerce, transporting passengers, in charter operations and in special operations, in tour service, between ports of entry on the international boundary between the U.S. and Mexico, on the one hand, and, on the other, points in the United States (except Alaska and Hawaii). Because this notice is occasioned by a partial lifting of the moratorium, no special rules or rulemaking are necessary. The same application procedure and regulations apply to Mexican and United States carriers alike. For example, carriers must abide by all U.S. Department of Transportation safety regulations, comply with the Commission's insurance requirements (49 U.S.C. 10927), publish and file with the Commission applicable tariffs (49 U.S.C. 10761, 10762), and file with the Commission agents for service of process (49 U.S.C. 10330). We will, however, provide a short comment period to enable interested persons to submit written views, arguments or representations regarding this subject. Because we have little or no discretion in this area, we do not contemplate a subsequent decision unless we receive comments raising substantial issues it would be helpful or necessary to address. Notice of this proceeding will be published in the Federal Register and the ICC Register and interested parties will have 7 days from the date of publication to comment. Finally, the current application form OP&hyph;1 requires all applicants for ICC operating authority to certify that they are not domiciled in Mexico or owned or controlled by persons of Mexico. We will modify that certification requirement when we revise the application form. For the present, Mexican charter and special operations applicants should either disregard the certification section, or simply indicate ``not applicable.'' Applicants not completing the certification affirmatively will receive charter and special operations tour service authority limited to movements in foreign commerce. Decided: December 30, 1993. By the Commission, Chairman McDonald, Vice Chairman Simmons, Commissioners Phillips and Philbin. Sidney L. Strickland, Jr., Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;503 Filed 1&hyph;7&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 7035&hyph;01&hyph;P
