FR940607-2-00045 FR940607-2-00036 (4) Fair Housing Organizations Initiative. This NOFA makes $7 million in FY 1994 funds available for activities under the Fair Housing Organizations Initiative. Of this amount, $3.3 million in FY 1994 funds is available for the purpose of the continued development of existing organizations under the Fair Housing Organizations Initiative. The remaining $3.7 million will be available for two-year projects for the purpose of establishing new organizations, with the commitment of second year funding subject to annual appropriations and annual performance reviews. 3. On page 25535, paragraph I.(c)(3)(ii), which appears in the first and second columns, is revised to read as follows: (ii) Eligible activities. Applications are solicited for one- and two-year project proposals as described in 24 CFR 125.403 and in this NOFA. Applications may designate up to 10% of requested funds to promote awareness of the services provided by the project, but such promotion must be necessary for the successful implementation of the project. Project applications may involve: (A) Discovering and providing remedies for discrimination in the public and private real estate markets and real estate-related transactions, including, but not limited to, the making or purchasing of loans, the provision of other financial assistance for sales or rentals of housing, including insurance redlining and appraisal practices, and housing advertising; (B) Conducting investigations of systemic housing discrimination for further enforcement processing by State or local agencies, or for referral to private attorneys or to HUD and the Department of Justice; (C) Professionally conducting testing of other investigative support for administrative and judicial enforcement; (D) Linking fair housing organizations regionally in enforcement activities designed to combat broader housing market discriminatory practices; (E) Establishing effective means of meeting legal expenses in support of litigation of fair housing cases; (F) Testing and other investigative activities, including building the capacity for housing investigative activities in unserved or underserved areas; (G) Building the capacity to investigative, through testing and other investigative methods, housing discrimination complaints covering all protected classes, including persons with mental and physical disabilities; (H) Carrying out special projects, including the development of prototypes to respond to new or sophisticated forms of discrimination against persons protected under title VIII, such as in the areas of independent living and architectural barriers; (I) Providing funds for the costs and expenses of litigation, including expert witness fees. Dated: May 31, 1994. Paul Williams, General Deputy Assistant Secretary for Fair Housing and Equal Opportunity. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;13730 Filed 6&hyph;6&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4210&hyph;28&hyph;M
