FR940721-1-00045 FR940721-1-00012 DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION Office of the Secretary 49 CFR Parts 37 and 38 [Docket 49658; Notice 94&hyph;9] RIN 2105&hyph;AC13 Transportation for Individuals With Disabilities AGENCY: Office of the Secretary, Transportation. ACTION: Notice of proposed rulemaking (NPRM). SUMMARY: This notice proposes two sets of amendments to the Department of Transportation's rules implementing the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA). The first group of proposals is based on petitions for rulemaking from members of the public. While the Department is publishing proposed amendments based on these petitions, in order to seek public comment on them, the Department is not now taking a position on whether these amendments should be adopted. The petitions would create an exception to the provision requiring transit providers to allow persons with disabilities to use every stop in the system, change the requirements affecting certain private schools that provide fixed route transportation, change the provision of the Department's technical standards concerning gaps for higher-speed people mover vehicles and eliminate the provision that requires paratransit systems to allow reservations to be made 14 days in advance. Second, the Department is proposing a number of minor or technical adjustments to clarify or improve administration of certain portions of the rule. DATES: Comments are requested on or before October 19, 1994. Late-filed comments will be considered to the extent practicable. ADDRESSES: Comments should be sent, preferably in triplicate, to Docket Clerk, Docket No. 49658, Department of Transportation, 400 7th Street, S.W., Room 4107, Washington, D.C., 20590. Comments will be available for inspection at this address from 9:00 a.m. to 5:30 p.m., Monday through Friday. Commenters who wish the receipt of their comments to be acknowledged should include a stamped, self-addressed postcard with their comments. The Docket Clerk will date-stamp the postcard and mail it back to the commenter. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Robert C. Ashby, Deputy Assistant General Counsel for Regulation and Enforcement, Department of Transportation, 400 7th Street, S.W., Room 10424, Washington, D.C., 20590. (202) 366&hyph;9306 (voice); (202) 755&hyph;7687 (TDD). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Petitions for Rulemaking The Department has received four petitions for rulemaking, each of which requests an amendment to the Department's Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) rules. The Department is acting on the petitions by issuing this notice of proposed rulemaking (NPRM). If, based on the comments and the Department's further consideration of the issues involved, the Department believes the proposed changes have merit, it can issue final rules based on this NPRM. At this time, however, the Department is not taking a position on whether the proposed changes should be adopted. 1. Inadequate Bus Stops Seattle Metro seeks a change in 49 CFR 37.167(g), which provides as follows: The entity shall not refuse to permit a passenger who uses a lift to disembark from a vehicle at any designated stop, unless the lift cannot be deployed, the lift will be damaged if it is deployed, or temporary conditions at the stop, not under the control of the entity, preclude the safe use of the stop by all passengers. In the Appendix to Part 37, DOT described the intent of this provision as follows: It is inconsistent with this section for a transit provider to refuse to let a passenger use a lift at any designated stop, unless the lift is physically unable to deploy or the lift would be damaged if it did.␣*␣*␣* In addition, if a temporary situation at the stop (construction, an accident, a landslide) made the stop unsafe for anyone to use, the provider could decline to use the lift there (just as it refused to open the door for other passengers at the same point). The provider could not, however, declare a stop ``off limits'' to persons with disabilities that is used for other persons. If the transit authority has concerns about barriers or safety hazards, that particularly affect individuals with disabilities that would use the stop, it should consider making efforts to move the stop. (56 FR 45755, September 6, 1991). Seattle Metro urges the Department to change this policy. Metro's petition says that its bus lifts need 4&hyph;5 feet to deploy and that persons using mobility aids need another 4 feet in order to maneuver off the lift. The petition asserts that it has 6220 fully accessible bus stops, 1571 that do not meet present ADA standards (i.e., a lift cannot deploy at these stops), and 702 that could be used by standees but do not provide adequate space for wheelchair users. The inaccessibility of stops is due, Metro says, to factors such as topography and terrain, line of sight, traffic speed, and access to shoulder pullout areas, all of which are more or less permanent matters beyond its control. Often, local jurisdictions, rather than Metro, control these factors as well as the locations of the bus stops themselves. This, in Metro's view, often makes it impractical to relocate stops to more accessible locations.
