FR941206-1-00034 FR941206-1-00005 A third option is for the regulations in the SIP to provide that failure of the employer to meet the target APO will result in implementation of a regulation-specified, multi-measure contingency plan. This plan will be reviewed by EPA for adequacy when the SIP is processed. A fourth option is for the regulations in the SIP to include financial penalties and/or compliance incentives for non-compliant employers that are effective enough to result in a significant incentive for the employer to design and implement an effective compliance plan. The New Jersey program is essentially a combination of options 1 and 4, or plan review and penalty assessment. New Jersey has instituted a certification procedure that utilizes a list of several State approved outside certification organizations. This list of outside certifiers consists of several private firms and self-employed certifiers, and employers may choose from this list. The certifiers will review employer plans to assure that they ``convincingly demonstrate'' compliance. Certifiers will look for completeness and other program attributes, but the New Jersey Department of Transportation will ultimately have the rights to final approval of an employer plan. An employer plan is automatically approved after 180 days if the certification process has not been completed. In addition, a detailed schedule of financial penalties will be enforced on employers that do not register or comply. Although the rule provides a means to assess fines which EPA believes are sufficient to deter non-compliance, waivers are available if an employer shows a good faith effort towards compliance. 4. Enforcement Procedures States and local jurisdictions must include enforcement provisions in their ETR regulations such as penalties and/or compliance incentives for an employer who fails to submit a compliance plan or an employer who fails to meet the APO targets. Penalties should be severe enough to provide an adequate incentive for employers to comply and be no less than the expected cost of compliance. A state may meet this requirement by developing a procedure for tracking and fining non-complying employers. New Jersey's penalties for noncompliance are as follows: 1_Maximum of $250 for the first two months and $500 for each month thereafter for each work location that fails to submit a registration form. 2_Maximum of $1000 per month for each work location that fails to file a plan or report. 3_Maximum of $5000 per month for each work location that fails to achieve the APO target (actual assessment of this penalty for an employer may be waived if a good faith effort is shown). The rule allows for extensions but does not limit the time period for which they could be granted. The State has indicated that it has and will continue to limit extensions to six months in duration. EPA is proposing to approve the plan contingent on the State limiting extensions in this manner. Should EPA find that New Jersey is issuing extension for longer periods, the agency proposes to initiate the process to disapprove the SIP. The rule allows hardship waivers but does not limit the duration of the waiver. However, good faith waivers are limited to one year. In addition, the rule indicates that hardship waivers are to be assessed through the procedures for assessing good faith waivers. The State has indicated that it interprets the rule as requiring through this provision a one year limit on hardship waivers also. EPA proposes to approve the program based on this understanding. III. Other Issues 1. Shifting Commuters Out of the Peak Period New Jersey rule allows for shifting commuters out of the peak period while continuing to count the commuters (people but not their vehicles) as if they arrived during the 6:00 a.m. to 10:00 a.m. peak period, which is the most critical time for emissions which lead to ground level ozone formation. This raises the vehicle occupancy rate because the number of employees remains stable while the number of vehicles arriving at the workplace is decreased by the number which arrive outside of the peak period. EPA's policy has been to require employers to calculate their vehicle occupancy rate by reducing both the number of employees and the number of vehicles so that only those arriving during the peak period are included in the calculation. EPA believes that most employers will not be able to take advantage of this to any significant degree because most will not be able to have employees start outside of the peak period. For those that do take advantage of this provision, the trips will have at least been shifted out of the most congested periods of the day and the emissions from these trips will have been shifted out of the key 6:00 a.m. to 9:00 a.m. period. Therefore, EPA proposes to accept this approach by New Jersey. 2. Trading Credits Between Nonattainment Areas New Jersey's rule allows trading of credits between employers in the two different severe nonattainment areas in the State. However, EPA's ECO guidance only allows for trades within the same nonattainment area. EPA's guidance is based on ECO applying specifically to discrete nonattainment areas; therefore, the trading of APO credits across nonattainment area boundaries should not be accepted based on an interpretation that the term, ``area,'' in section 182(d)(1)(B) should only be construed to mean ``nonattainment area.''
