FR941220-0-00119 FR941220-0-00014 (9) Failed otherwise to comply in any other manner with the provisions of subpart H or I of this part. (b) For purposes of this part, ``willful failure'' means a knowing failure or a reckless disregard with respect to whether the conduct was contrary to Section 212(n)(1)(A) (i) or (ii) of the INA, or § XXX .731 or XXX .732 of this part. See McLaughlin v. Richland Shoe Co., 486 U.S. 128 (1988); see also Trans World Airlines v. Thurston, 469 U.S. 111 (1985). (c) Pursuant to §§ XXX .740(a)(1) and XXX .750 of this part, the provisions of this part become applicable upon the date of ETA's notification that the employer's labor condition application is certified, whether or not the employer hires any H&hyph;1B nonimmigrants in the occupation for the period of employment covered in the labor condition application. Should the period of employment specified in the labor condition application expire or should the employer withdraw the application in accordance with § XXX .750(b) of this part, the provisions of this part will no longer apply with respect to such application, except as provided in § XXX .750(b) (3) and (4) of this part. (d) Any aggrieved person or organization (including bargaining representatives and governmental officials) may file a complaint alleging a violation described in paragraph (a) of this section. (1) No particular form of complaint is required, except that the complaint shall be written or, if oral, shall be reduced to writing by the Wage and Hour Division official who receives the complaint. (2) The complaint shall set forth sufficient facts for the Administrator to determine whether an investigation is warranted, in that there is reasonable cause to believe that a violation as described in paragraph (a) of this section has been committed. This determination shall be made within 10 days of the date that the complaint is received by a Wage and Hour Division official. If the Administrator determines that the complaint fails to present reasonable cause for an investigation, the Administrator shall so notify the complainant, who may submit a new complaint, with such additional information as may be necessary. No hearing pursuant to this subpart shall be available where the Administrator determines that an investigation on a complaint is not warranted. (3) If the Administrator determines that an investigation on a complaint is warranted, the complaint shall be accepted for filing; an investigation shall be conducted and a determination issued within 30 calendar days of the date of filing. (4) In the event that the Administrator seeks a prevailing wage determination from ETA pursuant to § XXX .731(d) of this part, or advice as to prevailing working conditions from ETA pursuant to § XXX .732(c)(2) of this part, the 30-day investigation period shall be suspended from the date of the Administrator's request to the date of the Administrator's receipt of the wage determination (or, in the event that the employer challenges the wage determination through the Employment Service complaint system, to the date of the completion of such complaint process) or advice as to prevailing working conditions. (5) A complaint must be filed not later than 12 months after the latest date on which the alleged violation(s) were committed, which would be the date on which the employer allegedly failed to perform an action or fulfill a condition specified in the LCA, or allegedly took an action which, through such action or inaction, demonstrates a misrepresentation of a material fact in the LCA regarding such action or inaction. This jurisdictional bar does not affect the scope of the remedies which may be assessed by the Administrator. Where, for example, a complaint is timely filed, back wages may be assessed for a period prior to one year before the filing of a complaint. (6) A complaint may be submitted to any local Wage and Hour Division office. The addresses of such offices are found in local telephone directories. The office or person receiving such a complaint shall refer it to the office of the Wage and Hour Division administering the area in which the reported violation is alleged to have occurred. (e) When an investigation has been conducted, the Administrator shall, pursuant to § XXX .815 of this part, issue a written determination as to whether or not any violation(s) as described in paragraph (a) of this section has been committed. § XXX .810 Remedies. (a) Upon determining that the employer has failed to pay wages as required by § XXX .731 of this part, the Administrator shall assess and oversee the payment of back wages to any H&hyph;1B nonimmigrant employed by the employer in the specific employment in question. The back wages shall be equal to the difference between the amount that should have been paid and the amount that actually was paid to such nonimmigrant(s); (b) Upon determining that the employer has committed any violation(s) described in § XXX .805(a) of this part (other than a violation of § XXX .805(a)(6)), the Administrator may assess a civil money penalty not to exceed $1,000 per violation. In determining the amount of civil money penalty to be assessed, the Administrator shall consider the type of violation committed and other relevant factors. The factors which may be considered include, but are not limited to, the following:
