FR941220-2-00062 FR941220-2-00037 3. Statutory Basis The SROs believe that their respective proposed rule changes are consistent with the requirements of the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder applicable to national securities exchanges, national securities associations, and the MSRB and, in particular, the respective requirements of Sections 6(b)(5), 15A(b)(6), and 15B(b)(2)(C) of the Act. 8 Sections 6(b)(5), 15A(b)(6), and 15B(b)(2)(C) require, among other things, that the rules of an exchange, and association, or the MSRB, respectively, be designed to promote just and equitable principles of trade, to remove impediments to and perfect the mechanism of a free and open market and a national market system, and, in general, to protect investors and the public interest. The SROs further believe that their proposed rule changes also are consistent with the respective provisions of Sections 6(c)(3)(B), 15A(g)(3)(A), and 15B(b)(2)(A) of the Act, 9 each of which makes it the responsibility of an exchange, an association, or the MSRB to prescribe standards of training, experience and competence for persons associated with SRO members. 8 15 U.S.C. 78f(b)(5), 78 o &hyph;3(b)(6), 78 o &hyph;4(b)(2)(C) (1988). 9 15 U.S.C. 78f(c)(3)(B), 78 o &hyph;3(g)(3)(A), 78 o &hyph;4(b)(2)(A) (1988). (B) Self-Regulatory Organizations' Statement on Burden on Competition The SROs do not believe that the proposed rule changes would result in any burden on competition that is not necessary or appropriate in furtherance of the purposes of the Act. (C) Self-Regulatory Organizations' Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Changes Received From Members, Participants, or Others 1. Comments Received by the NASD On August 15, 1994, the NASD published Special Notice to Members (``NTM'') 94&hyph;59 to request member comment regarding the Council's draft rules to create a mandated continuing education program for the securities industry. Thirty-three comment letters were received in response. Twenty-six letters were from financial services firms, four from trade associations, two from firms active in the continuing education field, and one was from the NASD's District 1. Five of the letters were opposed to the NASD's proposal, while the remaining letters either expressed support for, or were not opposed to, the proposal. As discussed below, the proposed rules that the SROs have filed with the Commission have been revised from the Council's original draft rules to address some of the commenters' concerns. Three letters from financial services firms question the usefulness of the Regulatory Element. The first, from a firm that limits its business primarily to wholesaling mutual funds, stated that the Regulatory Element creates more problems than it solves, costs too much, and would have the effect of fostering a negative attitude towards regulation. The second letter requests that the Regulatory Element be tailored to the specific products and services provided by each member. The third letter questions the use of the disciplinary fine threshold with respect to the re-entry provision, and believes the 10 year grandfather provision should be shortened in some cases. The writer concludes that the securities industry should model its program after state insurance continuing education programs, where the licensing authority imposes the regulatory requirement directly on the individual, rather than on the firm. Three letters from financial services firms express concern that the Regulatory Element of the program would be administered at testing centers operated by the NASD. The request that firms be allowed to administer the Regulatory Element in-house, subject to appropriate controls. Three letters support the goals of the Regulatory Element, but raise concerns about its specific focus. One letter suggests that the Regulatory Element be divided into two separate units, one for commissioned brokers and one for registered persons operating in a no-load environment. One letter suggests that this part be divided based on the registration category of the individual and the membership of the individual's firm. The third commenter believes that the Regulatory Element should relate to the daily activities of the largest number of registered persons possible. Three letters address concerns regarding the statistics that would be generated from the Regulatory Element. All three letters seek specific information on the types of statistics that would be available. Two of the letters express concern that the NASD has not enuniated clearly the intended and acceptable uses of these statistics.
