FR940513-0-00023 FR940513-0-00004 (a) Administrative offset or offset , as defined in 31 U.S.C. 3701(a)(1), means withholding money payable by the United States Government to, or held by the Government for, a person to satisfy a debt the person owes the Government. (b) Agency means a department, agency, or instrumentality in the executive or legislative branch of the Government. (c) Claim or debt means money or property owed by a person or entity to an agency of the Federal Government. A ``claim'' or ``debt'' includes amounts due the Government from loans insured by or guaranteed by the United States and all other amounts due from fees, leases, rents, royalties, services, sales of real or personal property, overpayment, penalties, damages, interest, and fines. (d) Claim certification means a creditor agency's written request to a paying agency to effect an administrative offset. (e) Corporation means the Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation. (f) Creditor agency means an agency to which a claim or debt is owed. (g) Debtor means the person or entity owing money to the Federal Government. (h) Hearing official means an individual who is responsible for reviewing a claim under ยง1408.10. (i) Paying agency means an agency of the Federal Government owing money to a debtor against which an administrative or salary offset can be effected. (j) Salary offset means an administrative offset to collect a debt under 5 U.S.C. 5514 by deductions at one or more officially established pay intervals from the current pay account of a debtor. ยง1408.4 Delegation of authority. The Corporation official(s) designated by the Chairman of the Farm Credit System Insurance Corporation are authorized to perform all duties which the Chairman is authorized to perform under these regulations, the Federal Claims Collection Act of 1966, as amended, and the joint regulations issued under that Act. ยง1408.5 Responsibility for collection. (a) The collection of claims shall be aggressively pursued in accordance with the provisions of the Federal Claims Collection Act of 1966, as amended, the joint regulations issued under that Act, and these regulations. Debts owed to the United States, together with charges for interest, penalties, and administrative costs, should be collected in one lump sum unless otherwise provided by law. If a debtor requests installment payments, the debtor, as requested by the Corporation, shall provide sufficient information to demonstrate that the debtor is unable to pay the debt in one lump sum. When appropriate, the Corporation shall arrange an installment payment schedule. Claims which cannot be collected directly or by administrative offset shall be either written off as administratively uncollectible or referred to the General Counsel for further consideration. (b) The Chairman, or designee of the Chairman, may compromise claims for money or property arising out of the activities of the Corporation, where the claim (exclusive of charges for interest, penalties, and administrative costs) does not exceed $100,000. When the claim exceeds $100,000 (exclusive of charges for interest, penalties, and administrative costs), the authority to accept a compromise rests solely with the Department of Justice. The standards governing the compromise of claims are set forth in 4 CFR part 103. (c) The Chairman, or designee of the Chairman, may suspend or terminate the collection of claims which do not exceed $100,000 (exclusive of charges for interest, penalties, and administrative costs) after deducting the amount of any partial payments or collections. If, after deducting the amount of any partial payments or collections, a claim exceeds $100,000 (exclusive of charges for interest, penalties, and administrative costs), the authority to suspend or terminate rests solely with the Department of Justice. The standards governing the suspension or termination of claim collections are set forth in 4 CFR part 104. (d) The Corporation shall refer claims to the Department of Justice for litigation or to the General Accounting Office (GAO) for claims arising from audit exceptions taken by the GAO to payments made by the Corporation in accordance with 4 CFR part 105. ยง1408.6 Demand for payment. (a) A total of three progressively stronger written demands at not more than 30-day intervals should normally be made upon a debtor, unless a response or other information indicates that additional written demands would either be unnecessary or futile. When necessary to protect the Government's interest, written demands may be preceded by other appropriate actions under Federal law, including immediate referral for litigation and/or administrative offset. (b) The initial demand for payment shall be in writing and shall inform the debtor of the following: (1) The amount of the debt, the date it was incurred, and the facts upon which the determination of indebtedness was made; (2) The payment due date, which shall be 30 calendar days from the date of mailing or hand delivery of the initial demand for payment;
