FR940216-0-00206 FR940216-0-00010 E:GRAPHICSER16FE94.005 where: C c =concentration of spiked sample C o =concentration of sample without spiking C s =known concentration of spiking standard V o =volume of sample V s =volume of spiking standard added to the sample (3) If the percent recovery of a spiked sample is outside the range of 100% # 13% of the theoretical concentration for methanol and ethanol, or 100% # 16% for t-butanol and MTBE, the sources of error in the analysis should be determined, corrected, and all analyses subsequent to and including the last analysis confirmed to be within the compliance specifications must be repeated. The specification limits for the accuracy of the percent recovery of spiked sample analyses are minimum performance requirements. The performance of individual laboratories may indeed be better than these minimum requirements. For this reason it is recommended that control charts be utilized to monitor the variability of measurements in order to optimally detect abnormal situations and ensure a stable measurement process. (9)(i) Prior to January 1, 1997, and when the oxygenates present are limited to MTBE, ETBE, TAME, DIPE, tertiary-amyl alcohol, and C 1 to C 4 alcohols, any refiner, importer, or oxygenate blender may determine oxygen and oxygenate content using ASTM standard method D&hyph;4815&hyph;93, entitled ``Standard Test Method for Determination of MTBE, ETBE, TAME, DIPE, tertiary-Amyl Alcohol and C 1 to C 4 Alcohols in Gasoline by Gas Chromatography,'' for purposes of meeting any testing requirement; provided that (ii) The refiner or importer test result is correlated with the method set forth in paragraphs (g)(1) through (g)(8) of this section. (h) Incorporations by reference. ASTM standard methods D&hyph;3606&hyph;92, D&hyph;1319&hyph;93, D&hyph;4815&hyph;93, D&hyph;2622&hyph;92, and D&hyph;86&hyph;90 with the exception of the degrees Fahrenheit figures in Table 9 of D&hyph;86&hyph;90, are incorporated by reference. These incorporations by reference were approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(A) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies may be obtained from the American Society of Testing Materials, 1916 Race Street, Philadelphia, PA 19103. Copies may be inspected at the Air Docket Section (LE&hyph;131), room M&hyph;1500, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Docket No. A&hyph;92&hyph;12, 401 M Street SW., Washington, DC 20460 or at the Office of the Federal Register, 800 North Capitol Street, NW., suite 700, Washington, DC. §80.47 [Reserved] §80.48 Augmentation of the complex emission model by vehicle testing. (a) The provisions of this section apply only if a fuel claims emission reduction benefits from fuel parameters that are not included in the complex emission model or complex emission model database, or if the values of fuel parameters included in the complex emission model set forth in §80.45 fall outside the range of values for which the complex emission model is deemed valid. (b) To augment the complex emission model described at §80.45, the following requirements apply: (1) The petitioner must obtain prior approval from the Administrator for the design of the test program before beginning the vehicle testing process. To obtain approval, the petitioner must at minimum provide the following information: the fuel parameter to be evaluated for emission effects; the number and description of vehicles to be used in the test fleet, including model year, model name, vehicle identification number (VIN), mileage, emission performance (exhaust THC emission level), technology type, and manufacturer; a description of the methods used to procure and prepare the vehicles; the properties of the fuels to be used in the testing program (as specified at §80.49); the pollutants and emission categories intended to be evaluated; the precautions used to ensure that the effects of the parameter in question are independent of the effects of other parameters already included in the model; a description of the quality assurance procedures to be used during the test program; the statistical analysis techniques to be used in analyzing the test data, and the identity and location of the organization performing the testing. (2) Exhaust emissions shall be measured per the requirements of this section and §80.49 through §80.62. (3) The nonexhaust emission model (including evaporative, running loss, and refueling VOC and toxics emissions) shall not be augmented by vehicle testing. (4) The Agency reserves the right to observe and monitor any testing that is performed pursuant to the requirements of this section. (5) The Agency reserves the right to evaluate the quality and suitability of data submitted pursuant to the requirements of this section and to reject, re-analyze, or otherwise evaluate such data as is technically warranted. (6) Upon a showing satisfactory to the Administrator, the Administrator may approve a petition to waive the requirements of this section and §80.49, §80.50(a), §80.60(d)(3), and §80.60(d)(4) in order to better optimize the test program to the needs of the particular fuel parameter. Any such waiver petition should provide information justifying the requested waiver, including an acceptable rationale and supporting data. Petitioners must obtain approval from the Administrator prior to conducting testing for which the requirements in question are waived. The Administrator may waive the noted requirements in whole or in part, and may impose appropriate conditions on any such waiver. (c) In the case of petitions to augment the complex model defined at §80.45 with a new parameter, the effect of the parameter being tested shall be determined separately, for each pollutant and for each emitter class category. If the parameter is not included in the complex model but is represented in whole or in part by one or more parameters included in the model, the petitioner shall be required to demonstrate the emission effects of the parameter in question independent of the effects of the already-included parameters. The petitioner shall also have to demonstrate the effects of the already-included parameters independent of the effects of the parameter in question. The emission performance of each vehicle on the fuels specified at §80.49, as measured through vehicle testing in accordance with §80.50 through §80.62, shall be analyzed to determine the effects of the fuel parameter being tested on emissions according to the following procedure:
