FR940826-2-00141 FR940826-2-00071 After careful review, the Commission believes that the CHX proposal should allow the Exchange and its subsidiaries to operate more efficiently. In addition, the Commission has concluded that the proposed rule change strikes an appropriate balance between the various constituencies of the CHX 18 and, therefore, is consistent with the Act's requirements. The Commission's reasons for reaching these conclusions are set forth in more detail below. 18 For purposes of this order, the Commission has limited its discussion to the adequacy of representation of Exchange constituencies ( i.e. , the public, floor members and ``upstairs'' members). For further discussion of the adequacy of representation of participants, see MCC/MSTC Proposal, supra note 8. The Commission recognizes that the CHX and its clearing corporation and trust company subsidiaries generally are viewed as parts of one ``Exchange complex.'' Among other things, the CHX, MCC and MSTC share certain facilities, systems and financial services. 19 Under the current governance structure, however, the CHX has found that having different Governors serve on the Board of each organization can complicate strategic planning for the ``complex'' and may create certain inefficiencies in the development and implementation of policy. 20 In order to address these issues, the proposed rule change will enable the same individuals to serve on the Board of the CHX and its subsidiaries. 21 The Commission therefore believes that the CHX proposal should foster greater coordination in decision making among the Exchange, MCC and MSTC. 19 Telephone conversation between David T. Rusoff, Attorney, Foley & Lardner, and Beth A. Stekler, Attorney, Division of Market Regulation, SEC, on August 17, 1994. 20 Id. 21 As noted above, however, the exchange, the clearing corporation and the trust company will continue to be separate legal entities and to hold separate Board meetings. See supra , note 9. More importantly for purposes of the Act's requirements, the Commission finds that the new Board will continue to be representative of the CHX and its various constituencies. 22 Specifically, the Commission has concluded that, as a practical matter, the proposed rule change should maintain existing levels of public participation on the CHX Board and should prevent floor domination of the governance of the Exchange. 23 22 As noted above, see supra note 18, the Commission's analysis herein is limited to the impact of the proposed rule change on the relative representation of the public, floor members and ``upstairs'' members on the CHX Board. 23 Prior Commission decisions regarding corporate governance, see supra note 17, largely have turned on these principles. See, e.g. , CBOE Order and 1992 Exchange Order. First, although the Commission would be concerned by a significant increase in the proportion of securities professionals on an exchange's board, the Commission does not believe that the CHX proposal favors professionals at the expense of the public. The Commission notes that the CHX Board presently consists of sixteen member ( i.e. , industry) Governors and eight non-members ( i.e. , public) Governors. As amended, four participant Governors and one non-member Governor will be added to the Board, for a total of twenty industry and nine public representatives. On that basis, the Commission agrees with the Exchange's argument that the proposed rule change will, in effect, maintain the current balance between those constituencies. 24 The Commission therefore finds that the CHX proposal is consistent with the fair representation and the protection of investors and the public interest. 24 Under the proposed reorganization, public Governors will constitute 31% of the CHX Board, as opposed to 33% of the existing Board, which is a minor change. Similarly, based on certain commitments made by the CHX, the Commission is satisfied that the proposed rule change will not be used as an indirect means to achieve floor domination of the Board. The Commission recognizes that many MCC or MSTC participants are also CHX members and, in that capacity, may be active on the floor of the Exchange. Due to the Commission's long-standing concerns, Exchange management has committed to use its best efforts to ensure that the participant Governor positions will not be filled by floor members upon implementation of the proposed rule change or in the future. 25 The Commission believes that these commitments should be sufficient to prevent floor members' interests from being over-represented in the governance of the Exchange. Finally, although the proposal will allow Governors to be recategorized, the Commission expects the CHX to exercise its discretion in a manner which is consistent with the above commitments. 26 On the conditions set forth above, the Commission is satisfied that the Board composition should be sufficiently diverse for it to carry out its obligations under the Act. 25 See July 8 letter, supra , note 13. In the event that a floor member is elected to fill a participant Governor position, the Exchange has stated that it will promptly notify the Commission. In addition, if the Exchange's best efforts do not succeed in ensuring that floor members do not fill participant Governor position, the Exchange is committed to revisit this issue. Id. 26 According to the CHX, because both positions must be in the same class, see supra note 14, the recategorization of a Governor will not affect ( i.e. , increase or decrease) the length of his or her term. Telephone conversation between David T. Rusoff, Attorney, Foley & Lardner, and Beth A. Stekler, Attorney, Division of Market Regulation, SEC, on August 18, 1994. If the Board fills a vacancy among the Governors, however, that individual only serves until the next annual election meeting. See Art. III, Sec. 1 of the CHX Constitution. If a recategorization creates a vacancy and that vacancy is filled by the Board, the Exchange membership will retain the right to elect a Governor to serve the remainder of that term.
