FR940105-2-00002 FR940105-2-00001 DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE Forest Service Newspapers To Be Used for Publication of Notice on Proposed Actions for Southern Region; Alabama, Kentucky, Georgia, Tennessee, Florida, Louisiana, Mississippi, Virginia, West Virginia, Arkansas, Oklahoma, North Carolina, South Carolina, Texas, Puerto Rico AGENCY: Forest Service, USDA. ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: Responsible Officials in the Southern Region will publish notice of proposed actions under 36 CFR part 215 in the newspapers that are listed in the Supplementary Information section of this notice. As provided in 36 CFR 215.5(a), the public shall be advised, through Federal Register notice, of the principal newspapers to be utilized for publishing notices on proposed actions. DATES: Use of these newspapers for purposes of publishing notices of proposed actions under 36 CFR part 215 shall begin on or after January 5, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: 0 Jena Paul Kruglewicz, Regional Appeals Coordinator, Southern Region, Planning and Budget, 1720 Peachtree Road, NW, Atlanta, Georgia 30367&hyph;9102, Phone: 404&hyph;347&hyph;4867. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Responsible Officials in the Southern Region will give notice of proposed actions under 36 CFR part 215 in the following principal newspapers which are listed by Forest Service administrative unit. The timeframe for comment shall be based on the date of publication of the notice of the proposed action in the principal newspaper. Southern Regional Forester decisions affecting National Forest System lands in more than one state of the 13 states of the Southern Region and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico. Atlanta Journal, published daily in Atlanta, GA Southern Regional Forester decisions affecting National Forest System lands in only one state of the 13 states of the Southern Region and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico will appear in the principal newspaper elected by the National Forest(s) of that state. National Forests in Alabama, Alabama Forest Supervisor Decisions Montgomery Advertiser, published daily in Montgomery, AL District Rangers Decisions Bankhead Ranger District: Northwest Alabamian, published weekly (Monday & Thursday) in Haleyville, AL Conecuh Ranger District: The Andalusia Star, published daily (Tuesday through Saturday) in Andalusia, AL Oakmulgee Ranger District, The Tuscaloosa News, published daily in Tuscaloosa, AL Shoal Creek Ranger District: The Anniston Star, published daily in Anniston, AL Talladega Ranger District: The Daily Home, published daily in Talladega, AL Tuskegee Ranger District: Tuskegee News, published weekly (Thursday) in Tuskegee, AL Caribbean National Forest, Puerto Rico Forest Supervisor Decisions El Nuevo Dia, published daily in Spanish in San Juan, PR
