FR940720-2-00135 FR940720-2-00075 [Release No. 34&hyph;34366; File No. SR&hyph;CBOE&hyph;94&hyph;21] Self-Regulatory Organizations; Notice of Filing of Proposed Rule Change by the Chicago Board Options Exchange, Inc. Relating to Exercise Price Intervals on Interest Rate Options July 13, 1994. Pursuant to Section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act''), 1 notice is hereby given that on June 30, 1994, the Chicago Board Options Exchange, Inc. (``CBOE'' or ``Exchange'') filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``Commission'') the proposed rule change as described in Items I, II, and III below, which Items have been prepared by the CBOE. The Commission is publishing this notice to solicit comments on the proposed rule change from interested persons. 1 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1) (1982). I. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Terms of Substance of the Proposed Rule Change The Exchange is proposing to change CBOE Rule 23.5(a) to reduce from $2.50 to $1.00 the fixed interval between strike prices. The text of the proposed rule change is available at the Office of the Secretary, the CBOE, and at the Commission. II. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change In its filing with the Commission, the CBOE included statements concerning the purpose of and basis for the proposed rule change and discussed any comments it received on the proposed rule change. The text of these statements may be examined at the places specified in Item IV below. The CBOE has prepared summaries, set forth in sections (A), (B), and (C) below, of the most significant aspects of such statements. ( A ) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change The purpose of the proposed rule change is to amend the Exchange's rules concerning interest rate option contracts to reduce from $2.50 to $1.00 the interval between exercise prices on such contracts. The Exchange believes that this change, which will establish a minimum spread of $100 ($1.00 times the multiplier of 100) between series, will improve the value and utility of interest rate options. In particular, the Exchange believes that this change should enable traders to construct hedges that correlate closely with interest rates and changes in interest rate measures underlying interest rate options. Under current CBOE Rule 23.5(d), the $2.50 minimum strike price interval is wider than the typical increments of change in interest rates, even during periods of high interest rate volatility. For example, during the most volatile week in recent months, the yield on the 30-year U.S. Treasury bond changed by less than 15 basis points (or $150), while strike price intervals were necessarily set at the minimum of $250 apart. The Exchange believes that that ``wide'' minimum interval made at- or near-the-money positions unavailable,which in turn limited the ability of traders to construct tight hedges or to use combination orders such as straddles effectively. The Exchange believes that reducing the strike price interval accordingly should improve the value and utility of interest rate options to CBOE members and their customers. The Exchange believes that the proposed rule change will enhance depth and liquidity in interest rate options. The Exchange believes this proposal is consistent with Section 6(b) of the Act in general, and Section 6(b)(5) 2 in particular, by providing rules that perfect the mechanism of a free and open market, while protecting investors and the public interest. 2 15 U.S.C. 78f(b)(5) (1988). (B ) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Burden on Competition The CBOE does not believe that the proposed rule change will impose any burden on competition. (C ) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received From Members, Participants, or Others No written comments were solicited or received with respect to the proposed rule change. III. Date of Effectiveness of the Proposed Rule Change and Timing for Commission Action Within 35 days of the date of publication of this notice in the Federal Register or within such longer period (i) as the Commission may designate up to 90 days of such date if it finds such longer period to be appropriate and publishes its reasons for so finding, or (ii) as to which the self-regulatory organization consents, the Commission will: (A) By order approve such proposed rule change, or
