FR940406-0-00032 FR940406-0-00002 (c) The Board shall preserve any records that are made in the regular course of business which relate to the payment of wages, wage rates, job evaluations, job descriptions, merit systems, seniority systems, description of practices, or other matters which describe or explain the basis for payment of any wage differential to employees of the opposite sex, and which may be pertinent to the determination of whether such differential is based on a factor other than sex. Such records are to be kept for at least 3 years. (d) Wages withheld in violation of ยง268.202(c) of this part have the status of unpaid minimum wage or unpaid overtime compensation. ยง268.303 Rehabilitation Act. (a) General policy. The Board shall give full consideration to the hiring, placement and advancement of qualified individuals with a disability who are physically or mentally disabled. The Board shall be a model employer of individuals with a disability. The Board shall not discriminate against individuals with a disability who are physically or mentally disabled. (b) Reasonable accommodation. (1) The Board shall make reasonable accommodation to the known physical or mental limitations of an employee or applicant for employment who is a qualified individual with a disability unless the Board can demonstrate that the accommodation would impose an undue hardship on its operations. (2) Reasonable accommodation may include, but shall not be limited to: (i) Making facilities readily accessible to and usable by individuals with a disability; and (ii) Job restructuring, part-time or modified work schedules, acquisition or modification of equipment or devices, appropriate adjustment or modification of examinations, the provision of readers and interpreters, and other similar actions. (3) In determining whether, pursuant to paragraph (b)(1) of this section, an accommodation would impose an undue hardship on the operation of the Board, factors to be considered include: (i) The overall size of the Board's operations with respect to the number of employees, number and type of facilities and size of budget; (ii) The type of Board operation, including the composition and structure of the Board's work force; and (iii) The nature and the cost of the accommodation. (c) Employment criteria. (1) The Board shall not make use of any employment test or other selection criterion that screens out or tends to screen out qualified individuals with a disability or any class of individuals with a disability unless: (i) The test score or other selection criterion is job-related for the position in question and consistent with business necessity; and (ii) There are no available alterative job-related tests that do not screen out or tend to screen out as many individuals with a disability. (2) The Board shall select and administer tests concerning employment so as to insure that, when administered to an employee or applicant for employment who has a disability that impairs sensory, manual, or speaking skills, the test results accurately reflect the employee's or applicant's ability to perform the position or type of position in question rather than reflecting the employee's or applicant's impaired sensory, manual, or speaking skill (except where those skills are the factors that the test purports to measure). (d) Pre-employment inquiries. (1) Except as provided in paragraphs (d)(2) and (3) of this section, the Board shall not conduct a pre-employment medical examination and shall not make pre-employment inquiry of an applicant as to whether the applicant is an individual with a disability or as to the nature or severity of a disability. The Board may, however, make pre-employment inquiry into an applicant's ability to meet the essential functions of the job, or the medical qualification requirements if applicable, with or without reasonable accommodation, of the position in question, i.e., the minimum abilities necessary for safe and efficient performance of the duties of the position in question. (2) Nothing in this section shall prohibit the Board from conditioning an offer of employment on the results of a medical examination conducted prior to the employee's entrance on duty, provided that: (i) All entering employees are subjected to such an examination regardless of disability or when the pre-employment medical questionnaire used for positions that do not routinely require medical examination indicates a condition for which further examination is required because of the job-related nature of the condition; and (ii) The results of such an examination are used only in accordance with the requirements of this part. (3) Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit the gathering of pre-employment medical information for the purpose of hiring individuals with a disability. (4) To enable and evaluate affirmative action to hire, place or advance individuals with a disability, the Board may invite employees and applicants for employment to indicate whether and to what extent they are disabled, if:
