FR940506-1-00039 FR940506-1-00012 4. An increase in observer coverage is necessary to ensure or improve data availability or quality in order to meet specific fishery management objectives. Any decrease in observer coverage due to unanticipated funding shortfalls must be consistent with the following priorities: (a) Status of stock assessments (i.e., collection of data on total catch, species composition, size, sex, and age); (b) inseason management; (c) bycatch monitoring; and (d) vessel incentive programs and regulatory compliance. Any increased costs must be commensurate with the quality and usefulness of the data to be derived from any revised program and necessary to meet fishery management needs. The Regional Director would consult with the Commissioner of ADF&G prior to making inseason changes in observer coverage level for the crab observer program. NMFS would publish changes in observer coverage requirements in the Federal Register , with the reasons for the changes and any special instructions to vessels required to carry observers, at least 10 calendar days prior to their implementation. Groundfish and Halibut Observers Groundfish and halibut observers would be either employees of NMFS or employees of NMFS observer contractors. Observer contracts would be subject to a competitive bid process and would comply with Federal and agency procurement regulations. A minimum of three contractors would be used in accordance with the procurement regulations, if cost effective, and if three or more bidders are qualified. Observers would possess the education and specific training as specified in the contracts issued by the Federal Government to provide groundfish or halibut observers. The observers' duties are described in detail in the NMFS observer manual, which is updated as necessary and is available from the NMFS Observer Program, Alaska Fisheries Science Center, 7600 Sand Point Way N.E., BIN C15700, Building 4, Seattle, WA 98115. Observer duties may include the collection of data on catch, effort, bycatch, and discards of finfish and shellfish, including prohibited species catches, to facilitate inseason management. Observers may collect information on gear, processing, or other fishing information; biological samples to determine species, length, weight, age, sex composition of catch, and predator-prey interactions; or any other information needed to manage the fisheries. They may collect data on marine mammals, seabirds, and other species as appropriate. Information obtained from observers would also be used to monitor compliance with fishing and related regulations. The Regional Director would review fishery monitoring programs and report to the Council on methods to improve data collection and sampling techniques and to provide for real-time data transmission from the groundfish and halibut fleet, including daily reporting and other measures as appropriate to improve the accuracy and efficiency of fishery monitoring programs. A final rule was published on April 29, 1994, (59 FR 22133) that authorizes NMFS to disclose specified observer data on prohibited species bycatch or bycatch rates. This authority would continue under the Research Plan and is included in this proposed rule (ยง677.10(f)). Bering Sea and Aleutian Islands Area King and Tanner Crab Observers Crab observers would either be employees of ADF&G, or employees of NMFS observer contractors. The observers would be required to possess the education and specific training requirements as specified in the contracts issued by the Federal Government to provide crab observers. The observers' duties are described in detail in the ADF&G observer manual, which will be updated as necessary. The ADF&G observer manual is available from ADF&G, Box 308, Dutch Harbor, AK 99692&hyph;0308. Crab observer duties may include the collection of data on catch, effort, bycatch, and discards of finfish and shellfish to facilitate inseason management. Observers may also collect biological samples to determine information such as species, length, weight, age, sex composition of catch, predator-prey interactions, or any other biological information needed to manage the fisheries. They may also collect data on marine mammals, seabirds, and other species as appropriate. Crab observers also provide an effective means to ensure management compliance. The State would review its fishery monitoring and data transmission programs in conjunction with NMFS, to coordinate methods to improve data collection and sampling techniques, provide for real-time data transmission from the fleet, including daily reporting, improve the accuracy and efficiency of fishery monitoring programs, and improve coordination between State and Federal agencies. Initially, data collection, transmission, and input programs would be the same as specified under existing State regulations and guidelines to facilitate inseason management.
