FR940106-1-00036 FR940106-1-00008 A. ``Authorized officer'' means any employee of the Bureau of Land Management authorized to perform the duties described in 43 CFR Groups 3000 and 3100 (see 43 CFR 3000.0&hyph;5). B. ``Business day'' means any day Monday through Friday excluding Federal holidays. C. ``Gas'' means any fluid, either combustible or noncombustible, that is produced in a natural state from the earth and that maintains a gaseous or rarefied state at standard temperature and pressure conditions (see 43 CFR 3000.0&hyph;5(a)). D. ``INC'' means incident of noncompliance, which serves as a Notice of Violation under CFR subpart 3163. E. ``Lessee'' means a person or entity holding record title in a lease issued by the United States (see 43 CFR 3160.0&hyph;5). F. ``Major violation'' means noncompliance that causes or threatens immediate, substantial, and adverse impacts on public health and safety, the environment, production accountability, or royalty income (see 43 CFR 3160.0&hyph;5). G. ``Meter uncertainty'' means the overall inaccuracy of a flow meter caused by the inherent errors of the flow measurement equipment. H. ``Minor violation'' means noncompliance that does not rise to the level of a major violation (see 43 CFR 3160.0&hyph;5). I. ``Operating rights owner'' means a person or entity holding operating rights in a lease issued by the United States. A lessee also may be an operating rights owner if the operating rights in a lease or portion thereof have not been severed from record title. J. ``Operator'' means any person or entity, including but not limited to the lessee or operating rights owner, who has stated in writing to the authorized officer that it is responsible under the terms and conditions of the lease for the operations conducted on the leased lands or portion thereof. K. ``Production unit'' means, for purposes of reporting gas production, a measurement unit of 1000 standard cubic feet (Mcf). L. ``Standard cubic foot'' means the volume of gas contained in one cubic foot at a base pressure of 14.73 pounds per square inch absolute, and at a base temperature of 60 ○ F or 519.67 ○ Rankine (see 43 CFR 3162.7&hyph;3). III. Requirements A. Required Recordkeeping The operator shall keep all test data, meter reports, charts/recordings, or other similar records for 6 years from the date they were generated, unless the operator is notified that an audit or investigation involving such records has been initiated. If the operator is notified that an audit or investigation involving the records has been initiated, the operator shall maintain the records until released in writing from the obligation to maintain them. The authorized officer may request, and the operator shall produce, such records any time within this period. For electronic flow computers (EFCs), this includes but is not limited to: 1. Field edits or volume adjustments. 2. Hourly average static and differential pressures, hourly flow temperatures, hourly sums of extensions calculated at each data point, hourly volumes, and the method used to obtain the summation of extensions, averages, and volumes. For the purposes of this Order, extensions are the square root of the product of the differential pressure and static pressure. 3. Subsequent edits or adjustments. If several changes are made, only the original and the final readings shall be retained. Along with any records submitted at the request of the authorized officer, the operator shall provide all additional information used to compute volumes so that computations may be verified. B. General All gas production shall be measured in accordance with an authorized method of measurement. As set out in 43 CFR 3162.7&hyph;3, gas measurement authorized for gas produced from leases, unit areas, and communitization agreements subject to the jurisdiction of the Bureau of Land Management, as such jurisdiction is defined in 43 CFR 3161.1, may be by orifice meter or other methods acceptable to the authorized officer. The requirements and minimum standards for gas measurement are set out below. If these requirements for the primary element and chart recorder are met, a meter accuracy of plus or minus 3 percent will be attained. However, given the complex components and sophistication of electronic flow computers (EFCs), no ``cook book'' method can be established. Therefore, an uncertainty standard of plus or minus 3 percent would be included for EFCs. The requirements of this Order are based on the standards and specifications published by the American Gas Association (AGA) and officially designated as ANSI/API 2530 and AGA Committee Report No. 3, second edition, 1985, hereafter referred to as AGA Committee Report No. 3. The AGA-published standards and specifications are considered to be appropriate for proper gas measurement by both the Department of the Interior and the oil and gas industry. The requirements set minimum standards necessary to promote conservation of natural resources and to ensure proper measurement of gas production for sales and allocation purposes, so that the Federal Government and Indian mineral owners will receive the royalties due under governing oil and gas leases.
