FR940328-0-00053 FR940328-0-00013 Reading, CT The Connecticut Department of Health investigated an outbreak of E. coli 0157:H7 that appeared to be linked to a country club. Four cases of E. coli 0157:H7 were positively linked to undercooked hamburger patties served at the Reading Country Club. E. coli 0157:H7 was isolated by the Connecticut State Lab and the FSIS Beltsville Lab. Ft. Bragg, CA The Mendocino County Health Department reported confirmed cases of E. coli 0157:H7 in a 13 year old girl and an 84 year old woman in Ft. Bragg. The two cases appeared unrelated except that both victims consumed home-cooked hamburgers which may have been made from ground beef purchased at the same supermarket during the same time period. FSIS isolated E. coli 0157:H7 from ground beef returned to the market as well as a patty from the residence where the 13 year old girl had eaten. Texas A total of 10 separate cases E. coli 0157:H7 occurring over a 6-week period in the autumn of 1993 are being investigated by the Texas Health Department. These included three cases that resulted in hemolytic uremic syndrome and one death. No common source has been identified. Parameters of Good Safety After reviewing available information, FSIS in conjunction with the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) identified the following parameters of safe handling by consumers: How to safely store raw product and thaw frozen product; how to avoid cross-contamination during preparation; how to cook for optimal safety and palatability; and, how to store leftovers after preparation. For institutions, hot holding of prepared food is an additional parameter. (The term institutions as used throughout this preamble includes hotels, restaurants, or similar institutions.) In addition, the Agency proposed that the safe handling instructions include a rationale statement specifying the reason why it is important to follow such instructions. The Agency believes that consumers will pay more attention to the safe handling instructions if they understand that mishandling will lead to the growth of bacteria and possibly to illness.
