FR940214-1-00029 FR940214-1-00005 Once product is retained, an establishment must recondition or rework the retained product, properly dispose of the product, or appeal the inspector's/circuit supervisor's decision to his/her immediate supervisor. Currently, there is no time limit on actions to be taken by the establishment when product is retained by FSIS. At times, retained product is accumulated from different lots and held in storage for several months or more with no action taken or planned by the establishment. The proposed regulations are intended to prevent incidents such as one recently investigated by USDA's Office of Inspector General involving the release of beef trimmings containing plastic shavings from plastic cutting boards. The investigation disclosed that about 160,000 pounds of beef trimmings containing plastic shavings had been produced at different times at two different establishments of the same corporation. Suspect product was retained by FSIS in April and September 1991. FSIS allowed the release of all of the trimmings in December 1991 after examining a sample of product produced at one of the establishments. The Office of Inspector General (OIG) provided a report 1 of the investigation to the Secretary of Agriculture on July 30, 1992. Although the investigation disclosed that FSIS's inspection process ensures a safe and wholesome product, the report recommended, among other things, that FSIS strengthen its regulations with regard to documenting appeals, providing procedures for reconsidering retention decisions, and handling and disposition of retained product. 1 A copy of the report is available from the FSIS Hearing Clerk, Room 3171, South Building, Food Safety and Inspection Service, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250. FSIS is proposing to amend the Federal meat and poultry products inspection regulations to: (1) Require establishments to submit written appeals above the circuit supervisor's level when the appeal relates to disposition of retained meat or poultry product, (2) provide that an establishment has 20 calendar days to: (a) Appeal a retention, (b) recondition or rework product, or (c) properly dispose of the product, and (3) establish procedures to ensure appropriate disposition of product immediately after a decision has been reached on an appeal. FSIS has determined that a 20-day time period provides ample time for the establishment to research and evaluate the situation and make a decision on whether to recondition or rework the product or request that the product be condemned by the inspector. The time limit would not apply, however, for retained product that is accumulated for re-examination using mechanical detecting devices. Frequently, when contamination (plastic, metal or other foreign material capable of detection with approved specialized detection equipment) occurs during processing, it is difficult to visually determine the precise amount of product affected. Therefore, FSIS permits the use of approved mechanical detection devices, such as X-ray equipment, to be used by establishments to detect such contamination and to salvage the portions of the product that are not contaminated. The mechanical detection equipment must be approved as prescribed in §§308.5 and 381.53 of the meat and poultry inspection regulations. Because of the expense to establishments of renting mechanical detection equipment and employing technicians to operate the equipment, some establishments may elect to store product suspected of being contaminated until a sufficient amount is accumulated to justify the cost of the detection equipment and technicians. Under the proposed regulations, FSIS would allow the accumulation of suspect product beyond 20 calendar days only if the product is intended for further examination by mechanical detection equipment and only when the establishment has written procedures on file that provide information to assure that the identity, location and security of suspect product are maintained. However, if the Administrator or his/her designee determines that the establishment's written procedures for accumulating product are unacceptable, FSIS would not permit the establishment to accumulate suspect product beyond 20 calendar days and would formally notify the establishment in writing of the basis for this decision. The establishment would then be afforded an opportunity to modify the procedure in accordance with the formal notification by submitting a written statement in response to the denial notification. The establishment would also be afforded a right to request a hearing with respect to the merits or validity of the denial. If the establishment requests a hearing and the Administrator or his/her designee, after review of the answer, determines the initial determination to be correct, he/she would file the notification, answer and the request for hearing, which shall constitute the complaint and answer in the proceeding, with the Hearing Clerk of the Department. The proceeding would be conducted in accordance with Rules of Practice which shall be adopted for this proceeding. In addition, the footnotes in §§318.2 and 381.145 of the Federal meat and poultry products inspection regulation would be revised to reflect that the Agency is authorizing field office personnel to develop sampling plans for specific products. List of Subjects 9 CFR Part 306 Appeals, Meat inspections, Retentions. 9 CFR Part 318 Appeals, Meat inspection, Retentions. 9 CFR Part 381 Appeals, Poultry products inspection, Retentions. For the reasons discussed in the preamble, FSIS is proposing to amend 9 CFR parts 306, 318 and 381 of the Federal meat and poultry products inspection regulations to read as follows: PART 306_ASSIGNMENT AND AUTHORITIES OF PROGRAM EMPLOYEES 1. The authority citation for part 306 would continue to read as follows: Authority: 21 U.S.C. 601&hyph;695; 7 CFR 2.17, 2.55. 2. Section 306.5 would be revised as follows: §306.5 Appeals. Any person receiving inspection service, may if dissatisfied with any decision of an inspector relating to any inspection, file an appeal from such decision: Provided, That such appeal is filed within 48 hours from the time the decision was made. Any such appeal from a decision of an inspector shall be made to his/her immediate supervisor having jurisdiction over the subject matter of the appeal, and such superior shall determine whether the inspector's decision was correct. Review of such appeal determination, when requested, shall be made by the immediate superior of the employee of the Department making the appeal determination. Appeals above the circuit supervisor level of decisions related to product retentions shall be made in writing by the establishment within a period of twenty (20) calendar days from the date of the retention. Denial of a labeling application by the inspector-in-charge shall not constitute a basis for an appeal under this section.
