FR941207-0-00011 FR941207-0-00002 Contract Extension Under sections 250.30(c)(1) and 252.4(b) of the proposed rule, processing contracts would continue to be required to terminate on June 30 of each year; however, contracting agencies (or FCS in the case of NCP) would be given the option of extending contracts for two 1-year periods. Section 250.30(c)(1) of the proposed rule would also require that any changed information be updated before any contract extension is granted, including pricing and yield information, bonding information, and the signature page. Furthermore, section 250.30(c)(1) of the proposed rule would provide that contracts could be extended only if the processor performed satisfactorily during the previous year, submitted the required annual reconciliation reports and had its certified public accountant (CPA) audit report closed. A total of eighteen commenters responded to this proposal. Eleven commenters supported the provision as proposed. One commenter supported the option of two 1-year extensions, but added that requiring processors to submit the annual reconciliation report and requiring the closure of the CPA audit report as conditions for contract extension are not workable due to the submission and resolution time frames associated with these reports. Another commenter supported the option of two 1-year extensions but stated that the annual reconciliation reports should be eliminated as a condition since the proposal for submission of the monthly performance report with year-to-date totals would serve the same purpose. Four commenters were in favor of contract extension but recommended four 1-year extensions to make processing contract extensions consistent with the food service management company contract duration requirements under 7 CFR Part 210. Three of these commenters also recommended that bids should be separate and distinct from the processing agreement and not be subject to automatic renewal. Finally, one commenter stated that contract extensions would not result in reduced paperwork because distributing agencies would have to maintain separate active contract files for each year of the contract. This commenter added that if there were any changes from the original contract, the distributing agency would need to issue additional amendments. The Department continues to believe sections 250.30(c)(1) and 252.4(b) of the proposed rule will reduce paperwork, facilitate contract approval, and expedite the arrangement of early commodity shipments directly to processors. Based on the comments on section 250.30(c)(1) of the proposed rule, however, the Department recognizes that the time frames for the submission of certain reports, such as the annual reconciliation report or closure of the CPA audit report, cannot practically be conditions for contract extension. Annual reconciliation reports are not due to be submitted to the distributing agencies until after the new contract year has begun. CPA audit reports are due prior to extending a contract; however, the audit might not be closed at the time of contract extension. Typically, distributing agencies begin negotiating contracts for the upcoming contract year in March or April. Because distributing agencies need to have the most recent data available to them in determining whether a processing contract should be extended, this rule will require that distributing agencies ensure that any changed information must be updated before any contract extension is granted, including but not limited to pricing and yield information value, bonding information, and signature page. The distributing agency also must ensure that all required reports and any corrections to reports that are due up to the time that contract extension occurs have been submitted by the processor. Accordingly, this final rule adopts section 250.30(c)(1) of the proposed State processing regulations and section 252.4(b) of the proposed NCP regulations without change, except that section 250.30(c)(1) is modified to provide that as a condition of extension, the processor must, in addition to performing satisfactorily during the previous year, submit all required reports and any corrections to such reports up to the time that contract extension occurs and submit its CPA audit report. Requirements for Processing Contracts Section 250.30(c)(4)(ii) of the proposed State processing regulations and section 252.4(c)(1) of the NCP regulations would eliminate the requirement that the free on board (FOB) plant price be included as part of the State processing and NCP contracts. In lieu of the FOB price, the proposed rule would permit processors to provide any pricing information, so long as the processor thoroughly explained what this additional pricing information represented. The processor, however, under section 250.30(c)(4)(ii) of the proposed rule would also be required to include the contract value of each USDA commodity and where processing was to be performed only on a fee-for-service basis, as defined in the rule, the actual fee would be listed. Additionally, section 250.30(c)(4)(ii) of the proposed rule would require that information pertaining to yields and pricing of end products be listed on separate pages of the contract.
