FR940627-0-00139 FR940627-0-00019 The particulate fraction may be collected on a single filter instead of on multiple filters as prescribed in the FTP. Although the filter collection procedures outlined in the CFR were designed for heavy-duty emission testing, these methods are applicable and can be used in light-duty applications as well. Similarly, semi-volatile phase emissions are to be collected on one apparatus for the entire driving cycle. Semi-volatile emissions are collected immediately downstream from the particulate collection filters using porous polymer beds or other equipment designed for their capture. 30 After collection, the soluble organic fractions of the particulate and semi-volatile emissions are to be separately extracted using appropriate laboratory procedures. 32 Because the extracted materials are much more stable than gaseous combustion emissions, they can be stored up to six months if protected from ultraviolet light and maintained at or below ^20 ○C. Particulate phase emissions can be stored either on the collection filter or after extraction. Semi-volatile phase emissions must be extracted immediately after collection. The duration of the collection process which will be needed to obtain sufficient quantities of the test substance will vary depending on the emission characteristics of the engine and fuel or additive/base fuel mixture, and on the requirements of the biological test protocol. If an insufficient amount of particulate or semi-volatile material is obtained during a single driving cycle, the FTP may be repeated as required and the extracted organic fractions combined. 30 An example procedure using a porous polymer resin as a trapping medium is described in Stump, F. et al., ``Trapping Gaseous Hydrocarbons for Mutagenic Testing,'' SAE Technical Paper Series No. 820776, 1982; Available in Docket A&hyph;90&hyph;07 (Item No. II&hyph;J&hyph;14). 31 Examples of particulate and semi-volatile emission collection and analysis methods are described in 40 CFR §86.1301&hyph;1344 and in Coordinating Research Council Report No. 551 (entitled ``Chemical Methods For The Measurement Of Unregulated Diesel Emissions_Carbonyls/Aldehydes, Particulate Characterization, Sulfates, PAH/NO 2 PAH,'' August 1987; available in Docket A&hyph;90&hyph;07, Item No. II&hyph;J&hyph;15). 2. For Biological Testing Non-catalyzed emissions are to be generated for conducting biological tests, following the same procedures described above for emission characterization. In vitro biological testing (i.e., the Salmonella assay) is to be conducted on extracts of the particulate and semi-volatile emission phases separately. Particulate and semi-volatile emissions are to be collected in a manner identical to the procedure used for particulate and semi-volatile emission characterization. The in vivo biological testing requires the generation of whole untreated emissions for a minimum of six hours per day, five days per week, for 13 weeks. To generate these emissions, light-duty vehicles (or engines) with non-functional after treatment devices (e.g., blank catalyst with no catalytic wash coat) are to be operated under FTP or FTP-equivalent engine conditions. The continuous generation of emissions throughout the required exposure period requires light-duty vehicles/engines to be driven through repeated UDDS cycles and heavy-duty engines to be operated over repeated EDS cycles. If desired, registrants may automate their emission generation system. As discussed in the Reopening Notice, EPA was concerned about the inherent variability of FTP-generated emissions. To accommodate the FTP transient cycle within the biological testing program, this rule requires the use of an apparatus to provide a more stable exposure environment for biological testing. For this purpose, EPA recommends the development and use of a large dilution/mixing/integration chamber located between the constant volume sampling (CVS) system and the final dilution apparatus, just prior to the exposure chamber containing the test animals. The mixing chamber will allow the necessary adjustment of the exhaust concentrations and integration of the large concentration swings typical of FTP exhaust, prior to exposing the test animals. This chamber must meet certain performance specifications based on the average concentration of total hydrocarbons in the exhaust. That is, the average concentration of total hydrocarbons leaving the mixing chamber must be within ten percent of the average concentration of total hydrocarbons entering the chamber. Much of the CVS system concentration variability is associated with the rapidly changing dilution ratios that result from rapidly changing exhaust flow rates. EPA recognizes that vehicle exhaust sampling devices, such as mini- diluters, 32 are being developed to maintain constant dilution ratios during transient testing. These systems will eliminate much of the concentration variability of classical CVS exhaust. As discussed in the Reopening Notice, these systems are currently under development and their use at this time is limited. However, today's rule will allow their use if they can meet the performance specifications defined above as well as other requirements of the testing program. 32 A discussion on mini-diluter technology can be found in: American Industry/Government Emissions Research (AIGER) Cooperative Research and Development Agreement, ``Specifications for Advanced Emissions Test Instrumentation,'' AIGER PD&hyph;94&hyph;1, Revision 5.0, February 1994; available in Docket A&hyph;90&hyph;07, Item No. IV&hyph;A&hyph;09.
