FR941017-1-00015 FR941017-1-00001 7. Clarify Interpretations In ยง100.23 to 10 CFR part 100, changes have been made to resolve questions of interpretation. As an example, definitions and required investigations stated in the proposed regulation would be significantly changed to eliminate or modify phrases that were more applicable to only the western part of the United States. The institutional definition for ``safety-related structures, systems, and components'' is drawn from appendix A to part 100 under III(c) and VI(a). With the proposed relocation of the earthquake engineering criteria to appendix S to part 50 and the proposed relocation and modification to dose guidelines in ยง50.34(a)(1), the definition of safety-related structures, systems, and components is included in part 50 definitions with reference to both the part 100 and part 50 dose guidelines. VI. Related Regulatory Guides and Standard Review Plan Section The NRC is developing the following draft regulatory guides and standard review plan sections to provide prospective licensees with the necessary guidance for implementing the proposed regulation. The notice of availability for these materials will be published in a later issue of the Federal Register . 1. DG&hyph;1032, ``Identification and Characterization of Seismic Sources and Determination of Shutdown Earthquake Ground Motions.'' The draft guide provides general guidance and recommendations, describes acceptable procedures and provides a list of references that present acceptable methodologies to identify and characterize capable tectonic sources and seismogenic sources. Section V.B.3 of this Proposed rule describes the key elements. 2. DG&hyph;1033, Third Proposed Revision 2 to Regulatory Guide 1.12, ``Nuclear Power Plant Instrumentation for Earthquakes.'' The draft guide describes seismic instrumentation type and location, operability, characteristics, installation, actuation, and maintenance that are acceptable to the NRC staff. 3. DG&hyph;1034, ``Pre-Earthquake Planning and Immediate Nuclear Power Plant Operator Post-Earthquake Actions.'' The draft guide provides guidelines that are acceptable to the NRC staff for a timely evaluation of the recorded seismic instrumentation data and to determine whether or not plant shutdown is required. 4. DG&hyph;1035, ``Restart of a Nuclear Power Plant Shut Down by a Seismic Event.'' The draft guide provides guidelines that are acceptable to the NRC staff for performing inspections and tests of nuclear power plant equipment and structures prior to restart of a plant that has been shut down because of a seismic event. 5. Draft Standard Review Plan Section 2.5.1, Proposed Revision 3, ``Basic Geologic and Seismic Information.'' The draft describes procedures to assess the adequacy of the geologic and seismic information cited in support of the applicant's conclusions concerning the suitability of the plant site. 6. Draft Standard Review Plan Section 2.5.2, Second Proposed Revision 3 ``Vibratory Ground Motion.'' The draft describes procedures to assess the ground motion potential of seismic sources at the site and to assess the adequacy of the SSE. 7. Draft Standard Review Plan Section 2.5.3, Proposed Revision 3, ``Surface Faulting.'' The draft describes procedures to assess the adequacy of the applicant's submittal related to the existence of a potential for surface faulting affecting the site. 8. DG&hyph;4003, Second Proposed Revision 2 to Regulatory Guide 4.7, ``General Site Suitability Criteria for Nuclear Power Plants.'' This guide discusses the major site characteristics related to public health and safety and environmental issues that the NRC staff considers in determining the suitability of sites. VII. Future Regulatory Action Several existing regulatory guides will be revised to incorporate editorial changes or maintain the existing design or analysis philosophy. These guides will be issued subsequent to the publication of the final regulations that would implement this proposed action. The following regulatory guides will be revised to incorporate editorial changes, for example to reference new sections to part 100 or appendix S to part 50. No technical changes will be made in these regulatory guides. 1. 1.57, ``Design Limits and Loading Combinations for Metal Primary Reactor Containment System Components.'' 2. 1.59, ``Design Basis Floods for Nuclear Power Plants.'' 3. 1.60, ``Design Response Spectra for Seismic Design of Nuclear Power Plants.'' 4. 1.83, ``Inservice Inspection of Pressurized Water Reactor Steam Generator Tubes.'' 5. 1.92, ``Combining Modal Responses and Spatial Components in Seismic Response Analysis.'' 6. 1.102, ``Flood Protection for Nuclear Power Plants.'' 7. 1.121, ``Bases for Plugging Degraded PWR Steam Generator Tubes.'' 8. 1.122, ``Development of Floor Design Response Spectra for Seismic Design of Floor-Supported Equipment or Components.'' The following regulatory guides will be revised to update the design or analysis philosophy, for example, to change OBE to a fraction of the SSE: 1. 1.27, ``Ultimate Heat Sink for Nuclear Power Plants.'' 2. 1.100, ``Seismic Qualification of Electric and Mechanical Equipment for Nuclear Power Plants.'' 3. 1.124, ``Service Limits and Loading Combinations for Class 1 Linear-Type Component Supports.'' 4. 1.130, ``Service Limits and Loading Combinations for Class 1 Plate-and-Shell-Type Component Supports.'' 5. 1.132, ``Site Investigations for Foundations of Nuclear Power Plants.'' 6. 1.138, ``Laboratory Investigations of Soils for Engineering Analysis and Design of Nuclear Power Plants.'' 7. 1.142, ``Safety-Related Concrete Structures for Nuclear Power Plants (Other than Reactor Vessels and Containments).''
