FR940106-0-00096 FR940106-0-00021 Nursing contractor means an entity that employs registered nurses and supplies these nurses, on a temporary basis and for a fee, to health care facilities or private homes. Prevailing wage means the average wage paid to similarly employed registered nurses within the geographic area. Secretary means the Secretary of Labor or the Secretary's designee. Similarly employed means employed by the same type of facility (acute care or long-term care) and working under like conditions, such as the same shift, on the same days of the week, and in the same specialty area. State means one of the 50 States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, and Guam. State employment security agency (SESA) means the State agency designated under section 4 of the Wagner-Peyser Act to cooperate with USES in the operation of the national system of public employment offices. Strike means a labor dispute wherein employees engage in a concerted stoppage or work (including stoppage by reason of the expiration of a collective-bargaining agreement) or engage in any concerted slowdown or other concerted interruption of operations. United States Employment Service (USES) means the agency of the Department of Labor, established under the Wagner-Peyser Act, which is charged with administering the national system of public employment offices. United States (U.S.) nurse means any nurse who is a U.S. citizen; is a U.S. national; is lawfully admitted for permanent residence; is granted the status of an alien admitted for temporary residence under 8 U.S.C. 1160(a), 1161(a), or 1255a(a)(1); is admitted as a refugee under 8 U.S.C. 1157; or is granted asylum under 8 U.S.C. 1158. United States (U.S.) worker means any worker who is a U.S. citizen; is a U.S. national; is lawfully admitted for permanent residence; is granted the status of an alien lawfully admitted for temporary residence under 8 U.S.C. 1160(a), 1161(a), or 1255(a)(1); is admitted as a refugee under 8 U.S.C. 1157; or is granted asylum under 8 U.S.C. 1158. United States is defined at 8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(38). Worksite means the health care facility or home where the nurse is involved in the practice of nursing. It is possible, in the case of nursing contractors, that the employer's physical location and the worksite facility's physical location will differ. ยง XXX .310 Attestations. (a) Who may submit attestations? Any entity meeting the definition of ``facility'' in ยง XXX .302, may submit an attestation. The attestation shall include: a completed Form ETA 9029, which shall be signed by the chief executive officer of the facility (or the chief executive officer's designee); and explanatory statements prescribed in paragraphs (c) through (k) of this section. A nursing contractor that seeks to employ nonimmigrant nurses shall file its own attestation (including Form ETA 9029 and explanatory statements) as prescribed by this section, and, as part of its own attestation, shall attest that it shall refer H&hyph;1A nurses only to facilities that, with the exception of private households which themselves do not employ H&hyph;1A nurses, have current and valid attestations on file with ETA. Subparts D and E of this part shall apply both to the nursing contractor and to the worksite facility. (b) Where should attestations be submitted? Attestations shall be submitted, by U.S. mail or private carrier, to the U.S. Department of Labor ETA Regional Office which has jurisdiction over the geographic area where the H&hyph;1A nurse will be employed, as designated by the Chief, Division of Foreign Labor Certifications, USES. The addresses of the Certifying Officers are set forth in the instructions to Form ETA 9029 . (c) What should be submitted? _(1) Form ETA 9029 and explanatory statements. (i) A completed and dated original Form ETA 9029 , containing the required attestation elements and the original signature of the chief executive officer of the facility, shall be submitted, along with two copies of the completed, (signed, and dated) Form ETA 9029 . (Copies of Form ETA 9029 are available at the address listed in paragraph (b) of this section.) In addition, explanations, where required, for the required attestation elements as to what documentation is available at the facility and how such documentation indicates compliance with the regulatory standards as prescribed in paragraphs (d) through (i) of this section. In addition, (A) If the facility is a nursing contractor, the special attestation element in paragraph (j) of this section; or (B) If the facility is a worksite (other than a private household which itself does not employ, seek to employ, or file a visa petition on behalf of an H&hyph;1A nurse), which will use H&hyph;1A nurses only through a nursing contractor, the special attestation element in paragraph (k) of this section, shall be submitted in triplicate with the Form ETA 9029 . (ii) If the facility is proposing to meet alternative standards for substantial disruption (Element I) and/or the taking of timely and significant steps (Element IV), an explanation of the standards being proposed and an explanation of how these proposed standards are of comparable significance to those set forth in the statute shall be submitted in triplicate. If the facility is attesting that it can only take one timely and significant step (Element IV), it shall submit an explanation, in triplicate, demonstrating that taking a second step is unreasonable. If the facility uses H&hyph;1A nurses only through a nursing contractor, but claims a bona fide medical emergency exemption from Element IV, it shall submit a written explanation, in triplicate, demonstrating the existence of such an emergency. DOL may request additional explanation and/or documentation from a facility in the process of determining acceptability in cases described in this paragraph (c)(1)(ii). (2) Attestation elements. The attestation elements referenced in paragraph (c)(1) of this section are mandated by section 212(m)(2)(A) of the Act (8 U.S.C. 1182(m)(2)(A)). Section 212(m)(2)(A) of the Act requires covered facilities to attest as follows: (i) The attestation referred to in section 101(a)(15)(H)(i)(a) of the Act, with respect to a facility for which an alien will perform services, is an attestation as to the following: (A) There would be a substantial disruption through no fault of the facility in the delivery of health care services of the facility without the services of such an alien or aliens.
