FR940505-1-00071 FR940505-1-00012 In this NPRM, however, EPA proposes to conditionally approve these measures as strengthening the SIP and for the purpose of finding under section 182(e)(5) that later-enacted measures are not needed to meet this progress requirement. Although section 182(e)(5) does not require conditional approval for the purpose of such a finding, EPA has decided to conditionally approve, under the authority of section 110(k)(4) of the Act, the SCAQMD's enforceable commitments to adopt in fully enforceable form by 1996 specific measures to deliver the small, remaining shortfall in necessary reductions. This conditional approval, combined with the South Coast plan, assures to the satisfaction of the Administrator that the State will ultimately be able to meet the 15 percent progress requirements for the period 1990&hyph;1996 by means of recently adopted creditable control measures, along with a small number of new measures scheduled for full adoption and implementation in 1994, 1995, and 1996. As discussed in section III.B.5.d.(1) above, the Act also establishes two other progress requirements applicable within the first 10 years following enactment of the 1990 Amendments. A further 9 percent of creditable reductions must be achieved by 1999, followed by an additional 3 percent for the year 2000, as part of the 9 percent due by 2002. 33 33 For EPA's applicable policy on the post-1996 progress requirements, the reader should consult Guidance on the Post-1996 Rate-of-Progress Plan and the Attainment Demonstration (OAQPS, December 1993). While the Act specifies that progress for the period 1990&hyph;1996 is in terms of VOC reductions, section 182(c)(2)(C) allows the substitution of NO X reductions for VOC in meeting the post- 1996 progress requirements. EPA has recently issued the Agency's policy and procedures for substituting NO X reductions, NO X Substitution Guidance (OAQPS, December 1993.) For purposes of the progress plans, this guidance authorizes any combination of VOC and NO X emission reductions which total 3 percent per year, so long as the proposed level of NO X substitution is consistent with the emission reductions in the modeled ozone attainment demonstration. In the case of the South Coast, UAM analyses support a one-for-one substitution of NO X for VOC, inasmuch as peak ozone concentrations in the South Coast Air Basin are sensitive to both VOC and NO X controls (see discussion below in section III.H.). EPA has concluded that the Act allows NO X emissions reductions occurring since 1990 to be applied to the post-1996 emissions reductions requirements. 34 57 FR 13517, April 16, 1992. SCAQMD's aggressive rule adoption schedule for NO X has resulted in recent adoption of rules that contribute creditable NO X reductions during the period 1990&hyph;2000. Particularly important new or revised rules include: Rule 1109_Refinery Heaters & Boilers; Rule 1110.2_Internal Combustion Engines; Rule 1134_Gas Turbines; Rule 1135_Electric Power Generators and Boilers; Rule 1146_Crude Oil Pipeline Heaters and Oil Field Steam Generators, and Industrial Boilers, Heaters, & Generators; Rule 1146.1_Small Boilers and Heaters; and the NO X /SO X RECLAIM program. Creditable reductions in VOC and NO X for 1997&hyph;2000 also derive from CARB measures, including reductions from the California Low Emission Vehicles/Clean Fuels Program and California's regulation of certain nonroad engine categories. Finally, the FIP contributes significant creditable NO X and VOC reductions in the period 1997&hyph;1999 and in 2000, primarily through the enhanced I/M program and initial benefits from the other mobile source controls. 34 Emission reductions from the measures listed in section 182(b)(1)(D) are not creditable toward meeting the progress requirements, whether the emissions are VOC or NO X . A technical support document entitled ``Calculation of Creditable SIP/FIP Rate-of-Progress Reductions for the Period 1997&hyph;1999 and for the Year 2000'' identifies individual FIP and SIP measures and associated creditable reductions for both progress periods. EPA's analysis determined that cumulative creditable VOC and NO X emissions reductions for 1997&hyph;1999 exceed the Act's 9 percent rate-of-progress requirement for 1997&hyph;1999 and 3 percent requirement for 2000, without the need for any emission reductions from the FIP's new technology measures. e. Attainment demonstration_ As discussed in section III.H., EPA believes that the set of measures proposed in this NPRM will bring the South Coast into attainment with the ozone standard by 2010. This projection is based on photochemical grid modeling performed by the South Coast Air Quality Management District. Six episodes representative of conditions conducive to high concentrations of ozone were selected for the modeling exercise. Four of the episodes chosen were from the period for which an intensive air quality and meteorological data base from the Southern California Air Quality Study was available. The emissions for the basin were projected for the year 2010, as discussed in section III.H.2.b, and the emission reductions resulting from the implementation of the set of proposed measures were quantified (section III H.4.). The resulting emissions were used as input for each of the six episodes. The projected ozone concentrations for the modeled episodes were below the NAAQS for ozone for all portions of the domain, hence demonstrating attainment of the ozone standard. f. Alternative attainment date discussion_ As in the case of the Sacramento and Ventura attainment analyses, EPA considered for the South Coast ozone FIP a number of mechanisms to achieve attainment before 2010, the Act's deadline for the South Coast. For a discussion of possible controls, the reader should refer to sections III.B.3.d. on the Sacramento 1999 attainment option and section III.B.4.e. on an alternative attainment date in Ventura. Expedited attainment using these approaches is even less practicable in the South Coast than in the other two California FIP areas. The enormous emission reductions required for ozone attainment in the South Coast mean that the restrictions would have to be so severe as to interfere profoundly with the economic and social organization of the area, commerce generally, the provision of public services, and the effective operation of local governments. EPA believes this strategy would not be in the public's interest, despite the benefits of any acceleration in the attainment date. 6. South Coast Carbon Monoxide a. Reduction Requirements_ EPA's attainment analysis uses a 1990 South Coast CO emissions level of 7084 tons per day. Motor vehicles are responsible for 93 percent of these emissions. Without adoption of further controls, CO emissions are expected to decline to 4349 tons per day in the year 2000. This reduction is due primarily to turnover in the motor vehicle fleet (including the benefits of California's LEV program) and to reductions from the California wintertime oxygenated gasoline requirement (see section II.C.1.). b. Attainment Demonstration_ In order to maximize consistency between the FIP and local SIP efforts, EPA has elected to employ the SCAQMD modeling analyses for purposes of the CO attainment demonstration. As discussed above, the SCAQMD's 1992 CO SIP revision based the attainment demonstration on both areawide (Urban Airshed Model, or UAM) and hotspot (CAL3QHC) modeling analyses, and used an appropriate design value of 23.4 ppm, recorded in 1988 at the Lynwood monitoring station. The modeling analyses predict attainment of the 8-hour CO NAAQS by reductions in areawide emissions of tons per day, based upon the control strategies included in the plan and the transportation modeling assumptions for the year 2000. As noted in section II.C.1, however, the SIP's attainment demonstration relies upon large CO emissions reductions (587.4 tons per day) assigned to an enhanced I/M program, which has not yet been adopted by the State. EPA proposes to disapprove the attainment demonstration portion of the SIP and fill the gap in necessary emissions reductions through the promulgation of the federal enhanced I/M program described in section III.D.2.c. 35 In the future, the SIP attainment demonstration could be approved if the State submits approvable enhanced I/M legislative authorization and regulations. 35 The FIP contributes additional CO emission reductions from other federal mobile source measures, as shown in sections III.D., III.E., and III.H., below. These reductions are not so great, however, as to advance the attainment date. c. Alternative Attainment Date Discussion_ As in the case of the California ozone FIPs, advancement of the CO attainment date could be achieved through activity restrictions more severe than those proposed in this FIP. For example, EPA could prohibit registration of cars emitting more than 3.4 grams of CO per mile, the national federal motor vehicle standard for 1994 and later model years. Alternatively, the FIP could mandate no-drive days or restrict sale of gasoline during winter months. EPA believes that these approaches are simply not practicable because of their widespread adverse consequences and enforceability issues. Therefore, EPA proposes not to include such additional measures in the CO FIP.
