FR941103-0-00031 FR941103-0-00007 Before discussing the pricing principles and specific new methodologies that may be acceptable, there are several points we would like to make. First, the Commission believes that improving price signals is an important goal, but recognizes that trade-offs between improved price signals and simplicity are inevitable. On one hand, transmission service is typically a small component of the total cost of electric service and, therefore, arguably does not merit overly complex pricing methods. 14 On the other hand, in many cases transmission capacity is a scarce and valuable resource, and its pricing can send signals that promote the efficient siting of generation facilities and efficient decisions as to the dispatch of generation. In addition, new technological advances, particularly in computer technology, have made certain innovative pricing methodologies workable in practice. We therefore must balance the sometimes competing goals of better price signals and simplicity when evaluating any new pricing methodologies. 14 Historically, transmission plant has represented less than 12 percent of total electric plant in service for major investor-owned Electric Utilities and generally less than 6 percent of the cost of electricity to end users. (Derived from cost data in 1992 Energy Information Administration Financial Statistics of Major Investor-Owned Electric Utilities. ) Second, the Commission also recognizes that it must move beyond certain precedent in order to entertain alternative pricing proposals. For example, instead of requiring a single postage stamp rate for transmission over the integrated transmission system of a corporation, such as a holding company system with several affiliated operating companies, 15 we will now entertain proposals such as zonal rates 16 that take distance within the corporation into account, provided that such proposals are consistent with the pricing principles that we adopt today. 17 Having analyzed new methodologies presented in the record, we believe that some departures from our traditional integrated system pricing requirement will be supportable under the FPA if appropriately developed. 15 See , e.g. , Southern Company Services, 55 FERC ¶61,173 (1991), order on reh'g , 58 FERC ¶61,093 (1991), aff'd , Alabama Power Company v. FERC, 993 F.2d 1557 (D.C. Cir. 1993). 16 Under zonal rates, a utility's facilities are divided (disaggregated) into a number of zones. The total cost assigned to any request for transmission service would depend on the number of zones traversed and the rate for each zone. 17 If a utility, or public utility holding company system, proposes to disaggregate its integrated transmission system into distinct components (or zones) for purposes of developing transmission rates for third parties, it must apply the same approach consistently and uniformly across the entire system for all uses of the system, including its own uses. We caution that any such zonal approach or other disaggregated approach would also need to appropriately recognize all flows on the system. For example, if flows are used to allocate costs on some lines, flows should be used to allocate costs for all remaining lines in the same way; e.g., it would not be acceptable to presume that each transmission customer proportionally uses and relies upon all remaining lines of the integrated system. Third, as previously noted, several commenters urged the Commission to provide a framework for reforming pricing that would supplement the Commission's RTG Policy Statement. The Commission continues to believe that it would be appropriate for RTGs to address transmission pricing. We anticipate that the pricing flexibility provided herein, and our willingness to give appropriate deference to RTG decisions, will not only encourage the development of RTGs, but will also encourage RTGs to address transmission pricing, including regional issues affecting such pricing. Finally, we do not want our policy to be so rigid that utilities will be prohibited from proposing pricing alternatives that may deviate from the traditional revenue requirement. Because transmission remains a natural monopoly, we believe it will be difficult for transmission owners to support such pricing under the FPA, particularly market-based transmission rates. However, we believe that it would be shortsighted to foreclose completely consideration of such non-conforming proposals. The electric utility industry of today is very different from the electric utility industry that existed only 20 years ago and even five years ago. Just as we today change our policies to reflect recent changes, we must remain flexible if we are to respond to future changes. Accordingly, we detail procedures and standards below that will be used in evaluating transmission pricing proposals that do not conform to the traditional revenue requirement. We now turn to the requirements of the FPA and the pricing principles that we have developed consistent with those requirements.
