FR941121-0-00030 FR941121-0-00001 (b)(3)(ii) Balance Computation Method 1. Methods and periods. Credit unions may use different methods or periods to calculate minimum balances for purposes of imposing a fee (the daily balance for a calendar month, for example) and accruing dividends (the average daily balance for a statement period, for example). Each method and corresponding period must be disclosed. (b)(3)(iii) When dividends begin to accrue 1. Additional information. Credit unions must include a statement as to when dividends begin to accrue for noncash deposits. Credit unions may disclose additional information such as the time of day after which deposits are treated as having been received the following business day, and may use additional descriptive terms such as ``ledger'' or ``collected'' balances to disclose when dividends begin to accrue. Under the ledger balance method, dividends begin to accrue on the day of deposit. Under the collected balance methods, dividends begin to accrue when provisional credit is received for the item deposited. (b)(4) Fees 1. Types of fees. Fees related to the routine use of an account must be disclosed. The following are types of fees that must be disclosed in connection with an account: i. Maintenance fees, such as monthly service fees. ii. Fees related to share deposits or withdrawals. iii. Fees for special services, such as stop payment fees, fees for balance inquiries or verification of share and deposits, fees associated with checks returned unpaid, fees for regularly sending to members share drafts that otherwise would be held by the credit union, and overdraft line of credit access fees (if charged against the share account). iv. Fees to open or to close an account. v. Fees imposed upon dormant or inactive accounts. 2. Other fees. Credit unions need not disclose fees such as the following: i. Fees for services offered to members and nonmembers alike, such as fees for certain travelers checks, for wire transfers and automated clearinghouse (ACH) transfers, to process credit card cash advances, or to handle U.S. Savings Bond Redemption (even if different amounts are charged to members and nonmembers). ii. Incidental fees, such as fees associated with state escheat laws, garnishment or attorneys fees, to change names on an account, to generate a midcycle periodic statement, to wrap loose coins, for photocopying forms, for statements returned to the credit union because of a wrong address, and locator fees. 2. Amount of fees. Credit unions are cautioned that merely providing fee information in an account disclosure may not be sufficient to gain the legal right to impose the fee involved under applicable law. Credit unions must state the amount and conditions under which a fee may be imposed. Naming and describing the fee typically satisfies this requirement. Some examples are: i. ``$4.00 monthly service fee''. ii. $7.00 and up'' or ``fee depends on style of checks ordered'' for check printing fees. 3. Tied-accounts. Credit unions must state if fees that may be assessed against an account are tied to other accounts at the credit union. For example, if a credit union ties the fees payable on a share draft account to balances held in the share draft account and in a regular share account, the share draft account disclosures must state that fact and explain how the fee is determined. 4. Regulation E statements. Some fees are required to be disclosed under both Regulation E (12 CFR 205.7) and part 707. If such fees, such as ATM transaction fees, are disclosed on a Regulation E statement, they need not be disclosed again on a periodic statement required under part 707. (b)(5) Transaction Limitations 1. General rule. Examples limitations on the number of dollar amount of share deposits or withdrawals that credit unions must disclose are: i. Limits on the number of share drafts or checks that may be written on an account for a given time period. ii. Limits on withdrawals or share deposits during the term of a term share account. iii. Limitations required by Regulation D, such as the number of withdrawals permitted from money market share accounts by check to third parties each month (credit unions need not disclose reservation of right to require a notice for withdrawals from accounts required by federal or state law). (b)(6) Features of Term Share Accounts (b)(6)(i) Time Requirements 1. ``Callable'' term share accounts. In addition to the maturity date, credit unions must state the date or the circumstances under which the credit union may redeem a term share account at the credit union's option (a ``callable'' term share account). (b)(6)(ii) Early Withdrawal Penalties 1. General. The term ``penalty'' may, but need not, be used to describe the loss that may be incurred by members for early withdrawal of funds from term share accounts. 2. Examples. Examples of early withdrawal penalties are: i. Monetary penalties, such a specific dollar amount (e.g., ``$10.00'') or a specific days' worth of dividends (e.g., ``seven days' dividends plus accrued but uncredited dividends, but only if the account is closed''). ii. Adverse changes to terms such as the lowering of the dividend rate, annual percentage yield, or reducing the compounding or crediting frequency for funds remaining in shares or on deposit. iii. Reclamation of bonuses.
