FR941017-1-00019 FR941017-1-00001 §50.34 Contents of applications; technical information. (a) *␣*␣* (1) Stationary power reactor applicants for a construction permit pursuant to this part, or a design certification or combined license pursuant to Part 52 of this chapter who apply on or after [EFFECTIVE DATE OF THE FINAL RULE], shall comply with paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section. All other applicants for a construction permit pursuant to this part or a design certification or combined license pursuant to part 52 of this chapter, shall comply with paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section. (i) A description and safety assessment of the site on which the facility is to be located, with appropriate attention to features affecting facility design. Special attention should be directed to the site evaluation factors identified in part 100 of this chapter. The assessment must contain an analysis and evaluation of the major structures, systems and components of the facility which bear significantly on the acceptability of the site under the site evaluation factors identified in part 100 of this chapter, assuming that the facility will be operated at the ultimate power level which is contemplated by the applicant. With respect to operation at the projected initial power level, the applicant is required to submit information prescribed in paragraphs (a)(2) through (a)(8) of this section, as well as the information required by this paragraph, in support of the application for a construction permit, or a design approval. (ii) A description and safety assessment of the site and a safety assessment of the facility. It is expected that reactors will reflect through their design , construction and operation an extremely low probability for accidents that could result in the release of significant quantities of radioactive fission products. The following power reactor design characteristics and proposed operation will be taken into consideration by the Commission: (A) Intended use of the reactor including the proposed maximum power level and the nature and inventory of contained radioactive materials; (B) The extent to which generally accepted engineering standards are applied to the design of the reactor; (C) The extent to which the reactor incorporates unique, unusual or enhanced safety features having a significant bearing on the probability or consequences of accidental release of radioactive materials; (D) The safety features that are to be engineered into the facility and those barriers that must be breached as a result of an accident before a release of radioactive material to the environment can occur. Special attention must be directed to plant design features intended to mitigate the radiological consequences of accidents. In performing this assessment, an applicant shall assume a fission product release 6 from the core into the containment assuming that the facility is operated at the ultimate power level contemplated. The applicant shall perform an evaluation and analysis of the postulated fission product release, using the expected demonstrable containment leak rate and any fission product cleanup systems intended to mitigate the consequences of the accidents, together with applicable site characteristics, including site meteorology, to evaluate the offsite radiological consequences. Site characteristics must comply with part 100 of this chapter. The evaluation must determine that: 6 The fission product release assumed for this evaluation should be based upon a major accident, hypothesized for purposes of site analysis or postulated from considerations of possible accidental events. Such accidents have generally been assumed to result in substantial meltdown of the core with subsequent release into the containment of appreciable quantities of fission products. ( 1 ) An individual located at any point on the boundary of the exclusion area for any 2 hour period following the onset of the postulated fission product release, would not receive a radiation dose in excess of 25 7 rem total effective dose equivalent (TEDE). 7 A whole body does of 25 rem has been stated to correspond numerically to the once in a lifetime accidental or emergency dose for radiation workers which, according to NCRP recommendations at the time could be disregarded in the determination of their radiation expousre status (see NBS Handbook 69 dated June 5, 1959). However, its use is not intended to imply that this number constitutes an acceptable limit for an emergency does to the public under accident conditions. Rather, this does value has been set forth in this section as a reference value, which can be used in the evaluation of plant design features with respect to postulated reactor accidents, in order to assure that such designs provide assurance of low risk of public exposure to radiation, in the event of such accidents. ( 2 ) An individual located at any point on the outer boundary of the low population zone, who is exposed to the radioactive cloud resulting from the postulated fission product release (during the entire period of its passage) would not receive a radiation dose in excess of 25 rem total effective dose equivalent (TEDE). (E) With respect to operation at the projected initial power level, the applicant is required to submit information prescribed in paragraphs (a)(2) through (a)(8) of this section, as well as the information required by this paragraph, in support of the application for a construction permit, or a design approval. * * * * * (12) On or after [EFFECTIVE DATE OF THE FINAL RULE], stationary power reactor applicants who apply for a construction permit pursuant to this part, or a design certification or combined license pursuant to part 52 of this chapter, as partial conformance to General Design Criterion 2 of appendix A to this part, shall comply with the earthquake engineering criteria in appendix S of this part. (b) * * * (10) On or after [EFFECTIVE DATE OF THE FINAL RULE], stationary power reactor applicants who apply for an operating license pursuant to this part, or a design certification or combined license pursuant to part 52 of this chapter, as partial conformance to General Design Criterion 2 of appendix A to this part, shall comply with the earthquake engineering criteria of appendix S to this part. However, if the construction permit was issued prior to [EFFECTIVE DATE OF THE FINAL RULE], the stationary power reactor applicant shall comply with the earthquake engineering criteria in Section VI of appendix A to part 100 of this chapter. (11) On or after [EFFECTIVE DATE OF THE FINAL RULE], stationary power reactor applicants who apply for an operating license pursuant to this Part, or a combined license pursuant to part 52 of this chapter, shall provide a description and safety assessment of the site and of the facility as in §50.34(a)(1)(ii) of this part. * * * * *
