FR940603-0-00153 FR940603-0-00029 Appendix A_Glossary These definitions apply only for use with this Manual. Definitions are not intended to be all inclusive or comprehensive. This Manual, the Federal Credit Union Act, and NCUA Rules and Regulations as well as state laws may be used for further reference. Appeal_The right of a credit union or charter applicant to request reconsideration of an unfavorable NCUA decision to a higher authority. Associational common bond_Association resulting from membership in an organization, participation in whose activities develops common loyalties, mutual benefits and mutual interests. The association should hold regular meetings and sponsor other activities that provide for contact among members. Associational credit union_A credit union whose field of membership consists primarily of persons who are members of one or more related associational groups. Business plan_Plan submitted by a charter applicant or existing federal credit union addressing the economic viability of a proposed charter or field of membership addition. Charter_The document which authorizes or combination of groups to operate as a credit union and defines the fundamental limits of its operating authority, generally including the persons the credit union is permitted to accept for membership. Charters are issued by the National Credit Union Administration for federal credit unions and by the designated state chartering authority for credit unions organized under the laws of that state. Commond bond_The characteristic or combination of characteristics which distinguishes a particular group of persons from the general public. There are only three common bonds which can serve as a basis for a group's forming or being included in a federal credit union: employment by the same enterprise (``occupational common bond''), membership in the same association (``associational common bond''), and residence, employment, or religious affiliation in the same geographic area (``community common bond''). Community common bond_Residence or employment of persons and businesses and other legal entities located within the same well-defined neighborhood, community or rural district. Community credit union_A credit union whose field of membership consists of persons who live or work in the same well-defined neighborhood, community, or rural district. Conversion_The process of changing from a federal to a state or state to federal credit union charter. Credit union_A member-owned, not-for-profit cooperative financial institution formed to permit those in the field of membership specified in the charter to save, borrow, and obtain related financial services. Federal credit unions are chartered as corporations pursuant to the Federal Credit Union Act. Economic viability_An overall evaluation of the credit applicant's ability to operate successfully. Emergency merger_Pursuant to Section 205(h) of the Federal Credit Union Act, authority of NCUA to merge two credit unions without regard to field of membership policy. Exclusionary clause_A limitation, written in a credit union's charter, which precludes the credit union from serving a portion of a group otherwise included in its field of membership. Exclusionary clauses are used to prevent certain overlaps of fields of membership between credit unions. Federal share insurance_Insurance coverage provided by the National Credit Union Share Insurance Fund and administered by the National Credit Union Administration. Coverage is provided for qualified accounts in all federal credit unions and participating state credit unions. Field of membership_The persons (persons may include organizations and other legal entities) a credit union is permitted to accept for membership. A federal credit union's field of membership, set forth in Section 5 of its charter, may be made up entirely of a single group, related groups with one common bond, or of unrelated groups each having its own common bond. Letter of understanding and agreement_Agreement between NCUA and federal credit union officials not to engage in certain activities and/or to establish reasonable operational goals. These are normally entered into with new charter applicants, and occasionally with credit unions granted significant charter amendments and are for a limited time. Merger_Absorption by one credit union of all of the assets, liabilities and equity of another credit union. Mergers must be approved by the National Credit Union Administration and by the Appropriate state regulator whenever a state credit union is involved. Multiple group credit union_A credit union whose field of membership consists of groups of persons, each group with its own common bond. The groups may be occupation, associational, or a combination thereof and do not need to share a common bond or be in any way related to one another. Occupational common bond_Employment in the same enterprise. ``Employment'' includes long term contractual arrangements which are the practical equivalent of regular employment. Occupational credit union_A credit union whose field of membership consists primarily of persons employed in the same enterprise. Operational area_The region which, as determined by NCUA in its discretion, may reasonably be served by one of a credit union's service facilities. Overlap_The situation which results when a group is eligible for membership in more than one credit union. Potential membership_Persons eligible to become primary members of a federal credit union. Primary members_Members sharing the basic occupational, associational or community affinity to the field of membership. Purchase and assumption_Purchase of all or a part of the assets of and assumption of all or a part of the liabilities of one credit union by another credit union. The purchased and assumed credit union must first be placed into involuntary liquidation. Select group_An occupational or associational group with its own common bond. Secondary or derivative members_Members included in the field of membership by virtue of their close relationship to a common bond group (e.g., immediate family members, employees of the credit union, etc.). Service facility_A facility staffed by a credit union representative which accepts share deposit and accepts loan applications or disburses loans. An ATM or similar device is not a federal credit union service facility. Similarly, a branch or service center shared by a number of credit unions is not a service facility for purposes of meeting the operational area requirements of non-common bond expansions. Service status report_Periodic written statements made by federal credit unions to NCUA summarizing the results of efforts to bring service to the employees or members of select groups. Subscribers_For a federal credit union, at least seven individuals who sign the charter application and pledge at least one share.
