FR940216-0-00039 FR940216-0-00009 3. Expected prohibited species bycatch needs on a seasonal basis relevant to change in prohibited species biomass and expected catches of target groundfish species; 4. Expected variations in bycatch rates throughout the fishing year; 5. Expected changes in directed groundfish fishing seasons; 6. Expected start of fishing effort; or 7. Economic effects of establishing seasonal prohibited species apportionments on segments of the target groundfish industry. At its December 1993 meeting, the Council recommended that the halibut bycatch allowances listed in Table 5 be seasonally apportioned as shown in Table 6, for yellowfin sole, rock sole/other flatfish, rockfish, and pollock/Atka mackerel/''other species'' fishery categories. The recommended seasonal apportionments reflect recommendations made to the Council by its AP. The AP recommended seasonal apportionments of the halibut bycatch allowances specified for the yellowfin sole, and rocksole/other flatfish fishery categories in anticipation of a 1994 rulemaking that would adjust the season opening date for the BSAI yellowfin sole and ``other flatfish'' fisheries from May 1 to January 20. At its December 1993 meeting, the Council recommended that this action be implemented early in 1994 under an emergency interim rule. The intent of the recommended season adjustment is to provide additional fishing opportunities in the BSAI early in the year and reduce the incentive for trawl vessel operators to move from the BSAI to the Gulf of Alaska after the rock sole roe fishery is closed, typically by the end of February. The AP recommended that 20 percent of halibut bycatch be apportioned to the rockfish fishery during the periods January 20 through April 1, and July 1 to December 31, and that 60 percent of the halibut bycatch be apportioned during the period April 1 through July 1. The AP's recommendation was intended to provide a greater opportunity for participants in this fishery to more fully harvest TAC amounts of all rockfish species within these recommended halibut bycatch apportionments. The AP's recommended seasonal apportionment of the halibut bycatch allowance for the pollock/Atka mackerel/''other species'' fishery category is based on the seasonal allowances of the Bering Sea pollock ITAC recommended for the roe and non-roe seasons, and the assumption that most of the pollock taken during the roe season will be taken with pelagic trawl gear with reduced halibut bycatch rates. The AP recommended a seasonal apportionment of the halibut bycatch allowance specified for the Pacific cod hook-and-line gear fishery based on: (1) Anticipation that the proposed allocation of Pacific cod TAC among gear groups under Amendment 24 will be approved; (2) Most of the hook-and-line gear effort for Pacific cod will occur during the first half of 1994; and (3) The Council's desire to limit a hook-and-line fishery for Pacific cod during summer months when halibut bycatch rates are high. NMFS approves the Council's recommendations for prohibited species bycatch allowances and seasonal apportionments. The seasonal apportionments of the halibut bycatch allowances are intended to increase the harvest of the groundfish OY by providing for directed groundfish fisheries when catches per unit of effort are high and corresponding halibut species bycatch rates are relatively low.
