FR940607-2-00141 FR940607-2-00090 Expiration and Modification of This Temporary Order This Temporary Order shall be effective until such time as it is determined necessary and/or appropriate to withdraw or modify it. Final GSE regulations will fully address the disclosure and withholding of information under the Act and this Temporary Order will, in any event, expire when the final regulations are published. Pending final regulations, the Department will work with the GSEs to narrow the list of items withheld and develop ways that information deemed proprietary under this Temporary Order may be released without disclosing proprietary information. This Temporary Order may be modified if it is determined that additional information should be made available to the public. Any such determination will be conducted in accordance with the Act. In any event, in responding to FOIA requests, the Department will follow the procedures in Executive Order 12,600, as applicable. Release in Response to Requests on Behalf of Congressional Committee or Subcommittee, the Comptroller General, a Subpoena or Other Legal Process If the Department receives a request on behalf of a Congressional Committee or Subcommittee, the Comptroller General, a subpoena from a court of competent jurisdiction, or is otherwise compelled by law to release information determined to be proprietary under this Temporary Order, the Department will provide the information in accordance with the request without regard to the provisions of this Temporary Order. In releasing requested information under this paragraph, the Department will include a statement with the information to the effect that the Secretary has determined that the information is subject to this Temporary Order, the GSEs' regard the information as proprietary, and public disclosure of the information may cause competitive harm to the GSEs. To the extent practical, the Department will provide notice to the GSEs after a request under this paragraph is received and before the information is provided in response to the request. Dated: May 31, 1994. Henry G. Cisneros, Secretary.
