FR940916-1-00154 FR940916-1-00016 (9) The deadman feature shall be activated, and 0 psi shall be observed on the rear end pressure gauge. (10) The most recent engineer's reports shall be checked for any indication of dynamic brake problems, and any problems shall be repaired. (e) The pre-departure car mechanical safety inspection stated at §232.407(b) shall be performed on passenger cars of repetitive conventional passenger and commuter trains as part of the Class 1 brake system test. (f) A Class 1 train brake system test shall be conducted daily prior to the first departure each calendar day for repetitive conventional passenger and commuter trains. §232.423 Additional brake system tests for repetitive conventional passenger and commuter trains. (a) Class 2 train brake system test. (1) A Class 2 train brake system test shall be performed each time that a repetitive conventional passenger or commuter train completes one cycle or reaches a turnaround point in a repetitive schedule. (2) Class 2 train brake system tests for repetitive conventional passenger and commuter trains with pneumatic brake systems shall include the following tasks: (i) The train brake system shall be charged to the feed valve setting of the locomotive. (ii) A 20-psi brake pipe reduction shall be made. (iii) An inspection shall be made to determine that the brakes on the rear car apply and release as indicated by position of the brake shoes or brake indicator. (3) Class 2 train brake system tests for repetitive conventional passenger and commuter trains with P-wire brake control or equivalent train brake communication line shall include the following tasks: (i) A qualified person in the rear operating cab shall determine that rear car brakes apply and release in response to the engineer's commands as indicated by the brake cylinder gauge or brake indicator in the rear cab. (ii) The train shall not proceed until communication of the brake application and release has been verified by a qualified person in accordance with paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section. (b) Running tests. Running tests on repetitive conventional passenger and commuter trains shall be performed in accordance with the requirements stated in §232.415 regarding conventional passenger trains. (c) Single passenger car or single passenger train set tests. A single car test on repetitive conventional passenger and commuter train cars shall be conducted in accordance with the requirements stated in §232.417 regarding conventional passenger train cars. §232.425 Class 1 brake system tests for excursion trains. (a) A Class 1 train brake system test shall be performed on an excursion train prior to departure of the train from an initial terminal point. (b) A Class 1 train brake system test shall be performed on cars added to excursion trains at points other than initial terminal point. (c) Excursion trains that are inspected in accordance with this section shall not operate over 30 mph nor travel more than 250 miles between required Class 1 train brake system tests. (d) The tasks stated in §232.407 regarding conventional passenger trains shall be performed as part of the Class 1 train brake system test on excursion trains. (e) The pre-departure car mechanical safety inspection contained in §232.407(b) shall be performed on passenger cars of excursion trains as part of the Class 1 inspection. §232.427 Additional train brake system tests for excursion trains. (a) Class 2 brake system test. (1) A Class 2 brake test shall be performed on an excursion train whenever motive power or pretested cars are added or cars removed. (2) A Class 2 train brake system test for an excursion train includes the tasks stated in §232.413 regarding conventional passenger trains. (b) Running test. A running test shall be performed on an excursion train in accordance with the requirements contained in §232.415 regarding conventional passenger trains. (c) Single passenger car test. A single car test on excursion train cars shall be conducted in accordance with the requirements stated in §232.417 regarding conventional passenger train cars. This test shall be conducted on each car of an excursion train with conventional air brakes prior to service each calendar year. Subpart F_Inspection and Test Standards for Intermediate Speed and High Speed Trains §232.501 Class 1 train brake system test for intermediate speed and high speed trains. (a) Railroads shall develop, implement, and make available to FRA upon request written Class 1 train brake system test procedures for intermediate speed freight trains that meet or exceed the requirements for the Class 1 test for conventional freight trains given in §232.307 and §232.309. Railroads shall use the process described in subpart J of this part to develop the Class 1 brake system test for high speed freight trains. Railroads shall conduct all Class 1 brake tests on high speed freight trains in accordance with the procedures developed pursuant to this paragraph. (b) Intermediate speed passenger or commuter service utilizing equipment delivered on or before January 1, 1995 shall adhere to the Class 1 brake system test standards for conventional passenger trains described in §§232.405 and 232.407. (c) For (i) all high speed passenger service and (ii) all intermediate speed passenger and commuter service utilizing equipment delivered on or after January 1, 1995, railroads shall develop, implement, and make available to FRA upon request written Class 1 train brake system test procedures that are tailored to the specific intermediate or high speed technology employed. Railroads shall use the process described in subpart J of this part to develop the Class 1 test procedures. Railroads shall conduct all Class 1 brake tests on intermediate and high speed passenger and commuter trains in accordance with the procedures developed pursuant to this paragraph. §232.503 Class 2 train brake system test for intermediate speed and high speed trains. (a) A Class 2 train brake system test shall not be performed on intermediate speed freight trains. All pre-departure brake tests shall be Class 1 tests.
