FR940711-2-00103 FR940711-2-00045 Appeals Procedures Related To Licensing of Patents and Inventions Under the Jurisdiction of the Department of Health and Human Services AGENCY: National Institutes of Health, Public Health Service, HHS ACTION: Proposed Interim Procedures. SUMMARY: The National Institutes of Health is proposing for public comment interim appeals procedures under 37 CFR §404.11 which permits appeals from any decision or determination concerning the grant, denial, interpretation, modification, or termination of a license and specifies the parties who may appeal. DATES: Written comments on the proposed interim procedure must be received by August 10, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments regarding the proposed interim procedure may be submitted to Mr. Arthur J. Cohn, Esq., Technology Licensing Specialist, Office of Technology Transfer, National Institutes of Health, 6011 Executive Boulevard, Suite 325, Rockville, Maryland 20852. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background This proposed interim procedure implements 35 U.S.C. 207(a), and 209, and the Department of Commerce Regulation in 37 CFR Part 404 dealing with the licensing of federally owned inventions. This interim procedure describes the terms, conditions and procedures under which specified parties may appeal from a decision of the Director of the Office of Technology Transfer, National Institutes of Health, concerning the grant, denial, interpretation, modification or termination of a license of any patent or invention in the custody of the Department of Health and Human Services. Upon promulgation of these procedures, following consideration of the comments made in response to this notice, the procedures will remain in effect until permanent procedures are adopted as a part of comprehensive policies or regulations governing the technology transfer activities of the National Institutes of Health. Interim Procedure for Appeals From Licensing Decisions by the Department of Health and Human Services Purpose In accordance with 37 CFR §404.11 this interim procedure describes the terms, conditions and procedures under which a party may appeal a decision of the Office of Technology Transfer (OTT) concerning the grant, denial interpretation, modification or termination of a license for any invention in the custody of the Public Health Service (PHS), Department of Health and Human Services (HHS). Definitions (a) ``OTT Director'' means the Director of the Office of Technology Transfer, National Institutes of Health. (b) ``Director,'' means the Director of the National Institutes of Health (NIH) or any officer or employee of the NIH to whom the authority involved may be delegated. (c) ``Person'' means any individual or entity. (d) ``Invention'' means any invention or discovery which is or may be patentable or otherwise protected under title 35, United States Code, or any novel variety of plant which is or may be protectable under the Plant Variety Protection Act (7 U.S.C. §2321 et seq.). (e) ``Written Objection'' means a written objection in response to a notice of a prospective license published in the Federal Register as required by 37 CFR §404.7(a)(1)(i) or 37 CFR §404.7(b)(1)(i). (f) ``Appellant'' means a person who requests reconsideration or appeals a decision of the OTT in accordance with this subpart. Licensing Authority The OTT Director has been delegated authority to make any decision or determination concerning the grant, denial, interpretation, modification or termination of any license for any invention in the custody and control of the PHS. The decision and determination of the OTT Director is final and conclusive on behalf of the Department unless the procedures for reconsideration and appeal set forth below are initiated. Persons Who May Request Reconsideration and Appeal Under 37 CFR §404.11, the following person(s) may request reconsideration by the OTT Director and may subsequently appeal to the Director any decision or determination concerning the grant, denial, interpretation, modification or termination of a license: (a) A person whose application for a license has been denied; (b) A licensee whose license has been modified or terminated in whole or in part; or
