FR940802-2-00097 FR940802-2-00054 1. The proposed rule change would permit respondents to challenge the eligibility of a claim at any time before the parties are notified of the appointment of the arbitrators for the hearing or the appointment of an arbitrator to consider prehearing issues. Should respondents be required to raise their objections at an earlier point in the process, for instance, not later than the time by which they file their answer to the Statement of Claim? 2. The proposed rule change is based upon a rule approved by the Securities Industry Conference on Arbitration (``SICA'') at its regular meeting on April 21, 1993. The form of the rule approved by SICA provided, in pertinent part: (c) A determination by the Director of Arbitration pursuant to subparagraph (b) that a claim is ineligible shall not constitute a bar to asserting the underlying claim in a judicial forum. With respect to any such ineligible claims, the parties will have available to them the rights and remedies provided by applicable law, notwithstanding, any (i) existing predispute arbitration agreement or (ii) decisions on eligibility. No party shall seek to enforce any agreement to arbitrate where the claim has been determined to be ineligible under this section. Do the pertinent provisions of proposed sections 15(d) and 15(e) differ substantively from the rule approved by SICA? If not, does the proposed rule change set forth the consequences of a determination of ineligibility in a manner that will be more readily understandable to all parties, including pro se claimants, than the form of the rule approved by SICA? 3. The Commission understands that proposed Section 15(e)(iv) is intended to address claims that are filed with the NASD more than once. For those claims that previously have been submitted, and have been determined to be ineligible under Section 15, there would be no tolling of time periods for purposes of the eligibility rule with respect to the time period during which the NASD previously considered the claim. Accordingly, a claimant who resubmits a matter in revised form a second time would have to calculate the eligibility time period from the date of occurrence or event giving rise to the dispute. Is this understanding fairly implied from Section 15(e)(iv)? Persons making written submissions should file six copies thereof with the Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of the submission, all subsequent amendments, all written statements with respect to the proposed rule change that are filed with the Commission, and all written communications relating to the proposed rule change between the Commission and any person, other than those that may be withheld from the public in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552, will be available for inspection and copying in the Commission's Public Reference Room. Copies of such filing will also be available for inspection and copying at the principal office of the NASD. All submissions should refer to File Number SR&hyph;NASD&hyph;93&hyph;51 and should be submitted by August 23, 1994. For the Commission, by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority, 17 CFR 200.30&hyph;3(a)(12). Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;18736 Filed 8&hyph;1&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
