FR941121-2-00126 FR941121-2-00094 Treasury/BPD .001 System name: Personnel and Administrative Records_Treasury/BPD. System location: Records are maintained at the following Bureau of the Public Debt locations: 200 Third Street, Parkersburg, WV 26106; Park Center, 90 Park Center, Parkersburg, WV 26101; H.J. Hintgen Building, 2nd and Avery Streets, Parkersburg, WV 26102; 999 E Street NW., Washington, DC 20239; 300&hyph;13th Street SW., Washington, DC 20239; and 800 K Street NW., Washington, DC 20226. Copies of some documents have been duplicated for maintenance by supervisors for employees or programs under their supervision. These duplicates are also covered by this system of records. Categories of individuals covered by the system: Records cover present and former employees, applicants for employment, contractors, vendors, and visitors. Categories of records in the system: This system contains the following categories of records. This system of records is limited to those records Public Debt needs to function in an efficient manner and does not cover those records reported under another system of records notice. (A) Personnel Records: (1) Employee and Labor Relations Records. These records relate to disciplinary and adverse actions, leave and hours of duty, alternate work schedules, standards of conduct and ethics programs, indebtedness, employee suitability and security determinations, grievances, performance problems, bargaining unit matters, Federal labor relations issues, relocation notices, and outside employment. (2) Employment and Classification Records. These records relate to recruitment; placement; merit promotion; special hiring programs, including Summer Employment, Veterans Readjustment, Career Development for Lower Level Employees (CADE), Co-operative Education; position classification and management; special areas of pay administration, including grade and pay retention, premium pay, scheduling of work, and performance management and recognition. (3) Employee Development and Services Records. These records relate to Public Debt's training and employee development programs, performance management programs, incentive awards, and benefits and retirement programs. (4) Personnel/Payroll Systems Records. These records relate to personnel and payroll actions, insurance, worker's and unemployment compensation, employee orientation, retirement, accident reports, and consolidation of personnel/program efforts among offices. (5) Equal Employment Opportunity Records. These are records of informal EEO complaints and discussions which have not reached the level of formal complaints. After 30 days these records are destroyed or incorporated in a formal complaint file. Formal complaints are handled by the Treasury Department's Regional Complaints Center. Copies of formal complaint documents are sometimes maintained by Public Debt's EEO Office. (B) Administrative Records: (1) Administrative Services Records. These records relate to administrative support functions including motor vehicle operation, safety, access to exterior and interior areas, contract guard records, offense/incident reports, accident reports, and security determinations. (2) Procurement Records. These records relate to contractors/vendors if they are individuals; purchase card holders, including the name and credit card number for employees who hold Government-use cards; procurement integrity certificates, containing certifications by procurement officials that they are familiar with the Federal Procurement Policy Act. (3) Financial Management Records. These records relate to travel by employees and account information for vendors and contractors who are individuals. (4) Retiree Mailing Records. These records contain the name and address furnished by Public Debt retirees requesting mailings of newsletters and other special mailings. Authority for maintenance of the system: 5 U.S.C. 301; 31 U.S.C. 321. Purposes: These records are collected and maintained to document various aspects of a person's employment with the Bureau of the Public Debt and to assure the orderly processing of administrative actions within the Bureau. Routine uses of records maintained in the system, including categories of users and purposes of such uses: These records and information in these records may be disclosed as a routine use to: (1) The Office of Personnel Management, the Merit Systems Protection Board, the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, and the Federal Labor Relations Authority upon authorized request; (2) Other Federal, State, or local agencies, such as a State employment compensation board or housing administration agency, so that the agency may adjudicate an individual's eligibility for a benefit, or liability in such matters as child support;
