FR940223-2-00157 FR940223-2-00097 (b) where the final determination was made in Mexico or the United States, the list, maintained by the investigating authority of persons who have been served in the proceedings leading to the final determination; ``Tribunal'' means the Canadian International Trade Tribunal or its successor and includes any person authorized to act on its behalf; ``United States'' means the United States of America. 4. The definitions set forth in Article 1911 of the Agreement and Annex 1911 to Chapter Nineteen of the Agreement are hereby incorporated into these rules. 5. Where these rules require that notice be given, it shall be given in writing. Part I_General Duration and Scope of Panel Review 6. A panel review commences on the day on which a first Request for Panel Review is filed with the Secretariat and terminates on the day on which a Notice of Completion of Panel Review is effective. 7. A panel review shall be limited to (a) the allegations of error of fact or law, including challenges to the jurisdiction of the investigating authority, that are set out in the Complaints filed in the panel review; and (b) procedural and substantive defenses raised in the panel review. Responsibilities of the Secretary 8. The normal business hours of the Secretariat, during which the offices of the Secretariat shall be open to the public, shall be from 9:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. on each weekday other than (a) in the case of the United States Section of the Secretariat, legal holidays of that Section; (b) in the case of the Canadian Section of the Secretariat, legal holidays of that Section; and (c) in the case of the Mexican Section of the Secretariat, legal holidays of that Section. 9. The responsible Secretary shall provide administrative support for each panel review and shall make the arrangements necessary for the oral proceedings and meetings of each panel, including, if required, interpreters to provide simultaneous translation. 10. (1) Each Secretary shall maintain a file for each panel review. Subject to subrules (3) and (4), the file shall be comprised of either the original or a copy of all documents filed, whether or not filed in accordance with these rules, in the panel review. (2) The file number assigned to a first Request for Panel Review shall be the Secretariat file number for all documents filed or issued in that panel review. All documents filed shall be stamped by the Secretariat to show the date and time of receipt. (3) Where, after notification of the selection of a panel pursuant to rule 42, a document is filed that is not provided for in these rules or that is not in accordance with the rules, the responsible Secretary may refer the unauthorized filing to the chairperson of the Panel for instructions, provided such authority has been delegated by the Panel to its chairperson pursuant to rule 17. (4) On a referral referred to in subrule (3), the chairperson may instruct the responsible Secretary to (a) retain the document in the file, without prejudice to a motion to strike such document; or (b) return the document to the person who filed the document, without prejudice to a motion for leave to file the document. 11. The responsible Secretary shall forward to the other involved Secretary a copy of all documents filed in the office of the responsible Secretary in a panel review and of all orders and decisions issued by the panel. 12. Where under these rules a responsible Secretary is required to publish a notice or other document in the official publications of the involved Parties, the responsible Secretary and the other involved Secretary shall cause the notice or other document to be published in the official publication of the country in which that section of the Secretariat is located.
