FR940505-1-00363 FR940505-1-00012 (3) Standards. (i) Solvent requirements. On and after January 1, 1996, a person shall not use a solvent to perform solvent cleaning operations, including the use of cleaning devices or methods, unless the solvent complies with the applicable requirements set forth below. (A) Substrate cleaning during manufacturing processes, and surface preparation for coating, adhesive, or ink applications. The solvents used on substrates for cleaning during the manufacturing process or for surface preparation prior to coating, adhesive, or ink applications shall have a VOC content of 70 grams or less of VOC per liter of material. (B) Repair and maintenance cleaning. The solvents used for repair or maintenance cleaning shall have a VOC content of 900 grams or less of VOC per liter of material and a VOC composite partial pressure of 20 mm Hg or less at 20 ○C (68 ○F). (C) Cleaning of coatings and adhesives application equipment. The solvents used for cleaning coatings or adhesives application equipment shall have a VOC content of 950 grams or less of VOC per liter of material and a VOC composite partial pressure of 35 mm Hg or less at 20 ○C (68 ○F). (D) Cleaning of polyester resin application equipment. The solvents used for cleaning polyester resin application equipment shall comply with one of the limits specified below: ( 1 ) The solvent shall have a VOC content of 200 grams or less of VOC per liter of material; or ( 2 ) The solvent shall have a VOC content of 1,100 grams or less of VOC per liter of material and a VOC composite partial pressure of 1.0 mm Hg or less at 20 ○C (68 ○F). (E) Cleaning of ink application equipment. The solvents used for cleaning of ink application equipment in graphic arts shall meet the limits specified below. ( 1 ) The solvents used in screen printing shall have a VOC content of 1,070 grams or less of VOC per liter of material and a VOC composite partial pressure of 5 mm Hg or less at 20 ○C (68 ○F). ( 2 ) The solvents used in lithographic and letterpress printing not subject to provisions of paragraph (a)(3)(i)(E)( 4 ) of this section shall have a VOC content of 800 grams or less of VOC per liter of material and a VOC composite partial pressure of 25 mm Hg or less at 20 ○C (68 ○F). ( 3 ) The solvents used in gravure printing, flexographic printing, and printing operations not subject to provisions of paragraphs (a)(3)(i)(E)( 1 ), ( 2 ), or ( 4 ) of this section shall have a VOC content of 100 grams or less of VOC per liter of material and a VOC composite partial pressure of 3 mm Hg at 20 ○C (68 ○F). ( 4 ) The solvents used to remove ultraviolet inks from application equipment in graphic arts printing operations, except screen printing, shall have a VOC content of 800 grams or less of VOC per liter of material and a VOC composite partial pressure of 33 mm Hg or less at 20 ○C (68 ○F). (F) Cleaning of electronic components and medical equipment. The solvents used for manufacturing or maintenance cleaning of electronic components or medical equipment shall have a VOC content of 900 grams or less of VOC per liter of material and a VOC composite partial pressure of 33 mm Hg or less at 20 ○C (68 ○F). (ii) Cleaning devices and methods requirements . On and after January 1, 1996, a person shall not perform solvent cleaning operations unless one of the following cleaning devices or methods is used: (A) Wipe cleaning; (B) Spray bottles or closed containers from which solvents are applied without a propellant-induced force; (C) Cleaning equipment using solvent within a closed container, except when depositing and removing objects to be cleaned, or for maintenance and repair to the cleaning equipment itself. This includes but is not limited to: ( 1 ) Any cleaning device or mechanism which has been determined by EPA to result in equivalent or lower emissions; or ( 2 ) Any remote reservoir cold cleaner used pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (a)(3)(iii) of this section; (D) Non-atomized solvent flow method where the cleaning solvent is collected in a closed container; or (E) Solvent flushing method where the cleaning solvent is discharged into a container. The discharged solvent from the equipment must be collected into containers without atomizing into the open air. The solvent may be flushed through the system by air or hydraulic pressure, or by pumping. (iii) Remote reservoir cold cleaners. On and after January 1, 1996, any person owning or operating a remote reservoir cold cleaner shall comply with all of the following requirements: (A) Prevent solvent vapors from escaping from the solvent container by using such devices as a cover or a valve when the remote reservoir is not being used, cleaned, or repaired; (B) Direct solvent flow in a manner that will prevent liquid solvent from splashing outside of the remote reservoir cold cleaner; (C) Not degrease porous or absorbent materials, such as cloth, leather, wood, or rope; and (D) Use only solvent containers free of all liquid leaks. Auxiliary equipment, such as pumps, pipelines, or flanges, shall not have any liquid leaks, visible tears, or cracks. Any liquid leak, visible tear, or crack detected shall be repaired within one calendar day, or the leaking section of the remote reservoir cold cleaner shall be drained of all solvent and shut down until it is replaced or repaired. (iv) Storage and disposal. (A) All VOC-containing solvents shall be stored in non-absorbent, non-leaking containers which shall be kept closed at all times except when filling or emptying. (B) All waste solvent and waste solvent residues shall be disposed of by at least one of the following methods: (1 ) Disposal through a commercial reclamation service; ( 2 ) Disposal at a facility that is federally or state licensed to treat, store or dispose of such waste; or ( 3 ) Disposal by recycling in conformance with §25143.2 of the California Health and Safety Code. (v) Emission control system. In lieu of complying with the requirements in paragraphs (a)(3)(i), (a)(3)(ii), (a)(3)(v)(A) of this section, a person may comply by using an emission control system in association with the solvent cleaning operation regulated by this section provided: (A) The emission control system maintains a capture efficiency of at least 90%, by weight, of the emissions generated by the solvent cleaning operation and a destruction or removal efficiency of at least 95% by weight; or (B) The emission control system maintains a capture efficiency of at least 90%, by weight, of the emissions generated by the solvent cleaning operation and the output of the control system is less than 50 parts per million (ppm) calculated as carbon with no dilution; or (C) The emission control system meets the requirements of an applicable source-specific section of the Federal or federally approved State Implementation Plan.
