FR940303-2-00206 FR940303-2-00098 3. Cost-effectiveness_The overhead and administrative components of the proposal, including salary/benefits, should be kept to not more than 20 percent of the total budget. All budget items should be necessary and appropriate. Proposals should demonstrate cost-sharing and in-kind support. 4. Track record/potential_Proposals should demonstrate potential for excellence and/or a track record of the organization's involvement in international education, particularly academic exchange. 5. Evaluation plan_Proposals should provide a plan for follow up and evaluation by the grantee organization. 6. Reasonableness, feasibility, flexibility_Proposals should demonstrate how the objectives will be met. 7. Multiplier effect/impact_A particular priority is that the project activity strengthen long-term mutual understanding, include maximum sharing of information and views among participants, and provide opportunities to facilitate the establishment of broader institutional and individual scholarly ties for collaborative teaching and research in the U.S. and the subject country. 8. Mutuality of benefits_Proposals should show evidence of strong mutual benefits to the U.S. and foreign institutions and individuals involved, as well as evidence of strong commitment to the goals of the program. Notice The terms and conditions published in this RFP are binding and may not be modified by any USIA representative. Explanatory information provided by the Agency that contradicts published language will not be binding. Issuance of this Request for Proposals does not constitute an award commitment on the part of the U.S. Government. Final award cannot be made until funds have been fully appropriated by Congress, allocated and committed through internal USIA procedures. Notification All applicants will be notified of the results of the review of full proposals on or about July 1, 1994. Grant awards will be subject to standard periodic reporting and evaluation requirements. Dated: February 17, 1994. Barry Fulton, Acting Associate Director, Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;4588 Filed 3&hyph;2&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8230&hyph;01&hyph;M
