FR941012-0-00152 FR941012-0-00011 Paragraph (j) Effective Date As stated in paragraph (j), this final rule becomes effective 120 days after publication of the revised rule and preamble in the Federal Register . Employers must be in compliance with all requirements of this section by the effective date. One commenter recommended a three-year delay in the effective date of this final rule to allow for manufacturers' design and lead time and retrofitting of old equipment (Ex. 5&hyph;22). OSHA believes that 120 days is a reasonable compliance time for this standard for several reasons. First, the Agency is not requiring retrofitting ROPS and FOPS on old machines or chain brakes on chain saws. Those equipment requirements apply only to machines and chain saws placed into initial service after the effective date. OSHA believes that replacement of safety devices that have been removed, such as seat belts, should not require additional compliance time. Second, in the final rule OSHA has not adopted any equipment requirements that are not already standard safety features of equipment currently manufactured and readily available. Therefore, additional compliance time is not warranted. Finally, OSHA believes that allowing 120 days for employers to come into compliance will provide employers with adequate time to familiarize themselves with the final rule, to purchase needed equipment, and to develop and conduct required training. OSHA notes that the requirements of the existing pulpwood logging standard remain in effect until the effective date. Paragraph (k) Appendices In paragraph (k) of the final rule, OSHA is specifying that Appendix A on contents of first-aid kits and Appendix B on content of first-aid training are mandatory. First-aid kits must contain at least the items listed in Appendix A to meet the requirements of paragraph (d)(2). First-aid training programs must cover the topics listed in Appendix B to meet the requirements of paragraph (i)(7). Appendix C contains a listing of comparable ISO standards to those Society of Automotive Engineer standards referenced in the final rule. These SAE standards cover ROPS, FOPS, seat belts and machine access. The information contained in Appendix C (Corresponding ISO Agreements) is purely informational and is not intended to create any additional obligations not otherwise imposed or to detract from existing obligations. 2. Summary and Explanation of Technical Amendments to 29 CFR 1910.269(r) and 29 CFR 1928.21(a)(3) In this Federal Register document OSHA is also issuing technical amendments to the Electric Power Generation standard (29 CFR 1910.269) and to the standards for the agriculture industry (29 CFR 1928.21(a)(3)). Both standards have included a reference to the existing logging standard. OSHA intends that both standards now reference the revised logging standard in place of the pulpwood logging standard. VI. Regulatory Impact Analysis, Regulatory Flexibility Analysis, and Environmental Assessment A. Introduction The purpose of the revision of the existing pulpwood logging standard, 29 CFR 1910.266, is to protect all loggers from the hazards encountered during timber harvesting regardless of the end use of the wood. Hazards are present, for example, due to falling, rolling or sliding trees and logs, the use of hazardous equipment such as chain saws, and improper work practices. According to BLS, these hazards resulted in an accident incidence rate of 15.6 injuries per 100 full-time workers in 1991, which is nearly twice the incidence rate of 7.9 injuries per 100 full-time workers for overall private sector. The number of lost workdays in logging in 1991 was 274.8 per 100 full-time workers, which is about three times that of manufacturing and four times that of the overall private sector. The existing logging standard applies only to the logging of wood that is used to make pulp for paper and paperboard. Other logging operations are not covered by the existing standard. However, other general industry safety and health standards in Part 1910, such as but not limited to, Occupational Noise Exposure (29 CFR 1910.95), Lockout/Tagout (29 CFR 1910.147), and Personal Protective Equipment (29 CFR Subpart I), apply to non-pulpwood logging operations, as well as the General Duty clause of the OSH Act (Section 5(a)(1)). The final rule expands the coverage of the pulpwood logging standard to include all logging operations, regardless of the end use of the wood. Many of the provisions in the pulpwood logging standard have been retained in this standard. Some provisions have been modified, such as those requiring safety and first-aid training for all employees, and personal protective equipment. In certain cases, work practices have been made more specific.
