FR940207-1-00044 FR940207-1-00010 GENERAL SERVICES ADMINISTRATION 48 CFR Parts 516 and 552 [GSA Notice 5&hyph;381] General Services Administration Acquisition Regulation: Discontinuing Paper Orders AGENCY: Office of Acquisition Policy, GSA. ACTION: Proposed rule. SUMMARY: This notice invites written comments on a proposed change to the General Services Administration Acquisition Regulation (GSAR), that would revise the clause at 552.216&hyph;73, Placement of Orders, to provide for the placement of orders through computer-to-computer Electronic Data Interchange (EDI) or by an alternative method employing facsimile transmission if computer-to-computer EDI is not possible and to prescribe a new clause describing ordering information a contractor should provide to the contracting officer. DATES: Comments are due in writing on or before March 9, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments should be addressed to the GSA Desk Officer, Room 3235, NEOB, Washington, DC 20503 and to Ms. Marjorie Ashby, General Services Administration, Office of GSA Acquisition Policy, 18th and F Streets NW., Washington, DC 20405. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Paul Linfield, Office of GSA Acquisition Policy (202) 501&hyph;1224. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: A. Background On January 22, 1993, the Federal Supply Service (FSS) published notice in the Federal Register (58 FR 5731) of its intent after October 1, 1993, to discontinue issuing paper deliver orders in favor of electronic distribution of delivery orders under stock, special order program, and schedule contracts. This change to the GSAR revises the clause at 552.216&hyph;73, Placement of Orders, to provide for placement of orders through computer-to-computer Electronic Data Interchange (EDI) or by an alternative method employing facsimile transmission if computer-to-computer EDI is not possible. Other agencies, if authorized to directly place delivery orders under a GSA contract, may continue to mail paper orders. The change also prescribes a new clause describing ordering information a contractor should provide to the contracting officer. B. Executive Order 12866 &hyph; This rule was submitted to and approved by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) in accordance with Executive Order 12866, Regulatory Planning and Review. C. Regulatory Flexibility Act An initial regulatory flexibility analysis has been prepared and submitted to the Acting Chief Counsel for Advocacy of the Small Business Administration. Copies of the initial regulatory flexibility analysis are available from the office identified above. The initial regulatory flexibility analysis indicates that the proposed rule will affect contractors, including small businesses under FSS solicitations issued under its Stock, Special Order, and Multiple Award Schedule Programs. In FY 1993 more than 850 solicitations were issued and approximately 35,000 offers were received. Approximately 75 percent were received from small business concerns. On January 22, 1993, FSS published a notice of intent to discontinue placing paper delivery orders (58 FR 5731) and invited public comment. Of the 70 comments received there were five received from small businesses that expressed concern about the effect of the policy on small business. One stated it personally would not be affected and a second indicated the policy would impose some inconvenience as it currently had no computer or FAX capability. Three expressed concern over their ability to continue to be Government suppliers as they currently had neither a EDI compatible computer or facsimile machine. D. Paperwork Reduction Act The information collection requirements contained in this proposed rule have been submitted to the Office of Management and Budget for approval. Comments on the information collection requirements may be directed to the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs of OMB, Attention: Desk Officer for GSA, Washington, DC 20503. The title of one of the information collections is ``GSAR 552.216&hyph;73, Placement of Orders,'' used in GSA's Federal Supply Services' (FSS's) Stock, Special Order, and Schedule Programs. FSS intends to maximize the use of computer-to-computer electronic data interchange (EDI) to place delivery orders. To accomplish computer-to-computer EDI, a company will have to enter into a Trading Partner Agreement (TPA) with FSS (as an alternative, a contractor can receive delivery orders through facsimile transmission). This extended use of EDI furthers congressional and executive branch policies that Federal agencies provide leadership in advancing environmental objectives through technology and the expanded use of electronic commerce. FSS anticipates entering into 400 TPA's with contractors, an expansion of the information collection currently approved under OMB Control No. 3090&hyph;0248. The same protocols apply to a contractor's commercial activity. Consequently, if it currently uses electronic commerce for its commercial activity, the total burden is the time it takes to sign and submit its current protocols. Otherwise, it is estimated that it would take approximately one hour for a contractor to develop the necessary protocols. Based upon one hour per respondent, the additional burden to the public will be 400 hours. The title of the second information collection is 552.216&hyph;74, Ordering Information. This information collection requires offerors to identify their representative who is familiar with establishing EDI interfaces; telephone numbers of facsimile equipment, if computer-to-computer EDI is not practicable; and postal mailing addresses, if delivery orders are mailed. It is estimated that it will take an average of one-half hour to develop this information.
