FR940127-2-00174 FR940127-2-00098 UNITED STATES INFORMATION AGENCY Thai Local Government Project AGENCY: United States Information Agency. ACTION: Notice_request for proposals. TITLE: Thai Local Government Project. SUMMARY: The Office of Citizen Exchanges (E/P) announces a competitive grants program for non-profit organizations to develop programs in the area of local government/public administration. The project should link the U.S. organization's international exchange interests with counterpart institutions or groups in Thailand. Interested applicants are urged to read the complete Federal Register announcement before addressing inquiries to the Office or submitting their proposals. After the deadline for submitting proposals, USIA officers may not discuss this competition in any way with applicants until final decisions are made. ANNOUNCEMENT NAME AND NUMBER: All communications concerning this announcement should refer to the Thai Local Government Project. This announcement number is E/P&hyph;94&hyph;18. Please refer to this title and number in all correspondence or telephone calls to USIA. DATES: Deadline for Proposals: All copies must be received at the U.S. Information Agency by 5 p.m., Washington, DC time on March 11, 1994. Faxed documents will not be accepted, nor will documents postmarked March 11, 1994, but received at a later date. It is the responsibility of each grant applicant to ensure that proposals are received by the above deadline. The grant project activity should begin after June 1, 1994. ADDRESSES: The original and 14 copies of the completed application and required forms should be submitted by the deadline to: U.S. Information Agency, Ref: Thai Local Government Project (E/P&hyph;94&hyph;18), Grants Management Division (E/XE), 301 Fourth Street SW_room 336, Washington, DC 20547. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Interested organizations, institutions should contact: Elroy Carlson, American Republics and East Asia and Pacific Division, Office of Citizen Exchanges (E/P), room 216, United States Information Agency, 301 Fourth Street SW., Washington, DC 20547, telephone 202/619&hyph;5326, fax 202/260&hyph;0437, to request detailed application packets, which include award criteria, all necessary forms, and guidelines for preparing proposals, including specific budget preparation. Objectives of the Thai Local Government Project Overview The newly elected government of Thailand has committed itself to improving the process of government. One aspect of this commitment is an effort to decentralize aspects of the political process. USIA is interested in proposals for programs that will foster effective administration of local and regional governments. Programs might examine and seek to improve relationships among local executive, legislative, and judicial elements, or they might address the knowledge and skills necessary to administer one or more of these branches of local government. Program topics might include one or more of the following: judicial administration, budget development, financial management, tax policies and mechanisms, election practices, management of municipal services, privatization of government property, consumer protection, business regulation (as opposed to control), licensing, or environmental protection. Programs might further the development of information and library systems relevant to local government, improve committee and staff structures, research capability, legislation drafting capability, or structural and procedural needs of local governments. Programs should be conducted mostly in local centers, preferably situated outside the capital city. Projects should lay the groundwork for new and continuing links between American and Thai professional organizations. Projects may include: Study tours in the U.S. for small groups; short-term non-technical workshops conducted in Thailand; four- to ten-week internships in the U.S.; planning trips or consultations in Thailand; and the development of specialized training materials. Programmatic Considerations Pursuant to the Bureau's authorizing legislation, grant programs must maintain a non-political character and should be balanced and representative of the diversity of American political, social and cultural life. All proposals should demonstrate: (1) In-depth, substantive knowledge of the relevant issues;
