FR940725-1-00077 FR940725-1-00010 (3) Flaps in the takeoff position(s); (4) Landing gear retracted; and (5) All propeller controls in the recommended takeoff position throughout. (c) For all airplanes except reciprocating engine-powered airplanes of 6,000 pounds or less maximum weight, the conditions of paragraph (a) must also be met for the landing configuration with_ (1) Maximum available takeoff power initially on each engine; (2) The airplane trimmed for an approach, with all engines operating, at V REF , at an approach gradient equal to the steepest used in the landing distance demonstration of §23.75; (3) Flaps in the landing position; (4) Landing gear extended; and (5) All propeller controls in the position recommended for approach with all engines operating. (d) A minimum speed to intentionally render the critical engine inoperative must be established and designated as the safe, intentional, one-engine-inoperative speed, V SSE . (e) At V MC , the rudder pedal force required to maintain control must not exceed 150 pounds and it must not be necessary to reduce power of the operative engine(s). During the maneuver, the airplane must not assume any dangerous attitude and it must be possible to prevent a heading change of more than 20 degrees. (f) At the option of the applicant, to comply with the requirements of §23.51(c)(1), V MCG may be determined. V MCG is the minimum control speed on the ground, and is the calibrated airspeed during the takeoff run at which, when the critical engine is suddenly made inoperative, it is possible to maintain control of the airplane using the rudder control alone (without the use of nosewheel steering), as limited by 150 pounds of force, and using the lateral control to the extent of keeping the wings level to enable the takeoff to be safely continued. In the determination of V MCG , assuming that the path of the airplane accelerating with all engines operating is along the centerline of the runway, its path from the point at which the critical engine is made inoperative to the point at which recovery to a direction parallel to the centerline is completed may not deviate more than 30 feet laterally from the centerline at any point. V MCG must be established with_ (1) The airplane in each takeoff configuration or, at the option of the applicant, in the most critical takeoff configuration; (2) Maximum available takeoff power on the operating engines; (3) The most unfavorable center of gravity; (4) The airplane trimmed for takeoff; and (5) The most unfavorable weight in the range of takeoff weights. 27. Section 23.153 is revised to read as follows: §23.153 Control during landings. It must be possible, while in the landing configuration, to safely complete a landing without exceeding the one-hand control force limits specified in §23.143(c) following an approach to land_ (a) At a speed of V REF minus 5 knots; (b) With the airplane in trim, or as nearly as possible in trim and without the trimming control being moved throughout the maneuver; (c) At an approach gradient equal to the steepest used in the landing distance demonstration of §23.75; and (d) With only those power changes, if any, that would be made when landing normally from an approach at V REF . 28. Section 23.155 is amended by revising the introductory text of paragraph (b) and paragraph (b)(1), and by adding a new paragraph (c) to read as follows: §23.155 Elevator control force in maneuvers. * * * * * (b) The requirement of paragraph (a) of this section must be met at 75 percent of maximum continuous power for reciprocating engines, or the maximum continuous power for turbine engines, and with the wing flaps and landing gear retracted_ (1) In a turn, with the trim setting used for wings level flight at V O ; and
