FR940317-1-00144 FR940317-1-00013 (2) Prior to settlement of a CHAMPUS claim, claims offices should recontact the fiscal intermediary to ensure that all amounts paid for by CHAMPUS are included in the Government's assertion. (c) By claims personnel. The RJA will ensure that MTF comptroller, clinic, and Patient Administration Division records are screened to identify potential medical care recovery cases. The RJA will also coordinate with Navy and Air Force claims offices and MTFs to ensure that they identify potential claims involving treatment provided to Army personnel. To the extent possible claims personnel will review civilian police reports, military police blotters and reports, news reports, magistrate court proceedings, line of duty and AR 15&hyph;6 investigations, and similar sources to identify other potential medical care recovery claims. §536.225 Medical care procedures following identification. (a) Opening potential claims. Unless it is obvious from the notification documents that there is no potential recovery, claims personnel will open a potential claims file on each incident identified. Until the Affirmative Claims Management Program is revised to include a ``potentials database,'' potential claims will be recorded in the Claims Journal (DD Form 1667). (b) Transfer of responsibility. (1) Several claims offices may be notified of incidents involving more than one injured party or treatment at more than one facility. If an RJA has reason to believe that this has occurred, the RJA will contact the other offices to determine which office has the most significant contacts and should assert the claim. The office closest to where the injury occurred is not necessarily the office with the most significant contacts. In the event that offices cannot agree, they will refer the matter to the Chief, Affirmative Claims Branch, USARCS for a decision. The claims office will notify the MTF if it transfers responsibility for a claim that the MTF referred. (2) The office designated as the CHAMPUS or NG point of contact for a state will forward potential claims arising in another office's area of responsibility to that office. (c) Investigation. If MTF personnel have not already collected the necessary information, claims personnel will dispatch questionnaires to injured parties to determine the facts and circumstances and identify all available insurance coverage. Claims personnel will obtain medical records and billings to determine the value of the Government's claim, and will contact witnesses and consult with medical personnel as appropriate. RJAs may direct unit claims officers to investigate incidents and may request assistance from other DOD claims offices as needed. (d) Closing potential claims without assertion. If the RJA determines that there is no tort liability or possible recovery from an insurer or workers' compensation fund, or that the potential recovery is too small to be worth pursuing, he or she will dispose of the notification without asserting a claim. If a potential claim file was opened, claims personnel will annotate the basis for closing the potential claim on the chronology sheet. If an MTF provided the notification, claims personnel will return the notification with a dated and signed notation, ``Per RJA, no third party recovery.'' (e) Asserting demands. If there is a legal and factual basis for the Government to recover, claims personnel will assert a demand against each tortfeasor and insurer. Claims personnel should place tortfeasors and insurers on written notice of the Government's right to recover even if the injured party's attorney enters into a representation agreement (see §536.226(b)). (1) Automobile case_tort liability. If care was wholly or partly provided in an MTF on or after 5 November 1990, the claims office will assert demands against the tortfeasor and his insurer citing both the FMCRA and 10 U.S.C. 1095. If care was provided in a civilian hospital or was provided before 5 November 1990, the office will only cite the FMCRA as a basis for recovery. (2) Automobile cases_no tort liability. If care was wholly or partly provided in an MTF on or after 5 November 1990, the claims office will assert demands against the injured party's Personal Injury Protection (PIP), medical payments, or no-fault insurance citing 10 U.S.C. 1095. If care was provided in a civilian hospital or was provided before 5 November 1990, the office will cite applicable state insurance law recognizing the United States as a third party beneficiary of an injured party's automobile insurance. (3) Automobile cases_multiple sources of recovery. If the claims office can recover from the tortfeasor's automobile liability and from the injured party's non-liability coverage, the claims office should put both insurers on notice of the claim and should first attempt to collect from the no-fault insurer. If the tortfeasor is an uninsured motorist and the injured party has uninsured/underinsured motorists' coverage, the claims office should attempt to recover from the injured party's insurer while following the procedures in §536.228(a). See §536.227(e) if the injured party has health benefits insurance. (4) Special rules applicable to CHAMPUS ``primary payers.'' Pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 1079(j)(1) and 1086(g), workers' compensation and the injured party's no-fault, PIP, medical payments, and uninsured/underinsured motorist's coverage are considered ``primary'' to CHAMPUS. Before the fiscal intermediary pays the injured party's medical bills and notifies the claims office to assert a claim against the tortfeasor, the fiscal intermediary is required to verify that these ``primary payers'' have paid. (i) If the fiscal intermediary overlooks such coverage, the claims office will immediately assert a demand against the injured party's insurer (or the workers' compensation fund) citing 10 U.S.C. 1079(j)(1) in addition to other sources of authority. If the insurer has already disbursed the policy limits to the injured party, the claims office will request repayment from the injured party. The claims office will return money recovered in this manner to CHAMPUS (see §536.231(d)(3)).
