FR940406-2-00015 FR940406-2-00006 We used the Department's current related party test, which considers differences in the level of trade, to determine whether sales to related customers were made on an arm's-length basis. For purposes of the preliminary determination, we considered a party as related to respondent whenever respondent had substantial ownership in, or contractual agreements constituting business control over, the party. See Appendix II to the Final Determination of Sales at Less Than Fair Value: Certain Cold-Rolled Carbon Steel Flat Products from Argentina (58 FR 37077, July 9, 1993) for more information on the Department's related party test. We did not include in our analysis any sales to related customers that we determined were not at arm's length. We calculated FMV based on delivered prices, inclusive of packing. We made deductions for inland freight, rebates and discounts, and direct selling expenses, including promotional and advertising expenses, credit expenses, warranty and guaranty expenses, and interest for guarantee deposits, where applicable. For those rebate programs where respondent did not identify in the database which customer actually received the rebate, we made no adjustment. We disallowed any rebate not established before the filing of the petition. For one expense claimed as a rebate, we determined that the expense, although viewed as a direct selling expense for CNPP, was overstated through a misallocation of the costs; consequently we did not make any adjustment for this expense, but will consider doing so subsequent to verification and further explanation. With regard to one promotional program reported as a direct selling expense, we did not make an adjustment to FMV because respondent failed to report the expense properly. We treated all advertising costs as direct selling expenses because respondent reported that all advertising is directed at the customers' customers. We deducted home market packing costs and added U.S. packing costs in accordance with section 773(a)(1) of the Act. Where respondent's reported total packing costs in Japan for certain transactions for certain packing forms omitted a particular packing processing charge, we added, as minor charge-specific BIA, the reported average charge. We made the following deductions from FMV in accordance with 19 CFR 353.56. We calculated home market credit expenses using the reported dates of shipment and payment. Where no payment had been received we used the average credit period for home market sales. We deducted from FMV the weighted-average home market indirect selling expenses, including inventory carrying costs, warehousing expenses, product liability premiums, technical service expenses, and two promotional minilab programs, up to the amount of indirect selling expenses incurred on U.S. sales. We reclassified these two promotional programs as indirect selling expenses. While respondent had reported these as direct selling expenses, we have preliminarily determined that respondent has not directly tied them to specific sales of CNPP. We also reclassified technical expenses as indirect selling expenses because respondent's documentation illustrates that these expenses relate to general long-term assistance, rather than customer- or sales-specific expenses. We offset commissions paid to unrelated parties in the United States by the amount of indirect selling expenses incurred in the home market by respondent, capped by the sum of U.S. commissions and indirect selling expenses incurred, both in Japan and the United States, for U.S. sales. For purposes of the preliminary determination, we have treated all movement expenses as direct selling expenses. Therefore, in accordance with the decision in Ad Hoc Committee of AZ-NM-TX-FL Producers of Gray Portland Cement v. United States, Slip Op. 93&hyph;1239 (Fed. Cir., January 5, 1994), we made a circumstance-of-sale adjustment for home market movement expenses. We recalculated indirect selling expenses incurred in the home market by reallocating certain rebates and promotional programs as indirect selling expenses rather than as charges or direct selling expenses, respectively, because we found that respondent misclassified these expenses. We classified product liability expenses as indirect selling expenses because respondent's explanations demonstrate that its liability policy is general in nature and not tied to specific sales. We included in FMV the amount of the consumption tax collected in the Japanese home market. We also calculated the amount of the tax that was due solely to the inclusion of expenses in the original tax base that are later deducted from home market price to calculate FMV (i.e., three percent of the sum of any adjustments, expenses, charges, and offsets that were deducted from the home market price). We deducted this amount from the FMV after all other additions and deductions were made. By making this additional tax adjustment, we avoid a distortion that would cause the creation of a dumping margin even when pre-tax dumping is zero. In addition, we calculated a re-adjustment of the amount of tax to take into account the amount of packing expenses added to FMV (i.e., three percent of the packing expenses). Currency Conversion We made currency conversions based on the official exchange rates in effect on the dates of the U.S. sales as certified by the Federal Reserve Bank. Verification As provided in section 776(b) of the Act, we will verify the information used in making our final determination. Critical Circumstances On March 2, 1994, petitioner alleged that ``critical circumstances'' exist with respect to imports of CNPP and chemical components thereof from Japan. We preliminarily find that critical circumstances do not exist with respect to imports of CNPP from Japan, in accordance with section 733(e)(1) of the Act. To determine whether or not there have been massive imports of CNPP (one of the criteria in a critical circumstances analysis) we compared the export volume for the six months subsequent to the filing of the petition to that for the six months prior to the filing of the petition. We found that exports of this merchandise from respondent during the period subsequent to receipt of the petition had decreased. Unless we find that imports of the subject merchandise were massive, we do not need to determine whether there is a history of dumping in the United States or elsewhere or whether there is knowledge that the exporter was selling the merchandise at less than its fair value. Suspension of Liquidation In accordance with section 733(d)(1) of the Act, we are directing the Customs Service to suspend liquidation of all entries of CNPP from Japan, as defined in the ``Scope of Investigation'' section of this notice, that are entered, or withdrawn from warehouse, for consumption on or after the date of publication of this notice in the Federal Register . The Customs Service shall require a cash deposit or posting of a bond equal to the estimated preliminary dumping margin, as shown below. The suspension of liquidation will remain in effect until further notice. ␣ 1Producer/manufacturer/exporter 1Margin percentage Fuji Photo Film Co. Ltd. 360.95 All Others 360.95 ITC Notification In accordance with section 733(f) of the Act, we have notified the ITC of our determination. If our final determination is affirmative, the ITC will determine whether these imports are materially injuring, or threaten material injury to, the U.S. industry before the later of 120 days after the date of this preliminary determination or 45 days after our final determination. Postponement of Final Determination On March 8, 1994, in accordance with 19 CFR 353.20(b), the sole respondent requested that, in the event of an affirmative determination, the Department postpone the final determination. We find no compelling reason to deny the request. Accordingly, we are postponing the date of the final determination until not later than 135 days after the date of publication of this notice. Public Comment In accordance with 19 CFR 353.38, case briefs or other written comments in at least ten copies may be submitted by any interested party to the Assistant Secretary for Import Administration no later than June 30, 1994, and rebuttal briefs no later than July 8, 1994. We request that parties in this case provide an executive summary of no more than 2 pages in conjunction with case briefs on the major issues to be addressed. Further, briefs should contain a table of authorities. Citations to Commerce determinations and court decisions should include the page number where cited information appears. In preparing the briefs, please begin each issue on a separate page. In accordance with 19 CFR 353.38(b), we will hold a public hearing, if requested, to give interested parties an opportunity to comment on arguments raised in case or rebuttal briefs. Tentatively, the hearing will be held on July 15, 1994, at 10 a.m. at the U.S. Department of Commerce, room 3708, 14th Street and Constitution Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20230. Parties should confirm the time, date, and place of the hearing 48 hours before the scheduled time. Interested parties who wish to request a hearing must submit a written request to the Assistant Secretary for Import Administration, U.S. Department of Commerce, room B&hyph;099, within ten days of the publication of this notice in the Federal Register . Requests should contain: (1) The party's name, address, telephone number; (2) The number of participants; and (3) A list of the issues to be discussed. In accordance with 19 CFR 353.38(b), oral presentations will be limited to the issues raised in the briefs. This determination is published pursuant to section 733(f) of the Act (19 U.S.C. 1673b(f)) and 19 CFR 353.15(a)(4). Dated: March 29, 1994. Susan G. Esserman, Assistant Secretary for Import Administration. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;8262 Filed 4&hyph;5&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3510&hyph;DS&hyph;P
