FR940802-0-00024 FR940802-0-00008 Finally, EPA believes that section 211(k)(4) does not preclude the renewable oxygenate provisions proposed herein. Section 211(k)(4) states that the Administrator ``shall certify a fuel formulation or slate of fuel formulations as complying with this subsection if such fuel or fuels_(i) comply with the requirements of paragraph (2), and (ii) achieve equivalent or greater reductions *␣*␣* than are achieved by a reformulated gasoline meeting the applicable requirements of paragraph (3).'' This could be interpreted as requiring certification of a fuel that met the oxygen and other requirements of paragraph (2) and the emissions requirements of paragraph (3) even if it did not comply with the proposed renewable oxygenate requirement. Section 211(k)(1), however, authorizes EPA to establish requirements above and beyond those required under paragraph (2) and (3), and section 211(k)(1) and (4) must be read together to provide a meaningful interpretation to both provisions. EPA believes that a reasonable interpretation requires certification of a fuel as reformulated as long as it complies with the requirements of paragraphs (2) and (3), as well as any additional requirements established under paragraph (1). Since the renewable oxygenate provision is an additional requirement established under section 211(k)(1), certification is not required under section 211(k)(4)(B) unless a fuel or slate of fuels complies with the requirement. 3. Analysis of the Legislative History The legislative history of the reformulated gasoline provision supports and is consistent with EPA's interpretation of section 211(k). Changes made to various bills during the course of congressional review, as well as floor debates in the respective houses, indicate EPA was provided broad general authority to adopt requirements designed to achieve the objectives for this program. EPA's renewables requirement does just that, without inappropriately impinging on refiners' and importers' operational flexibility. a. House of Representatives_ The bill reported by the House Committee on Energy and Commerce included provisions on reformulated gasoline that roughly paralleled the current provisions of section 211(k)(1). Under that provision, EPA was required to: promulgate regulations under section 211 establishing specifications for cleaner gasoline to be used in conventional gasoline fueled vehicles. Such standards shall require the greatest reduction in ozone-forming volatile organic compounds and air toxic emissions achievable through the reformulation of conventional gasoline, taking into consideration the cost of achieving such emission reductions, and health, environmental and energy impacts. 2 2 H. Rep. No. 101&hyph;490, 101st Cong. 2d Sess. 60 (1990); reprinted at 1 A Legislative History of the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990 at 3021 (1993) (`` Leg. Hist.''). This provision is similar to current section 211(k)(1) in that it provides general authority to establish ``specifications'' for reformulated gasoline, and separately requires that these regulations include requirements to obtain the greatest achievable reductions in VOCs and air toxics. The Committee Report's description of this provision is fairly brief, with no indication that this general authority is limited to establishing emission reduction requirements. 3 3 2 Leg. Hist. at 3321&hyph;21. Certain changes were made to this provision prior to its adoption by the House, reflecting an intent to expand at least somewhat the scope of agency authority. First, while the Committee bill authorized EPA to establish ``specifications'' for cleaner gasoline, the House bill used broader language authorizing EPA to establish ``requirements,'' as currently found in section 211(k)(1). Likewise, the second sentence of the Committee bill provision referred to ``such standards,'' while the House bill broadened this to ``such requirements.'' 4 The House intended to broaden EPA's authority, not limit it, and these changes were eventually adopted by Congress. 4 S.1630 as passed by the House of Representatives; 2 Leg. Hist. at 2059. The Committee bill was amended in several other significant ways prior to final passage by the House. For example, many of the specific reformulated gasoline requirements now found in section 211(k)(2) through (10) were first debated and adopted on the floor of the House. Nonetheless, the general structure of section 211(k)(1) stayed the same with the exceptions noted above. This indicates that from the very beginning the House intended to provide EPA with broad general authority to establish reasonable requirements for a reformulated gasoline program. The vast bulk of the legislative history in the House is directed at the subsequent adoption of fairly specific minimum requirements for reformulated gasoline, with no indication that Congress intended to otherwise limit this broad, general grant of agency authority.
