FR940711-2-00041 FR940711-2-00024 ␣ 1Customer 1KW Alabama Electric Cooperative 91,000 South Carolina Public Service Authority 215,000 South Mississippi Electric Power Association 61,000 Customers in Duke Power Company service area 238,000 Customers in S.C. Electric & Gas Co. service area 16,000 Customers in The Southern Company service area 1,296,000 Except where duplication of allocation would result, each public body and cooperative within the marketing areas as shown in Appendix A will be eligible for an allocation of existing power, except for the City of Oxford, Georgia. No reallocation of existing power for the benefit of Oxford is proposed at this time. Existing preference customers within the marketing area will retain their present allocations of capacity and essentially the same energy accompaniment. It is Southeastern's goal to allocate all available and useful system power (that power remaining after provision for an appropriate capacity margin and losses) to preference customers, except power that may be used for pumping. Allocation of Power From Russell Pumped Storage Units. Currently, the pump generator units at the Richard B. Russell Project are undergoing a series of environmental tests to meet the requirements of an injunction imposed by the U.S. District Court in the case of South Carolina Department of Wildlife and Marine Resources v. Marsh et al, 866 F.2d 97 (4th Cir 1989). The first opportunity for commercial operation of the pumping units is after the completion of these tests. The environmental tests and schedules were agreed upon by the Corps of Engineers and the party litigants, and the results of the tests must be approved by the district court before the units become commercially available. Should pumped storage units at the Russell project become commercially available during the tenure of contracts implementing this policy, after the approval of the district court, after further mitigating modifications required by environmental concerns, or by any other means, Southeastern will allocate this additional power as detailed in the Power Marketing Policy for the Georgia-Alabama-South Carolina System of Projects promulgated on October 1, 1980 in the Federal Register . The capacity relative to the Russell pumped storage units will be allocated to the City of Oxford, Georgia, and to the existing customers in The Southern Company service area including Alabama Electric Cooperative and South Mississippi Electric Power Association (130 MW), the Duke Power Company service area (65 MW), the South Carolina Electric and Gas service area (5 MW) and the South Carolina Public Service Authority (60 MW). Adequate capacity has been retained to provide an appropriate capacity margin. Russell pumped storage capacity is predicted a this time on testing accomplished to date and reflects the best estimate at this time. Energy accompaniment to the pumped storage capacity will be sufficient to provide viable peaking capacity. The Russell pumped storage power will be allocated as follows:
