FR940318-0-00251 FR940318-0-00024 VI. Rulemaking Record EPA established a record for this rulemaking (docket control number A&hyph;90&hyph;09). The record for this rulemaking is available to the public in the Clean Air Act Docket, located in M1500, first floor Waterside Mall, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, 401 M St., SW, Mail Stop LE&hyph;131, Washington, DC, 20460, from 8:30 a.m. to 12 p.m. and 1:30 p.m. to 3:30 p.m., Monday through Friday, excluding legal holidays. The record includes information considered by EPA in developing this rule. The record contains the following categories of information: (1) Federal Register notices; (2) Support Documents; and, (3) Public Comments. VII. Other Regulatory Requirements A. Executive Order 12291 This rule was submitted to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) for review under the provisions covered under Executive Order (E.O.) 12291, which required the Agency to judge whether this regulation is ``major'' and was therefore subject to the requirement to conduct a regulatory impact analysis. This rule was not considered a ``major'' rule as that term is defined in section 1(b) of E.O. 12291 because the annual effect of the rule on the economy will be less than $100 million; this rule is not expected to cause significant increases in costs or prices for significant sectors of the economy or geographic region; and because the programs are voluntary in nature, they are not expected to result in significant adverse effects on competition, investment, productivity, or innovation or on the ability of United States enterprises to compete with foreign enterprises in domestic or foreign markets. The same conclusion reached under E.O. 12291 would also apply to the provisions of E.O. 12866. Also, under the provisions of E.O. 12866, this rule is not considered as ``significant,'' but because this rule is revenue generating it was submitted to OMB for review. This rule was cleared by OMB on November 17, 1993. B. Regulatory Flexibility Act This rule has been reviewed under the Regulatory Flexibility Act of 1980 (5 U.S.C. 60 et seq.). EPA has determined that a significant number of small businesses are affected by this regulation. Under the proposed rule, EPA defined small businesses as those with less than 10 employees. This definition was reviewed and approved by the Small Business Administration. Approximately 10% of the primary device applicants and 15% of the secondary firms are estimated to drop off of the RMP program as a result of the imposition of fees. This drop off from the program is not considered significant because EPA has determined that if the estimated 10&hyph;15% drop off rate does occur, an adequate number of proficient radon measurement firms will be available to the public. In addition, since virtually all radon firms can be considered small, this rule does not place an undue burden on small businesses nor does it give an unfair advantage to large businesses. Estimates of drop off have not been quantified for the RCP program or the individual proficiency component of the RMP program. The Agency believes, however, that its fees will not result in a substantial adverse impact because the fees were established at a level designed to maintain participation in the program. Further, EPA received no comments that indicated that fees of this magnitude would lead to a significant decline in participation. C. Paperwork Reduction Act The information associated with the Radon Proficiency Programs will be submitted for approval to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980, 44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq. A separate Federal Register notice will be published requesting comments on the information collection requirements. The Agency will respond to all OMB or public comments prior to receiving approval for these information requirements. A Federal Register notice will be published announcing approval of these information requirements, the OMB control number and the expiration date.
