FR940304-0-00062 FR940304-0-00019 DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR Fish and Wildlife Service 50 CFR Part 17 RIN 1018&hyph;AB89 Endangered and Threatened Wildlife and Plants; Determination of Endangered or Threatened Status for 21 Plants From the Island of Hawaii, State of Hawaii AGENCY: Fish and Wildlife Service, Interior. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (Service) determines endangered status pursuant to the Endangered Species Act of 1973, as amended (Act), for 20 plants: Clermontia lindseyana ('oha wai), Clermontia peleana ('oha wai), Clermontia pyrularia ('oha wai), Colubrina oppositifolia (kauila), Cyanea copelandii ssp. copelandii (haha), Cyanea hamatiflora ssp. carlsonii (haha), Cyanea shipmanii (haha), Cyanea stictophylla (haha), Cyrtandra giffardii (ha'iwale), Cyrtandra tintinnabula (ha'iwale), Ischaemum byrone (Hilo ischaemum), Isodendrion pyrifolium (wahine noho kula), Mariscus fauriei (no common name (NCN)), Nothocestrum breviflorum ('aiea), Ochrosia kilaueaensis (holei), Plantago hawaiensis (laukahi kuahiwi), Portulaca sclerocarpa (po'e), Pritchardia affinis (loulu), Tetramolopium arenarium (NCN), and Zanthoxylum hawaiiense (a'e). The Service also determines threatened status for one plant, Silene hawaiiensis (NCN). All but eight of the taxa are endemic to the island of Hawaii, Hawaiian Islands; the exceptions were from the islands of Niihau, Kauai, Oahu, Molokai, Lanai, and/or Maui as well as Hawaii. The 21 plant taxa and their habitats have been variously affected or are currently threatened by competition, predation or habitat degradation from introduced species, habitat loss from development and other human activities, natural disasters and stochastic events. This rule implements the Federal protection provisions provided by the Act for these plants. One taxon, Hesperocnide sandwicensis , which had been proposed for listing with the above species, has been withdrawn from consideration as a result of additional information received indicating the species is more abundant than previously believed. A notice withdrawing the proposal is published in the Federal Register concurrently with this final rule. EFFECTIVE DATE: This rule takes effect on April 4, 1994. ADDRESSES: The complete file for this rule is available for public inspection, by appointment, during normal business hours at the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, Pacific Islands Office, 300 Ala Moana Boulevard, room 6307, P.O. Box 50167, Honolulu, Hawaii 96850. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Robert P. Smith, at the above address (808/541&hyph;2749).
