FR940804-2-00138 FR940804-2-00078 [Release No. 34&hyph;34457; File No. SR&hyph;NASD&hyph;94&hyph;28] Self-Regulatory Organizations; National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc.; Order Approving Proposed Rule Change Relating to Clearance and Settlement Requirements for NASD Member Firms That Are Market Makers in the Nasdaq Stock Market or the OTC Bulletin Board ® Service July 28, 1994. On May 23, 1994, the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. (``NASD'' or ``Association'') filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``SEC'' or ``Commission'') a proposed rule change pursuant to Section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act'') 1 and Rule 19b&hyph;4 thereunder. 2 The rule change amends Section 7 of Part V to Schedule D of the NASD By-Laws 3 and Section 4 of the OTC Bulletin Board ® Service (``OTCBB'') Rules 4 relating to clearance and settlement requirements of NASD member firms functioning as market makers in the Nasdaq Stock Market (``Nasdaq'') or the OTCBB. 1 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1). 2 17 CFR 240.19b&hyph;4 (1993). 3 NASD Manual, Schedules to the By-Laws, Schedule D, Part V, Sec. 7, (CCH) ¶1823. 4 NASD Manual, OTCBB Rules, Sec. 4, (CCH) ¶2574. Under the rule as amended, market makers will either be required to utilize the facilities of a registered clearing agency that uses a continuous net settlement system or, if both parties to a transaction agree, to settle the transaction ``ex-clearing.'' The rule change applies to market makers in Nasdaq securities as well as to OTCBB market makers whose transactions in OTCBB securities are clearing eligible. Notice of the proposed rule change, together with its terms of substance was provided by issuance of a Commission release 5 and by publication in the Federal Register . 6 No comments were received in response to the Notice. This order approves the proposed rule change. 5 Securities Exchange Act Rel. No. 34238 (June 20, 1994). 6 59 FR 33031 (June 27, 1994). As the NASD indicated in its rule filing, the Automated Confirmation Transaction Service (``ACT'') is the primary facility for collecting, processing, and disseminating transaction reports on Nasdaq securities as well as equity issues quoted in the OTCBB. 7 ACT also facilitates the clearance and settlement of inter-member transactions by locking-in trade details for transmission to the National Securities Clearing Corporation (``NSCC''). 8 The generation of locked-in trades by ACT enhances the overall efficiency of the clearance and settlement process and virtually eliminates a member's risk exposure respecting uncompared trades. These benefits cannot be realized, however, unless the broker-dealers on both sides of the trade have some form of participation in a registered clearing agency. 9 7 See NASD Manual, Schedules to the By-Laws, Schedule D, Parts X, XI and XII, (CCH) ¶¶1865&hyph;1867G. 8 See NASD Manual, ACT Rules, Secs, (d)&hyph;(e), (CCH) ¶¶2554&hyph;2555. 9 See NASD Manual, ACT Rules, Sec. (b)(2)(B), (CCH) ¶2552 (market makers may not participate in ACT unless the market maker satisfies, among other things, the requirement of ``membership in, or maintenance of, an effective clearing arrangement with a member of a clearing agency registered pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 *␣*␣*''). The rule change will increase participation in registered clearing agencies due to the elimination of the ``25 mile exception'' from Section 7(a) in Part V of Schedule D to the NASD By-Laws. 10 Prior to the amendment, the ``25 mile exception'' allowed market makers in SmallCap SM securities, that did not participate in the Small Order Execution System'' SOES'') and were located more than 25 miles from a clearing facility, to bypass the requirement of clearing and settling transactions through a registered clearing agency. The rule, as amended, eliminates this exception and requires market makers in Nasdaq securities to utilize the facilities of a registered clearing agency that uses a continuous net settlement system, unless both parties to a transaction agree to settle the transaction ``exclearing.'' 10 NASD Manual, Schedules to the By-Laws, Schedule D, Part V, Sec. 7(a), (CCH) ¶1823. Participation in registered clearing agencies will also increase due to the imposition of clearance and settlement requirements on market makers in OTCBB securities. 11 Market makers in these securities will be required to clear and settle transactions that are clearing eligible 12 through the facilities of a registered clearing agency that uses a continuous net settlement system, unless both parties to a transaction agree to settle the transaction ``exclearing.'' 11 NASD Manual, OTCBB Rules, Sec. 4, (CCH) ¶2574. 12 Clearing eligible status is noted in the OTCBB symbol director and in the electronic directory accessible via Nasdaq Workstation PCs. The Commission has determined to approve the NASD's proposal. As a result of the amendment, parallel requirements will exist for the two largest equity market segments in which NASD members function as market makers and utilize ACT for trade reporting and comparison purposes. 13 The Commission finds that the rule change is consistent with the requirements of the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder applicable to the NASD, including the requirements of Sections 11A(a)(1), 15A(b)(6), and 17A(a)(1) of the Act. Section 11A(a)(1) contains the Congressional findings that have guided development of the National Market System. These findings include a directive to apply state-of-art data processing and communications techniques to achieve more efficient and effective market operations and to ensure the economical execution of securities orders. Similarly, Section 15A(b)(6) requires, among other things, that the rules of a national securities association be designed to prevent fraudulent and manipulative acts and practices, to promote just and equitable principles of trade, and to foster cooperation and coordination with persons engaged in regulating, clearing, settling, and processing information with respect to, and facilitation transactions in securities. Finally, Section 17A(a)(1) reflects the statutory goals of a national system for clearance and settlement of securities transactions. These goals include the application of new data processing and communications techniques to create the opportunity for more efficient, effective, and safe procedures for clearance and settlement. 13 The NASD estimates that fewer than 10 member firms that function as market makers will be required to establish clearing arrangements as a result of this amendment. The Commission finds that the new clearance and settlement requirements are consistent with the foregoing statutory provisions. In sum, the rule change will further the objectives of minimizing risk exposure from uncompared trades and fostering optimal usage of ACT to lock-in the details of individual trades prior to their submission to a registered clearing agency. 14 14 See NASD Manual, ACT Rules, Sec. (b)(1), (CCH) ¶2552 (participation in ACT is mandatory for all brokers that are members of a registered clearing agency and all brokers that have clearing arrangements with such members). It is therefore ordered, pursuant to Section 19(b)(2) of the Act, that the proposed rule change, SR&hyph;NASD&hyph;94&hyph;28 be, and hereby is, approved. For the Commission, by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. 15 15 17 CFR 200.30&hyph;3(a)(12). Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;18959 Filed 8&hyph;3&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
