FR940203-2-00127 FR940203-2-00068 Comment: One commenter believed the definition of the term ``Workplace mentor'' should be changed to include ``other individuals approved by the employer'' to be included as a workplace mentor so that individuals such as special educators, vocational rehabilitation counselors, job coaches, and work-study coordinators could serve in this capacity for youth with disabilities. Discussion: The Secretaries agree with the commenter's suggestion. Changes: The definition of ``Workplace mentor'' has been modified to include ``another individual approved by the employer.'' Priority_General Comments: Two commenters suggested that the Secretaries consider awarding School-to-Work Opportunities grants on a priority basis to: (1) Areas with high levels of unemployment, (2) areas that are impacted by military base closures, and (3) areas that are experiencing cutbacks in defense spending or conversions from defense manufacturing. One of the commenters also suggested that the Secretaries consider awarding grants under this competition based on priorities addressing new and emerging technologies and displaying ``complete vertical integration from start to partnering and productive employment placement.'' Similarly, the second commenter felt that priority should be extended to areas of economic need that can greatly benefit from additional coordinated funding such as that available under the National and Community Service Act. A third commenter felt that priority should be given to communities with high concentrations of poor and disadvantaged youth. Discussion: The purpose of this award is to provide funds to States to develop statewide School-to-Work Opportunities systems. The State plan must describe how the State will stimulate and support local School-to-Work Opportunities programs and how the State system will be expanded over time to cover all geographic areas in the State including those with high concentrations of poor and disadvantaged youth. States must also distribute a significant portion of their grant funds to local partnerships (65 percent in the first year, 75 percent in the second year, and 85 percent in the third year.) Within this context, States and localities have the flexibility to determine those areas that should receive priority in the establishment of statewide systems and for receipt of funds. While the Secretaries recognize the value of directing School-to-Work Opportunities funds to all of the areas named by the commenters, the Secretaries are opposed to mandating to States that these areas receive funds on a priority basis. Although they have not established a priority for such communities, in response to the third commenter's concerns about communities with high concentrations of poor and disadvantaged youth, the Secretaries have made a change. Changes: The notice has been modified to include the requirement in both paragraph (b)(13) of the priority and in the ``Comprehensive Statewide System'' selection criterion that States provide opportunities for participation in their School-to-Work Opportunities programs by students in all parts of each State, including communities with high concentrations of poor and disadvantaged youth. Priority_Eligibility and Absolute Preference to State Applications Comment: One commenter stated that making States responsible for School-to-Work Opportunities programs made sense for most populations but not necessarily for migrant or seasonal farmworkers. The commenter felt that what he referred to as ``State-run initiatives'' sometimes fail to include services for these populations since they are often considered to be a national population. In the commenter's view, even where States are aware that farmworkers live within their boundaries, States often do not have the special expertise needed to provide these populations with services, or may not be able to serve the full range of the farmworker population. The commenter suggested that the Secretaries encourage States to take the unique needs of farmworker youth into account as States develop their comprehensive statewide School-to-Work Opportunities plans. Discussion: Secondary students from farmworker and migrant populations are included within the definition of ``all students.'' ``All students'' is defined to mean ``students from a broad range of backgrounds and circumstances, including disadvantaged students, students of diverse racial, ethnic, and cultural backgrounds *␣*␣* students with limited-English proficiency *␣*␣* .'' The Secretaries expect migrant and seasonal farmworker youth to be served under the School-to-Work Opportunities Program. In further response to the concerns of the commenter, the Secretaries strongly encourage States with migrant and seasonal farmworker populations, to take the full range of needs of migrant and seasonal farmworker youth into account in developing their plans.
