FR940617-2-00022 FR940617-2-00010 Such or Similar Comparisons We have determined that the class or kind of merchandise subject to this investigation constitutes two such or similar categories: silicomanganese lumps and silicomanganese fines. In making our fair value comparisons, in accordance with the Department's standard methodology, we first compared identical merchandise. Where there were no sales of identical merchandise in the home market (third country market with respect to silicomagnese fines) to compare to U.S. sales, we made similar merchandise comparisons on the basis of the criteria defined in Appendix V to the antidumping questionnaire, on file in Room B&hyph;099 of the main building of the Department of Commerce. In accordance with 19 CFR 353.58, we made comparisons at the same level of trade, where possible. Fair Value Comparisons To determine whether Hevensa's sales of silicomanganese from Venezuela to the United States were made at less than fair value, we compared the United States price (USP) to the foreign market value (FMV), as specified in the ``United States Price'' and ``Foreign Market Value'' sections of this notice. United States Price We based USP for Hevensa on purchase price (PP), in accordance with section 772(b) of the Act, because all sales were made to unrelated parties prior to importation into the United States. We calculated PP based on FOB Venezuelan port prices to unrelated customers in the United States. We made deductions, where appropriate, for freight, loading expenses and rebates. We added an amount, where appropriate, for duty drawback, in accordance with section 772(d)(1)(B) of the Act. On October 7, 1993, the Court of International Trade (CIT), in Federal-Mogul Corp. and The Torrington Co. v. United States, Slip Op. 93&hyph;194 (CIT, October 7, 1993), rejected the Department's methodology for calculating an addition to USP under section 772(d)(1)(C) of the Act to account for taxes that the exporting country would have assessed on the merchandise had it been sold in the home market. The CIT held that the addition to USP should be the result of applying the foreign market tax rate to the price of the United States merchandise at the same point in the chain of commerce that the foreign market tax was applied to foreign market sales. Federal-Mogul, Slip Op. 93&hyph;194 at 12. In accordance with the CIT decision in Federal-Mogul, we have multiplied the foreign market tax rate by the price of the United States merchandise at the same point in the chain of commerce that the foreign market tax was applied to foreign market sales, and have added the product to the USP. We have also deducted from the USP and the FMV those portions of the respective home market tax and the USP tax adjustments attributable to expenses included in the foreign market and United States bases of the tax if those expenses are later deducted to calculate FMV and USP. These adjustments to the foreign market tax and the USP tax adjustment are necessary to prevent the methodology for calculating the USP tax adjustment from creating antidumping duty margins where no margins would exist if no taxes were levied upon foreign market sales. This margin creation effect is due to the fact that the basis for calculating both the amount of tax included in the price of the foreign market merchandise and the amount of the USP tax adjustment include many expenses that are later deducted when calculating USP and FMV. After these deductions are made, the tax included in FMV and the USP tax adjustment still reflect the inclusion of these expenses in the bases. Thus, a margin may be created that is not dependent upon a difference between adjusted USP and FMV, but is the result of differences between the expenses in the United States and the home market that were deducted through adjustments.
