FR940317-2-00040 FR940317-2-00029 [OPP&hyph;100135; FRL&hyph;4763&hyph;2] Oakridge National Laboratory and Martin Marietta Inc.; Transfer of Data AGENCY: Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: This is a notice to certain persons who have submitted information to EPA in connection with pesticide information requirements imposed under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (FFDCA). The Oak Ridge National Laboratory (ORNL) and Martin Marietta Inc., under an Interagency Agreement (IAG) will perform work for the EPA Office of Pesticide Programs, and will be provided access to certain information submitted to EPA under FIFRA and the FFDCA. Some of this information may have been claimed to be confidential business information (CBI) by submitters. This information will be transferred to ORNL and Martin Marietta Inc. consistent with the requirements of 40 CFR 2.209(c) and 2.308(i)(2), and will enable ORNL and Martin Marietta Inc. to fulfill the obligations of the agreement. DATES: ORNL and Martin Marietta Inc. will be given access to this information no sooner than March 28, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: By mail: BeWanda B. Alexander, Program Management and Support Division (7502C), Office of Pesticide Programs, Environmental Protection Agency, 401 M St., SW., Washington, DC 20460. Office location and telephone number: Rm. 234 Crystal Mall 2, 1921 Jefferson Davis Highway, Arlington, VA, (703) 305&hyph;5259 SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Prior to the registration or reregistration of a pesticide, the Office of Pesticide Programs (OPP), must determine whether the chemical will cause unreasonable adverse effects on humans and the environment under FIFRA. In the process of making the determination, OPP reviews all data submitted by the registrant to support the effectiveness and safety of the chemical, published reports or studies from the open literature unpublished reports or studies which bear on the issues at hand, and the chemical's general and environmental chemistry relationship to possible human and domestic animal exposure. In some instances, OPP requests the registrant to conduct additional studies, or directly funds research to complete the registration. OPP, under IAG DW89936171&hyph;01, is contracting with ORNL and Martin Marietta Inc. for specialized technical assistance in the identification of information shortfalls dealing with the registration of pesticides. This research effort will concentrate on systematically identifying, analyzing, and evaluating data associated with pesticide registrations. The intent is to catalog data gaps from the registrant to fully characterize the safe manufacture, application, re-entry, and residue issues prior to a decision to issue a registration under FIFRA. OPP has determined that the IAG herein described involves work that is being conducted in connection with FIFRA, in that pesticide chemicals will be the subject of certain evaluations to be made under this IAG. These evaluations may be used in subsequent regulatory decisions under FIFRA. Some of this information may be entitled to confidential treatment. The information has been submitted to EPA under sections 3, 4, 6, and 7 of FIFRA and under sections 408 and 409 of FFDCA. In accordance with the requirement of 40 CFR 2.209(c), 2.307(h), and 2.308(h)(2), this IAG with ORNL and Martin Marietta Inc. prohibits use of the information for any purpose other than the purposes specified in this IAG; prohibits disclosure of the information in any form to a third party without prior written approval from the Agency; and requires that each official and employee sign an agreement to protect the information from unauthorized release and to handle it in accordance with the FIFRA Information Security Manual. In addition ORNL and Martin Marietta Inc. are required to submit for EPA approval a security plan under which any CBI will be secured and protected against unauthorized release or compromise. No information will be provided until the above requirements have been fully satisfied. Records of information provided under this IAG will be maintained by the Project Officer for this contract in OPP. All information supplied to ORNL and Martin Marietta Inc. by EPA for use in connection with this IAG will be returned to EPA when ORNL and Martin Marietta Inc. have completed their work. List of Subjects Environmental protection, Transfer of data. Dated: March 7, 1994. Douglas D. Campt, Director, Office of Pesticide Programs. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;6166 Filed 3&hyph;16&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;F
