FR940805-1-00110 FR940805-1-00013 (18) Health appraisal. The health authority shall provide a health appraisal for each resident within fourteen days of admission unless there is documentation that the resident has had an appraisal within thirty days prior to admission to the facility. A health-trained or otherwise qualified health care personnel shall collect health history and vital signs. Only qualified health care personnel shall collect other data. The health appraisal shall include: (i) review of transferred health record and/or health screening; (ii) collection of additional data to complete the medical, dental, psychiatric and immunization histories, with attention to elements that may indicate the presence of chronic disease, such as diabetes, if not already available; (iii) recording of height, weight, pulse, blood pressure and temperature, if not already available; (iv) administration of laboratory and other tests and examinations as appropriate, if medically indicated; (v) notation of additional comments as needed; and (vi) initiation of therapy as appropriate. (19) Health examination. Qualified health care personnel shall complete a health examination for each resident within thirty days of admission. The examination shall include: (i) a ``hands-on'' examination by an appropriately licensed health care professional; (ii) dental screening, hygiene and treatment when the health of the juvenile would be adversely affected; and (iii) additional health care services as indicated by qualified health care personnel. (20) First aid kits. The administrator shall ensure that first aid kits are available in designated areas of the facility as determined by the Safety Officer during the annual inspection. The health care provider shall determine the appropriate content of first aid kits. (21) Special medical programs. The health authority shall provide specialized health education and treatment programs, including, but not limited to, personal hygiene, diet and exercise, family planning, communicable diseases, including sexually transmitted diseases and substance abuse education, prevention, intervention and treatment. (22) Detoxification. The administrator and health authority shall develop a written plan to guide the clinical management of chemically dependent residents. The plan shall specify the process for involving the health authority and the substance abuse program on both a continuing and crisis-intervention basis. The plan shall include: (i) completion of assessment as required by Public Law 99&hyph;570 or warranted by additional indications; (ii) validation that the individual only requires non-pharmacologically supported care; (iii) integration of individual treatment plans into the individualized program plan; and (iv) referrals to specified community resources on release when appropriate. (23) Substance abuse programming. The administrator and health authority shall develop a written plan to provide substance abuse education, intervention, assessment and treatment to residents who are diagnosed as substance abusers. The administrator, health authority and substance abuse program provider shall update the plan as needed and review it at least annually. The plan shall link existing community programs and services to the facility program. The plan shall include, at a minimum: (i) assessment and evaluation; (ii) referral for treatment, if requested or court-ordered; and (iii) availability of appropriate self-help groups. (24) Informed consent. The health authority shall observe informed consent standards of the community for all resident care, examinations, treatments and procedures affected by informed consent. The informed consent of a parent, guardian or legal custodian shall apply when required by law. Health care shall not be rendered against a resident's will.
