FR940721-2-00110 FR940721-2-00065 D. Termination of Agreements Termination of an Agreement can occur when an Agreement State program is either inadequate or incompatible. The proposed MRB, reviewing discrete common performance indicators, would judge the overall adequacy of an Agreement State program. Similarly, the MRB would review discrete ``compatibility indicators'' and determine the overall compatibility of an Agreement State program. For either of the adequacy or compatibility determination, failure to satisfy an individual indicator may not necessarily result in an overall finding of inadequacy or incompatibility. In some situations, individual indicator weakness(es) could result in a ``marginal'' finding by the MRB calling for Agreement State improvements and the State program may be placed on probation. In extreme cases, indicator(s) failure could lead to inadequate or incompatible findings resulting in the initiation of program suspension or termination. In terms of the compatibility evaluation, the significance of performance indicator ``incompatibility'' in an individual State will be judged on the basis of the impact on the national program. E. Specific Questions for Public Comment In responding to this notice, the following questions should be specifically addressed along with any additional comments. 1. Under what circumstances should Agreement States be permitted to establish more stringent requirements, for their licensees, than those established by the Commission? Should this also include the ability to establish stricter dose limits for particular classes of licensees? 2. Are the four criteria in the proposed policy statement for determining whether a Commission regulation or other program element should be adopted in a manner essentially identical by the Agreement States sufficient to ensure protection of the national interest in radiation protection? What examples could be used to illustrate how each criterion would be applied? 3. What are some examples of State action to establish stricter requirements than those established by the Commission, or establish requirements where the NRC has not? 4. What limits, if any, should be placed on the power of a State to preclude or, by exceptionally stringent regulations, effectively preclude a particular practice? 5. Are there any other dose or radiation-protection related release limits in the Commission's regulations which should be included under the criterion number 3 of the compatibility criteria? Should the dose limits contained in 10 CFR Part 61 be included under this criterion? 6. Should the draft adequacy and compatibility policy statement be applicable to the regulation of low-level waste disposal instead of continuing to consider questions of compatibility in this area on a case-by-case basis? 7. Are there currently areas or situations in Agreement State regulations or other Agreement State requirements that would not meet the proposed policy statement? 8. Should States be permitted to establish more stringent standards for radiation-protection related release limits? III. Policy Statement The purpose of this Policy Statement is to provide a comprehensive interpretation and application of the terms ``adequate'' and ``compatible'' as they apply to the NRC Agreement State regulatory programs. The terms ``compatible'' and ``adequate'' constitute core concepts in the Commission's Agreement State program under Section 274 of the Atomic Energy Act (AEA) of 1954, as amended, in 1959. Subsection 274d. states that the Commission shall enter into an Agreement under subsection b., discontinuing NRC's regulatory authority over certain materials in a State, if the State's program is both adequate to protect public health and safety and compatible with the Commission's regulatory program. Subsection 274g. authorizes and directs the Commission to cooperate with the States in the formulation of standards to assure that State and Commission standards will be coordinated and ``compatible.'' Subsection 274j(1) requires the Commission to periodically review the Agreements and actions taken by the States under the Agreements to insure compliance with the provisions of section 274. A. Definitions For the purpose of evaluating the adequacy of Agreement State regulatory programs to protect public health and safety, the following terms are defined: 1. Adequate The acceptable level of protection for the public health and safety from the radiation hazards associated with the use of byproduct, source, and special nuclear materials.
