FR940830-0-00126 FR940830-0-00014 (2) The claimant shall file proof of the above conditions for exemption, attested to as a certified statement, pursuant to §3833.1&hyph;7, with the proper BLM office by the August 31 immediately preceding the assessment year for which a waiver is sought. (3) The certified statement required by paragraph (d)(2) of this section, serves as a notice of intention to hold as to mining claims and sites for which the exemption is sought. In such cases, the payment of the $5 service charge per claim or site is due upon filing the certification statement. (e) Payment of the maintenance fee for mining claims covered by a deferment of assessment work granted by the authorized officer pursuant to 30 U.S.C. 28 (b)&hyph;(e) and subpart 3852 of this title may be deferred during the period for which the deferment is granted. Deferments are governed by the following rule. If a petition for a deferment of assessment work, as required by §3852.2 of this title, is filed with the proper BLM office on or before August 31 for a given year, the maintenance fee need not be paid on the claims listed in the petition for deferment until the authorized officer has acted upon the petition. (1) If the petition is granted, maintenance fees for the claims are deferred for the upcoming assessment year. At the expiration of the deferment, all deferred fees shall be paid within 30 days of the end of the deferment, unless the claimant/owner qualifies as a small miner. If the claimant/owner qualifies as a small miner, all deferred assessment work shall be performed as provided in §3852.5 of this title upon expiration of the deferment. (2) If the petition for deferment is denied by the authorized officer, the maintenance fees shall be paid within 30 days of receipt of the decision of the authorized officer denying the petition for deferment. Failure to pay the maintenance fees owed will result in the forfeiture of the claims contained within the petition. (f) On mining claims for which an application for a mineral patent has been filed, and the mineral entry has been allowed, the payment of the maintenance fee is excused for the assessment years during which assessment work is not required pursuant to §3851.5 of this title. However, no refund of previously deposited maintenance fees will be made to the mineral patent applicant. 30. Section 3833.1&hyph;7 is revised to read as follows: §3833.1&hyph;7 Filing requirements for the maintenance fee waiver and other exceptions.
