FR940104-0-00080 FR940104-0-00016 (ii) During a period of authorized deferment; (iii) During a period of authorized forbearance; or (iv) During the period from the date the first installment payment was due until it was made. (3) Under the Federal Direct Unsubsidized Stafford Loan Program and the Federal Direct PLUS Program, the Secretary requires the borrower to pay on a monthly or quarterly basis, or may capitalize on a quarterly or less frequent basis, interest that has accrued during periods of deferment. (4) For a borrower who is in a period of deferment, a mandatory forbearance, or the in-school or grace period on a Federal Direct Unsubsidized Stafford Loan and has agreed to monthly or quarterly payments of interest, the Secretary capitalizes past due interest after notification to the borrower that the borrower's failure to resolve any delinquency constitutes the borrower's consent to capitalization of delinquent interest and all interest that would accrue through the remainder of that period. (c) Loan Fee for Federal Direct Stafford, Federal Direct Unsubsidized Stafford, and Federal Direct PLUS loans. The Secretary_ (1) Charges a borrower a loan fee on a Federal Direct Stafford, Federal Direct Unsubsidized Stafford or Federal Direct PLUS loan of four percent of the principal amount of the loan; (2) Deducts the loan fee from the proceeds of the loan; (3) In the case of a loan disbursed in multiple installments, deducts a pro rata portion of the fee from each disbursement; and (4) Refunds by a credit against the borrower's loan balance the portion of the loan fee previously deducted from the loan that is attributable to a disbursement of that loan that is repaid within 120 days of disbursement. (d) Late charge. (1) The Secretary may require the borrower to pay a late charge of up to six cents for each dollar of each installment or portion thereof that is late under the circumstances described in paragraph (d)(2) of this section. (2) The late charge may be assessed if the borrower fails to pay all or a portion of a required installment payment within ten days after it is due. (e)(1) Collection charges before default. Notwithstanding any provisions of State law, the Secretary may require that the borrower or any endorser pay costs incurred by the Secretary or his agents in collecting installments not paid when due, including, but not limited to_ (i) Attorney's fees; (ii) Court costs; (iii) Telegrams; and (iv) Fees on checks returned due to non-sufficient funds. (2) Collection charges after default. If a borrower defaults on a Direct Loan Program loan, he or she is assessed collection costs under the formula in 34 CFR 30.60.
