FR940603-1-00155 FR940603-1-00009 f. Transformers. The unit for removal of transformer assembly units is divided into two sections, (1) Conventional Transformer Assembly, and (2) Self-protected Transformer Assembly. Only one unit is specified for each type, and all sizes of transformers from 1 to 15 kVA within each group will be covered by the same unit. ``Self-protected'' refers to transformers where all protective equipment is mounted on or within the transformer. ``Conventional'' refers to transformers where protective equipment is mounted separately from the transformer. The unit is designated by the prefix I followed by the description of the unit to be removed; thus I&hyph;G Conventional signifies the removal of a conventional transformer assembly for any size transformer from 1 to 15 kVA. g. Secondary Units. The unit for removal of secondary assemblies includes, in addition to the removal of the assembly itself, all necessary handling such as untying, resagging, and retying of secondary conductor or cables where existing secondary conductor or cable is to be reused. In addition, the unit for removal of the secondary assembly includes the handling or holding of any conductor at tap lines where such is involved, and the reinstalling of such tap conductor in accordance with the specifications. h. Service Unit. The unit for removal of service assemblies includes, in addition to the removal of the assembly itself, all necessary handling such as untying, resagging, and retying of service conductor or cable where existing service conductor or cable is to be reused. The following descriptions apply only to those removal units not sufficiently explicit: ␣ 1Unit 1Description ␣ ␣ 1Unit No. 1Unit labor price I Section N_New Assembly Units The purpose of this section is to list complete new units of construction where such units are to be added to existing lines or installed in replacing lines. The units as covered by this section are the same as the units described in Construction Units_New Construction, except that these units are prefixed by the letter N. For example, an N40&hyph;6 unit covers the furnishing of all material and labor for the installation of a 40&hyph;6 pole either in an existing distribution line being operated by the Owner or in a new line being constructed to replace an existing distribution line being operated by the Owner. The following descriptions apply only to those new units not sufficiently explicit: ␣ 1Unit 1Description ␣ ␣ 1Unit No. 1Unit price 2Labor 2Materials 2Labor and materials N Acceptance
