FR941025-1-00007 FR941025-1-00001 Average prices received by U.S. carambola producers between 1989 and 1993 ranged from about $0.67 to $1.55 per pound. Farm prices in Taiwan vary from $0.60 to $4.00 per kg ($0.27 to $1.81 per pound), depending on the quality, size of production, and season. Thus, prices are generally lower in Taiwan, but price differences between the two countries are not as great as might be expected. Moreover, high quality carambolas suitable for export sell well in Taiwan's domestic market. Relatively high farm prices and the fruit's well-established domestic market largely explain Taiwan's limited exports. Carambola is sensitive to chilling, which can cause the skin to turn brown and become pitted. Since all carambola entering California would require cold treatment, effects of the treatment on the appearance and marketability of the fruit would be similar, whether the carambola comes from Florida, Hawaii, or Taiwan. Assuming the market for carambola expands, and fruit from Taiwan is routinely imported, domestic producers' income will be less than it would be otherwise, due to a price decline and/or lower volumes than would be sold were there not imports. The critical question is what this reduction in income would be. There is no evidence to suggest that it would be significant. From a broader perspective, sales and income lost by domestic producers should be balanced against benefits to U.S. consumers in terms of greater availability and/or lower prices. Again, lack of information on how much carambola prices can be expected to decline as a result of imports, and the responsiveness of producers and consumers to a decline, precludes estimation of consumers' gains and domestic producers' losses. Nevertheless, APHIS believes that the net benefit to the U.S. economy would be positive. Currants and Gooseberries This proposed rule would allow currants and gooseberries to be imported into the United States from Argentina under certain conditions. Argentina's area of ribes production totals only four hectares, one of which is being used for experiments on the suitability of various species. The Economic Research Service, U.S. Department of Agriculture, estimates the annual crop at 30 mt, of which 40 percent, or 12 mt, could be exported to the United States. Although published data on U.S. ribes production has not been found, trade statistics show the United States to be a net importer. In 1992, 64 mt of currants and gooseberries were exported, and 264 mt of currants were imported. The quantity of ribes expected to be imported from Argentina is only 6 percent of 1992 net imports for the United States. APHIS does not expect this relatively small change in the quantity imported to significantly affect the market for U.S. producers. Eggplant This proposed rule would allow eggplant to be imported into the United States from South Korea under certain conditions. U.S. commercial production of eggplant in 1993 was 776,000 cwt (35,199 mt). South Korea's annual production of eggplant in 1993 totaled 22,751 mt, of which 30.3 mt were exported to Japan and Guam. If all of South Korea's eggplant exports were sent to the United States, it would represent less than 0.09 percent of U.S. commercial production.
