FR940426-1-00019 FR940426-1-00004 Question 1.2. Should the ``magnitude'' element be clarified to exclude de minimis offerings? If so, how would such offerings be identified? 57 Would a standard based on dollar value of average daily trading volume or other factors be appropriate? 57 In 1982, the Commission proposed that transactions that complied with the volume and manner of sale provisions of Rule 144 under the Securities Act not be treated as ``distributions'' for purposes of Rule 10b&hyph;6. See 1982 Release, 47 FR at 11482. The Commission did not adopt the proposal. See 1983 Release, 48 FR at 10630. Question 1.3. Should certain categories of offerings (e.g., based on the total dollar amount of securities offered or the number or type of persons to whom the offering is made) be excluded from the definition? Examples might include offerings made pursuant to the authority of Section 3(b) of the Securities Act, 58 and offerings made solely to large institutions. 59 58 Securities Act Section 3(b), 15 U.S.C. 77c(b). It may be noted, however, that offerings made pursuant to Regulation A have resulted in a number of Commission actions alleging manipulation. E.g., C.A. Benson & Co., Inc., 41 SEC 427 (1964); Bruns, Nordeman. 59 See, e.g., Rule 144A Release. Question 1.4. What difficulties do the ``functional'' beginning and ending points for a distribution present? Can more definite points be identified? 60 60 See Halsey, Stuart & Co., Inc., 30 SEC 106, 137 n.41 (1949) (noting that the termination of the restrictions of Rule 10b&hyph;6 are determined by whether an underwriter continues to function in its capacity as an underwriter). Question 1.5. Should issuer plans be distinguished from other distributions of securities? Should plans be distinguished based on the nature of the participants, e.g., whether the plan is available only to certain groups having an affinity or relationship to the issuer, such as shareholders, employees, or customers? If so, are there limits to the types of affiliations? Question 1.6. Should mergers and exchange offers continue to be deemed distributions in order to prevent an issuer from conditioning the market and influencing the shareholders of the target company? Commenters may wish to address the role of Exchange Act Rule 10b&hyph;13 61 in this context. 61 17 CFR 240.10b&hyph;13. Rule 10b&hyph;13 prohibits a person making a tender or exchange offer for an equity security from, directly or indirectly, purchasing or making an arrangement to purchase such security or any security which is immediately convertible into or exchangeable for such security, otherwise than pursuant to the offer, from the time the offer is publicly announced until its termination. Question 1.7. What is the appropriate application of anti-manipulation regulation to valuation and shareholder-election periods? 62 62 See n.47 supra . C. Persons Concept Two: Regulation should be limited to those persons who have a readily identifiable incentive to manipulate the market during an offering. Rule 10b&hyph;6 applies to the following persons: (1) Issuers and selling shareholders; (2) Underwriters and prospective underwriters; (3) Brokers, dealers, and other persons that have agreed to participate or are participating in the distribution; and (4) ``Affiliated purchasers'' of the foregoing. 63 In addition, the prohibitions of the rule have been considered applicable to any other person who has a material financial interest in the success of the distribution which would provide that person with an incentive to condition the market to facilitate the distribution. 64 Except for the duration of the distribution period in Paragraph (c)(3), the rule applies equally to each category of distribution participant; yet the incentives of each to facilitate a distribution may differ substantially, reflecting very different risk and reward profiles. Moreover, those incentives may vary at different times in the distribution process. 63 See Paragraphs (a), (c)(6). 64 This would include persons whose right to receive substantial compensation is contingent upon the success of the distribution. 1985 Release, 50 FR at 42719 n.30. In best efforts offerings and prior to the pricing of a firm commitment offering, issuers and selling shareholders have a clear incentive to manipulate the price of the securities to be distributed. A very small change in the market price of a security, which in some circumstances may be accomplished at relatively little expense, can result in a substantial increase in offering proceeds, particularly when a large number of shares are to be sold. A firm commitment underwriting typically involves a group of underwriters, represented by one or more managing underwriters, an underwriting group, and a number of ``selling group'' members. The financial risk of failure and the concomitant incentive to manipulate largely shifts to the underwriters once the underwriting agreement with the issuer is signed. 65 Within the underwriting group, the incentives may vary in proportion to the amount of the underwriting commitment and the particular role of the underwriter in the offering. For example, a managing underwriter may have a larger reputational stake in the success of an offering and an ongoing business relationship with the issuer that may align its interests more closely with the issuer as compared with other members of the underwriting syndicate. Selling group members participate in the sale of the offered security, but do not assume any underwriting risk. Selling group members pay for only the amount of securities necessary to satisfy orders obtained from customers; their risk is limited to the extent that their customers renege. 65 The contractual commitment typically is executed shortly (usually less than one day) before the commencement of sales of the securities. The commitment also typically is subject to ``market out'' clauses that permit the underwriters to avoid the risk of proceeding with the underwriting in the event of certain specified contingencies. Cf. Walk-In Medical Centers, Inc. v. Breuer Capital Corp., 818 F.2d 260 (2d Cir. 1987).
