FR940203-2-00107 FR940203-2-00068 Thursday February 3, 1994 Part V Department of Education Department of Labor Cooperative Demonstration_School-to-Work Opportunities State Implementation Grants Program; Notices Federal Register ␣/␣Vol. 59, No. 23␣/␣Thursday, February 3, 1994␣/␣Notices DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION DEPARTMENT OF LABOR Cooperative Demonstration_School-to-Work Opportunities State Implementation Grants Program AGENCIES: Department of Education and Department of Labor. ACTION: Notice of final priority, selection criteria, and other requirements for Fiscal Year 1994. SUMMARY: The Secretaries of Education and Labor announce an absolute priority for awards to be made in fiscal year 1994 to enable States to implement plans for statewide School-to-Work Opportunities systems. These systems would offer young Americans access to programs designed to prepare them for a first job in high-skill, high-wage careers, and to increase their opportunities for further education. The Secretaries also announce selection criteria that will be applied in evaluating applications submitted for this competition. EFFECTIVE DATE: The provisions in this notice take effect either 45 days after publication in the Federal Register or later if the Congress takes certain adjournments. If you want to know the effective date of these provisions, call or write the Department of Education contact person. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Marian Banfield, U.S. Department of Education. Telephone: (202) 205&hyph;8838. Or Janet Moore, U.S. Department of Labor. Telephone (202) 219&hyph;5281. Individuals who use a telecommunications device for the deaf (TDD) may call the Federal Information Relay Service (FIRS) at 1&hyph;800&hyph;877&hyph;8339 between 8 a.m. and 8 p.m., Eastern time, Monday through Friday. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background The Departments of Education and Labor have entered into a partnership to establish a national framework within which all States can create statewide School-to-Work Opportunities systems. These systems will help our youth acquire the knowledge, skills, abilities, and labor market information they need to make a smooth and effective transition from school to career-oriented work or to further education or training. Currently, three-fourths of America's high school students enter the workforce without baccalaureate degrees. Many of them do not possess the basic academic and entry-level occupational skills necessary to succeed in the changing workplace. Unemployment among American youth is intolerably high, and earnings of high school graduates have been falling relative to those with more education. In addition, the American workplace is changing in response to heightened international competition and new technologies, and these forces, which are ultimately beneficial to the Nation, are shrinking the demand for and undermining the earning power of unskilled labor. The School-to-Work Opportunities initiative is the result of a broad-based and growing interest in creating school-to-work transition systems in which young Americans choose and navigate paths to productive and progressively more rewarding roles in the workplace.
