FR940902-0-00107 FR940902-0-00010 (b) JTPA funds may be used for normal employer outreach and job development activities including, but not limited to: contacts with potential employers for the purpose of placement of JTPA participants; participation in business associations (such as chambers of commerce); JTPA staff participation on economic development boards and commissions, and work with economic development agencies, to provide information about JTPA and to assist in making informed decisions about community job training needs; subscriptions to relevant publications; general dissemination of information on JTPA programs and activities; labor market surveys; and development of on-the-job training (OJT) opportunities, as defined in §627.240; and other allowable JTPA activities in the private sector. §627.230 Displacement. (a) No currently employed worker shall be displaced by any participant (including partial displacement such as a reduction in the hours of nonovertime work, wages, or employment benefits). (b) No participant shall be employed or job opening filled: (1) When any other individual is on layoff from the same or any substantially equivalent job, or (2) When the employer has terminated any regular employee without cause or otherwise reduced its workforce with the intention of filling the vacancy so created by hiring a participant whose wages are subsidized under the Act. (c) Violations and sanctions. The Department will promptly review and take appropriate action with regard to alleged violations of the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section. Procedures for the investigation and resolution of violations are provided for under subpart F of this part. Sanctions and remedies are provided for under subpart G of this part. §627.235 General program requirements. (a) The requirements set forth in sections 141, 142 and 143 of the Act apply to all programs under titles I, II, and III of the Act, except as provided elsewhere in the Act. (b) Recipients shall ensure that an individual enrolled in a JTPA program meets the requirements of section 167(a)(5) of the Act, Section 3 of the Military Selective Service Act (50 U.S.C. App. 453) and other requirements applicable to programs funded under the specific section or title of the Act under which the participant is enrolling (section 604). (c) Recipients shall ensure that individuals are enrolled within 45 days of the date of eligibility determination or a new eligibility determination (including new application, if necessary) shall be made, except that eligible summer program applicants under title II-B may be enrolled within 45 days into a summer youth enrollee pool, and no subsequent eligibility determination need be made prior to participation during the period of that summer program. In addition, the 45-day enrollment requirement shall not apply for individuals who have a valid certificate of continuing eligibility under the title III program, as described in §631.3 and §631.53 of this chapter. (d) Programs operated under titles I, II, and III of the Act are not subject to the provisions of 29 CFR part 97, ``Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and Cooperative Agreements to State and Local Governments,'' except as otherwise explicitly provided in this chapter. (e) If a recipient or SDA imposes a requirement that is in addition to the provisions of the Act and these regulations relating to the administration and operation of programs funded by the Act, the recipient or SDA shall identify the requirement as a State- or SDA-imposed requirement (section 124). §627.240 On-the-job training. (a) General_(1) On-the-job training (OJT) means training by an employer in the private or public sector given to a participant who, after objective assessment, and in accordance with the ISS, has been referred to and hired by the employer following the development of an agreement with the employer to provide occupational training in exchange for reimbursement of the employer's extraordinary costs. On-the-job training occurs while the participant is engaged in productive work which provides knowledge and skills essential to the full and adequate performance of the job. (2) This does not preclude a participant who has been trained by one employer from ultimately being placed in a comparable training-related position with another employer. (3) On-the-job training may be sequenced with or accompanied by other types of training such as classroom training or literacy training. (b) Duration of OJT. _(1) OJT authorized for a participant shall be limited to a period not in excess of that required for the participant to acquire the skills needed for the OJT position. Except as described in paragraph (b) (3) of this section, the period of reimbursement to the employer under an OJT agreement shall not exceed 6 months of training. (2) The 6-month duration of OJT may be expressed as a number of hours, days, or weeks the participant is expected to work in a 6-month period if the participant works full-time. (3) In the event that a participant's regular employment is less than full-time and less than 500 hours of OJT has occurred by the end of 6 months, that participant may remain in OJT until 499 hours OJT hours have occurred. (4)(i) Recipients shall develop policies and procedures for determining the average training duration for occupations including to reflect an individual participant's need for additional training time, or reduction in training time to reflect the individual participant's partial acquisition of needed skills. (In no case should an individual who is fully skilled in an occupation be placed in OJT in that occupation.) (ii) In determining the average training time, consideration should be given to recognized reference materials, such as the ``Dictionary of Occupational Titles'' (DOT) and employer training plans. Such materials need not be limited to the DOT, however. (5) On-the-job training is encouraged, but not required, in all occupations with significant training content, particularly in higher-skill occupations appropriate to the participant's needs. Training plans may be developed that recognize the full duration of the OJT period necessary for the full and adequate performance of the job, but the period of reimbursement may not exceed the duration in paragraph (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section. (6) When the OJT period in a given occupation for a participant for whom the ISS identifies OJT as appropriate varies from the average for that occupation, the basis for the variation shall be recorded in the ISS.
