FR940727-2-00121 FR940727-2-00069 7a. Business Authorities Provider must be legally permitted to conduct its services in whatever area it is applying to serve. Such legal authority may be evidenced by, but is not limited to, occupations permits, federal or state registration, or any other legal requirements. 8a. Confirmation Provider shall submit the company names, addresses, and authorized phone contacts of not less than three (3) references which can support the Approved Examination Servicer (AES) application by offering opinions relating to present or past services rendered. The services must generally equate to those for which the applicant seeks AES status. Providers Who Will Perform Monitoring & Control Services 1b. Experience Provider must demonstrate that it has successfully been in business continuously as an individual, partnership, or corporation for not less than three (3) years. The experience must substantially consist of examining, auditing, analyzing or reviewing documents supporting, and physical quantification of, accounts receivable, inventory or their equivalents. Experience is limited to providers which can further demonstrate experience in obtaining actual or contingent dominion over collateral assets including: bank lock boxes, postal block boxes, segregation of inventories and raw materials utilizing elements of, or actual use of legal bailment in connection with asset based lending. Further, applicant should also demonstrate experience in supervising movement of accounts receivable and inventory in and out of the borrowing base, independent of the borrower or its physical location. 2b. Competence Provider must be capable of submitting a description or outline of services offered, methodology in delivering and documentation supporting, together with at least two (2) examples of past engagements performed in the last two (2) years. An Approved Monitoring & Control Servicer (AMCS) Contractor must offer examples covering: 1.) Examinations; 2.) Information Monitoring with Examinations and 3.) Collateral Control Services performed. This includes administration of lock boxes, postal block boxes, bailment, or its elements and continuous monitoring of collateral assets, independent of borrower or its physical location. 3b. Character Provider shall certify in writing to the lender that: •Since its inception, the Provider and its parent (if any), affiliated partnerships or venture partners, have not been convicted of a violation of any federal or state criminal laws. •It has not been engaged in litigation with the SBA or with any SBA participating lender in connection with SBA lending. It is in compliance with Internal Revenue Service (IRS) reporting reqirments and must not be subject to IRS enforcement procedures when it applied to become a Provider. 4b. Equal Opportunity Provider must certify that: •It has not discriminated, nor will it discriminate, in its hiring practices with respect to race, creed, age, gender, or national origin. •It is presently in compliance with all federal, state and local regulations governing employee safety and workman's compensation, as applicable. 5b. Financial Responsibility Provider must provide proof that it maintains at least $1,000,000 of unencumbered professional liability coverage from a reputable insurance carrier, or financially provided by an equivalent source. Coverage amount would insure each incident and on an aggregate annual basis. It must cover employees, agents and subcontractors for principal loss as a result of errors, omissions, or negligence in examining, monitoring and controlling collateral assets such as accounts receivable, inventory and their equivalents. Moreover, coverage should extend to the establishment of any aspect of baliment, in controllng borrower inventories. All coverage must extend to the geographic area the Provider is requesting to service. 6b. Coverage Provider must indicate whether it is applying for a specific state[s]. region[s], including an explanation of staffing and methods of quality control. 7b. Business Authorities Provider must be legally permitted to conduct its services in whatever area it is applying to serve. Such legal authority may be evidenced by, but is not limited to, occupational permits, federal or state registration, or any other legal requirements to conduct business. 8b. Confirmation Provider shall submit the company names, addresses, and authorized phone contracts of not less than three (3) references which can support the AMCS application by offering opinions relating to present or past services renderd. The services must generally equate to those for which the applicant seeks AMCS status. Dated: July 8, 1994. John R. Cox, Associate Administrator for Financial Assistance. [FR Doc. 18241 Filed 7&hyph;26&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8025&hyph;01&hyph;M
