FR940407-2-00095 FR940407-2-00050 1. Following a determination by the Secretary to accept a submission for review, the Office shall conduct such further examination of the submission as may be appropriate to assist the Office to better understand and publicly report on the issues raised. The Office shall keep the submitter apprised of the status of the review. 2. Except for information exempt from public inspection pursuant to Section E, information relevant to the review shall be placed in a public file. Information exempt from public inspection shall be placed in a separate file. 3. The Secretary shall hold promptly a hearing on the submission, unless the Secretary determines that a hearing would not be a suitable method for carrying out the Office's responsibilities under paragraph 1. 4. Notice of a hearing under paragraph 3 shall be published in the Federal Register 30 days in advance. The notice shall contain such information as the Secretary deems relevant, including information pertaining to requests to present oral testimony and written briefs. 5. The hearing shall be open to the public. All proceedings shall be conducted in English, with simultaneous translation provided as the Secretary deems necessary. 6. The hearing shall be conducted by the Secretary or the Secretary's designee, assisted by the Office staff and legal counsel, as appropriate. The public file shall be made part of the hearing record at the commencement of the hearing. 7. The Secretary of the National Administrative Office of another Party, or such Secretary's designee, may participate in the hearing. 8. Within 120 days of the acceptance of a submission for review, unless circumstances require an extension of time of up to 60 additional days, the Secretary shall issue a public report, which shall include a summary of the proceedings and any findings and recommendations. Section I. Recommendations to the Secretary of Labor._ 1. If, after consultations under Article 21 of the Agreement, the Secretary determines that the matter has not been resolved satisfactorily, the Secretary shall recommend that the Secretary of Labor request consultations at the ministerial level under Article 22 of the Agreement. 2. If, following ministerial consultations under Article 22 of the Agreement, the Secretary determines that the matter has not been resolved satisfactorily and is within the scope of Article 23 of the Agreement, the Secretary shall recommend that the Secretary of Labor request that an Evaluation Committee of Experts be established under Article 23. 3. If, following presentation of a final Evaluation Committee of Experts report under Article 26(1) of the Agreement, the Secretary determines that the matter has not been resolved satisfactorily, the Secretary shall provide recommendations to the Secretary of Labor regarding pursuit of dispute resolution under Part Five of the Agreement. Before making such recommendations, the Secretary shall consult with appropriate entities of the U.S. government. Section J. Periodic and Special Reports._ 1. The Office shall publish annually a list of submissions on labor law matters, including a summary of the disposition of the submissions. 2. The Office shall obtain the lists of public communications on labor law matters published by the National Administrative Offices of the other Parties under Article 16(3) of the Agreement and make such lists available at the Office's reading room. 3. The Office may publish special reports on any topic under its purview on its own initiative, or upon request from the Secretary of Labor, including reviews of the effectiveness of labor law enforcement in the territories of the other Parties. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;8297 Filed 4&hyph;6&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4510&hyph;28&hyph;M
