FR940805-1-00033 FR940805-1-00005 DELAWARE RIVER BASIN COMMISSION 18 CFR Part 420 Proposed Amendments to Comprehensive Plan and Basin Regulations_Water Supply Charges; Proposed Rule and Public Hearing AGENCY: Delaware River Basin Commission. ACTION: Proposed rule and public hearing. SUMMARY: Notice is hereby given that the Delaware River Basin Commission will hold a public hearing to receive comments on proposed amendments to its Comprehensive Plan and Basin Regulations_Water Supply Charges concerning the transfer of Certificates of Entitlement. Holders of Certificates of Entitlement are exempted from the payment of water charges until such Certificates are transferred. The amendments would 1) define ``transfer''; 2) delete two categories of exemptions from the existing general rule that terminates Certificates of Entitlement upon transfer and 3) revise a third such category. DATES: The public hearing will be held on October 26, 1994 at 3:00 p.m. Persons wishing to testify are requested to register with the Secretary in advance. ADDRESSES: The hearing will be held in the Goddard Conference Room of the Commission's offices at 25 State Police Drive, West Trenton, New Jersey. Written comments should be submitted to Susan M. Weisman, Delaware River Basin Commission, P. O. Box 7360, West Trenton, New Jersey 08628. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Susan M. Weisman, Commission Secretary, Telephone (609) 883&hyph;9500 ext. 203. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background The regulations of the Delaware River Basin Commission require, upon transfer, the termination of certificates of entitlement which permit the withdrawal of water from the basin without charge. The U.S. Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit has confirmed the Commission's power under its Compact to terminate certificates of entitlement when a transfer has occurred. The court also ruled that the Commission's interpretation of its existing regulation that limited the extent to which certain transfers were exempt from termination was not consistent with the specific wording of the regulations. Pursuant to the court ruling, the Commission proposes to amend its Basin Regulations_Water Supply Charges, so that transfer exceptions are consistent with existing Commission policy to terminate certificates of entitlement when a transfer of ownership and/or control of a water using facility occurs. The amendments inter alia define a transfer to include the sale of corporate stock. They also delete existing exceptions to the transfer rule for corporate merger transactions and certain transactions under the Internal Revenue Code. The subject of the hearing will be as follows: Amendments to the Comprehensive Plan and Basin Regulations_Water Supply Charges. List of Subjects in 18 CFR Part 420 Water supply policy. Part 420 is proposed to be amended as follows: PART 420_[AMENDED] 1. The Authority citation for Part 420 continues to read as follows: Authority: Pub. L. 87&hyph;328 [75 Stat.688]. 2. In section 420.31 paragraphs (d) and (f) are revised to read as follows:
