FR941207-0-00132 FR941207-0-00022 81. With respect to provisions benefitting non-majority or non-voting shareholders, we recognize that inclusion of such provisions in a common practice to induce investment and ensure that the basic interests of such shareholders are protected. For example, many corporations require a supermajority of shareholders to approve major corporate decisions such as taking on additional debt, significant corporate acquisitions, or issuance of new stock. Similarly, strategic investors making large passive equity contributions to a company frequently insist on a right of first refusal exercisable in the event that a third party seeks to purchase the company. We agree with petitioners that allowing such provisions enhances the ability of designated entities to raise needed capital from strategic investors, thereby bolstering their financial stability and competitive viability. We believe, however, that precedent provides guidance in determining the appropriate extent to which these safeguards may protect investment. We therefore clarify that under our case law non-majority or non-voting shareholders may be given a decision-making role (through supermajority provisions or similar mechanisms) in major corporate decisions that fundamentally affect their interests as shareholders without being deemed to be in de facto control. 45 Such decisions generally include: (1) Issuance or reclassification of stock; (2) setting compensation for senior management; (3) expenditures that significantly affect market capitalization; (4) incurring significant corporate debt or otherwise encumbering corporate assets; (5) sale of major corporate assets; and (6) fundamental changes in corporate structure, including merger or dissolution. 46 We also clarify that non-majority or non-voting investors may hold rights of first refusal, provided that right is exercisable only to prevent dilution of the investor's interest or a transfer of control by the control group to a third party. We also observe that we would not look favorably upon an assignment or transfer of a license that resulted from rights of first refusal being exercised if (1) the holder of such rights was a manager of the licensee, and (2) there was evidence the manager had not acted to maximize the profitability of the business in order to ensure that the options would be exercised at a lower price. 45 See. e.g., News International, 97 FCC 2d 349, 357&hyph;66, (1984) (describing minority shareholder voting and consent rights that serve to protect interest and do not constitute a transfer of control); Data Transmissions, 44 FCC 2d 935, 936&hyph;37 (1974) (same). 46 Our most recent decision on such voting and consent rights addressed an agreement between MCI Communications Corporation (MCI) and British Telecommunications plc (BT). In that Order, we evaluated whether particular voting and consent rights intended to protect BT's investment in MCI triggered a transfer of Control. See Declaratory Ruling and Order, 9 FCC Rcd (1994). We indicated that covenants that give a party the power to block certain major transactions of a company do not in and of themselves represent the type of transfer of corporate control envisioned by Section 310(d) of the Communications Act. We found it significant, however, that while BT could block certain major transactions by MCI, BT could not compel MCI to engage in such major transactions. Thus, we concluded that BT's power was permissibly limited to protecting its own investment in MCI. Id. 9 FCC Rcd at 3962. See Also McCaw Ceullar Communications, Inc., 4 FCC Rcd 3784 (Com. Car. Bur. 1989). 82. While we conclude that the provisions described above will generally not be considered to deprive an otherwise qualified control group of de facto control, some proposals made by petitioners and comments to benefit non-majority shareholders would violate this standard. For example, non-majority shareholders should not have the power to select or replace members of the control group or key employees of the corporation. Further, as discussed in the Second Report and Order in this docket, we do not intend to restrict the use of preferential dividends and liquidation preferences. We will scrutinize, however, any mechanisms that deprive the control group of the ability to realize a financial benefit proportional to its ownership of the applicant. Finally, we emphasize that any final determination of whether a control group has yielded de facto control to outside investors must depend on the circumstances of the particular case. For example, while certain provisions benefitting non-majority investors may not give rise to a transfer of control when considered individually, the aggregate effect of multiple provisions could be sufficient to deprive the control group of de facto control, particularly if the terms of such provisions vary from recognized standards. 47 To facilitate review of such provisions, we will amend the Form 401 (long-form) 48 to require winners of C and F block auctions to disclose any such convenants and terms that protect non-majority investors' rights in the licensee. 47 In assessing whether such provisions vary from recognized standards, the Commission may assess whether the provisions are accepted measures to protect financial interests of nonctrolling investors. See, e.g. Model Business Corporations Act and Uniform Limited Partnership Act. 48 FCC Form 600 will replace both Form 401 (used under Part 22 of the Commission's Rules) and Form 574 (used under Part 90 of the Commission's Rules). Third Report and Order in Gen. Docket No. 93&hyph;252, FCC 94&hyph;212 (released September 23, 1994) ¶ 286. Applicants must use Form 600 beginning January 2, 1995. Id. ¶¶ 298, 414. the Commission has received a Motion for Stay of the January 2, 1995 effective date, which is currently pending. National Association of Business and Educational Radio, Inc., Motion for Partial Stay of the Third Report and Order in Gen. Docket No. 93&hyph;252, filed November 4, 1994. Management Contracts 83. An issue of concern to many petitioners and commenters is whether designated entities may enter into management agreements with third parties without being deemed to have engaged in an unauthorized transfer of control. Although we did not expressly address this issue in the Fifth Report and Order, we have traditionally scrutinized common carrier management agreements for this purpose under the Intermountain Microwave test, 49 and we recently extended the use of this test to all CMRS providers in our Fourth Report and Oder in Gen. Docket 93&hyph;252. 50 Under this test, a licensee may enter into a management agreement with a third party provided that the licensee retains exclusive responsibility for operation and control of the licensed facilities, as determined by the following six factors: (1) Unfettered use of licensed facilities and equipment; (2) day-to-day operation and control; (3) determination of and carrying out of policy decisions; (4) employment, supervision, and dismissal of personnel; (5) payment of financial obligations; and (6) receipt of profits from operation of the licensed facilities. 49 See Intermountain Microwave, Inc., 24 Rad. Reg. (P&B) 983 (1963) Intermountain Microwave ). See also Memorandum Opinion and Order in CC Docket No. 90&hyph;257 ( La Star Cellular Telphone Company ), FCC 94&hyph;299 (adopted Nov. 18, 1994; released XX ) (on remand from the D.C. Circuit). 50 Fourth Report and Order, Gen. Docket No. 93&hyph;252, FCC 94&hyph;270 (released Nov. 18, 1994), ¶ 20. In this order, we also concluded that management contracts could be considered ``attributable interests'' for purposes of the PCS/cellular/SMR spectrum cap even if they did not confer control under the Intermountain Microwave standard. This conclusion applies only for spectrum cap purposes, however, and does not affect underlying analysis of when a mangement affect our undering analysis when a management contract gives rise to an unauthorized transfer of control. Id. at ¶ 25.
