FR940112-2-00042 FR940112-2-00032 D. Authorities to Construct must include appropriate provisions, as specified in Attachment A, to ensure permit enforceability. Permit conditions shall, at a minimum, contain reporting requirements on initiation of construction, startup, and where applicable, source testing and continuous emissions monitoring systems (CEMS). In all cases where tests are required, the tests methods shall be specified. All cases where CEMS are required, appropriate testing and reporting requirements shall be included. Upset/breakdown and malfunction conditions shall be included in all permits. E. U.S. EPA will assist MC in the BACT determination for all PSD permit applications filed with MC, such that U.S. EPA and MC jointly concur on each BACT determination. The signatures of U.S. EPA and MC on the final permit shall constitute concurrence on the BACT determinations F. All modeling analyses for determination of increment consumption and compliance with the NAAQS will require the joint concurrence of U.S. EPA and MC. The signatures of U.S. EPA and MC on the final permit shall constitute concurrence on the modeling analyses. G. Separate from conditions E and F and for a given time as specified in this subpart, U.S. EPA and MC shall jointly concur on the entire analysis and permit conditions for each PSD permit issued. This requirement for dual concurrence shall be waived beginning with the first application submitted and deemed complete two (2) years after the date of this agreement, or after U.S. EPA concurs with MC on ten (10) final permits issued pursuant to this delegation agreement, whichever occurs later. In any event, U.S. EPA shall provide written notice to MC when the requirement for dual concurrence no longer applies. H. MC shall conduct an annual review of the NO 2 increment status for each Section 107 area designated as attainment over which it has jurisdiction and shall prepare a summary report of the review. Such review shall be made in accordance with current U.S. EPA guidance as provided to MC. Emissions from the following sources consume NO 2 increment: (1) any new major stationary source or modification of a major stationary source on which construction begins after February 8, 1988; and (2) minor, area, and mobile sources, after the minor source baseline date, as it is defined by 40 CFR 52.21. The initial review of the NO 2 increment status shall address the consumption of NO 2 increment between February 8, 1988, and the effective date of this agreement. I. MC shall conduct an annual review, similar to the one in preceeding subpart H, on the status of the PM 10 increment. For that part of Maricopa County designated nonattainment for TSP, the requirement for tracking PM 10 increment consumption becomes effective on the date of receipt of the first major source application deemed complete after the June 3, 1994, implementation date for PM 10 increments. For all other areas within Maricopa County, the minor source baseline date established for TSP remains in effect, but PM 10 increments replace TSP increments as the particulate matter indicator. J. U.S. EPA shall retain the responsibility of issuing the PSD permit for Palo Verde Steel, but enforcement of the final permit terms and conditions on the source shall be under local authority. V. Permit Enforcement A. The primary responsibility for enforcement of the PSD regulations as found in 40 CFR part 52 in Maricopa County will rest with MC, except where responsibility is vested in the State of Arizona. Pursuant to A.R.S. 49&hyph;402, the State of Arizona has original jurisdiction over the following sources in Maricopa County: 1. Smelting of metal ore. 2. Petroleum refineries. 3. Coal fired electrical generating stations. 4. Portland cement plants. 5. Air pollution generated by portable sources unless delegated to MC. 6. Air pollution by mobile sources for the purpose of regulating those sources as prescribed by A.R.S. Title 49, Chapter 3, Articles 4 & 5. MC will enforce the provisions that pertain to the PSD program, except in those cases where the rules or policy of MC are more stringent. In such cases, MC may elect to implement the more stringent requirements. B. Nothing in this delegation agreement shall prohibit EPA from enforcing the PSD provisions of the Clean Air Act, the PSD regulations or any PSD permit issued by MC pursuant to this Agreement. C. In the event that MC is unwilling or unable to enforce a provision of this delegation with respect to a source subject to the PSD regulations, MC will immediately notify the Regional Administrator. Failure to notify the Regional Administrator does not preclude U.S. EPA from exercising its enforcement authority. Dated: November 9, 1993. James D. Bruner, Chairman, Maricopa County Board of Supervisors. Dated: November 22, 1993. John Wise, Acting for Felicia A. Marcus, Regional Administrator, U.S. EPA Region IX.
