FR941012-0-00027 FR941012-0-00006 Based upon the comments received, the scope of the regulation may be changed. Drafting Information The principal persons involved in drafting this document are Lieutenant Cam Lewis, Project Officer for the Patrol Commander, and Lieutenant Robin Barber, Project Attorney, Eleventh Coast Guard District Legal Office. Discussion of Regulation The event prompting a need for these Special Local Regulations is the International America's Cup Class World Championships which will be conducted within San Diego Bay in October and November 1994. In addition, ocean races will be conducted in the Pacific Ocean offshore of San Diego in October and November 1994; special local regulations establishing measures promoting the safety of these ocean races is the subject of separate rulemaking (CGD11&hyph;94&hyph;004). / These regulations are intended to promote safe navigation on the waters of San Diego Bay during the exhibition races by controlling the traffic entering, exiting and traveling within these waters. The anticipated concentration of spectator and participant vessels associated with these races poses a safety concern, which is addressed in these special local regulations. During the regulatory period prescribed in these regulations, specified portions of San Diego Bay will be closed to all vessel traffic except vessels designated by the U.S. Coast Guard Patrol Commander. A designated channel, adjacent to the dredged main ship channel, bounded by the shoreline of North Island and passing through the Security Zone defined in 33 CFR 165.1105 adjacent to naval piers J through P on the western shore of North Island will be available for non-participating vessels to enter, exit and travel within San Diego Bay during the regulatory period. Those vessels wishing to use this channel to enter or exit San Diego Bay must obtain permission to proceed from the Patrol Commander at least 30 minutes prior to the expected transit. Speed limits and operating requirements are also established for other vessel traffic operating within the regulated areas during the exhibition races and when most IACC and spectator vessels are expected to transit the harbors. During these times, spectator vessels shall not operate exclusively under sail within the regulated areas. These operating requirements are applicable to all vessels operating within San Diego Bay preceding, during and following the IACC boat races, unless otherwise specified. All vessels which fail to comply with this regulation while operating within the regulated areas during the regulatory periods are subject to citation for failure to comply with this regulation, and subject to the penalties presented in 33 U.S.C. 1236 and 33 CFR 100.50. Regulatory Evaluation This regulation is not a significant regulatory action under Section 3(f) of Executive Order 12866 and does not require an assessment of potential costs and benefits under Section 6(a)(3) of that Order. It has been exempted from review by the Office of Management and Budget under that Order. It is not significant under the regulatory policies and procedures of the Department of Transportation (DOT) (44 FR 11040; February 26, 1979). The Coast Guard expects the economic impact of this regulation to be so minimal that a full Regulatory Evaluation under paragraph 10(e) of the Department of Transportation regulatory policies and procedures is unnecessary. Collection of Information This regulation contains no collection of information requirements under the Paperwork Reduction Act (44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq. ). Federalism The Coast Guard has analyzed this regulation in accordance with the principles and criteria contained in Executive Order 12612 and has determined that this regulation does not have sufficient federalism implications to warrant the preparation of a Federalism Assessment. Environmental Assessment The environmental impact of this regulation has been analyzed in the Environmental Assessment (EA) prepared by America's Cup 1995, the organizing committee of the races, in connection with its application for a Coast Guard regatta permit. A copy of the EA has been made a part of the public docket and is available for review at the Eleventh Coast Guard District Offices at the address listed under ADDRESSES . The Coast Guard has reviewed the EA submitted by the sponsors of the event, considered the environmental impact of this regulation and concluded that, under section 2.B.2 of Commandant Instruction M16475.1B, it will have no significant environmental impact and it is categorically excluded from further environmental documentation. A Finding of No Significant Impact (FONSI) has been prepared in connection with the regatta permit, has been made part of the public docket, and is available for review at the address listed under ADDRESSES .
