FR940727-0-00124 FR940727-0-00026 (i) The terms and conditions of award prohibit the extension. (ii) The extension requires additional Federal funds. (iii) The extension involves any change in the approved objectives or scope of the project. (3) Carry forward unobligated balances to subsequent funding periods. (4) For awards that support research, unless the grant officer provides otherwise in the award or in DOL's regulations, the prior written approval requirements described in paragraph (e) are automatically waived (i.e., recipients need not obtain such prior written approvals) unless one of the conditions included in paragraph (e)(2) applies. (f) DOL may, at its option, restrict the transfer of funds among direct cost categories or programs, functions and activities for awards in which the Federal share of the project exceeds $100,000 and the cumulative amount of such transfers exceeds or is expected to exceed 10 percent of the total budget as last approved by DOL. DOL shall not permit a transfer that would cause any Federal appropriation or part thereof to be used for purposes other than those consistent with the original intent of the appropriation. (g) All other changes to nonconstruction budgets, except for the changes described in paragraph (j), do not require prior approval. (h) For construction awards, recipients shall request prior written approval promptly from the grant officer for budget revisions whenever paragraphs (h)(1), (h)(2) or (h)(3) of this section apply. (1) The revision results from changes in the scope or the objective of the project or program. (2) The need arises for additional Federal funds to complete the project. (3) A revision is desired which involves specific costs for which prior written approval requirements may be imposed consistent with applicable OMB cost principles listed in ยง95.27. (i) No other prior approval requirements for specific items may be imposed unless a deviation has been approved by OMB. (j) When DOL makes an award that provides support for both construction and nonconstruction work, DOL may require the recipient to request prior written approval before making any fund or budget transfers between the two types of work supported. (k) For both construction and nonconstruction awards, recipients shall notify the grant officer in writing promptly whenever the amount of Federal authorized funds is expected to exceed the needs of the recipient for the project period by more than $5,000 or five percent of the award, whichever is greater. This notification shall not be required if an application for additional funding is submitted for a continuation award. (l) When requesting written approval for budget revisions, recipients shall use the budget forms that were used in the application. (m) Within 30 calendar days from the date of receipt of the request for budget revisions, the grant officer shall review the request and notify the recipient whether the budget revisions have been approved. If the revision is still under consideration at the end of 30 calendar days, the grant officer shall inform the recipient in writing of the date when the recipient may expect the decision. ยง95.26 Non-Federal audits. (a) Recipients and subrecipients that are institutions of higher education or other non-profit organizations shall be subject to the audit requirements contained in OMB Circular A&hyph;133, ``Audits of Institutions of Higher Education and Other Non-Profit Institutions'' and applicable provisions of DOL regulations at 29 CFR part 96. (b) Recipients and subrecipients that are State and local governments shall be subject to the audit requirements contained in the Single Audit Act (31 U.S.C. 7501&hyph;7) and DOL's regulations implementing OMB Circular A&hyph;128, ``Audits of State and Local Governments'' and applicable provisions of DOL regulations at 29 CFR part 96.
