FR940527-2-00221 FR940527-2-00152 C. The Application An application for the Small Cities Program CDBG Grants is made by the submission of: (1) a completed HUD Form 4124, including HUD Forms 4124.1 through 4124.6 and all appropriate supporting material; (2) a completed Standard Form 424; (3) a signed copy of certifications required under the CDBG Program, including, but not limited to the Drug-Free Workplace Certification, and the Certification Regarding Lobbying pursuant to section 319 of the Department of Interior Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 1990 (31 U.S.C. 1352), generally prohibiting use of appropriated funds, and, if applicable, Disclosure of Lobbying Activities (SF&hyph;LLL); (4) Form HUD&hyph;2880, Applicant/Recipient Disclosure/Update Report, as required under subpart C of 24 CFR part 12, Accountability in the Provision of HUD Assistance; and if applicable, (5) CHAS or ``abbreviated strategy''. D. Funding Award Process In accordance with section 102 of the Reform Act and HUD's regulation at 24 CFR 12.16, HUD will notify the public by notice published in the Federal Register of all award decisions made by HUD under this competition. In accordance with the requirements of section 102 of the Reform Act and HUD's regulations at 24 CFR part 12, HUD also will ensure that documentation and other information regarding each application submitted under this notice of funding availability is sufficient to indicate the basis upon which assistance was provided or denied. Additionally, in accordance with ยง12.14(b) of these regulations, HUD will make this material available for public inspection for a period of five years, beginning not less than 30 calendar days after the date on which assistance is provided. III. Technical Assistance Prior to the application deadline, the Buffalo and New York offices will provide technical assistance on request to individual applicants, including explaining and responding to questions regarding program regulations, and defining terms in the application package. In addition, HUD will conduct informational meetings around the State to discuss the Small Cities Program, and will conduct application workshops in conjunction with these meetings. Please contact either the New York or Buffalo Office for further information regarding these meetings. Application kits will be available at these meetings, as well as from the HUD offices previously identified in Section II of this NOFA, and will also be available at the informational meetings. In order to ensure that the application deadline is met, it is strongly suggested that applicants begin preparing their applications immediately and not wait for the informational meetings. In order to be considered for funding, complete applications (an original and two photocopies of the entire application) must be physically received by the appropriate HUD office on July 26, 1994, by 4 p.m. or, if mailed, postmarked no later than midnight, July 26, 1994. Applications must be delivered or mailed to the appropriate HUD office at the address indicated in Section II. IV. Checklist of Application Submission Requirements The following checklist is intended to aid applicants in determining whether their application is complete: Application Completeness Checklist Applicant: Comprehensive Grant XXXX Single Purpose Grant XXX Amount Requested $ XXXXXX 1. Is amount of funds requested within established maximum? 2. Part I_Needs Description (HUD Form 4124.1) (a) Single Purpose Grants i_Program Area XXXX Housing XXXX Target Area XXXX Non-target Area XXXX Public Facilities XXXX Economic Development (If an ``appropriate'' analysis is required but is not included, the application cannot be rated.) ii_Is description of community development needs included in application? (b) Comprehensive Grants i_Have four design criteria been selected and discussed in application? ii_Is description of community development needs included in application? 3. Part II_Community Development Activities (HUD Form 4124.2) (a) Has national objective been identified for each activity? (b) Will 70 percent of grant funds primarily benefit low- and moderate-income persons? (If not, the application cannot be rated.) 4. Part III_Impact Description (HUD Form 4124.3) 5. Part IV_Outstanding Performance (HUD Form 4124.4) 6. Part V_Program Schedule (HUD Form 4124.5)
