FR940428-2-00014 FR940428-2-00010 Corps of Engineers Availability for Exclusive, Partially Exclusive or Nonexclusive Licensing of U.S. Patents Concerning the Control of the Hardening of Cements and Binders AGENCY: U.S. Army Engineer Waterways Experiment Station, DOD. ACTION: Notice of availability for licensing. SUMMARY: In accordance with 37 CFR 404.7(a)(1)(i), announcement is made of the availability of U.S. Patents 5,252,266 and 5,268,032 for licensing. These patents have been assigned to the United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army, Washington, DC. ADDRESSES: United States Army Corps of Engineers, Waterways Experiment Station, Attn: CEWES&hyph;CT&hyph;C, Vicksburg, MS 39180&hyph;6199. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Ms. Ruth C. Little, (601)&hyph;634&hyph;2420. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The patents cover techniques for controlling the hardening or setting reactions of binders or cements of the type which require specific alkaline or acidic condition to initiate the reactions. The techniques described involve mixing an alkali- or acid-reactive cement with an electrolyte to form a paste. An electric current is passed through the paste to decompose the electrolyte and generate an activating agent. The techniques described allow the paste to be handled and placed prior to the beginning of the setting reaction thereby avoiding the problems caused by short setting times that can result in serious flaws in the finished product and/or damaging or clogging of the mixing equipment. Further, because the activating agent is first generated at the electrode surface, the techniques are useful in casting hollow products from the cements and binders mentioned because there is no need to rotate the mold. The mold can be fabricated with one electrode in the center and the second electrode forming the outside of the mold. The acid or alkaline activator can be generated on the outside edge of the paste. The paste in the center of the mold remains soft and can be removed. Using this technique there is no need to rotate the mold to hold the paste out against the mold. The approach described can be used with starting materials such as ground granulated blast-furnace slag and a sodium chloride solution. Under the authority of section 11(a)(2) of the Federal Technology Transfer Act of 1986 (Pub. L. 99&hyph;502) and section 207 of Title 35, United States Code, the Department of the Army, Corps of Engineers, Waterways Experiment Station wishes to license the above United States Patents in an exclusive, partially exclusive or nonexclusive manner to any party interested in using the technology described in the above mentioned patents. Each interested party is requested to submit a proposal for an exclusive, partially exclusive or nonexclusive license. The proposals for using this technology will be evaluated using the following criteria: royalty, technical capability, size of business, and development plan. Kenneth L. Denton, Army Federal Register Liaison Officer. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;10187 Filed 4&hyph;26&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3710&hyph;08&hyph;M
