FR940706-0-00010 FR940706-0-00001 Section 283.15: Procedure for Hearing This section of the NPRM contains the procedures related to the scheduling and conducting of hearings before the ALJ. Comment: The Department received one comment concerning the organization of this section. The commenter suggested that since §§283.12(b)(6) (Inclusion in the record) and (9) (Exchange of witness and rebuttal witness lists, statements and exhibits) relate to the hearing procedures, these two subsections should be moved to §283.15. Response: The Department has considered this comment and has adopted this suggestion. The Department has made the following changes from the NPRM: §283.12(b)(9) has been moved and renumbered as §283.15(d) and §283.15(b)(6) has been moved and renumbered as §283.15(i). The remaining sections of 283.15 have been renumbered, as necessary. Time and Place: In §283.15(b) of the NPRM, the Department proposed that the ALJ shall schedule a hearing upon receipt of a motion by any party setting forth the issue and stating that the matter is ready for a hearing. Comment: The Department received one comment on this provision. The commenter indicated that this provision could be interpreted as allowing the ALJ to deny a party's request for a hearing. The commenter suggested that this section be revised to clarify that this section pertains only to the scheduling of a hearing. The commenter also noted that this section suggests that a hearing is permitted only if material facts are disputed and suggested that this section should be revised to permit the ALJ to hear oral arguments on legal issues even if there are no material facts in dispute. Response: Section 13951(c)(4) of the Leland Act requires that the ALJ decide the appeal within 60 days after receipt of rebuttal evidence by the State agency, or, if no rebuttal evidence is submitted, within 90 days after the State submits the notice of appeal and evidence in support of the appeal. Given these statutory deadlines, the ALJ shall establish at the prehearing conference the dates by which the parties must complete prehearing activities. The parties would, following completion of such activities, file a motion stating that they are ready for hearing. The Leland Act authorizes the ALJ to extend certain statutory deadlines for cause shown. The Department anticipates that the ALJ may extend procedural deadlines for cause shown to accommodate the completion of prehearing and posthearing activities as is shown to be necessary. As previously discussed, §283.22(f) of the final rule requires the parties to file a written request for an extension prior to the due date with a showing of cause for the extension requested. The Department has considered the comment concerning the motion for a hearing and has determined that a revision to this provision is unnecessary, other than to eliminate the requirement to set forth the issues within the motion. The Department believes that the issues will be adequately framed by the prehearing procedures. Upon filing for a motion for hearing, an oral hearing will be scheduled within the statutory time frames provided by the Leland Act, unless an extension has been requested and granted by the ALJ or the ALJ has extended the time frames sua sponte. The Department has considered the comment concerning the ALJ conducting an oral hearing on the legal issues when there are no material facts in dispute. The Department has not adopted this suggestion. The Department wishes to clarify that the purpose of the oral hearing is to present the facts which are in dispute. If it is determined or agreed at prehearing or otherwise that there are no material facts in dispute, then the appropriate course of action would be to pursue resolution of the remaining legal issues utilizing the procedures established under subpart C_Summary Procedure for Appeals of QC Claims of Less than $50,000. These legal issues should be the basis for cross motions for summary judgment. In view of the comment received, the Department has revised §283.31(d) to allow the ALJ to request oral argument, if necessary, in those instances when a stipulation of all material facts has been entered by the parties to the appeal. Time and Place: In §283.15(b) of the NPRM, the Department proposed that the hearing before the ALJ shall be held at the Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC. Comment: The Department received two comments on this provision. Both commenters objected to the hearings being held exclusively in Washington, DC and suggested that the ALJ should determine the location of the hearing taking into account the convenience of the parties and their witnesses. Response: The Department has considered this comment and has revised §283.15(b) to permit the ALJ to hold the hearing at a location more convenient to the parties and their witnesses upon a showing of unusual or extraordinary circumstances. The Department has determined that budgetary constraints will not be considered an unusual or extraordinary circumstance since these costs are eligible for reimbursement, in part, in accordance with part 277 of the Food Stamp Program regulations. The Department believes that requiring a showing of unusual or extraordinary circumstances takes into consideration such burdens of the parties while also preserving the efficiency of the appeals process.
