FR940810-1-00024 FR940810-1-00006 The Secretary proposes to amend Parts 350, 351, 352, and 353 of Title 34 of the Code of Federal Regulations as follows: PART 350_DISABILITY AND REHABILITATION RESEARCH: GENERAL PROVISIONS 1. The authority citation for Part 350 continues to read as follows: Authority: 29 U.S.C. 760&hyph;762, unless otherwise noted. 2. Section 350.1 is amended by revising the heading and paragraphs (a) and (b)(3) to read as follows: ยง350.1 What are the purposes of activities supported under the disability and rehabilitation research program? (a) The activities funded by the Institute_ (1) Support the conduct of research, demonstration projects, training, and related activities to maximize the full inclusion and integration into society, employment, independent living, family support, and economic and social self-sufficiency of individuals with disabilities of all ages, with particular emphasis on improving the effectiveness of services authorized under the Act; (2) Provide for a comprehensive and coordinated approach to the support and conduct of research, demonstration projects, training, and related activities, and to ensure that the approach is in accordance with the long-range plan for research developed by the Institute; (3) Promote the transfer of rehabilitation technology to individuals with disabilities through research and demonstration projects relating to_ (i) The procurement process for the purchase of rehabilitation technology; (ii) The utilization of rehabilitation technology on a national basis; and (iii) Specific adaptations or customizations of products to enable individuals with disabilities to live more independently; (4) Ensure the widespread distribution to rehabilitation professionals, individuals with disabilities, and other interested parties, in usable formats, of practical scientific and technological information that is generated by research, demonstration projects, training and related activities; (5) Ensure the widespread dissemination to rehabilitation professionals, individuals with disabilities, and other interested parties, in usable formats, of new knowledge about disabilities, including state-of-the-art practices and improvements in the services authorized under the Act; (6) Identify effective strategies that enhance the opportunities for individuals with disabilities to engage in productive work; and (7) Increase the opportunities for researchers who are individuals with disabilities or members of minority groups or other traditionally underserved populations. * * * * * (b) * * * (3) Research grants for the establishment and operation of rehabilitation engineering research centers (34 CFR Part 353). * * * * * 3. Section 350.2 is amended by revising the undesignated introductory text to read as follows: ยง350.2 Who is eligible for assistance under these programs? The following agencies and organizations are eligible for grants or contracts as appropriate under these programs, except for programs described in 34 CFR parts 352, 353, 356, and 360: * * * * * 4. Section 350.3 is amended by revising the last two sentences of paragraph (d)(2) read as follows: ยง350.3 What regulations apply to these programs? * * * * * (d) * * * (2) * * * When an IRB reviews research that purposefully requires inclusion of children with disabilities or individuals with mental disabilities as research subjects, the IRB must include at least one person primarily concerned with the welfare of these research subjects. If an IRB regularly reviews another vulnerable category of subjects, such as children who do not have disabilities, prisoners, pregnant women, or adults with disabilities, consideration must also be given to the inclusion of one or more individuals who are knowledgeable about the experience in working with these subjects.
