FR941019-2-00182 FR941019-2-00096 [Release No. 34&hyph;34835; File No. SR&hyph;MSTC&hyph;94&hyph;12] Self-Regulatory Organizations; Midwest Securities Trust Company; Notice of Filing of Proposed Rule Change Relating to Entering Into Contracts With Participants To Provide Custodial, Transactional and Related Processing Services on Behalf of Participants October 13, 1994. Pursuant to Section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act''), 1 notice is hereby given that on October 11, 1994, the Midwest Securities Trust Company (``MSTC'') filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``Commission'') the proposed rule change as described in Items I, II, and III below, which Items have been prepared primarily by MSTC. The Commission is publishing this notice to solicit comments on the proposed rule change from interested persons. 1 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1). I. Self-Regulatory Organizations Statement of the Terms and Substance of the Proposed Rule Change The purpose of the proposed rule change is to permit MSTC to enter into contracts to provide custodial, transactional and related processing and services on behalf of participants. II. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change In its filing with the Commission, MSTC included statements concerning the purpose of, and basis for, the proposed rule change and discussed any comments it received on the proposed rule change. The text of these statements may be examined at the places specified in Item IV below. MSTC has prepared summaries, set forth in section (A), (B), and (C) below, of the most significant aspects of such statements. (A) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change The purpose of the proposed change is to permit MSTC to enter into contracts with any of its participants whereby MSTC will provide custodial, transactional, and related processing services for the participant. MSTC shall not be obligated to enter into such contracts with any participant, and if it chooses to enter into such a contract, it shall not be obligated to do so on similar terms available to any other participant. The proposed rule change is consistent with Section 17A of the Act in that it is designed to promote the accurate clearance and settlement of securities transactions. (B) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Burden on Competition MSTC does not believe that the proposed rule change will impose a burden on competition that is not necessary or appropriate in furtherance of the purposes of the Act. (C) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received From Members, Participants or Others Comments were neither solicited nor received. III. Date of Effectiveness of the Proposed Rule Change and Timing for Commission Action Within thirty-five days of the date of publication of this notice in the Federal Register or within such longer period (i) as the Commission may designate up to ninety days of such date if it finds such longer period to be appropriate and publishes its reasons for so finding or (ii) as to which the self-regulatory organization consents, the Commission will: (A) By order approve such proposed rule change or (B) Institute proceedings to determine whether the proposed rule change should be disapproved. IV. Solicitation of Comments Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views, and arguments concerning the foregoing. Persons making written submission should file six copies thereof with the Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington D.C. 20549. Copies of the submissions, all subsequent amendments, all written statements with respect to the proposed rule change that are filed with the Commission, and all written communications relating to the proposed rule change between the Commission and any person, other than those that may be withheld from the public in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552, will be available for inspection and copying at the principal office of MSTC. All submissions should refer to File No. SR&hyph;MSTC&hyph;94&hyph;12 and should be submitted by November 9, 1994. For the Commission, by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;25883 Filed 10&hyph;18&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
