FR940505-1-00088 FR940505-1-00012 Aerosol coating manufacturers are expected to develop compliant products through propellant replacement, product reformulation, and improvements in packaging and delivery systems. Two promising propellent alternatives, hydrofluorocarbon (HCFC) 152a and dimethyl ether, are potential replacements for current hydrocarbon propellants. Reformulation to a lower VOC content could be achieved through increased solids, lower VOC solvents and propellants, or a combination of both. A further opportunity to reduce emissions lies in the redesign of the packaging and delivery system such that a nonhydrocarbon gas or mechanical device acts to displace the container's contents. Improvements in the transfer efficiency of the delivery systems would result in reduced overspray, higher surface coating percentage per container, and cost savings to the consumer. The proposed FIP aerosol coating regulation is to reduce VOC emission by approximately 60 percent from 1990 levels. The reductions from 1990 levels equate to approximately 15 tpd in California. FIP area attainment year reductions are estimated at 0.9 tpd in 1999 and 1.1 tpd in 2005 in the Sacramento area, 8.9 tpd in 2010 for the South Coast, and 0.4 tpd in 2005 for Ventura. Only limited data is available to estimate the cost of developing compliant products. The first phase of the regulation is expected to have a minimal cost because compliant products are already available to meet the BAAQMD rule. Costs of meeting the 1999 limits will depend in part on the availability of HCFC 152a. Although a promising propellant substitute, HCFC 152a is estimated to cost five to ten times more than current hydrocarbon propellants. However, with increased demand for HCFC 152a, its cost is expected to decrease. (3) Alternative Reduction Approaches. CARB is currently developing an alternative compliance plan (ACP) approach which would allow additional flexibility for affected consumer product manufacturers. The ACP would allow manufacturers to average a limited number of products when determining compliance. The ACP concept is under development and EPA is working with CARB to assure its consistency with EPA's Economic Incentive Program guidance. After the ACP program is adopted by CARB, EPA will consider it for adoption as part of the FIP. Additional alternative reduction approaches as described in III.C.4. for architectural coatings could also be applied to consumer products. Comments are requested on the use of these approaches to achieve additional emission reductions from consumer products. (4) Need for Additional Reductions. Because additional reductions from consumer products will be needed to attain the ozone standard in the South Coast, EPA will continue to investigate strategies such as setting VOC limits, fees, a manufacturers bubble, or a corporate average to further encourage reductions from these products. Because a fraction of the consumer products inventory (e.g., laundry detergents, hand washing detergents, lubricants) are not regulated by current CARB regulations or the FIP proposal, EPA will investigate strategies for reducing emission resulting from these unregulated products. EPA intends to use section 182(e)(5) commitments for these additional reductions and to develop appropriate control strategies based on continuing evaluation of new technologies and compliance options. d. Pesticides . (1) Summary and Applicability. Proposed 40 CFR 52.2960 is designed to reduce VOC emissions from agricultural and structural pesticide application.
