FR940223-2-00066 FR940223-2-00037 [File No. 932 3000] Eggland's Best, Inc.; Proposed Consent Agreement With Analysis To Aid Public Comment AGENCY: Federal Trade Commission. ACTION: Proposed consent agreement. SUMMARY: In settlement of alleged violations of federal law prohibiting unfair acts and practices and unfair methods of competition, this consent agreement, accepted subject to final Commission approval, would prohibit, among other things, a Pennsylvania company from misrepresenting the amount of nutrients or other ingredients in its eggs or foods containing egg yolks, and would require the respondent to have competent and reliable scientific evidence to substantiate future health-benefit claims for such foods and, for one year, to label certain egg packages with a corrective notice stating that no studies show Eggland's eggs are different from other eggs in their effect on serum cholesterol. DATES: Comments must be received on or before April 25, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments should be directed to: FTC/Office of the Secretary, room 159, 6th Street and Pennsylvania Avenue NW., Washington, DC 20580. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: C. Lee Peeler, FTC/S&hyph;4002, Washington, DC 20580, (202) 326&hyph;3090. Agreement Containing Consent Order To Cease and Desist The Federal Trade Commission having initiated an investigation of certain acts and practices of Eggland's Best, Inc., a corporation, and it now appearing that Eggland's Best, Inc., hereinafter sometimes referred to as proposed respondent, is willing to enter into an agreement containing an order to cease and desist from the use of the acts and practices being investigated, It is hereby agreed by and between Eggland's Best, Inc., by its duly authorized officer and attorney, and counsel for the Federal Trade Commission that: 1. Proposed respondent Eggland's Best, Inc. is a corporation organized, existing and doing business under and by virtue of the laws of the State of Pennsylvania with its office and principal place of business located at 842 First Street, King of Prussia, Pennsylvania 19406. 2. Proposed respondent admits all the jurisdictional facts set forth in the draft complaint attached hereto. 3. Proposed respondent waives: (a) Any procedural steps; (b) The requirement that the Commission's decision contain a statement of findings of fact and conclusions of law; (c) All rights to seek judicial review or otherwise to challenge or contest the validity of the order entered pursuant to this agreement; and (d) Any claim under the Equal Access To Justice Act. 4. This agreement shall not become part of the public record of the proceeding unless and until it is accepted by the Commission. If this agreement is accepted by the Commission, it, together with the draft complaint contemplated thereby, will be placed on the public record for a period of sixty (60) days and information in respect thereto publicly released. The Commission thereafter may either withdraw its acceptance of this agreement and so notify the proposed respondent, in which event it will take such action as it may consider appropriate, or issue and serve its complaint (in such form as the circumstances may require) and decision, in disposition of the proceeding. 5. This agreement is for settlement purposes only and does not constitute an admission by proposed respondent of facts, other than jurisdictional facts, or of violations of law as alleged in the draft complaint here attached. 6. The agreement contemplates that, if it is accepted by the Commission, and if such acceptance is not subsequently withdrawn by the Commission pursuant to the provisions of ยง2.34 of the Commission's Rules, the Commission may, without further notice to proposed respondent: (1) Issue its complaint corresponding in form and substance with the draft complaint attached hereto and its decision containing the following order to cease and desist in disposition of the proceeding; and (2) make information public in respect thereto. When so entered, the order to cease and desist shall have the same force and effect and may be altered, modified or set aside in the same manner and within the same time provided by statute for other orders. The order shall become final upon service. Delivery by the U.S. Postal Service of the complaint and decision containing the agreed-to order to proposed respondent's address as stated in this agreement shall constitute service. Proposed respondent waives any rights it may have to any other manner of service. The complaint may be used in construing the terms of the order, and no agreement, understanding, representation, or interpretation not contained in the order or the agreement may be used to vary or contradict the terms of the order. 7. Proposed respondent has read the proposed complaint and order contemplated hereby. It understands that once the order has been issued, it will be required to file one or more compliance reports showing that it has fully complied with the order. Proposed respondent further understands that it may be liable for civil penalties in the amount provided by law for each violation of the order after it becomes final.
