FR940111-0-00079 FR940111-0-00019 Consumer group participants, however, suggested that the affirmative disclosure was meant to signal consumers who are reluctant to raise price issues that it is acceptable to do so, and that providers can find ways to make that disclosure without offending consumers. 104 Although the empirical evidence is not conclusive on the issue, the preponderance of the reliable anecdotal evidence provided by many funeral directors who must make the disclosure to consumers supports the conclusion that the requirement's potential to overcome consumers' inhibitions and benefit additional consumers is unlikely, and does not justify the imposition of awkwardness and potential offense in a transaction already fraught with delicate business, social and personal issues. 104 P&hyph;39 (AARP) at 31&hyph;39; P&hyph;36 (National Consumers League) at 2. In summary, the record evidence shows that consumers rarely price shop for a funeral home or seek price information directly from providers because of their reluctance to do so and their general lack of awareness about prices charged by providers, and not because of a conviction that price information cannot be requested over the telephone. The affirmative disclosure that price information is available thus does not appear to give consumers new information that is likely to increase their desire to ask about prices or to encourage price shopping. The record evidence further indicates, however, that the Rule overall is contributing to increased consumer ``price sensitivity'' that leads some additional consumers to use the telephone to shop for lower-cost providers, or to seek comparative price information from non-industry sources. Consequently, consumers who want price information will affirmatively use the telephone to seek such information from providers who advertise prices, or to engage in alternative shopping methods, such as calling memorial societies, media price ``hotlines,'' or state agencies that make comparative price information available. 105 The Commission has concluded that consumers will increasingly seek price information as their awareness, and the availability, of comparative price information increases. 105 See, e.g., R&hyph;N&hyph;1 (SR) discussion at 58&hyph;59, 66&hyph;67. The preponderance of the evidence in the rulemaking record indicates that the affirmative telephone disclosure is an inartful and unnecessary signal to consumers about the availability of price information that is unlikely, over time, to provide substantial benefits to consumers not afforded by the Rule's other price disclosure provisions. 106 106 Nor does the evidence support a conclusion that industry compliance with the affirmative telephone provision is too low to permit a conclusion about its potential benefits. The evidence on compliance with ยง453.2(b)(1)(i) is inconclusive. The RS data show that about half of all providers (49%) who were asked about funeral ``prices, terms, or conditions'' over the telephone made the required disclosure. However, an unusually large proportion of the respondents_29%&hyph;31%_could not recall whether they received the disclosure, and the study contractor warned that the results should be viewed with extreme caution because of the small cell size (93 respondents called and asked about ``prices, terms, or conditions''). Excluding from the analysis those who could not recall increases the compliance level to about 72%. See R&hyph;B&hyph;2 (RS) at III&hyph;36, Table III&hyph;26; HX&hyph;122 (BE Report) at 16&hyph;17 (compliance results); R&hyph;B&hyph;2 at III&hyph;25, III&hyph;31 (Market Facts concern). In light of this evidence, the Commission has determined to repeal the affirmative telephone disclosure provision because its potential to benefit additional consumers is unlikely, and does not warrant the intrusion of potential offense in what is otherwise an extremely delicate business, social and personal transaction. The Commission further concludes that the integrity of the Rule's price disclosure requirements will be maintained by retention of the general requirement to provide price and other readily-available information over the telephone on request (ยง453.2(B)(1)). Funeral provider representatives, however, suggested that such action would concede what they consider the Rule's premise that increased comparison shopping was necessary to cure ``supracompetitive'' prices. 107 That suggestion, however, overstates the importance of the disclosure to achieve the goal of increasing comparison shopping, and fails to acknowledge record evidence indicating that the Rule overall already has contributed to increased price competition. 108 107 P&hyph;37 (NFDA/NSM comment) at 23&hyph;24. 108 See the evidence cited at notes 63&hyph;65, supra. The Commission in its Statement of Basis and Purpose for the Rule clearly expressed its view that the general telephone requirement to give price information on request, and the requirement to give the GPL to any person seeking in-person information about funeral arrangements, in addition to the affirmative telephone disclosure, would all contribute to increased comparison shopping. 109 Nevertheless, the Commission did not base the Rule's entire success in reducing barriers to price competition on the affirmative telephone disclosure or on comparison shopping, because it fully recognized that such behavior might always be infrequent. 110 As described above, the Rule's provisions already are providing pro-competitive benefits to consumers, including increased price sensitivity, despite the low overall levels of industry compliance, price competition and consumer knowledge demonstrated by the record. Those benefits are likely to increase over time as industry compliance with, and consumer awareness of, the Rule's other provisions increases. 109 R&hyph;B&hyph;5 at 42272&hyph;42273. 110 Id. at 42273, n. 140. 3. ``Casket Handling Fees:'' Section 453.4(b)(1)(ii) One benefit the Commission ascribed to the Rule in its 1982 Statement of Basis and Purpose was that ``the greater availability of price information may encourage entry into the funeral market of new competitors seeking to attract business by offering lower prices.'' 111 That prospective benefit was important to the Rule's remedial intent, because the Commission found that the funeral industry had historically opposed price advertising. 112 The Commission concluded that, as a result of that reluctance to make price information readily available, consumers purchased unwanted items and paid higher than competitive prices for items they selected. 113 111 R&hyph;B&hyph;5 at 42293. 112 Id. at 42266. 113 Id. at 42269. The Commission further recognized that easy access to the market and a fair chance to compete were prerequisites to the entry of new retailers into the funeral market. 114 The Rule's general ``unbundling'' provision, ยง453.4(b), afforded that opportunity to new entrants by removing the primary industry restraint on consumer choice_package-only pricing. 115 The Commission found that, by ``bundling'' all funeral goods and services in a package, funeral providers had effectively forced consumers to buy unwanted items as a condition of providing a necessity that only they can provide: disposition of the remains. 116 Section 453.4(b) of the Rule prohibits funeral providers from conditioning the furnishing of one funeral product or service upon the purchase of another product or service unless required by law, such as embalming for interstate shipping, or as a ``practical necessity,'' such as embalming where the consumer wants a viewing of the remains for several days. 114 R&hyph;B&hyph;5 at 42291. 115 The Commission's major finding in the original proceeding was that funeral providers had denied consumers the privilege of freely choosing the goods and services they wanted by failing to disclose itemized price information and by ``bundling'' their funeral offerings together in pre-determined packages; consumers' only choice was between packages. R&hyph;B&hyph;5 at 42260, 42279&hyph;42282. 116 Id. at 42281.
