FR940505-1-00129 FR940505-1-00012 •Issuance of an emission compliance certificate for each engine family; •Prohibition against sale of engines not certified by EPA; •Recordkeeping and reporting; •EPA confirmatory certification testing; •Production line Selective Enforcement Auditing (SEA); •In-use testing and enforcement; •Warranty and prohibition on tampering; and •Importation provisions. Certain modifications to the on-highway program are expected to be proposed for this program. These modifications include: (1) only one emission test engine required, and (2) a national averaging, banking, and trading program modified to suit this industry. For the FIP areas, EPA proposes that phased emission standards and certification of new engines commence with the 1998 model year for outboard, sterndrive and inboard engines, and 1999 model year for personal watercraft. (b) Definition of SI Marine Engine. A spark-ignition engine is an internal combustion engine in which the air/fuel mixture is ignited in the combustion chamber by an electric spark. EPA is expecting to propose defining marine engines as any nonroad engine which is used on a ``vessel'' as defined in 1 U.S.C. Section 3 (1992). 72 72 The word vessel includes every description of watercraft or other artificial contrivance used, or capable of being used, as a means of transportation on water. (c) Applicability. Under the expected proposal all SI marine engines must comply with the proposed emission standards, with some exceptions as discussed below. Exclusions from the Proposal Certain engines that are included within the proposed definition of marine engine just discussed are expected to be excluded from the Federal marine engine emission standards. SI engines expected to be excluded are the following: (1) Engines used in marine ``vessels'' as defined in 1 U.S.C. Sections 3 (1992) which are used exclusively as marine auxiliary power generation units; (2) Exported engines, either loose marine engines or marine engines in boats or vessels that are to be exported. Exemptions From the Proposal Pursuant to section 203(b)(1) of the CAA, the Agency is expecting to propose categories of exemptions from new SI marine engine regulations similar to the existing exemptions for new large nonroad CI engines (see 40 CFR part 89 subpart I). These include exemptions for purposes of research, investigations, studies, demonstrations, training, or for reasons of national security. Exemptions are justified in these cases because the sources are limited in number or scope so no environmental harm results, the particular use of the source is determined to further air quality research, and/or the exemption is vital to the security of the nation. (See 39 FR 10601, March 21, 1974 for history of on-highway exemptions policy.) (d) Emission Standards. The numerical emission standards are expected to be proposed for the category of SI marine vessels which includes inboard engines, sterndrives, and outboard engines. EPA realizes that these standards will cover engines that use different technology, but EPA believes that creating separate standards based on categories such as 2- and 4-stroke engines sets up artificial barriers to competition in the market and will not achieve as efficiently reductions from this category as a single set of standards. EPA will in its proposal for the Federal program take comment on the scheme of classification and level of standards. Separate standards are expected to be set for HC and NO X emissions on a brake-specific basis (i.e., grams of pollutant per brake kilowatt-hour). EPA realizes that there is a tradeoff between the level of HC emissions and NO X emissions and intends to take comment on setting a combined HC+NO X standard for this category of nonroad engines. EPA believes that for current outboard engines these standards will be technology forcing. For other types of engines these standards may require better calibration and more advanced fueling systems. The emission standards will be proposed to take effect at the earliest possible date, as required by paragraph 213(b) of the Act. SI marine engines are very rarely designed to operate on alternative fuels. EPA does not believe that new emission standards for marine engines will require increased use of alternative fuels. EPA therefore does not expect to propose procedures or emission standards for SI alternative-fueled marine engines. EPA does expect to request comment on the need for regulations and the potential for increased market share for SI marine engines that operate on alternative fuels such as natural gas, methanol, or ethanol.
