FR941212-1-00053 FR941212-1-00013 The PTO requests comments as to when the submission of prior art by third parties should be permitted subsequent to publication of the application. Traditionally, applications are maintained in secrecy during their entire prosecution, thus rendering the entire prosecution of an application ex parte. Nevertheless, the third party submission of prior art may improve the quality of issued patents by providing examiners with the best prior art. Should it be considered desirable to substantially maintain the ex parte nature of application prosecution, it is unclear as to what limits should be placed on the submission of prior art by third parties. As the prosecution of an application may be closed (under final rejection of Notice of Allowance) at the time of publication, the time periods for the submission or prior art by third parties must be limited to avoid delays in prosecution. In addition, the PTO requests comments on whether to stay the proceedings for a set period following the publication of the applications to permit the third party submission of prior art. Providing any time period subsequent to the publication of an application for the submission of prior art by third parties could result in the reopening of prosecution in an application. Such continued prosecution of applications, if permitted, would lead to increases in pendency, the averse effects of which will be further exacerbated under a 20-year patent term regime. If the submission of prior art in a pending application by third parties is considered desirable, what procedures should be adopted to accommodate such submission and take advantage of its potential benefits? In addition, a specific time period, e.g. , the earlier of the mailing of a Notice of Allowance in the application or two months after publication of the application, must be established during which prior art may be submitted to ensure its consideration. The PTO currently contemplates that prior art submitted outside this time period by third parties would simply be placed in the application file. Finally, the PTO does not currently contemplate providing third parties with any opportunity that would amount to an opposition proceeding. See Question # 14. III. Questions 1. Should the PTO require that all official application-related materials be delivered to a central location? Specifically, what problems would a requirement that all official application-related materials be delivered to a central location cause? 2. Should the PTO adopt a standard application format? If so, what portions of the application papers should the PTO require be submitted in a standard size and/or format, and what sanction ( e.g. , surcharge) should be established for the failure to comply with these requirements? 3. Assuming that the entire application is not published, what information concerning the application should be published in the Gazette of Patent Application Notices? 4. Should the patent applicant receive a copy of the published application_either published notice and/or application content at time of publication? 5. Should the PTO permit an accelerated examination? If so, under what conditions? 6. Since the cost for publishing applications must be recovered from fees, how should the cost of publication be allocated among the various fees, including the possibility of charging a separate publication fee? 7. Should the PTO require an affirmative communication from a patent applicant indicating that the applicant does not wish the application to be published, or should failure to timely submit a publication fee be taken as instruction not to publish the application? That is, should an application be published unless the applicant affirmatively indicates that the application is not to be published, regardless of whether a publication fee has been submitted? What latitude should the PTO permit for late submission of a publication fee? 8. The delayed filing of either a claim for priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 or 120 may result in the delayed publication of the application. Should priority or benefit be lost if not made within a reasonable time after filing? What latitude should the PTO permit for late claiming of priority or benefit? 9. Once the patent has issued, should the paper document containing information similar to that published in the Gazette of Patent Application Notices, i.e., the Patent Application Notice, be removed from the search files, and should publication information be included on the issued patent? 10. After publication, should access to the content of the application file be limited to the originally filed application papers? If not, what degree of access should be permitted? Should access be limited to the content before publication, or should it extend to materials added after publication? 11. After publication, should assignment records of a published application also be made accessible to the public? 12. After publication, should access include the deposit of biological materials as set forth in 37 CFR 1.802 et seq .? 13. What types of problems will be encountered if all amendments must be made by (a) substitute paragraphs and claims, (b) substitute pages, or (c) replacement of the entire application? 14. Should protest procedures be modified to permit the third party submission of prior art only prior to a specific period after publication of the application? What action should be taken with respect to untimely submissions by a third party? Dated: December 5, 1994. Michael K. Kirk, Deputy Assistant Secretary of Commerce and Deputy Commissioner of Patents and Trademarks. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;30311 Filed 12&hyph;9&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3510&hyph;16&hyph;M
