FR940826-1-00083 FR940826-1-00015 1. Present or threatened destruction, modification, or curtailment of habitat and range because of clearcut logging of mature and old growth forest; 2. Increased predation because of increased open area habitat caused by clearcut logging; 3. Inadequacy of existing regulatory mechanisms to protect preferred habitat from clearcut logging. The Service has reviewed the petition, literature cited in the petition, and other references available in the Service's files, and contacted persons knowledgeable about this subspecies. On the basis of the best scientific and commercial information available, the Service finds the petition presents substantial information that listing the Queen Charlotte goshawk may be warranted. As part of an ongoing status review, the Service will further evaluate the current status of the Queen Charlotte goshawk and determine if listing is warranted for either the entire subspecies or certain distinct population segments of the subspecies. The Service would appreciate any additional data, comments, and suggestions from the public, other concerned governmental agencies, the scientific community, industry, or any other parties concerning the status of the Queen Charlotte goshawk. The following issues are of particular interest to the Service: 1. The genetic, morphologic, and ecological differences, including variations of intergradation of the Queen Charlotte goshawk within it's currently described range, and from adjacent goshawk subspecies. 2. The range of geographic distribution of goshawks exhibiting the described characteristics of the Queen Charlotte goshawk subspecies. 3. Additional historic and current population data which may assist in determining population trends. 4. The extent and effects of long-term habitat conversion and fragmentation of mature forest habitat on Queen Charlotte goshawks and their prey. References Cited A complete list of all references cited in the 90-day finding is available upon request (see Addresses section). Authors The primary author of this document is John Lindell, of the Juneau, Alaska Ecological Services Office. (See Addresses section). List of Subjects in 50 CFR part 17 Endangered and threatened species, Exports, Imports, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Transportation. Authority The authority for this action is the Endangered Species Act of 1973, as amended (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq. ); unless otherwise noted. Dated: August 19, 1994. Bruce Blanchard, Acting Director, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;21078 Filed 8&hyph;25&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4310&hyph;55&hyph;M
