FR941202-2-00209 FR941202-2-00098 Appendix A Definitions Accreditation: The process by which an agency or organization evaluates and recognizes a program of study or an institution as meeting certain predetermined qualifications or standards, thereby accrediting the laboratory. In the context of the National Environmental Laboratory Accreditation Program (NELAP), this process is a voluntary one. Accreditation Authority Review Board: A five member group appointed by EPA from the states, EPA, and other federal agencies to review the process and procedures used by EPA to approve state and federal laboratories and accreditation authorities. Accrediting Authority: The agency having responsibility and accountability for environmental laboratory accreditation and who grants accreditation. For the purposes of NELAC, this is EPA, other federal agencies, or the state. Accrediting Body: The organization that actually executes the accreditation process, i.e., receives and reviews accreditation applications, reviews QA documents, reviews performance evaluation testing results, surveys the site, etc., whether EPA, the state, or contracted private party. Accuracy: The degree of agreement between an observed value and an accepted reference value. Accuracy includes a combination of random error (precision) and systematic error (bias) components which are due to sampling and analytical operations; a data quality indicator. (Glossary of Quality Assurance Terms, QAMS, 8/31/92). Administrative Committee: A committee of the National Environmental Laboratory Accreditation Conference involved with the internal business affairs of the conference. Currently, these are the Conference Management and Funding, Nominating, Membership, Auditing, Liaison, and Contributor Committee. Applicant: Any environmental laboratory seeking accreditation. Assessment: The physical process of inspecting, testing and documenting results from a laboratory for purposes of accreditation. Assessment Team: An individual or group of individuals who perform the on-site assessment of a laboratory. Board of Directors: The guiding body of NELAC composed of the Director, Executive Secretary, Chair, Chair-elect, Past Chair, Treasurer, and six at-large members. Calibration Standard: A solution prepared from the primary dilution standard solution or stock standard solutions and the internal standards and surrogate analytes. The Calibration solutions are used to calibrate the instrument response with respect to analyte concentration. (Glossary of Quality Assurance Terms, QAMS, 8/31/92). CNAEL: The Committee on National Accreditation of Environmental Laboratories chartered by EPA in 1991 to assess the need, feasibility, and practicability of a national environmental laboratory accreditation program. Dissolved after its report to EPA in September 1992. Compromised Samples: Those samples which were improperly sampled, or with insufficient documentation (chain of custody and other sample records and/or labels), improper preservation and/or containers were used, or the holding time has been exceeded. Under normal conditions compromised samples are not analyzed. If emergency situations require analysis, the results must be appropriately qualified.
