FR940118-0-00079 FR940118-0-00015 (4) Permanent implementation and evaluation structure. The extent to which a responsible and accountable implementation structure or process has been created to ensure that the plan is successfully carried out and that improvements are made throughout the period of the Zone or Community's designation and the extent to which the partners agree to be bound by their commitments. (d) Strategic vision for change. (1) Goals and Coordinated strategy. The extent to which the strategic plan reflects a projection for the community's revitalization which links economic, human, physical, community development and other activities in a mutually reinforcing, synergistic way to achieve ultimate goals; (2) Creativity and innovation. The extent to which the activities proposed in the plan are creative, innovative and promising and will promote the civic spirit necessary to revitalize the nominated area; (3) Building on assets. The extent to which the vision for revitalization realistically addresses the needs of the nominated area in a way that takes advantage of its assets. (4) Benchmarks and learning. The extent to which the plan includes performance benchmarks for measuring progress in its implementation, including an on-going process for adjustments, corrections and building on what works. §597.202 Submission of nominations for designation. (a) General. A nomination for designation as an Empowerment Zone and/or Enterprise Community must be submitted for each urban area for which such designation is requested. The nomination shall be submitted in a form to be prescribed by HUD in the application and in the Notice Inviting Applications published in the Federal Register , and must contain complete and accurate information. (b) Certifications. Certifications must be submitted by the State(s) and local government(s) requesting designation stating that: (1) The nominated urban area satisfies the boundary tests of §597.100(d) of this part; (2) The nominated urban area is one of pervasive poverty, unemployment and general distress, as prescribed by §597.102 of this part; (3) The nominated urban area satisfies the poverty rate tests set forth in §597.103 of this part; (4) The nominated urban area contains no portion of an area that is either already designated as an Empowerment Zone and/or Enterprise Community, or is otherwise included in any other area nominated for designation as an Empowerment Zone and/or Enterprise Community; (5) Each nominating governmental entity has the authority to: (i) Nominate the urban area for designation as an Empowerment Zone and/or Enterprise Community; (ii) Make the State and local commitments required by §597.200(d) of this part; and (iii) Provide written assurances satisfactory to the Secretary that these commitments will be met. (6) Provide assurances that the amounts provided to the State for the area under section 2007 of title XX of the Social Security Act will not be used to supplant Federal or non-Federal funds for services and activities which promote the purposes of section 2007; (7) Provide that the nominating governments or corporations agree to make available all information requested by HUD to aid in the evaluation of progress in implementing the strategic plan and reporting on the use of Empowerment Zone/Enterprise Community Social Service Block Grant funds; and (8) Provide assurances that the nominating State(s) agrees to distribute the Empowerment Zone/Enterprise Community Social Service Block Grant funds in accordance with the strategic plan submitted for the designated Zone or Community. (c) Maps and area description. Maps and a general description of the nominated urban area shall accompany the nomination request.
