FR941216-1-00079 FR941216-1-00012 (d) Operational shields shall be tested under conditions that simulate the operational environment. A&E materials or items used in the test shall correspond to those that may be involved in a maximum credible incident, plus a 25 percent overcharge. Test methods, recording instrumentation and written documentation shall clearly demonstrate that the above protection criteria are met before the operational shield is used. Shields meeting the requirements of MIL&hyph;STD&hyph;398, 3 Shields, Operational for Ammunition Operations, Criteria for Design of and Tests for Acceptance, are acceptable. Analysis rather than testing of shields may be acceptable on a case-by-case basis. When the doors of explosives processing equipment function as operational shields, interlocking devices shall be installed to prevent the operator from opening the door while the equipment is in operation. 3 Copies may be obtained from Naval Publications and Forms Center, 5801 Tabor Avenue, Philadelphia, PA 19120. §184.30 Special clothing. (a) A changing area shall be established for employees who must remove their street clothes to wear special clothing (explosives plant clothing, anticontamination clothing, impervious clothing, and so forth). To avoid exposing people not involved in A&E operations to unnecessary risks, special clothing worn during A&E operations shall not be worn or taken away from the premises. Special clothing should not be altered. Cotton undergarments, including socks, shall be worn whenever static electricity is a hazard. (b) Explosives plant clothing, generally referred to as powder uniforms, shall be fastened with nonmetallic fasteners and easily removable. Pockets should be of the lattice type. Pants and sleeves should be tapered and without cuffs, and pants should extend over the tops of footwear. These garments should be flame resistant or made of flame retardant material. Each plant should have laundering facilities available for removing contaminants from explosives plant clothing. Hazardous waste procedures should be established for the laundry. Regular testing shall verify the effectiveness of the laundering operations. (c) When explosives contaminated clothing is sent to an off-plant laundry facility, the contractor is responsible for informing the laundry of the hazards associated with the contamination and any special laundering or disposal requirements. §184.31 Conductive footwear. (a) When conductive mats, floors, and runners are required, operators shall wear conductive shoes. Personnel visiting any such area shall wear conductive shoes, ankle straps, or similar devices, one on each leg. (b) Tests of conductive shoes or equivalent, shall be made initially and daily thereafter to ensure that the resistance from the person through the conductive shoes is less than or equal to one million ohms. Documentation of this testing, to include calibration of test equipment, shall be kept by supervisory personnel. The test voltage shall not exceed 500 volts. The short circuit current across the electrodes (plates) shall not exceed 2.0 milliamperes (0.5 milliamperes is preferred). The instruments shall have built-in safeguards preventing the test subject from experiencing electric shock. Tests shall not be performed in rooms with exposed explosives. Shoes should be tested first without cleaning the soles and heels; if the resistance does not exceed allowed levels, the shoes may be worn. If resistance exceeds 450,000 ohms per shoe, the pair shall be cleaned and retested. Sandpaper, solvents, or other agents affecting the structure or conductivity of the sole materials should not be used. Separating or removing the conductive sock liner from the conductive plug or depressing the conductive plugs below the surface of the insole of the shoe can cause high resistance. Nonconductive stockings such as silk, wool, and synthetics; and foot powders, which have a drying action, shall be avoided. Conductive shoes should be clearly labeled as such. §184.32 Materials handling equipment. (a) Gasoline-, diesel-, and LP-powered equipment shall not be refueled inside warehouses or similar buildings containing ammunition and explosives. If the fuel supply is exhausted while the equipment is inside a building, the equipment shall be towed outside to a safe location for refueling: at least 20 feet from inert buildings, and inert loading docks; and 90 feet from explosives locations or buildings. Doors and windows through which vapors may enter the building shall be closed during refueling. Refueling trucks shall not be located close to explosives buildings during refueling operations, but shall be parked as far as practicable from these buildings, in accordance with the above requirements. (b) Gasoline-, diesel-, and LP-powered equipment shall not be stored in buildings containing explosives or ammunition or on explosives loading docks or piers when A&E is present. A central storage location for gasoline-, diesel-, and LP-powered equipment is preferred. Such a building should be located at least 50 feet from other buildings to avoid a fire hazard. (c) Gasoline-, diesel-, and LP-powered equipment shall receive periodic inspections of exhaust and electrical systems with the results documented. Spark arresters shall be required on exhaust systems. §184.33 Parking of privately owned vehicles. Controlled parking of privately owned vehicles within an establishment minimizes fire and explosion hazards and prevents congestion in an emergency. Vehicles should be parked in designated areas only, at intraline distance and outside of restricted areas. Vehicles shall not be parked so close to an explosives building or structure that fire could spread from them to the building, or that they could impede firefighters. §184.34 Prohibited articles in hazardous areas. Except as authorized, personnel shall not carry matches, cigarette lighters, or other flame-producing devices into explosives areas. Personal articles that increase existing hazards are also prohibited. §184.35 Photographic materials in hazardous areas. Photoflash bulbs or electronic flash attachments shall not be used around exposed explosives, explosive dusts, flammable gases, or vapors. Only lighting equipment approved by a nationally recognized testing laboratory shall be used. §184.36 Operational explosives containers. (a) Containers used for intraplant transportation or temporary storage of process explosives and energetic materials shall be designed to prevent leakage. These containers should be equipped with covers (lids) and constructed of materials in the following order of precedence: (1) Conductive rubber or conductive plastic, (2) Nonferrous metal-lined boxes without seams or rivet heads under which explosive dusts could accumulate, (3) Paper-lined wooden boxes, or (4) Fiber drums. (b) These containers should be marked with the type of explosive or hazard involved. (c) Because of their fragility and fragment potential, glass containers shall not be used. §184.37 Intraplant rail transportation. This section addresses intraplant transportation of explosives and may exceed national requirements because of material characteristics and operational hazards. When construction or major modification of transportation, packaging, or loading facilities is planned or anticipated, the contractor is responsible for ensuring that applicable Federal, state, and local requirements and those contained within this manual are met. The applicable requirements promulgated by Department of Transportation (DOT) and other Federal or local regulatory agencies concerning preparation, marking, and shipment of ammunition and explosives should appear in the contract.
