FR941117-0-00185 FR941117-0-00013 Notwithstanding voluntary industry initiatives to improve disclosure, particularly primary market disclosure, the Staff Report recommended that the Commission use its interpretive authority to provide guidance regarding the disclosure obligations of municipal securities participants under the antifraud provisions of the federal securities laws, and that the Commission amend Rule 15c2&hyph;12 to prohibit municipal securities dealers from recommending outstanding municipal securities unless the issuer has committed to make available ongoing information regarding its financial condition. In order to assist issuers, brokers, dealers, and municipal securities dealers in meeting their obligations under the antifraud provisions, in March, 1994, the Commission published the Statement of the Commission Regarding Disclosure Obligations of Municipal Securities Issuers and Others (``Interpretive Release''), 9 which outlined its views with respect to the disclosure obligations of market participants under the antifraud provisions of the federal securities laws in connection with both primary and secondary market disclosure. 9 Securities Act Release No. 7049 (March 9, 1994), 59 FR 12748. Concurrent with the publication of the Interpretive Release, the Commission published Securities Exchange Act Release No. 33742 (``Proposing Release''), 10 which requested comment on amendments to Rule 15c2&hyph;12 (``Proposed Amendments'') designed to enhance the quality, timing, and dissemination of disclosure in the municipal securities market by placing certain requirements on brokers, dealers, and municipal securities dealers. In proposing the amendments, the Commission intended to further deter fraud by preventing the underwriting and recommendation of transactions in municipal securities about which little or no current information exists. Brokers, dealers, and municipal securities dealers serve as the link between the issuers whose securities they sell and the investors to whom they recommend securities. Investors, especially individual investors, place their reliance on these securities professionals for their recommendations of municipal securities. 10 Securities Exchange Act Release No. 33742 (March 9, 1994), 59 FR 12759. Also on March 9, the Commission published Securities Exchange Act Release No. 33743, which proposed the adoption of Rule 15c2&hyph;13. Proposed Rule 15c2&hyph;13 would have required brokers, dealers, and municipal securities dealers to disclose mark-up information in riskless principal transactions in municipal securities; and to disclose when a particular municipal security is not rated by a nationally recognized statistical rating organization (``NRSRO''). Due to the recent development of proposals by the MSRB and market participants to make pricing information available to investors, the Commission has determined to defer the riskless principal mark-up proposal for six months. In addition, the portion of proposed Rule 15c2&hyph;13 that would require disclosure if a municipal security is not rated by an NRSRO has been deferred, and will be withdrawn if the MSRB acts to adopt similar amendments to its confirmation rule, Rule G&hyph;15. See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 34962 (November 10, 1994). The amendments to Rule 15c2&hyph;12 ensure that brokers, dealers, and municipal securities dealers will review the secondary market disclosure practices of issuers and other obligated persons at the time of an offering of municipal securities. 13 This scrutiny at the time of initial issuance of municipal securities will result in the dissemination of important information by issuers and other obligated persons throughout the term of the municipal securities. As a result of the amendments, brokers, dealers, and municipal securities dealers will be better able to satisfy their obligation under the federal securities laws to have a reasonable basis on which to recommend municipal securities, as well as their obligations under the rules of the MSRB. 13 Participating Underwriters generally maintain a market in an issue of municipal securities in the period following an offering. Failure by a Participating Underwriter to receive assurances with respect to undertakings to provide secondary market disclosure will increase the difficulty of its formulation of a reasonable basis on which to recommend a municipal security during this period of secondary market trading. The availability of secondary market disclosure to all municipal securities market participants will enable investors to better protect themselves from misrepresentation or other fraudulent activities by brokers, dealers, and municipal securities dealers. A lack of consistent secondary market disclosure impairs investors' ability to acquire information necessary to make intelligent, informed investment decisions, and thus, to protect themselves from fraud. In the Proposing Release, comment was requested on each aspect of the Proposed Amendments, as well as on standards for recognition of nationally recognized municipal securities information repositories (``NRMSIRs''). In response to the request for comments, the Commission received over 390 comment letters representing over 475 groups and individuals. The commenters represented all types of participants in the municipal securities market, including issuers, underwriters, investors, counsel, analysts, financial advisers, banks, insurance providers, disclosure services, and the MSRB. 14 The comment letters presented a variety of thoughtful views on the issues raised by the Proposing Release. 15 The Commission has determined to adopt amendments to Rule 15c2&hyph;12, with certain modifications that are designed to address concerns expressed by commenters. 16 In addition, the suggestions of a group of industry participants that cooperated to assist the Commission in its efforts to improve disclosure in the municipal securities market have been valuable. 17 14 Among others, the Commission received 232 letters representing the views of 242 issuers and issuer associations; 52 letters representing the views of 57 brokers, dealers, and municipal securities dealers; and 8 letters representing the views of 8 investors and investor associations. 15 The Commission has given consideration to the views of some commenters who questioned the Commission's authority to adopt the amendments to Rule 15c2&hyph;12. See, e.g., Letter of ABA Business Law Section; Letter of Hawkins Delafield & Wood; Letter of NABL. The Commission believes that it has ample authority to adopt the amendments. 16 The comment letters and a summary of the comment letters prepared by Commission staff are contained in Public File No. S7&hyph;5&hyph;94. See also Public File No. S7&hyph;4&hyph;94. 17 See Joint Response to the Securities Exchange Commission on Releases Concerning Municipal Securities Market Disclosure prepared by American Bankers Association's Corporate Trust Committee, American Public Power Association, Association of Local Housing Finance Agencies, Council of Infrastructure Financing Authorities, Government Finance Officers Association, National Association of Counties, National Association of State Auditors, Comptrollers and Treasurers, National Council of State Housing Agencies, National Federation of Municipal Analysts, Public Securities Association (``Joint Response'').
