FR941110-1-00088 FR941110-1-00011 EPA is proposing that the administrative changes to the recordkeeping and reporting requirements for transformation and destruction be effective January 1, 1995. The changes are made to reduce redundancy and clarify the responsibilities of companies that produce or import substances that are transformed or destroyed, as well as the responsibilities of transformers or destroyers controlled substances (see paragraph A.1. of this proposed rule). EPA is proposing changes to the recordkeeping and reporting requirements for importers to address issues of importation of used, recycled or reclaimed controlled substances. These proposed recordkeeping and reporting requirements for importers are described in greater detail in Section C.7.c., Recordkeeping and Reporting for Imports. (i) Reporting and recordkeeping requirements for producers and importers of controlled substances that were produced or imported explicitly for transformation or destruction in the United States. Today's proposal does not change the recordkeeping and reporting requirements for persons who produce controlled substances that are explicitly for transformation or destruction within the United States. Although EPA is proposing changes to the recordkeeping and reporting requirements for importers to address issues of importation of used, recycled or reclaimed controlled substances (described in greater detail in Section C.7.c., Recordkeeping and Reporting for Imports), there are no changes to the requirements for importing controlled substances that are explicitly for transformation or destruction. Under the current regulation, companies that produce or import controlled substances explicitly for destruction or transformation in the United States are required to maintain records and to report to EPA quarterly. The producers and importers must report quarterly the ``amount of controlled substances sold or transferred during the quarter to a person for use in processes resulting in their transformation or destruction,'' and submit the IRS transformation certification or destruction verification. Producers and importers must also report quarterly on the quantity that they themselves transform or destroy in the quarter. (ii) Reporting and recordkeeping requirements for producers and importers of controlled substances that were produced or imported for intended emissive uses but subsequently transformed or destroyed. Today's proposal does not change these requirements regarding controlled substances sold for intended emissive uses that are subsequently transformed or destroyed. The current regulation requires producers and importers to report on controlled substances sold for emissive uses. However, the current rule does not require producers or importers to maintain records or report to the Agency on the subsequent transformation or destruction of controlled substances initially produced for emissive uses. Once the controlled substance is sold for an emissive use the producer or importer is no longer responsible for informing the Agency of its subsequent disposition, whether it be for emissive use, for transformation, or, for destruction. (iii) Reporting and recordkeeping requirements for transformers and destroyers of controlled substances that were produced or imported explicitly for transformation or destruction. The Agency is not proposing changes to the recordkeeping and reporting requirements for those persons who transform or destroy controlled substances that were produced or imported explicitly for transformation or destruction. The transformers will continue to submit an IRS certification of intent to transform to the producer or importer and the destroyers will continue to submit a destruction verification to the producer or importer. Those transformers and destroyers who submit a certification or verification must continue to report annually to EPA as in the current regulation under ยง82.13(m). The Agency verifies the transformation or destruction of controlled substances that were explicitly produced or imported for transformation or destruction through this annual reporting.
