FR940217-1-00073 FR940217-1-00014 These proposed regulations would also make clear that an individual, State, or organization that engages in an excluded function is still considered to be a third-party servicer with respect to any other function that constitutes the administration of a Title IV, HEA program performed under a contract with an institution. The Secretary further proposes to remove the terms designated department official, initiating official, and show-cause official from subpart G of this part and place them in §668.2, because this section contains the general definitions applicable to all of part 668 and to all of the Title IV, HEA programs. Section 668.11␣Scope. The Secretary proposes that a third-party servicer's violation of an applicable provision of Subpart B of the Student Assistance General Provisions regulations may subject the servicer to a proceeding under subpart G. This change implements the statutory authority under section 487(c)(1) of the HEA to provide for the accountability of a third-party servicer's administration of any aspect of an institution's participation in the Title IV, HEA programs. Subpart G governs emergency actions or fines against an institution and the limitation, suspension, or termination of the institution's participation in a Title IV, HEA program. The Secretary proposes to add references to a third-party servicer in subpart G so as to provide for emergency actions and fines against a third-party servicer or the limitation, suspension, or termination of the servicer's eligibility to contract with an institution to administer any aspect of the institution's participation in a Title IV, HEA program (see the discussion beginning with §668.81). The Secretary also proposes to provide that if a third-party servicer violates an applicable provision of this subpart, the Secretary may also initiate an emergency action, a fine proceeding, or a limitation, suspension, or termination action against any institution under whose contract the servicer violated that provision. Because an institution has agreed to comply with all applicable Title IV, HEA requirements in its agreement with the Secretary, and because the institution must demonstrate under §668.12 the capability to administer the Title IV, HEA programs, the Secretary emphasizes that the institution is always responsible for the actions of any of its employees, officers, or agents. Section 668.12␣Institutional participation agreement. The Secretary proposes to require an institution to agree, in its participation agreement, to be liable for all misused Title IV, HEA program funds, including those received on the institution's behalf by a third-party servicer, and to be liable for refunds, including those that a third-party servicer was required to pay on the institution's behalf. This provision emphasizes that an institution is always liable for the actions of its employees, officers, and agents regarding its participation in a Title IV, HEA program. The Secretary also proposes to amend this section by adding new paragraph (b)(2)(vi) to reflect a new statutory directive under the HEA governing the past performance of individuals, agencies, or organizations affiliated with an institution. Under section 487(a)(16) of the HEA, an institution may not knowingly contract with or employ any individual, agency, or organization that has been or whose officers or employees have been convicted of, or pled nolo contendere or guilty to, a crime involving the acquisition, use, or expenditure of Title IV, HEA program funds or been judicially determined to have committed fraud involving Title IV, HEA program funds. An institution may not contract with another institution or a third-party servicer that has been terminated under section 432 of the HEA involving the acquisition, use, or expenditure of funds under the Title IV, HEA programs, or that has been judicially determined to have committed fraud involving Title IV, HEA program funds. The Secretary's proposed rules, in accordance with the consensus reached at the negotiated rulemaking sessions, would apply the prohibitions not only to instances of judicial determinations of criminal or fraudulent activity, but also to administrative determination of fraud and judicial or administrative determinations of any other material violations of law. Administrative proceedings are more frequent and often occur well in advance of related court proceedings. The Secretary believes that administrative proceedings afford sufficient due process, including notice, hearing, and review, to be relied upon for excluding individuals, agencies, or organizations under these provisions from applicable employment or contracting, if such a determination of culpability has been made. The Secretary believes that the reference to material violations of law is necessary, as Title IV, HEA funds are also endangered by the employment of those determined to have violated laws governing the handling of those funds, even if those violations do not rise to the level of fraud. For example, an institution should not employ a person or organization that has failed to pay refunds required under law.
