FR941202-0-00076 FR941202-0-00010 Idling-mode cover means any cover or solvent cleaning machine design that allows the cover to shield the cleaning machine openings during the idling mode. A cover that meets this definition can also be used as a working-mode cover if that definition is also met. Immersion cold cleaning machine means a cold cleaning machine in which the parts are immersed in the solvent when being cleaned. A remote reservoir cold cleaning machine that is also an immersion cold cleaning machine is considered an immersion cold cleaning machine for purposes of this subpart. In-line cleaning machine or continuous cleaning machine means a solvent cleaning machine that uses an automated parts handling system, typically a conveyor, to automatically provide a continuous supply of parts to be cleaned. These units are fully enclosed except for the conveyor inlet and exit portals. In-line cleaning machines can be either cold or vapor cleaning machines. Leak-proof coupling means a threaded or other type of coupling that prevents solvents from leaking while filling or draining solvent to and from the solvent cleaning machine. Lip exhaust means a device installed at the top of the opening of a solvent cleaning machine that draws in air and solvent vapor from the freeboard area and ducts the air and vapor away from the solvent cleaning area. Monthly reporting period means any calendar month in which the owner or operator of a solvent cleaning machine is required to calculate and report the solvent emissions from each solvent cleaning machine. New means any solvent cleaning machine the construction or reconstruction of which is commenced after November 29, 1993. Open-top vapor cleaning machine means a batch solvent cleaning machine that has its upper surface open to the air and boils solvent to create solvent vapor used to clean and/or dry parts. Part means any object that is cleaned in a solvent cleaning machine. Parts include, but are not limited to, discrete parts, assemblies, sets of parts, and continuous parts (i.e., continuous sheets of metal). Primary condenser means a series of circumferential cooling coils on a vapor cleaning machine through which a chilled substance is circulated or recirculated to provide continuous condensation of rising solvent vapors and, thereby, create a concentrated solvent vapor zone. Reduced room draft means decreasing the flow or movement of air across the top of the freeboard area of the solvent cleaning machine to meet the specifications of ยง63.463(e)(2)(ii). Methods of achieving a reduced room draft include, but are not limited to, redirecting fans and/or air vents to not blow across the cleaning machine, moving the cleaning machine to a corner where there is less room draft, and constructing a partial or complete enclosure around the cleaning machine. Remote reservoir cold cleaning machine means any device in which liquid solvent is pumped to a sink-like work area that drains solvent back into an enclosed container while parts are being cleaned, allowing no solvent to pool in the work area. Soils means contaminants that are removed from the parts being cleaned. Soils include, but are not limited to, grease, oils, waxes, metal chips, carbon deposits, fluxes, and tars. Solvent/air interface means, for a vapor cleaning machine, the location of contact between the concentrated solvent vapor layer and the air. This location of contact is defined as the mid-line height of the primary condenser coils. For a cold cleaning machine, it is the location of contact between the liquid solvent and the air.
