FR940720-1-00023 FR940720-1-00007 DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS 38 CFR Part 14 RIN 2900&hyph;AH01 Expanded Remote Access to Computerized Veterans Claims Records by Accredited Representatives AGENCY: Department of Veterans Affairs. ACTION: Proposed rule. SUMMARY: The Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) is proposing to establish policy, procedures and criteria governing when, and under what circumstances, VA will grant authorized claimants' representatives read-only access to the automated claims records of claimants whom they represent from approved office locations away from the VA Regional Offices of jurisdiction for the claimants' records. Access will be granted only for the purpose of representing those claimants before VA on claims-related matters. In order to help safeguard the confidentiality of claimants' automated claims records, the proposed rules also set out responsibilities and restrictions on claimants' representatives in exercising their remote access to VA's automated claims records. These procedures and criteria will provide for better and more timely representation of claimants in claims matters by allowing their representatives to have faster, easier and more efficient access to the claimants' records than they currently have when they have to travel to the Regional Offices. The proposed regulations will also ensure more efficient use of VA resources in meeting the agency mission in that VA employees will have to spend less time providing access to those representatives who do not have their own computers in Regional Offices. DATES: Comments must be received on or before August 19, 1994. Comments will be available for public inspection until August 29, 1994. ADDRESSES: Send written comments to: Secretary of Veterans Affairs (271A), Department of Veterans Affairs, 810 Vermont Avenue NW., Washington, DC, 20420. All written comments received will be available for public inspection only in the Veterans Services Unit, room 119 of the above address between the hours of 8 a.m. to 4:30 p.m., Monday through Friday except holidays until August 29, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: David G. Spivey, Chief, Authorization Procedures Staff (213B), Compensation and Pension Service, Veterans Benefits Administration, Department of Veterans Affairs, 810 Vermont Avenue, NW., Washington, DC, 20420, (202) 273&hyph;7258 or Jeffrey C. Corzatt, Staff Attorney (024H2), Office of General Counsel, Department of Veterans Affairs, 810 Vermont Avenue NW., Washington, DC, 20420, (202) 273&hyph;6381. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: VA is proposing to incorporate into its regulations policies, criteria and procedures governing access to certain Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA) computerized claimants' records by individuals and organizations which represent those claimants from locations away from the Regional Offices of jurisdiction for those claimants' records. Currently, accredited representatives of veterans service organizations who hold a valid, current, VA power of attorney to assist claimants in the presentation of claims for benefits administered by VA may have on-line, remote access to certain information about those claimants contained in VA's automated claims records if the representatives and their computers are located in office space provided within VBA Regional Offices under 38 U.S.C. §5902(a)(2). Accredited veterans' representatives not located at a VBA Regional Office who do not have such remote, on-line access are expected to go to the Regional Office and arrange with VA employees using VA computers to view a veteran's automated claims records. VA has decided to provide the same on-line, remote access capability to all individuals and organizations accredited under 38 CFR 14.626&hyph;.635 who represent claimants on VA claims for benefits and who request such access. Access will also be provided to attorneys of record for claimants before the Court of Veterans Appeals who request such access. The proposed rules concern when, and under what circumstances, VA will grant access, the responsibilities of those granted access, and the bases to revoke or suspend access. VA will grant no more than read-only access to authorized claimants' representatives for the purpose of assisting claimants for whom they hold a valid power of attorney (or equivalent designation) in presenting their claims for VA benefits. Read-only access necessarily includes the ability to print or down-load the information. Qualified representatives will be granted access by the Regional Office of jurisdiction for the particular claimant's records. In order for VBA to grant access, the Regional Office must first approve the equipment and software the applicant will use to obtain access, as well as the location from which the representative will access the VBA computer system. Approval of the hardware and software is intended to ensure that access can be accomplished while maintaining the necessary security. Approval of the location is intended to ensure that access is only from the representative's customary and usual or primary place of representation, and not from other locations. This avoids the use of unapproved equipment and limits the possibility of unauthorized access to the data by individuals not approved for access by VA. The applicant must also sign a notice that contains the security requirements applicable to the system. Certain confidentiality statutes, namely, the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. §552a, and 38 U.S.C. §§5701 and 7332 generally govern the VA's disclosure of claimants' records, whether paper or automated, to their representatives. Accredited representatives and agents may see the claims folders of those individuals whom they represent for two reasons: the claimant has indicated in advance in writing to the Department that the named individual or organization represents him or her on a claim for benefits, and the claimant has given prior written consent to VA's release of information to the claimant's representative. Attorneys, as officers of the court, need only file documentation that they represent the claimant. A routine use then permits the disclosure. These requirements also are designed to provide audit and accountability records for those who access the system, as well as ensuring the integrity and confidentiality of the system and data from unauthorized access.
