FR940920-1-00119 FR940920-1-00012 PART 152_STATE GRANTS FOR ARSON RESEARCH, PREVENTION, AND CONTROL Subpart A_Purpose, Scope, Definitions Sec. 152.1␣Purpose. 152.2␣Scope. 152.3␣Definitions. Subpart B_Competitive State Grants 152.4␣Grant goals. 152.5␣State qualification criteria. 152.6␣Grant application procedures. 152.7␣Available funds and application submission. 152.8␣Competitive evaluation criteria. 152.9␣Reporting requirements. Subpart C_Administration 152.10␣Extensions. 152.11␣Technical assistance. 152.12␣Consultation and cooperation. 152.13␣Audits. 152.14␣Penalties. Authority: 15 U.S.C. 2221; Reorganization Plan No. 3 of 1978, 43 FR 41943, 3 CFR, 1978 Comp., p. 329; E.O. 12127, 44 FR 19367, 3 CFR, 1979 Comp., p. 376. Subpart A_Purpose, Scope, Definitions §152.1 Purpose. This part establishes the uniform administrative rules under which States or consortia of States will request consideration for competitive arson research, prevention and control grant award(s), and details the associated administrative procedures which will be required of applicants and recipients. §152.2 Scope. This part applies to all States or consortia of States requesting competitive consideration of their respective proposals, and all those States or consortia of States actually awarded arson grants under this authority. §152.3 Definitions. Administrative costs means those actual expenses incurred by a grantee to oversee and execute the specific administrative provisions of the grant award, including as appropriate the provision of grant related monitoring services and reporting requirements, and the nominal purchase of necessary equipment and expendable supplies to support the administration of the grant. Administrator means the Administrator of the United States Fire Administration. Grantee means the State, consortia of States, or State and consortia of States identified as recipients of grant awards under this part. Prevention and Control means the aggressive intervention strategies, methods, and materials developed or relied upon to minimize the occurrence and effects of arson. Program Costs means the actually incurred expenses related to the development, delivery, training, research or other activities proposed and subsequently authorized by the grant award and other appropriate controls. Reporting Methodology is the means by which a jurisdiction provides arson data to the National Fire Incident Reporting System (NFIRS) or the Uniform Crime Reporting (UCR) programs. Research means the application of conventional scientific and statistical methods to assess a particular issue, application methodology, intervention or mitigation strategy in an effort to advance the collective scientific body of knowledge related to the nation's arson problem. Resources means tangible capability enhancements including but not limited to the purchase of program related equipment, services, materials, and expendable supplies. Responsible Official means the individual specifically authorized to act as the accountable Agent of the State for purposes of administering the grants awarded under this part. State means any State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, the Canal Zone, Guam, American Samoa, the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, and any other territory or possession of the United States. State Consortia means a cooperative and collective group of more than one State, (or State equivalents as noted above). Subpart B_Competitive State Grants §152.4 Grant goals. Grant applications for these grant awards must promote one or more of the following 10 goals: (a) To improve the training by States leading to professional certification of arson investigators in accordance with nationally recognized certification standards. Certification of arson investigators is to be accomplished in accordance with State guidelines, by appropriate State authorities. (b) To provide resources for the formulation of arson task forces or interagency organizational arrangements involving police and fire departments and other relevant local agencies, such as a State arson bureau and the office of a fire marshal of a State. (c) To combat fraud as a cause of arson, and to advance research at the State and local levels on the significance and prevention of fraud as a motive for setting fires. (d) To provide for the management of arson squads including: (1) Training courses for fire departments in arson case management including standardization of investigative techniques and reporting methodology;
