FR940720-0-00080 FR940720-0-00006 With regard to the effect of WIP adjustments on reformulated gasoline compliance, the simple model caps stated in the regulations apply to reformulated gasoline as well as to conventional gasoline. As stated in the final reformulated gasoline rule, when the simple model is used for compliance, the WIP-adjusted annual average baseline values for sulfur, olefins and T90 are the actual WIP-adjusted values of those parameters, provided they do not exceed the unadjusted baseline values or the simple model parameter caps given in section 80.91(e)(viii)(B). However, baseline parameters may now exceed these caps if the WIP adjusted baseline does not result in exhaust emissions of VOC, toxics, and NO X which exceed the emission levels specified in ยง80.91(e)(5)(vii)(B), namely 105% of the annual average statutory value. Based on questions received since promulgation of the final rule, two changes in the language of the Work-In-Progress (WIP) provisions are made to section 80.91(e)(5) to further clarify certain aspects of the WIP adjustment not explicitly addressed in the final rule. The regulatory language dealing with the emissions and parameter caps is unclear as to whether the caps apply to the actual values or to the change in emissions or parameter values. In addition, there appeared to be some confusion over what was meant by ``adjusted'' baseline. Paragraphs 80.91(e)(5)(vi) and 80.91(e)(5)(vii) have been modified to clarify agency intent. B. JP&hyph;4 Adjustment In the final rule for reformulated gasoline, EPA allowed adjustments for specific extenuating circumstances. Baseline fuel parameters, volumes and emissions of a refinery can be adjusted due to the occurrence of specific extraordinary or extenuating circumstances which caused its 1990 gasoline production to be different than it would have been had the circumstance not occurred. However, the Agency's objective is not to establish a broad adjustment program. Allowable circumstances include unforeseen, unplanned downtime of at least 30 days of one or more gasoline blendstock producing units due to equipment failure or natural cause beyond the control of the refiner, or for non-annual maintenance (turnaround) downtime which occurred in 1990. These types of adjustments reflect instances where the 1990 baseline truly deviated from the otherwise expected baseline (historic and future), had the incident not occurred. EPA also expects that allowed adjustments will have minimal environmental impact while relieving a large regulatory burden. In keeping with that policy objective, EPA promulgated provisions to permit baseline adjustments for certain refiners which produced JP&hyph;4 jet fuel in 1990, upon petition and approval. As discussed in the RIA for the reformulated gasoline final rule, EPA believes that it has authority to allow such adjustments due to the discretion afforded EPA by Congress. Additionally, Alabama Power v. Costle 7 gives EPA ``case-by-case discretion'' to grant variances or even dispensation from a rule where imposition of the requirement would result in minimal environmental benefit but would extremely burden a regulated party. Today's action changes two portions of the provisions for JP&hyph;4 adjustment: the multiple refinery requirement and the JP&hyph;4 to gasoline production ratio. In the final reformulated gasoline rule, JP&hyph;4 baseline adjustments are generally limited to single-refinery refiners because such refiners have no way to aggregate baselines 8 so as to reduce the combined burden of a JP&hyph;4 phaseout and the anti-dumping requirements on their operations. In some cases, if no relief were granted in this area, the viability of a refinery could be at stake. 7 Alabama Power Company v. Costle, 636 F.2d 323.357 (D.C. Cir 1979). 8 A refiner with more than one refinery may determine an aggregate baseline, i.e., a conventional gasoline compliance baseline, which consists of the volume-weighted emissions or fuel parameters, as applicable, of two or more refineries.
