FR940217-2-00009 FR940217-2-00005 Scope of the Review The merchandise covered by this review is one-piece and two-piece chrome-plated lug nuts, finished or unfinished, which are more than 11/16 inches (17.45 millimeters) in height and which have a hexagonal (hex) size of at least 3/4 inches (19.05 millimeters). The term ``unfinished'' refers to unplated and/or unassembled chrome-plated lug nuts. The subject merchandise is used for securing wheels to cars, vans, trucks, utility vehicles, and trailers. Zinc-plated lug nuts, finished or unfinished, and stainless-steel capped lug nuts are not in the scope of this review. Chrome-plated lock nuts are also not in the scope of this review. During the POR, chrome-plated lug nuts were provided for under subheading 7318.16.00.00 of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule (HTS). Although the HTS subheading is provided for convenience and Customs purposes, our written description of the scope of this review is dispositive. Best Information Available Based on information gathered while on verification, the Department determined that the data submitted by Gourmet for this review are unverifiable because the response Gourmet submitted was based on an ``in-house'' accounting system that could not be reconciled to an audited financial statement. Reliance on the accounting system used for the preparation of the audited financial statements is a key and vital part of the Department's determination that a company's constructed value data are credible. An ``in-house'' system which has not been audited and is not used for the preparation of the financial statements or for any purpose other than internal deliberations of the company does not assure the Department that such costs have been stated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, or that all costs have been appropriately captured by the ``in-house'' system (see Final Determination at Less Than Fair Value: Certain Hot-Rolled Carbon Steel Flat Products, Certain Cold-Rolled Carbon Steel Flat Products and Certain Cut-To-Length Carbon Steel Plate from Korea, 58 FR 37186 (July 9, 1993)). Since Gourmet's ``in-house'' system cannot be relied upon due to numerous deficiencies (see Use of BIA, and Middleman dumping allegation memo to Holly Kuga, Director, Office of Antidumping Compliance), the Department has determined to apply BIA to Gourmet's sales in the POR, pursuant to Section 776(c) of the Tariff Act. Chu Fong and San Chien both failed to respond to the Department's questionnaire. Accordingly, we are applying BIA to their entries. In deciding what to use as BIA, the Department's regulations provide that the Department may take into account whether a party refuses to provide requested information (19 CFR 353.37(b)). Thus, the Department may determine, on a case-by-case basis, what constitutes BIA. For the purposes of these preliminary results, we applied the following two tiers of BIA where we were unable to use a company's response for purposes of determining a dumping margin (see Final Results of Antidumping Duty Administrative Review of Antifriction Bearings and Parts Thereof from France, et al., 58 FR 39739, July 26, 1993): 1. When a company refuses to cooperate with the Department or otherwise significantly impedes these proceedings, we used as BIA the higher of (1) the highest of the rates found for any firm for the same class or kind of merchandise in the same country of origin in the less than fair value investigation (LTFV) or prior administrative reviews: or (2) the highest rate found in this review for any firm for the same class or kind of merchandise in the same country of origin. 2. When a company substantially cooperates with our requests for information and, substantially cooperates in verification, but fails to provide the information requested in a timely manner or in the form required or was unable to substantiate it, we used as BIA the higher of (1) the highest rate ever applicable to the firm for the same class or kind of merchandise from either the LTFV investigation or a prior administrative review or if the firm has never before been investigated or reviewed, the all others rate from the LTFV investigation; or (2) the highest calculated rate in this review for the class or kind of merchandise for any firm from the same country of origin. Therefore, for parties refusing to respond, Chu Fong and San Chien, the first-tier BIA rate we applied in these preliminary results is 10.67 percent, which is the highest rate the Department found in the original LTFV investigation, Gourmet provided us with responses to our questionnaires, however the information on the record was unverifiable. Accordingly, we applied the second-tier BIA rate of 6.47 percent. This rate represents the highest rate ever applicable to Gourmet. King Kong Corporation received the ``all other'' rate because the Department attempted, but could not locate, an address for it. Preliminary Results of Review We have preliminarily determined that the following margins exist for the period April 18, 1991, through August 31, 1992: ␣ 1Manufacturer/exporter 1Margin (percent) Gourmet Equipment (Taiwan) Corporation 6.47 Chu Fong Metallic Industrial Works Co, Ltd 10.67 San Chien Industrial Works, Ltd 10.67 King Kong Corporation 6.93 The Department shall determine, and the Customs Service shall assess, antidumping duties on all appropriate entries. Upon completion of this review, the Department will issue appraisement instructions concerning all respondents directly to the U.S. Customs Service.
