FR940428-2-00093 FR940428-2-00052 Indiana Michigan Power Company, Docket No. 50&hyph;316, Donald C. Cook Nuclear Plant, Unit No. 2, Berrien County, Michigan Date of Amendment Request: March 9, 1994 Description of Amendment Request: The proposed amendment would modify the Technical Specification to allow a one time exemption from certain Appendix J testing. This exemption would extend the interval for Type B and C testing until the Unit 2 refueling outage currently scheduled for August 1994. Basis for Proposed No Significant Hazards Consideration Determination: As required by 10 CFR 50.91(a), the licensee has provided its analysis of the issue of no significant hazards consideration, which is presented below: As stated in 10 CFR 50.92(c), a proposed change does not involve a significant hazards consideration if the change does not (1) involve a significant increase in the probability or consequences of an accident previously evaluated, or (2) the change does not create the possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any accident previously evaluated, or (3) the change does not involve a significant reduction in a margin of safety. Criterion 1 The limiting conditions for operation involving containment integrity are not altered by this proposed change. The surveillance requirement concerning the Type B and C leak rate test is slightly relaxed by the proposed change. The function of the components affected by this surveillance are to ensure containment integrity. Delaying the surveillance approximately two months would not change the probability of an accident. Our significant improvement in Type B and C leak rate test results, low anticipated leak rate for the next surveillance, aggressive corrective actions taken, and excellent ILRT [integrated leak rate test] results indicate there is no reason to believe that delaying the Type B and C leak rate tests approximately two months will cause serious deterioration to these components. Furthermore, similar requests by utilities to extend the surveillance beyond two years have already been found acceptable by the NRC. Therefore, it is concluded that the proposed amendment does not involve a significant increase in the probability or consequences of an accident previously evaluated. Criterion 2 No changes to the limiting conditions for operation for containment integrity are proposed as part of this amendment request. The proposed change does not involve any physical changes to the plant or any changes to plant operations. Thus, the proposed change does not create the possibility of a new or different kind of accident from any accident previously evaluated. Criterion 3 The intent of the Type B and C leak rate surveillance is to ensure that containment integrity does not significantly deteriorate. This is established by measuring a total leak rate of less than 0.60 L a . Our significant improvement in Type B and C leak rate tests results, aggressive corrective actions taken, and excellent ILRT results indicate there is no reason to believe that delaying the Type B and C leak rate tests approximately two months will cause serious deterioration to these components. The ``As Found'' trend of the leak rates over the past three surveillances indicate that the leak rate for the next surveillance will be below the Appendix J leak rate acceptance criteria. Therefore, it is concluded that the proposed amendment does not involve a reduction in a margin of safety. The NRC staff has reviewed the licensee's analysis and, based on this review, it appears that the three standards of 10 CFR 50.92(c) are satisfied. Therefore, the NRC staff proposes to determine that the amendment request involves no significant hazards consideration. Local Public Document Room Location: Maud Preston Palenske Memorial Library, 500 Market Street, St. Joseph, Michigan 49085 Attorney for Licensee: Gerald Charnoff, Esq., Shaw, Pittman, Potts and Trowbridge, 2300 N Street NW., Washington, DC 20037.
