FR941007-1-00139 FR941007-1-00009 (ii) Provide any other information concerning its lending performance, including additional loan distribution data. (c) Data on affiliate lending. A bank that wishes to have the FDIC consider lending by its affiliates for purposes of the lending test shall be prepared to identify the particular home mortgage loans reported under HMDA which it wishes the FDIC to consider, and shall collect or report, pursuant to the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, the requisite data concerning the small business, small farm, or consumer loans made by its affiliates that it wishes FDIC to consider. (d) Data on consortia and third-party lending. A bank that wishes to have the FDIC consider community development lending through consortia in which the bank participates or through third parties in which the bank has invested shall report, pursuant to paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section, the requisite data concerning the community development loans made through consortia and third parties that it wishes the FDIC to consider. ยง345.43 Public file and disclosure by banks. (a) Public availability. Each bank shall maintain a file that is readily available for public inspection containing the information required by this section. (b) Current information. Each bank shall include in its public file the following information: (1) All signed, written comments received from the public for the current year and each of the prior two calendar years that specifically relate to the bank's performance in helping to meet the credit needs of its community or communities, and any response to the comments by the bank; (2) A copy of the public section of the bank's most recent CRA Performance Evaluation prepared by the FDIC. The bank shall place this copy in the public file within 30 business days after its receipt from the FDIC; (3) A list of the areas the bank considers to be its service area(s), a list of the geographies it considers to be within its service area(s), and a map of each service area showing the geographies contained therein; (4) A list of the bank's branches and RSFs, their street addresses, and geographies; (5) A list of branches and RSFs opened or closed by the bank during the current and each of the prior two calendar years, their street addresses, and geographies; and (6) A list of services (including hours of operation, available loan and deposit products, and transaction fees) generally offered at the bank's branches and RSFs and descriptions of material deviations in the availability or cost of services at particular branches and RSFs, if any. At its option, a bank may include information regarding the availability of alternative systems for delivering retail banking services ( e.g., banking by telephone or computer, mobile branches and RSFs, RSFs not owned or operated by or operated exclusively for the bank, loan production offices, and bank-at-work or by-mail programs). (c) Information for prior years. Each bank that is not a small bank shall include in its public file the following information for each of the prior two calendar years derived from the data collected or reported pursuant to ยง345.42 of this part: (1) The number and amount of small business loans and small farm loans located in low-, moderate-, middle-, and upper-income geographies; (2) A list of the geographies where the bank had outstanding at least one small business loan or small farm loan; (3) The number and amount of small business and small farm loans located inside the bank's service area(s) and outside the bank's service area(s); (4) The number and amount of small business and small farm loans to minority-owned businesses; (5) The number and amount of small business and small farm loans to women-owned businesses; (6) The number and amount of small business and small farm loans to businesses and farms with gross annual revenues less than or equal to $1 million;
