FR940203-0-00061 FR940203-0-00017 Comment: One commenter noted that provision is made in the proposed regulations for altering the test procedure if marine mammal fatalities or injuries are detected. The commenter feels that if the consensus among marine biologists is that harassment occurs beyond the bounds of the safety zone *␣*␣*, this should also be justification for altering the test procedure. Response: Theoretically, physical and acoustic harassment may occur outside the 2-nm safety zone (refer to the Navy application for information). However, because of shot geometries, the amount of ``safe water'' at the water surface is closer to the detonation point than the perimeter of the safety zone. For this reason, NMFS believes that the 3-nm post-test survey zone will include all marine mammals ``harassed'' by the shot. NMFS will continue to monitor ship shock tests to determine whether modifications to the procedure, the regulations or the monitoring program will result in a decrease in marine mammal take, including takes by harassment. Comment: One commenter noted that the application presents test data versus model predictions for lung injury (Table 7) and because marine mammals vary greatly in size and volume of air spaces, fat content, and other things, fixed models are problematic in describing lethal or injurious effects to marine mammals. Response: Absent data from experimental testing on live marine mammals (or other proxy animals) for the larger explosive charges, the model predictions are the best scientific data available and have been used by NMFS and the Navy for their calculations of incidental take. However, it should be noted that figures 11 through 15 in the application show the calculated range for the onset of slight lung injury as a function of both the marine mammal weight and the explosive charge weight. Figure 11 shows that the larger the mammal, the closer to the detonation site the animal needed to be in order to incur injury. The Navy used a marine mammal weighing 110 lb (50 kilograms (kg)) to calculate the safety range necessary to preclude injury to marine mammals. Comment: The low frequency (below 300 Hz) of the detonation acoustic signal has been determined as being too low to harass any odontocetes (i.e., toothed whales). The commenter stated that only limited data are available on the effect of low frequency sound on odontocetes, and because the data available are for one or two species (to the commenter's knowledge), can NMFS therefore make such a sweeping assumption? Response: The best scientific information available indicates that odontocete cetaceans cannot hear well in the frequencies emitted by the explosive detonation. Additional evidence indicates that they also may not be able to hear the pulse generated from underwater detonations of even the largest charges because it is very brief (ca. 0.05 sec). However, because odontocetes and pinnipeds are considered to be ``taken'' by physical harassment already, whether they also hear (and are thereby acoustically harassed) the explosion would not add significantly to the take estimates. Comment: One commenter wanted to know how many Navy ships and planes would be in the area at the time of detonation and afterwards and whether this activity might affect marine mammals, seabirds, turtles, fish, and other marine life. Response: The number of Navy vessels and aircraft that would be involved in the exercise will depend upon their specific requirements for the ship shock trial. The effect of these vessels on marine life, including marine mammals, would be expected to be negligible and likely no more intrusive than that caused by commercial and other vessels using the nearby Route 2 ship traffic lane into Los Angeles/Long Beach (approximately 4.6 percent of the approximately 19,800 round trips annually by non-commercial fishing marine vessels into Los Angeles/Long Beach use Route 2). There may be some inadvertent harassment of marine mammals by marine mammal surveillance aircraft during the various surveys for mammal-free areas for the detonation site. However, because these search efforts are under the direction and control of NMFS Southwest Fisheries Science Center (SWFSC) and are for the purpose of avoiding injury or death to marine mammals, this activity is being covered under their scientific research permit (Permit Number 873; P77 # 50). In addition, there might be some harassment takes during the post-survey monitoring and recovery efforts. This latter program is authorized by the regulations (50 CFR 228.55(d)(2)) and does not require a separate permit under the MMPA. Comment: One commenter wanted the Navy to recalculate its incidental take request by using the upper 95th percentile of the population abundance estimates instead of the mean of those estimates. This, the commenter believes, would avoid the possibility of the Navy exceeding its authorized take limits and needing to cease operations in order to request the additional takes.
