FR941212-1-00011 FR941212-1-00008 DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION Coast Guard 33 CFR Part 117 [CGD01&hyph;94&hyph;057] RIN 2115&hyph;AE47 Drawbridge Operation Regulations; Plum Island River, MA AGENCY: Coast Guard, DOT. ACTION: Notice of proposed rulemaking. SUMMARY: The Coast Guard is considering a change to the regulations governing the Plum Island Bridge over the Plum Island River between Newburyport and Plum Island, Massachusetts, by requiring advance notice for openings at all times. This action is being proposed because there have been increasingly fewer requests for bridge openings in recent years. This will relieve the bridge owner of the unnecessary burden of having personnel at the bridge at all times. DATES: Comments must be received on or before February 10, 1995. ADDRESSES: Comments should be mailed to Commander (obr), First Coast Guard District, Captain John Foster Williams Federal Building, 408 Atlantic Ave, Boston, Massachusetts 02110&hyph;3350. Comments may also be hand-delivered to this address. The comments and other materials referenced in this notice will be available for inspection and copying by appointment at the Captain John Foster Williams Federal Building, Room 628, 408 Atlantic Avenue, Boston, Massachusetts. Normal office hours are between 6:30 a.m. and 3 p.m., Monday through Friday, except federal holidays. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: William C. Heming, Bridge Administrator, First Coast Guard District, (212) 668&hyph;7170. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Request for Comments Interested persons are invited to participate in this rulemaking by submitting written views, comments, data, or arguments. Persons submitting comments should include their names and addresses, identify this rulemaking (CGD01&hyph;94&hyph;057), the specific section of this proposal to which each comment applies, and give reasons for each comment. The Coast Guard requests that all comments and attachments be submitted in an unbound format suitable for copying and electronic filing. If not practical, a second copy of any bounded material is requested. Persons desiring acknowledgment that their comments have been received should enclose a stamped, self-addressed post card or envelope. The Coast Guard will consider all comments received during the comment period and may change this proposal in light of comments received. The Coast Guard plans no public hearing. Persons may request a public hearing by writing to the Commander (obr), First Coast Guard District at the address listed under ADDRESSES . The request should include reasons why a hearing would be beneficial. If the Coast Guard determines that the opportunity for oral presentations will aid this rulemaking, the Coast Guard will hold a public hearing at a time and place announced by a later notice in the Federal Register . Drafting Information The drafters of this notice are Mr. John McDonald, First Coast Guard District Bridge Branch, Project Manager and Lieutenant Commander S.R. Watkins, First Coast Guard District Legal Office, Project Counsel. Background and Purpose The Plum Island Bridge over the Plum Island River between Newburyport and Plum Island, Massachusetts has a vertical clearance of 13 ’ above mean high water (MHW) and 21 ’ above mean low water (MLW). The proposed regulations will permit the bridge to open on signal April 1 to November 30; 5 a.m. to 9 p.m., if at least one hour advance notice is given. At all other times the draw will open on signal if at least three hours advance notice is given. There were few requests for openings during 1993 (48) and 1992 (75). The Plum Island River is not navigable except during high tide. Discussion of Proposed Amendments The Massachusetts Highway Department has requested a change to the present operating regulations in 33 CFR 117.615 which allow the Plum Island Bridge to open on signal from April 1 through November 30, during daylight hours, two hours before to two hours after high tide. At all other times the draw shall open on signal if at least three hours notice is given. The proposed regulations will permit the draw to open on signal April 1 to November 30; 5 a.m. to 9 p.m., if at least one hour advance notice is given by calling the number posted at the bridge. At all other times the draw will open on signal if at least three hours advance notice is given. This change to the regulations is being proposed due to the infrequent requests for openings. The proposed change to the regulations will relieve the bridge owner of the burden of having personnel at the bridge at all times. The change to specific operating hours will help avoid any confusion that occurred regarding actual sunrise and sunset. Additionally, the restriction from two hours before and two hours after high tide has been removed. If the mariners are able to transit the waterway they may request an opening so long as they provide the required advance notice to the highway department. The drawtenders will be on call to open the draw when the advance notice is given. Regulatory Evaluation This proposal is not a significant regulatory action under section 3(f) of Executive Order 12866, and does not require an assessment of potential costs and benefits under section 6(a)(3) of that order. It has been exempted from review by the Office of Management and Budget under that order. It is not significant under the regulatory policies and procedures of the Department of Transportation (DOT) (44 FR 11040; February 26, 1979). The Coast Guard expects the economic impact to be so minimal that a full Regulatory Evaluation, under paragraph 10e of the regulatory policies and procedures of DOT, is unnecessary. This conclusion is based on the fact that the regulation will not prevent mariners from transiting the Plum Island Bridge. Rather, it will only require mariners to plan their transits and provide advance notice. Small Entities Under the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. 601 et seq. ), the Coast Guard must consider whether this action will have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. ``Small entities'' include independently owned and operated small businesses that are not dominant in their field and that otherwise qualify as ``small business concerns'' under section 3 of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 632). Because of the reasons discussed in the Regulatory Evaluation above, the Coast Guard certifies under 5 U.S.C. 605(b) that this action, if adopted, will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. Collection of Information This rule contains no collection of information requirements under the Paperwork Reduction Act (44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq. ). Federalism The Coast Guard has analyzed this proposal in accordance with the principles and criteria contained in Executive Order 12612, and it has been determined that this proposed regulation does not have sufficient federalism implications to warrant preparation of a Federalism Assessment.
