FR940208-2-00004 FR940208-2-00003 Forest Service Butch Creek Timber Sale; Idaho Panhandle National Forests, Pend Oreille County, Washington. ACTION: Notice of availability of the draft environmental impact statement for proposed activities in the Butch Creek project area. DATES: The comment period on this draft environmental impact statement expires March 28, 1994. ADDRESSES: Send written comments to District Ranger, Priest Lake Ranger District, HCR 5, Box 207, Priest River ID 83856. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Questions about the proposed action and environmental impact statement should be directed to Kent Dunstan, District Ranger; David Cobb, the Interdisciplinary Team Leader, or David Asleson, the District Planning Staff Officer, Priest Lake Ranger District, Idaho Panhandle National Forests, HCR 5 Box 207, Priest Lake ID 83856. Phone: (208) 443&hyph;2512. SUMMARY: The notice is hereby given that the Forest Service has prepared a Draft Environmental Impact Statement (DEIS) documenting the environmental effects that proposed timber harvesting and watershed improvement activities would have in the Butch Creek project area. The area is located approximately 15 air miles northwest of Priest River, Idaho, and is approximately 7,270 acres in size. Public participation is important. People may visit with Forest Service officials at any time prior to the decision, however, it is very important that public comment be made available to the Forest Service during review of this Draft EIS. After a 45-day public comment period, the comments received will be analyzed and considered by the Forest Service in preparing the Final Environmental Impact Statement (FEIS). The FEIS is scheduled to be completed by June, 1994. The Forest Service will respond to the comments received from the DEIS in the FEIS. The District Ranger is the responsible official for this EIS, and will make a decision regarding this proposal considering the comments and responses, environmental consequences discussed in the FEIS, and applicable laws, regulations, and policies. The decision and reasons for the decision will be documented in a Record of Decision. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: A very specific proposed action was developed for the area that includes timber harvest, reforestation and watershed rehabilitation activities. The proposed action and alternatives to the proposed action were developed within the framework of Ecosystem Management. This approach considers the management of all resources on large land areas with emphasis on sustaining the ecological systems present. Five alternatives were developed, including a No-Action Alternative. Alternative C is the alternative preferred by the Forest Service. Under Alternative C, approximately 4.5 million board feet of green, dead and dying timber would be harvested within 23 harvest units. Harvest methods include commercial thinning, overstory removal, group selection, individual tree selection, sanitation/salvage, shelterwood with reserves and seed tree with reserves. Skyline and tractor yarding methods would be utilized to harvest trees within these areas. In addition to these timber management activities, approximately 69 acres would be precommercially thinned. Access to these proposed harvest areas would require 0.9 mile of new road construction, 8.7 miles of road reconstruction and 0.8 mile of road reconditioning. All of these roads would be closed, either immediately following the timber harvesting or after the post sale activities (such as slash burning and planting) have been completed. The majority of the newly constructed roads would be obliterated immediately after the timber is harvested while the majority of the reconstructed roads would be closed following the post sale activities. In addition to these road activities, improvements to the existing Forest Service Road 305 would be made over an 8-mile stretch within the project area to reduce the amount of sediment reaching the adjacent stream. To further improve the watershed conditions, structures would be placed into some headwater streams. Management activities would be administered by the Priest Lake Ranger District of the Idaho Panhandle National Forests in Bonner County, Idaho. This DEIS will tier to the Forest Plan (September 1987) which provides the overall guidance (Goals, Objectives, Standards and Guidelines, and Management Area direction) in achieving the desired future condition for this area. HOW TO RESPOND: The agency invites written comments and suggestions on the issues and management opportunities in the area being analyzed. To ensure that these comments are considered in the final decision, comments must be postmarked or received within 45 days from the date that this notice is published in the Federal Register . Commenters should include: (1) Name, address, telephone number, organization represented, if any; (2) title of the document on which the comment is being submitted (Butch Creek DEIS); and (3) specific concerns and supporting reasons for the District Ranger to consider. Copies of the Record of Decision will be mailed to those people who have submitted comments either before or during the comment period and to those who request a copy. Dated: January 25, 1994. Kent L. Dunstan, District Ranger, Priest Lake Ranger District, Idaho Panhandle National Forests. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;2584 Filed 2&hyph;7&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3410&hyph;11&hyph;M
