FR940511-2-00132 FR940511-2-00088 A. To a Federal, State, or local government agency, or to a contractor acting on its behalf, to the extent that such disclosure is necessary to enable these agencies/contractors to make decisions concerning the (1) hiring or retention of an employee; (2) issuance of a security clearance; (3) reporting of an investigation of an employee; (4) letting of a contract; (5) issuance of a license or grant; or (6) determination of eligibility for a Federal program or other benefit. Such access may be via a system in which the recipient performs its own automated verification of the requisite information for deciding any of the above. INS will assign appropriate access codes for remote access through secured terminals to agencies which are to perform their own automated verification. Records may also be disclosed to these agencies, or contractors operating on their behalf, for use in computer matching programs for the purpose of verifying an alien's immigrant status or non-immigrant status and/or eligibility for the purpose of making Federal program benefit eligibility determinations. B. To employers for verifying the employment eligibility of aliens to work in the United States in compliance with employer sanctions of the 1986 Immigration Reform and Control Act. Employers are assigned secure access codes and will have access through touch-tone telephone and/or point of sale equipment. C. To the private contractor for maintenance and for other administrative support operations (e.g., preparing for INS management reimbursable cost reports etc. based on user access), to the extent necessary to perform such contract duties. D. To other Federal, State, or local government agencies for the purpose of verifying information in conjunction with the conduct of a national intelligence and security investigation or for criminal or civil law enforcement purposes. E. To the news media and the public pursuant to 23 CFR 50.2 unless it is determined that release of the specific information in the context of a particular case would constitute an unwarranted invasion of personal privacy. F. To a Member of Congress or staff acting upon the Member's behalf when the Member of staff request the information on behalf of and at the request of the individual who is the subject of the record. G. To the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA) and the General Services Administration in records management inspections conducted under the authority of 44 U.S.C. 2904 and 2906. POLICIES AND PRACTICES FOR STORING, RETRIEVING, ACCESSING, RETAINING, AND DISPOSING OF RECORDS IN THE SYSTEM: STORAGE: Records are stored on magnetic disk and tape. RETRIEVABILITY: Records are indexed and retrievable by name and date and place of birth, or by name and social security account number, by name and A-file number. SAFEGUARDS: Records are safeguarded in accordance with Department of Justice Orders governing security of automated records and Privacy Act systems of records. Access. is controlled by restricted password for use of remote terminals in secured areas. RETENTION AND DISPOSAL: A request for disposition authority is pending the approval of NARA. SYSTEM MANAGER AND ADDRESS: The Assistant Commissioner, Records Systems Division, Immigration and Naturalization Service, 425 I Street NW., Washington, DC., is the sole manager of the system. NOTIFICATION PROCEDURE: Inquiries should be addressed to the system manager listed above. RECORD ACCESS PROCEDURES: In all cases, requests for access to a record from this system shall be in writing. If a request for access is made by mail the envelope and letter shall be clearly marked ``Privacy Act Request.'' The requester shall include the name, date and place of birth of the person whose record is sought and if known the alien file number. The requester shall also provide a return address for transmitting the information. CONTESTING RECORD PROCEDURES: Any individual desiring to contest or amend information maintained in the system should direct his or her request to the System Manager or to the INS office that maintains the file. The request should state clearly what information is being contested, the reasons for contesting it, and the proposed amendment to the information. RECORD SOURCE CATEGORIES: Basic information contained in this system is taken from Department of State and INS applications and reports on the individual. SYSTEMS EXEMPTED FROM CERTAIN PROVISIONS OF THE ACT: None. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;11300 Filed 5&hyph;10&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4410&hyph;10&hyph;M
