FR940228-2-00134 FR940228-2-00082 (g) Past experience in obtaining and providing similar services for HA families [15 points]; (h) The ability of the HA or a designated service provider to provide the supportive services [5 points]; (i) The extent to which the HA has a good record of maintaining and operating public housing, as determined by its Public Housing Management Assessment Plan (PHMAP), and has utilized innovative and workable strategies to improve management (e.g., LEAP, which uses highly skilled retired military personnel in key management positions) [10 points]; (j) The extent to which the HA has coordinated implementation of the program, including those in target areas such as Weed and Seed, Distressed, etc., with tribal, State and/or local social service agencies [10 points]. In assigning points for this factor, HUD shall consider the involvement of those agencies in the development of the application and their commitment of assistance in the implementation of the FIC. The commitment of these agencies may be demonstrated through evidence of intent to provide direct financial assistance or other resources, such as social services ( e.g., counseling and training); the use of public/Indian housing funds available through existing State and local programs; or other commitments; and (k) Extent to which the HA has demonstrated that it will commit to its FIC part of its formula allocation of Comprehensive Grant Program (CGP) funds for CGP-eligible activities that result in employment, training, and contracting opportunities for its residents [25 points]. H. Environmental Review Any environmental impact regarding eligible activities will be addressed through an environmental review of that activity as required by 24 CFR part 50, including the applicable related laws and authorities under section 50.4, to be completed by HUD, to ensure that any environmental impact will be addressed before assistance is provided to the HA. Grantees will be expected to adhere to all assurances applicable to environmental concerns as contained in this NOFA and grant agreements. II. Application Submissions Process A. Application Kit An application kit is required as the formal submission to apply for funding. The kit includes information and guidance on preparation of a Plan and Budget for activities proposed by the applicant. This process facilitates the execution of the grant for those selected to receive funding. An application may be obtained from the local HUD Field/Indian Offices with delegated responsibilities over an applying HA (See Appendix A for listing), or by calling HUD's Resident Initiatives Clearinghouse toll free number 1&hyph;800&hyph;955&hyph;2232. Requests for application kits must include your name, mailing address or P.O. Box (including zip code), and telephone number (including area code), and should refer to document FR&hyph;3397&hyph;N&hyph;01. Applications may be requested beginning March 24, 1994. B. Application Submission The original and two copies of the application must be submitted. The Appendix lists addresses of HUD Field/Indian Offices that will accept the completed application. The application must be physically received by 4:30 p.m., local time, on June 22, 1994. This application deadline is firm to date and hour. In the interest of fairness to all competing applicants, the Department will treat as ineligible for consideration any application that is received after the deadline. Applicants should take this practice into account and make early submission of their applications to avoid any risk of loss of eligibility brought on by unanticipated delays or other delivery-related problems. Facsimile and telegraphic applications are not authorized and shall not be considered. III. Checklist of Application Submission Requirements The Application Kit will contain a checklist of all application submission requirements to complete the application process. A. Applications for Supportive Services Only must contain the following information: (1) Name and address (or P.O. Box) of the HA. Name and telephone number of contact person (in the event further information or clarification is needed during the application review process); (2) SF&hyph;424A, Budget Information, Non-Construction Programs, and SF&hyph;424B, Assurances, Non-Construction Programs; (3) A description of the need for supportive services by eligible residents; (4) A description of the supportive services that are to be provided over at least a 5-year period after the initial receipt of funding under this NOFA, and how the supportive services will enhance education and job opportunities for residents; (5) Evidence of a firm commitment of assistance from one or more sources ensuring that the supportive services will be provided for not less than one year following the completion of activities funded under this NOFA. Evidence shall be in the form of a letter or resolution. A cost allocation plan shall be submitted outlining the one-year commitment; (6) A description of public or private sources of assistance that can reasonably be expected to fund or provide supportive services, including evidence of any intention to provide assistance expressed by State and local governments, private foundations, and other organizations (including profit and nonprofit organizations);
