FR941110-0-00332 FR941110-0-00019 (b) Purpose of reserve. The purpose of this reserve shall be to provide a source of reserve funds for nonroutine maintenance (including replacement), as necessary to ensure the long-term success of the plan, including protection of the interests of the homeowners and the PHA. The amounts to be set aside, and other terms of this reserve, shall be as necessary and appropriate for the particular homeownership plan, taking into account such factors as prospective needs for nonroutine maintenance, the homeowners' financial resources, and any special factors that may aggravate or mitigate the need for such a reserve. §906.12 Purchase prices and financing. (a) Below-market terms. To ensure affordability by eligible purchasers, by the standard adopted under §906.8(e), a homeownership plan may provide for below-market purchase prices or below-market financing, or a combination of the two. Discounted purchase prices may be determined on a unit-by-unit basis, based on the particular purchaser's ability to pay, or may be determined by any other fair and reasonable method ( e.g., uniform prices for a group of comparable dwellings, within a range of affordability by a group of potential purchasers). (b) Types of financing. Any type of private or public financing may be used ( e.g., conventional, Federal Housing Administration (FHA), Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), Farmers' Home Administration (FmHA), or a State or local program). A PHA may finance or assist in financing purchase by any methods it may choose, such as purchase-money mortgages, guarantees of mortgage loans from other lenders, shared equity, or lease-purchase arrangements. §906.13 Protection against fraud and abuse. A homeownership plan shall include appropriate protections against any risks of fraud or abuse that are presented by the particular plan, such as collusive purchase for the benefit of nonresidents, extended use of the dwelling by the purchaser as rental property, or collusive sale that would circumvent the resale profit limitation of §906.14. §906.14 Limitation on resale profit. (a) General. If a dwelling is sold to the initial purchaser for less than fair market value, the homeownership plan shall provide for appropriate measures to preclude realization by the initial purchaser of windfall profit on resale. ``Windfall profit'' means all or a portion of the resale proceeds attributable to the purchase price discount (the fair market value at date of purchase from the PHA less the below-market purchase price), as determined by one of the methods described in paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section. Subject to that requirement, however, purchasers should be permitted to retain any resale profit attributable to appreciation in value after purchase (or a portion of such profit under a limited or shared equity arrangement), along with any portion of the resale profit that is fairly attributable to improvements made by them after purchase. ( b) Promissory note method. Where there is potential for a windfall profit because the dwelling unit is sold to the initial purchaser for less than fair market value, without a commensurate limited or shared equity restriction, the initial purchaser shall execute a promissory note, payable to the PHA, along with a mortgage securing the obligation of the note, on the following terms and conditions: (1) The principal amount of indebtedness shall be the lesser of: (i) The purchase price discount, as determined by the definition in paragraph (a) of this section and stated in the note as a dollar amount; or (ii) The net resale profit, in an amount to be determined upon resale by a formula stated in the note. That formula shall define net resale profit as the amount by which the gross resale price exceeds the sum of: (A) The discounted purchase price; (B) Reasonable sale costs charged to the initial purchaser upon resale; and (C) Any increase in the value of the property that is attributable to improvements paid for or performed by the initial purchaser during tenure as a homeowner. (2) At the option of the PHA, the note may provide for automatic reduction of the principal amount over a specified period of ownership while the property is used as the purchaser's family residence, resulting in total forgiveness of the indebtedness over a period of not less than five years from the date of conveyance, in annual increments of not more than 20 percent. This does not require a PHA's plan to provide for any such reduction at all, or preclude it from specifying terms that are less generous to the purchaser than those stated in the foregoing sentence. (3) To preclude collusive resale that would circumvent the intent of this section, the PHA shall (by an appropriate form of title restriction) condition the initial purchaser's right to resell upon approval by the PHA, to be based solely on the PHA's determination that the resale price represents fair market value or a lesser amount that will result in payment to the PHA, under the note, of the full amount of the purchase price discount (subject to any accrued reduction, if provided for by the homeownership plan pursuant to paragraph (b)(2) of this section). If so determined, the PHA shall be obligated to approve the resale. (4) The PHA may, in its sole discretion, agree to subordination of the mortgage that secures the promissory note, in favor of an additional lien granted by the purchaser as security for a loan for home improvements or other purposes approved by the PHA.
