FR941012-0-00059 FR941012-0-00011 On the basis of information submitted to the record and the testimony presented during the hearings, OSHA has determined that employers will not have difficulty in complying with the training requirements of the final rule. OSHA believes that the performance-based elements adopted in the final rule will enhance employee safety and will provide employees with the tools to permit them to actively participate in providing their own protection. The Industrial Truck Association (ITA) recommended that OSHA specify in greater detail the training required for industrial truck operators (Ex. W1 5&hyph;47, Tr. 221&hyph;27). ITA urged OSHA to adopt the training provisions from the ASME B56.6 standard on rough-terrain forklift trucks. Mr. William Montweiler, testifying for ITA, stated: Part Two of the B56.6 standard addresses general safety and operating practices that are highly relevant to the proposed rule's training provisions. Although ITA is pleased that the proposed rule's training provisions provide greater detail than OSHA's industrial truck rule, these provisions can be made still more effective by additional particularity. The proposed rule merely requires that employees be trained to recognize safety hazards and trained ``in the safe use or maintenance of any machinery, equipment, or tools that they may be required to operate or maintain.'' This directive, we feel, is inadequate because it fails to state the elements that comprise an effective training program. By contrast, paragraph 5.17.4 of the B56.6 voluntary standard lists numerous elements of a proper training program specific to rough-terrain forklift truck operation, including explanation of the safety-related aspects of truck and component design; location and function of controls; supervised practice; oral, written, and operational performance testing; and refresher courses. ITA requests, therefore, that the final logging operations rule incorporate the training provisions contained in the B56.6 standard. OSHA believes that the performance-based and competency-based training provisions contained in the final standard adequately address ITA's concerns, and that more specific requirements in this standard for forklift truck operator training are not warranted for several reasons. First, the record indicates there is not a significant number of rough-terrain industrial trucks used in logging operations. Mr. Richard Lewis, testifying on behalf of APA, confirmed the limited use of rough-terrain industrial trucks in the logging industry: The American Pulpwood Association currently employs seven technically trained foresters, two in Washington and five in division offices throughout the U.S. And collectively we've worked in the field for approximately 103 man years, and we get out on logging operations every month and sometimes once a week, and we have never, never observed the use of a rough terrain fork lift in a logging operation (Tr. OR 478&hyph;79 OR). Second, the ASME standard to which ITA refers, B56.6, does not focus on any unique problems with the use of industrial trucks in logging operations. Conversely, the logging standard is intended primarily to deal with workplace hazards that are unique to logging operations. Third, in any event, the final standard achieves the same training outcome as the B56.6 standard: demonstrated ability to safely operate a rough-terrain industrial truck.
