FR941202-2-00195 FR941202-2-00098 It is suggested that these be analyzed at the same frequency as the matrix spikes, but are mandatory if the matrix spikes are not within quality control acceptance limits. (d) Surrogates _Surrogate compounds must be added to all samples, standards, and blanks whenever possible for all organic chromatography methods. Limits must be used to determine acceptable surrogate recoveries on a daily basis. (e) Quality Control Validation Studies or Initial Demonstration of Analytical Capability _QC Validation Studies shall be performed on a one-time basis (initially and with a significant change, e.g., new analyst, instrument or technique). (f) Methods Used to Assess Precision and Accuracy _The laboratories shall calculate and track precision and accuracy of test measurements and the associated acceptance ranges using the data from the duplicate, MS, blank and surrogate measurements. The resulting acceptance ranges (and/or quality control charts) shall be used to assess data acceptance and shall be readily accessible in an identifiable file to all personnel involved with the data review/data acceptance process. (g) Method Detection Limits _Method detection limits shall be determined by an approved protocol or by a method specified by the accrediting authority. The detection limit is to be determined for the compounds of interest in each method in laboratory pure water and the matrix of interest. The procedure used must be documented. (h) Qualitative Identifications _Qualitative quality control refers to the identification of a specific compound. Identification of all analytes must be accomplished with a verified standard of the analyte. When analyzing a new matrix, a new analyte or where other reasons for doubt exists, a confirmatory analysis shall be performed. Such analysis shall be a technique with a different scientific principle and may include: _Second column confirmation _Alternate wavelengths _Derivatization _Mass spectral interpretation _Alternate detectors _Additional cleanup procedures (i) Reagent Quality, Water Quality and Checks i. Reagents_In methods where the purity of reagents is not specified, analytical reagent grade shall be used. Reagents of lesser purity than that specified by the method shall not be used. The labels on the container should be checked and the contents examined to verify that the purity of the reagents meets the needs of the particular method. ii. Water_Where the method does not specify the type of water (e.g., distilled, deionized, etc.), the water quality shall be free from all constituents that may potentially interfere with the sample preparation or analytical test. The quality of water sources shall be monitored and documented. (j) Glassware Cleaning _In the analysis of samples containing components in the parts per billion range, the preparation of scrupulously clean glassware is mandatory. Particular care must be taken with glassware such as Soxhlet extractors, Kuderna-Danish evaporative concentrators, sampling-train components, or any other glassware coming in contact with an extract that will be evaporated to a lesser volume.
