FR940324-2-00063 FR940324-2-00042 Steering Committee: The project directors of the coordinating center and the services demonstration projects, and CMHS, BHRD and NIMH representatives, will work collaboratively via a steering committee to facilitate coordination and communication among the parties. The steering committee will have the responsibility for overseeing the cooperative agreements to develop consensus on major decisions and to facilitate the accomplishment of the HIV/AIDS Mental Health Services Demonstration Program goals. Program Description Purpose: The purposes of the cooperative agreement program are to: 1) Provide a range of high quality mental health services to people affected by or living with HIV/AIDS; 2) Evaluate the effectiveness and efficiency of the different approaches or models used for organizing and providing those services; and 3) Determine the outcome of those services on the quality of life of the individuals served. Program Goals and Scope: The goals of this cooperative agreement program are to: •Provide a range of quality mental health services. •Change risk behaviors and prevent further HIV transmission. •Increase compliance with medical treatment and enhance access to existing services. •Reduce the number of unnecessary inpatient and outpatient medical visits. •Decrease the risk of suicide. •Improve the quality of life for those individuals affected by and living with HIV/AIDS. •Increase productive work capacity as a result of receiving these services. •Develop and rigorously evaluate models for replication and integration into HIV/AIDS delivery systems. •Disseminate information about successful service models. A. Applications for Services Demonstration Projects Funding Target Populations: The target population includes people affected by or living with HIV/AIDS. Within the target population, gay and bisexual men, racial and ethnic minorities, women, injection drug users, children and adolescents, adults with serious mental illnesses, children and adolescents with serious emotional disturbances, the incarcerated, and people who are homeless are of particular interest. Demonstrated Need: Unmet need will be a primary criterion in the review of applications under this announcement. Methodology used to compile local needs assessment data must be described. Recommended Approach: Applicants should address, in the ``Approach'' section of the application, the specific mental health services listed below, and the development of an infrastructure that includes the additional project elements also described below. The services may be provided directly or through contract. Specific Mental Health Services The application should address at least the first four of the following services: •HIV/AIDS risk and transmission reduction counseling. •A range of mental health treatment services, e.g., group therapy, supportive counseling, peer counseling, buddy programs, oversight of psychotropic medication, psychotherapy, and family therapy, including alternative families, partners, and significant others. •Diagnostic mental health services, including neurological consults and psychological testing. •HIV/AIDS antibody pre-test counseling and appropriate post-test counseling for those who test positive for HIV/AIDS antibody as well as those who test negative. •Mental health case management services. •Counseling to ensure adherence to tuberculosis and other treatment regimens. •Outreach mental health services, e.g., educating the community to facilitate referrals to your project. •Consultation services, e.g., to schools, foster parents, day care centers, alternative health care sites and clinics that serve special populations described above. •Home based mental health services. Additional Project Elements
