FR941205-0-00064 FR941205-0-00019 POSTAL SERVICE 39 CFR Part 111 Special Bulk Third-Class Rates_State or Local Voting Registration Official AGENCY: Postal Service. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: On May 20, 1993, the President signed into law Public Law 103&hyph;31, the National Voter Registration Act of 1993, which amends title 39, United States Code, by adding section 3629. The amendment authorizes voting registration officials to mail, effective January 1, 1995, certain third-class matter at the special bulk third-class rates. This notice contains regulations implementing the legislative changes. EFFECTIVE DATE: January 1, 1995. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Ernest J. Collins, (202) 268&hyph;5316. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Postal Service published in the Federal Register (59 FR 45652&hyph;45653) on September 2, 1994, a proposal to amend the Domestic Mail Manual to implement certain provisions of Public Law 103&hyph;31, the National Voter Registration Act of 1993, which amended title 39, United States Code, by adding section 3629. This section provides that the Postal Service shall make available to a state or local voting registration official the rate for any class of mail that is available to a qualified nonprofit organization under 39 U.S.C. 3626 for making a mailing that the official certifies is required or authorized by the Act. The mailing provisions of the law apply only to state or local voting registration officials in those states and the District of Columbia that require a voter to register to vote before the date of voting in a general election for public office. This final rule adopts the provisions of the proposed rule. As information, the procedures that apply to voting registration officials seeking authorization and mailing privileges under the new provisions will be similar to the procedures that apply to nonprofit organizations mailing at the special rates. Voting registration officials will not be permitted to mail at the special rates before receiving an authorization from the Postal Service. Each state and local voting registration official must submit PS Form 3624, Application to Mail at Special Bulk Third-Class Rates, at each post office where materials will be mailed at the special bulk third-class rates. After submitting an application, the voting registration official may mail qualifying materials under a ``pending arrangement'' with the postmaster. If the application is approved, the Postal Service will refund to the voting registration official the difference in postage paid between the regular rates and the special bulk third-class rates for mailings made after the effective date of the authorization. The authorization should be requested, and will be issued, by the title of the state or local voting registration official. After receiving authorization to mail at the special rates, the authorized mailer may apply to mail at additional offices following the procedures in the Domestic Mail Manual. As with all mail authorized at the special rates, only third-class matter, deposited in prescribed minimum quantities and prepared in accordance with postal regulations, is eligible for these rates. In addition to these general requirements, the materials must be required or authorized by the Act. Finally, mailers must complete and deposit with each permit imprint mailing the appropriate mailing statement: PS Form 3602&hyph;N, Statement of Mailing With Permit Imprint Third-Class Mail (Nonprofit Rates Only); PS Form 3602&hyph;PVN, Plant-Verified Drop Shipment (PVDS) Consolidated Mailing Statement Register Third-Class (Special Rates Only: Permit Imprint); or PS Form 3602&hyph;PC, Statement of Mailing With Meter or Precanceled Postage Affixed Bulk Third-Class Mail (Regular or Nonprofit Rates), with each metered or precanceled stamp mailing. The certification sections on the mailing statements will be modified as follows: The signature of the mailer certifies *␣*␣* 5. the mailing, if made by a voting registration official, is required or authorized by the National Voter Registration Act of 1993 *␣*␣* [Current item 5 will be renumbered as item 6.] Evaluation of Comments Received A total of 31 written comments were received, 30 from election and voting officials and 1 from a member of Congress. Of these comments, 11 support the proposed regulations granting preferential rates for voting materials, stating that the proposed changes will be workable for most voter registration officials.
