FR940503-2-00119 FR940503-2-00083 POSTAL SERVICE Privacy Act of 1974, System of Records AGENCY: Postal Service. ACTION: Notice of new routine use applicable to a system of records. SUMMARY: The purpose of this document is to publish notice of a new routine use applicable to the Postal Service's Privacy Act system of records USPS 010.050, Collection and Delivery Records_Delivery of Mail Through Agents. The new routine use will authorize the disclosure of information for the purpose of identifying addresses as Commercial Mail Receiving Agencies. DATES: This proposal will become effective without further notice 30 days from the date of this publication, unless comments are received on or before that date which result in a contrary determination. ADDRESSES: Comments may be mailed to Records Office, United States Postal Service, 475 L'Enfant Plaza SW., room 8831, Washington, DC 20260&hyph;5240, or delivered to the above address between 8:15 a.m. and 4:45 p.m., Monday through Friday. Comments received may be inspected during the above hours in room 8831. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Betty Sheriff, Records Office, (202) 268&hyph;2924. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Pursuant to subsection (e)(11) of the Privacy Act of 1974, 5 U.S.C. 552a, the Postal Service is publishing a notice of a new routine use applicable to its system of records USPS 010.050, Collection and Delivery Records_Delivery of Mail Through Agents. The new routine use will authorize disclosure of information for the purpose of identifying addresses as belonging to Commercial Mail Receiving Agencies (CMRAs). CMRAs are private entities which receive mail on behalf of other persons. Often, the address provided for a person by a CMRA appears to be a typical residential or business address. The Postal Service, primarily through its law enforcement branch, the Postal Inspection Service, has been working with the credit card industry to prevent credit card fraud. One form of credit card fraud consists of submitting an application for a credit card under a fictitious name. Perpetrators of this type of fraud may use an address provided by a CMRA as a means of avoiding detection. Credit card companies have asked the Postal Service to help them detect such fraud by identifying CMRA addresses, and the Postal Service has concluded that the identification of CMRA addresses would be an effective tool in combatting credit card fraud and other types of consumer fraud. The routine use will authorize disclosure of information only for the purpose of identifying an address as belonging to a CMRA, and no other information concerning CMRAs or their customers will be disclosed pursuant to the routine use. Because the routine use will not authorize the disclosure of the identities of CMRA customers, disclosures under the routine use will not invade the legitimate privacy interests of persons who receive mail through CMRAs. The information will be disclosed primarily by means of annotations to the Postal Service's Delivery Sequence File (DSF). DSF data, the use of which is made available to the public through authorized licensees, contains delivery-point addresses, and it does not include the identities of individuals. New Routine Use This notice adds routine use No. 1 to Postal Service system of records USPS 010.050, Collection and Delivery Records_Delivery of Mail Through Agents, as follows: ``1. Information may be disclosed for the purpose of identifying an address as an address of an agent to whom mail is delivered on behalf of other persons. This routine use does not authorize the disclosure of the identities of persons on behalf of whom agents receive mail.'' Stanley F. Mires, Chief Counsel, Legislative. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;10544 Filed 5&hyph;2&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 7710&hyph;12&hyph;M
