FR940126-2-00041 FR940126-2-00020 Section 2.3␣General Guidelines (a) Designation of target areas. Local jurisdictions will be selected to receive funds from the National Board based on average unemployment statistics from the U.S. Department of Labor for the most current 12-month period (July 1992&hyph;August 1993) available. Also used are poverty statistics from the 1990 Census. The Board adopted this combined approach in order to target funds for high-need areas more effectively. Funds designated for a particular jurisdiction must be used to provide services within that jurisdiction. The National Board based its determination of high-need jurisdictions on four factors: 1. Most current twelve-month national unemployment rates; 2. Total number of unemployed within a civil jurisdiction; 3. Total number of individuals below the poverty level within a civil jurisdiction; and, 4. The total population of the civil jurisdiction. In addition to unemployment, poverty was used to qualify a jurisdiction for receipt of an award. Jurisdictions were selected under Phase XII (PL 103&hyph;124) according to the following criteria: •Jurisdictions, including balance of counties, with 18,000+ unemployed and a 6.1% rate of unemployment. •Jurisdictions, including balance of counties, with 500 to 17,999 unemployed and an 8.5% rate of unemployment. •Jurisdictions, including balance of counties, with 500 or more unemployed and an 11.7% rate of poverty. Jurisdictions with a minimum of 500 unemployed may qualify for an award based upon their rate of unemployment or their rate of poverty. Once a jurisdiction's eligibility is established, the National Board will determine its fund distribution based on a ratio calculated as follows: The average number of unemployed within an eligible area divided by the average number of unemployed covered by the national program equals the area's portion of the award (less National Board administrative costs, and less that portion of program funds required to fulfill designated awards). Area's avg. No. unemployed_Avg. No. unemployed in all eligible areas = Area's percent of the award (less National Board's administrative costs and designated awards) Puerto Rico and U.S. territories will receive a designated percentage of the total award based on the decision of the National Board. (b) Grant award process. (1) United Way of America has been designated as the fiscal agent for the National Board and as such will process all Local Board plans. Payments will be made to organizations recommended by Local Boards for funding. Local Boards have the right to reallocate funds throughout the program period, as they determine necessary. When a Local Board reallocation between two or more LROs occurs, the Local Board must promptly notify the National Board in writing so that the National Board's records can be updated accordingly. (2) The National Board offers two methods of payment to LROs. The two methods are either direct deposit (electronic funds transfer) or checks. The National Board encourages LROs to take advantage of direct deposit where possible. (3) To ensure greater accountability and reporting, awards totaling less than $100,000 are paid in two equal installments. Awards totaling $100,000 or more will be paid in three equal installments. (4) The National Board will distribute second/third payments once the jurisdiction's compliance review is completed for the previous program period. Second/third payments will be held in escrow until all compliance exceptions are satisfied by the LRO. All payments will be mailed directly to the LRO. Second and third payments will be mailed to the LRO only upon the written request of the Local Board Chair which encloses the LROs interim report. The Local Board will authorize second and/or third payments once it is assured that the organization is implementing the current program as intended and according to the guidelines in the Plan. (c) Client eligibility. The National Board does not set client eligibility criteria. Local Boards may choose to set such criteria. If the Local Board does not set eligibility criteria, the LRO may use its existing criteria or set criteria for assistance under this award. However, the LROs criteria must provide for assistance to needy individuals without discrimination (age, race, sex, religion, national origin, or handicap). Note: Funds allocated to a jurisdiction are intended for use within that jurisdiction. Residents of or transients in a specific jurisdiction should seek service within that jurisdiction. Citizenship is not an eligibility requirement to receive assistance from EFSP. The National Board does not mandate nor recommend the use of any particular existing criteria (i.e., food stamp guidelines, welfare guidelines, or income guidelines). Section 2.4␣Eligibility of Costs The intent of this appropriation is for the purchase of food and shelter to supplement and extend current available resources and not to substitute or reimburse ongoing programs and services. Questions regarding interpretation of the program's guidelines should be cleared by the LRO with the Local Board prior to action. Local Boards unsure of the meaning of these guidelines should contact the National Board at (703) 706&hyph;9660 for clarification prior to advising the LRO. If an expenditure requested by an LRO is not listed below as eligible, the Local Board has the option of requesting a waiver from the National Board for consideration.
