FR940811-0-00034 FR940811-0-00016 Section 102(c) of the Marine Protection, Research, and Sanctuaries Act (MPRSA) of 1972, as amended, 33 U.S.C. Sections 1401 et seq. , gives the Administrator of EPA authority to designate sites where ocean dumping may be permitted. On October 1, 1986 the Administrator delegated authority to designate ocean dredged material disposal sites (ODMDS) to the Regional Administrator of the EPA Region in which the sites are located. The SF&hyph;DODS designation action is being made pursuant to that authority. The EPA Ocean Dumping Regulations (40 CFR 228.4) state that ocean dumping sites will be designated by publication pursuant to 40 CFR part 228. This site designation is being published as final rulemaking in accordance with §228.4(e) of the Ocean Dumping Regulations, which permits the designation of ocean disposal sites for dredged material. The center of the SF&hyph;DODS is located approximately 49 nautical miles (91 kilometers) west of the Golden Gate and occupies an area of approximately 6.5 square nautical miles (22 square kilometers). Water depths within the area range between approximately 8,200 to 9,840 feet (2,500 to 3,000 meters). The center coordinates of the oval-shaped site are: 37 ○39.0 ’ North latitude by 123 ○29.0 ’ West longitude (North American Datum from 1983), with length (north-south axis) and width (west-east axis) dimensions of approximately 4 nautical miles (7.5 kilometers) and 2.5 nautical miles (4.5 kilometers), respectively. EPA Region IX now designates SF&hyph;DODS as an ocean dredged material disposal site for continued use for a period of 50 years, with an interim capacity of 6 million cubic yards of dredged material per calendar year until December 31, 1996. Site use is subject to implementation of the specific site management and monitoring requirements contained in this Final Rule, which are now identified as the Site Monitoring and Management Plan (SMMP) for the SF&hyph;DODS. The Proposed Rule designating the SF&hyph;DODS did not set forth specific management and monitoring requirements in the Rule itself. Instead, Region 9 had proposed that provisions concerning site management and monitoring would be contained in a separate Site Management and Monitoring Plan (SMMP) document. Though this separate SMMP document would not, strictly, have been part of the Rule designating the SF&hyph;DODS, Region 9 did signal its intent in the Preamble accompanying the Proposed Rule that implementation of the provisions of the SMMP document would have been mandatory. The Proposed Rule specifically would have required that the SMMP be implemented as a condition of site use. Comments received on the proposed Rule have convinced Region 9 that the mandatory nature of site management and monitoring would be placed on a clearer legal footing if the SMMP were made a part of the Rule instead of being set forth in a separate planning document. The SMMP provisions in the Final Rule are closely related to Region 9's previous proposals on site monitoring and management. These proposals have been put forth for public review and comment on at least two occasions. First, Region 9 outlined its proposals concerning site monitoring and management in the Preamble accompanying the Proposed Rule designating the SF-DODS. Region 9 published the Proposed Rule in the Federal Register on February 17, 1994 (59 FR 7952), and held open a public comment period on the Proposed Rule until March 18, 1994. Second, Region 9 completed a draft of a separate SMMP document and made this document available for public review and comment. Region 9 published this SMMP document as an EPA Public Notice on April 20, 1994 and accepted comments on this document until June 6, 1994. The SMMP provisions in the Final Rule were drafted after considering the public comment received in response to the Proposed Rule Preamble and the SMMP document. See Responses to Comments, Section F. below. Region 9 is also preparing a Site Management and Monitoring Plan Implementation Manual (SMMP Implementation Manual). This manual will provide detailed guidance on practical aspects of implementing the SMMP provisions in the Final Rule. B. EIS Development Section 102(c) of the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) of 1969, 42 U.S.C. Sections 4321 et seq ., requires that Federal agencies prepare an environmental impact statement (EIS) on proposals for major Federal actions significantly affecting the quality of the human environment. The object of NEPA is to build into the agency decision-making process careful consideration of all environmental aspects of proposed actions, including evaluation of reasonable alternatives to the proposed action. A Notice of Availability of the Draft EIS was published in the Federal Register on December 11, 1992 discussing EPA's intent to designate a deep water ocean dredged material disposal site off San Francisco (57 FR 58805). The Draft EIS, titled: Draft Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) for San Francisco Bay Deep Water Dredged Material Disposal Site Designation, evaluated a range of potential alternative disposal sites as summarized below. The comment period closed on January 25, 1993. EPA received 35 comment letters on the Draft EIS and incorporated changes where appropriate. On September 10, 1993, notice of availability for public review and comment on the Final EIS was published in the Federal Register (58 FR 47741). The comment period for the Final EIS closed on October 29, 1993. EIS Alternatives Analysis Several million cubic yards of dredged material are generated annually in the San Francisco Bay area. Traditionally, most of this dredged material has been disposed at sites within the San Francisco Bay estuary. However, existing upland and in-bay sites have limited capacity for disposal of large volumes of dredged material, and concerns about the potential environmental impacts of continued large-scale disposal within the estuary have grown steadily in recent years. EPA's analysis of alternatives included detailed examination of several potential ocean dump sites for dredged materials from San Francisco Bay and a preliminary, less-detailed review of potential alternative means of handling these dredged materials other than disposal at an ocean dump site. For EPA's present purposes, a limited review of alternatives to ocean dumping of dredged materials was appropriate. EPA needed only to determine whether alternatives to ocean dumping now appear to offer sufficient capacity for all dredged material that will be generated in the future. Greater detail concerning alternatives to ocean dumping of dredged material is not necessary at this stage because designation of an ocean dumping site under 40 CFR part 228 is essentially a preliminary, planning-like measure. The practical effect of such a designation is only to require that if future ocean dumping activity is permitted under 40 CFR part 227, such dumping should normally be consolidated at the designated site. Designation of an ocean dumping site does not authorize any actual dumping and does not preclude EPA or the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers from finding that alternative means of managing dredged materials from San Francisco Bay are available and environmentally preferable.
