FR940419-2-00051 FR940419-2-00033 2. Mailed on or before the deadline date and received by the granting agency in time for the independent review under DHHS GAM Chapter 1&hyph;62. (Applicants are cautioned to request a legibly dated U.S. Postal Service postmark or to obtain a legibly dated receipt from a commercial carrier or U.S. Postal Service. Private Metered postmarks shall not be acceptable as proof of timely mailing.) 3. Hand delivered during the normal working hours of 8 a.m. to 4:30 p.m., Monday through Friday, on or before to the established closing date to: Administration for Children and Families, Division of Discretionary Grants, 901 D Street, SW., 6th Floor OFM/DDG, Washington, DC 20447. Late Applications: Applications which do not meet the criteria stated above are considered late applications. The granting agency shall notify each late applicant that its application will not be considered in the current competition. Extension of Deadlines: The granting agency may extend the deadline for all applicants because of acts of God such as floods, hurricanes, etc., or when there is a widespread disruption of the mails. However, if the granting agency does not extend the deadline for all applicants, it may not waive or extend the deadline for any applicants. C. Instructions for Preparing the Application and Completing Application Forms The SF 424, 424A, 424B, and certifications have been reprinted for your convenience in preparing the application. See Appendix A. You should reproduce single-sided copies of these forms from the reprinted forms in the announcement, typing your information onto the copies. Please do not use forms directly from the Federal Register announcement, as they are printed on both sides of the page. Please prepare your application in accordance with the following instructions: 1. SF 424 Page 1, Application Cover Sheet Please read the following instructions before completing the application cover sheet. An explanation of each item is included. Complete only the items specified. Top of Page. Enter the single priority area number under which the application is being submitted. An application should be submitted under only one priority area. Item 1. Type of Submission_Preprinted on the form. Item 2. Date Submitted and Applicant Identifier_Date application is submitted to ACYF and applicant's own internal control number, if applicable. Item 3. Date Received By State_State use only (if applicable). Item 4. Date Received by Federal Agency_Leave blank. Item 5. Applicant Information Legal Name_Enter the legal name of the applicant organization. For applications developed jointly, enter the name of the lead organization only. There must be a single applicant for each application.
