FR940114-0-00057 FR940114-0-00020 Requirements for structural assemblies, components, connectors, fasteners, and a number of other areas will be strengthened so that parts and portions of the home will be able to resist the same wind forces as required for site-built and modular housing. In addition, the increased wind loads required by this rule are applicable whether structural systems, components, or other aspects of the design are substantiated by engineering analysis or by suitable load tests (see subpart E of part 3280). The revised standards also require that the ground anchoring and foundation support systems continue to be designed by a registered engineer or architect in a manner adequate to withstand the higher wind forces specified. III. Section-by-Section Analysis The Secretary has determined that the following changes should be made to the standards: (1) Section 3280.4 _The American Society of Civil Engineers (ASCE) is added to the list of organizations issuing standards that are incorporated by reference. The street addresses are corrected for two other organizations listed. (2) Section 3280.5 _Technical and conforming corrections are made to standardize paragraph designations to Federal Register format and clarify the information to be included on data plates. The new requirements also incorporate changes to the data plate adopted in the Energy Rule (58 FR 54975, 55003) for effect in October 1994, in order to avoid having inconsistent requirements become effective within a short time. The data plate is also being expanded to indicate that manufactured homes should not be located within 1500 ’ of the coastline in Wind Zones II and III unless the home and its anchoring or foundation system are designed for the increased requirements of Exposure D in ASCE 7&hyph;88. The data plate will now also indicate whether the home has been equipped with storm shutters and, if shutters are not provided, will strongly recommend that the home be made ready for these devices in accordance with the method described in the installation instructions. (3) Sections 3280.302(a)(8), 3280.303(d), 3280.305(c) _The definition and references to ``hurricane resistive design'' in these sections are deleted, in favor of the Wind Zone II and III designations in the revised Basic Wind Zone Map. These changes will result in the identification of design wind forces and wind speeds for which the home has been designed, rather than the designation of homes as ``hurricane resistive.'' (4) Section 3280.304 _The incorporated standards are amended to require that the minimum design loads be based on ASCE 7&hyph;88, which replaces the obsolete ANSI A58.1&hyph;1982 standard currently referenced in this section. In addition, the National Design Specification for Wood Members (NDS), incorporated by reference, is updated to the most current specification issued by the American Forest and Paper Association (AFPA). Because manufacturers will need to redesign the structure's resistance to wind forces, the redesign should be accomplished with the most current design values for wood. Accordingly, the 1991 NDS is incorporated in its entirety into the standards. (5) Section 3280.305(c) _The standards are amended to require that for manufactured homes in high wind areas, the home and each wind resisting part, including components and cladding, be completely designed to resist the design wind pressures specified for a 50-year recurrence level by ASCE 7&hyph;88 or the pressures specified in a table of equivalent design wind load provisions. The Department has designated three wind zones: Zone I (current wind design requirements for Zone I); Zone II (design wind speed of 100 mph); and Zone III (design wind speed of 110 mph). The Table of Design Pressures in the proposed rule is clarified and expanded. Editorial revisions to clarify the application of the uplift pressure requirements for exterior roof coverings, eaves and gables. In addition, footnotes are included to indicate: •Distributional pressure effects between windward and leeward walls; •The application of the Table is limited to roof slopes between 10 and 30 degrees and that horizontal drag pressures need not be considered for roof slopes under 20 degrees; •The design uplift pressures are the same regardless of whether they are applied normal to the roof surface or to the horizontal projection of the roof; and •Exterior roof and wall coverings (excluding glazing), sheathing, and fastenings need not be evaluated for the design pressures specified by the Table, when fastened to a 3/8 ’ ’ structural rated sheathing and the sheathing is oriented and secured to framing members in accordance with the fastening schedule specified in the Table. The Basic Wind Zone Map is revised by delineating the boundary between Wind Zones I and II as the 90 mph isotach, and the boundary between Wind Zones II and III as the 100 mph isotach, on the ASCE 7&hyph;88 basic wind speed map. This change will result in certain areas of existing Wind Zone II being located in the modified Wind Zone I. The boundary between Wind Zones I and III in Alaska is now designated as the 90 mph isotach on the ASCE 7&hyph;88 map.
