FR940428-2-00165 FR940428-2-00072 4. Bypass a. Definitions. (1) ``Bypass'' means the intentional diversion of waste streams from any portion of a treatment facility. (2) ``Severe property damage'' means substantial physical damage to property, damage to the treatment facilities which causes them to become inoperable, or substantial and permanent loss of natural resources which can reasonably be expected to occur in the absence of a bypass. Severe property damage does not mean economic loss caused by delays in production. b. Bypass not exceeding limitations. The permittee may allow any bypass to occur which does not cause effluent limitations to be exceeded, but only if it also is for essential maintenance to assure efficient operation. These bypasses are not subject to the provisions of Paragraphs B.4.c and 4.d of this section. c. Notice. (1) Anticipated bypass. If the permittee knows in advance of the need for a bypass, it shall submit prior notice, if possible at least ten days before the date of the bypass. (2) Unanticipated bypass. The permittee shall submit notice of an unanticipated bypass as required in Paragraph D.1.e (24-hour notice). d. Prohibition of bypass. (1) Bypass is prohibited, and the Regional Administrator may take enforcement action against a permittee for bypass, unless: (a) Bypass was unavoidable to prevent loss of life, personal injury, or severe property damage; (b) There were no feasible alternatives to the bypass, such as the use of auxiliary treatment facilities, retention of untreated wastes, or maintenance during normal periods of equipment downtime. This condition is not satisfied if adequate back-up equipment should have been installed in the exercise of reasonable engineering judgment to prevent a bypass which occurred during normal periods of equipment downtime or preventive maintenance; and (c)(i) The permittee submitted notices as required under Paragraph 4.c of this section. (ii) The Regional Administrator may approve an anticipated bypass, after considering its adverse effects, if the Regional Administrator determines that it will meet the three conditions listed above in Paragraph 4.d of this section. 5. Upset a. Definition. ``Upset'' means an exceptional incident in which there is unintentional and temporary non-compliance with technology-based permit effluent limitations because of factors beyond the reasonable control of the permittee. An upset does not include noncompliance to the extent caused by operational error, improperly designed treatment facilities, inadequate treatment facilities, lack of preventive maintenance, or careless or improper operation. b. Effect of an upset. An upset constitutes an affirmative defense to an action brought for noncompliance with such technology-based permit effluent limitations if the requirements of Paragraph B.5.c of this section are met. No determination made during administrative review of claims that noncompliance was caused by upset, and before an action for noncompliance, is final administrative action subject to judicial review. c. Conditions necessary for a demonstration of upset. A permittee who wishes to establish the affirmative defense of upset shall demonstrate, through properly signed, contemporaneous operating logs, or other relevant evidence that: (1) An upset occurred and that the permittee can identify the cause(s) of the upset; (2) The permitted facility was at the time being properly operated; (3) The permittee submitted notice of the upset as required in Paragraphs D.1.a and 1.e (24-hour notice); and (4) The permittee complied with any remedial measures required under B.3. above.
