FR941130-0-00088 FR941130-0-00015 Changes: The Secretary is deleting the requirement that a borrower must reaffirm a loan discharged in bankruptcy before regaining eligibility for further title IV loans. Also, the Secretary is removing the phrase regarding a bankruptcy discharge from the ``willingness to repay'' provision. Comments: Another commenter objected to the provision that disabled individuals should have to reaffirm past loans to reestablish eligibility. The commenter believed that disabled individuals should be judged solely on a ``snapshot'' of their present condition and circumstances; requiring reaffirmation would place yet another obstacle in the way of disabled individuals who wish to further their education. The commenter went further to say he thought this requirement would violate the spirit of the Americans With Disabilities Act. Discussion: The Secretary is sensitive to this commenter's concerns. The Secretary, as part of the Department's ongoing effort to reduce the administrative burden in the loan programs, will no longer require reaffirmation of a title IV loan as a student eligibility requirement for a borrower whose loan was canceled due to permanent and total disability. However, a borrower who has had a loan canceled for this reason will still be required to obtain a physician's statement attesting that his or her condition has improved, and agree that any new loans may not be canceled for this reason, unless the condition substantially deteriorates. Changes: The Secretary is eliminating the requirement that a borrower reaffirm a Federal Perkins loan canceled due to total and permanent disability in order for the borrower to be eligible for further Federal Perkins loans. Section 674.16␣Making and Disbursing Loans Comments: Several commenters objected to the requirement that the borrower must sign for each advance of funds on the promissory note. Instead, the commenters felt that the borrower should sign for the advance of funds on the promissory note at the beginning of each academic year. Discussion: Due to the legally binding nature of the promissory note and the potential for loan defaults requiring the enforcement of loans in court, the Secretary will continue to require the borrower to sign for each advance of funds for the Federal Perkins Loan program. The Secretary asks the commenters to refer to the previous discussion of this issue in response to the comments on the definition of ``making of a loan'' in §674.2. Changes: None. Comments: One commenter supported the study abroad provisions, but three commenters felt clarification was needed to indicate that a borrower may sign his or her note in advance, but not be required to sign for each loan disbursement while enrolled in a study abroad program. One commenter suggested deleting this provision. Discussion: The Secretary intended that this provision allow an institution the option of obtaining from a borrower enrolled in a study abroad program his or her signature on the promissory note in advance for each disbursement of a Federal Perkins. The Secretary made this exception as part of his ongoing effort to reduce administrative burden at the institution. The Secretary does not agree that the regulations are unclear or that clarification is needed regarding loan disbursements made to borrowers who are studying abroad. As stated in the proposed language, ``*␣*␣* the borrower may not be required to sign for any advance of funds made while the borrower is studying abroad if obtaining the borrower's signature would pose an undue hardship on the institution.'' Changes: None. Comments: One commenter pointed out that small institutions are having difficulty reporting small volumes of loans to a national credit bureau, because these credit bureaus do not want to deal with small volumes. This commenter suggested that the Department demand procedures for reporting small volumes as part of any agreement between the Department and the national credit bureaus. Discussion: The Secretary will look into what administrative steps he can take to address this situation. In the interim, small schools may want to consider joining together and report their loans cooperatively. Changes: None. Section 674.18␣Use of funds Comments: One commenter stated that §674.18 should reference the allowable transfer by an institution participating in the Work-Colleges program of any portion of its FCC allocation for an award year to the Work-Colleges program. Another commenter indicated that the proposed §674.18(c) provided for the new transfer of up to 25 percent of the FCC allocation for the FWS program or FSEOG program, or both. However, the commenter believed that the section should include the type of restrictions that appear in §675.18(f) of the FWS regulations. Discussion: The Secretary agrees that for clarity and consistency, the regulations should note all the transfers allowed and the restrictions on those transfers of funds. Changes: The Secretary is including in the Federal Perkins Loan program under §674.18 the authority for participating institutions to transfer FCC funds to the Work-Colleges program and the restrictions on the FCC funds transferred to other programs. Section 674.19␣Fiscal Procedures and Records Comments: A few commenters felt that the provision of the proposed rule that describes the types of records to be included in the repayment history of the borrower should include ``copies of computer records.'' Discussion: The Secretary does not agree with the commenters. The current regulations already provide, in §674.19(e)(4)(v), that an institution may keep its records in computer format, which would include the computer records held by an institution's servicer. Source documents supporting records in computer format must also be maintained. The Secretary recognizes the predominance of computer servicing, but, in order for computer records to substitute for hard copies of these records, the Secretary would need to develop specifications, for example, regarding electronic signatures, which he is not doing at this time. Because of the need to enforce Federal Perkins loans through the judicial system, the Secretary requires the hard copy supporting documentation. Changes: None.
