FR940513-1-00088 FR940513-1-00017 The proposed standard requires that terminals using a combustion device to comply with the standard monitor the combustion temperature computed every hour as an hourly average, and every third hour as a 3-hour block average. Operation of the affected source in deviation of the baseline temperature developed during the compliance test in excess of 5.6 ○C (10 ○F) constitutes noncompliance with the standard. The baseline temperature is averaged over the loading cycle. The Agency believes that it is appropriate to average temperatures measured during the compliance test to establish a baseline temperature to which monitored data can be compared. The Agency is soliciting comments on the effect of the proposed averaging times on the parameter's effectiveness in ensuring compliance with the proposed standards. IV. Administrative Requirements A. Public Hearing The EPA will hold a public hearing to discuss the proposed standard in accordance with section 307(d)(5) of the amended Act. Persons wishing to make oral presentation on the proposed standards for marine tank vessel loading operations should contact the EPA at the address given in the ADDRESSES section of this preamble. The EPA will limit oral presentations to 15 minutes each. Any member of the public may file a written statement before, during, or within 30 days after the hearing. Send written statements to the Air Docket Section address given in the ADDRESSES section of this preamble and should refer to Docket A&hyph;90&hyph;44. The EPA will make a verbatim transcript of the hearing and written statements available for public inspection and copying during normal working hours at the EPA's Air Docket Section in Washington, DC (see ADDRESSES section of this preamble). B. Docket The docket is an organized and complete file of all of the information submitted to or otherwise considered by the EPA in the development of this proposed rulemaking. The principal purposes of the docket are (1) to allow interested parties to readily identify and locate documents so that they can intelligently and effectively participate in the rulemaking process and (2) to serve as the record in case of judicial review (except for interagency review materials) (section 307(d)(7)(A) of the amended Act). C. Office of Management and Budget Reviews 1. Paperwork Reduction Act The information collection requirements in this proposed standard have been submitted for approval to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) under the Paperwork Reduction Act, 44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq. An Information Collection Request (ICR) document has been prepared by the EPA (ICR No. 1679.01), and interested parties may obtain a copy from Sandy Farmer, Information Policy Branch, EPA, 401 M Street, SW. (2136), Washington, DC 20460, or by calling (202) 260&hyph;2740. The public reporting burden for this collection of information is estimated to average 265 hours per respondent per year, including time for reviewing instructions, searching existing data sources, gathering and maintaining the data needed, and completing and reviewing the collection of information. Send comments regarding the burden estimate or any other aspect of this collection of information, including suggestions for reducing this burden, to Chief, Information Policy Branch, 2136, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, 401 M Street, SW., Washington, DC 20460, and to the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, Office of Management and Budget, Washington, DC 20503, marked ``Attention: Desk Officer for the EPA.'' The final standard will respond to any OMB or public comments on the information collection requirements contained in this proposal. 2. Executive Order (E.O.) 12866 Review Under Executive Order 12866, (58 FR 51735 (October 4, 1993)) the Agency must determine whether the regulatory action is ``significant'' and therefore subject to OMB review and the requirements of the Executive Order. The Order defines ``significant regulatory action'' as one that is likely to result in a rule that may: (1) Have an annual effect on the economy of $100 million or more or adversely affect in a material way the economy, a section of the economy, productivity, competition, jobs, the environment, public health or safety, or State, local, or tribal governments or communities; (2) Create a serious inconsistency or otherwise interfere with an action taken or planned by another agency;
