FR940224-0-00059 FR940224-0-00011 DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE Drug Enforcement Administration 21 CFR Part 1301 Amendment of the Fee Exemption for Federal, State and Local Government Employees agency: Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA), Justice. action: Final rule. summary: This final rule limits the exemption from payment of application fees for registration or reregistration to Federal, state, or local government operated hospitals or institutions. This will eliminate the need for DEA to dedicate manpower or other resources to controlling abuse of the fee exempt status. effective date: March 28, 1994. for further information contact: G. Thomas Gitchel, Chief, Liaison and Policy Section, Office of Diversion Control, Drug Enforcement Administration, Washington, DC 20537, Telephone (202) 307&hyph;7297. supplementary information: On June 1, 1993, a notice of proposed rulemaking was published in the Federal Register (58 FR 31180). DEA proposed to limit the exemption from payment of registration or reregistration application fees to Federal, state or local government operated hospital/clinics. A total of three comments were received, all opposed to the proposed changes. Two of the comments concerned state certified euthanasia technicians. The commentors objected to the changes on the grounds that the change would impose a financial burden on the euthanasia technicians and the animal shelters at which they work, due to the extremely high turnover rate the industry experiences. This will not be the case. The euthanasia technicians are employees of animal control facilities or shelters. They may not engage in their activities other than as employees of the facilities or shelters. Under such circumstances, DEA has traditionally issued the registrations for such activities under the facility or shelter name with the euthanasia technician's name appearing thereafter. It is appropriate under such circumstances for the Federal, state or local government facility or shelter to request and receive the exemption from the fee. In light of the fact that DEA registers these activities as other than a hospital or clinic, the original language of the proposal with respect to Federal, state or local hospitals or clinics has been changed to Federal, state or local hospitals or other institutions. The third commentor objected to the changes on the grounds that the proposed changes, if implemented, would prevent public sector employees from using their exempt status to obtain registrations for use in private practice. That is the exact intent of the proposal. Any individual who engages in private practice utilizing a DEA registration must pay the required fee for that registration. Individuals who engage in public practice as agents or employees of Federal, state or local hospitals or institutions would not be required to obtain a registration; they would conduct their controlled substances activities under the registration of the hospital or institution. Although this has been a longstanding policy, DEA will clarify the provisions for such activities in light of the impact that the limiting of the fee exemption will have. A proposal to amend ยง1301.24 has been drafted to clarify the exemption from the registration requirement of individual practitioners who act as agents or employees of other individual practitioners and of hospitals or other institutions. That proposal will be published in the Federal Register in the near future. There are approximately 44,000 active DEA registrations which were issued under the fee exempt status. Over 35,000 of the registrations are for practitioners and the remainder are for Federal, state or local hospitals or institutions. By restricting the fee exempt status to the hospitals or institutions and allowing the practitioners to carry out their official duties under the hospital or institution registrations, DEA will eliminate the need to dedicate manpower or other resources to controlling the misuse of the fee exempt status.
