FR940926-2-00012 FR940926-2-00010 [A&hyph;570&hyph;831] Notice of Final Determination of Sales at Less Than Fair Value: Fresh Garlic From the People's Republic of China AGENCY: Import Administration, International Trade Administration, Department of Commerce. EFFECTIVE DATE: September 26, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Jennifer Stagner, Office of Antidumping Investigations, Import Administration, International Trade Administration, U.S. Department of Commerce, 14th Street and Constitution Avenue NW., Washington, DC 20230; telephone (202) 482&hyph;1673. Final Determination: We determine that fresh garlic from the People's Republic of China (PRC) is being, or is likely to be, sold in the United States at less than fair value, as provided in section 735 of the Tariff Act of 1930, as amended (the Act). The estimated weighted-average margin is shown in the ``Suspension of Liquidation'' section of this notice. Case History Since the publication of our affirmative preliminary determination on July 6, 1994 (59 FR 35310, July 11, 1994), no new information has been added to the case record. No interested party has filed case or rebuttal briefs or has requested a hearing. On July 5, 1994, Global Trading Inc., an interested party in this investigation, alleged that there are methodological errors in the petition data regarding constructed value and U.S. price. Scope of Investigation The products covered by this investigation are all grades of garlic, whole or separated into constituent cloves, whether or not peeled, fresh, chilled, frozen, provisionally preserved, or packed in water or other neutral substance, but not prepared or preserved by the addition of other ingredients or heat processing. The differences between grades are based on color, size, sheathing and level of decay. The subject merchandise is used principally as a food product and for seasoning. The subject garlic is currently classifiable under subheadings 0703.20.0000, 0710.80.7060, 0710.80.9750, 0711.90.6000, and 2005.90.9500 of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (HTSUS). Although the HTSUS subheadings are provided for convenience and customs purposes, our written description of the scope of this proceeding is dispositive. Period of Investigation The period of investigation (POI) is August 1, 1993, to January 31, 1994. Best Information Available The Department made the following efforts to obtain information from PRC exporters in this investigation: In March 1994, we sent an abbreviated section A questionnaire to the PRC Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Cooperation (MOFTEC) and cables to the U.S. Embassies in Beijing and Tokyo and the U.S. consulate in Hong Kong. In April 1994, we sent an abbreviated section A questionnaire to the China Chamber of Commerce of Imports & Exports of Foodstuffs, Native Produce, and Animal By-products (China Chamber); since no response was received, we made follow-up requests to MOFTEC, the U.S. Embassies in Beijing and Tokyo, and the U.S. consulate in Hong Kong. On May 11 and 12, 1994, the Department received information from MOFTEC and the American Embassy in Beijing, respectively, containing the names and addresses of 40 producers/exporters of the subject merchandise in the PRC. On May 18, 1994, the Department sent 40 antidumping questionnaires to the named firms and to MOFTEC and the China Chamber. On May 31, 1994 and June 21, 1994, we sent questionnaires to two additional firms at their request. The Department received partial questionnaire responses from only nineteen companies. Of the nineteen companies, five firms stated that they did not export the subject merchandise to the United States. Four firms submitted limited information on the PRC garlic industry. Two firms submitted limited information on their U.S. sales. Eleven firms submitted critical circumstance data, and one firm stated that it could not provide the requested information. No firm submitted factors of production information or complete U.S. sales data, and no verification was conducted. Given the lack of complete, usable questionnaire responses, we determine, in accordance with section 776(c) of the Act, that the use of best information available (BIA) is appropriate for sales of the subject merchandise in this investigation. In determining what to use as BIA, the Department follows a two-tiered methodology. Under this methodology, the Department normally assigns lower margins to those respondents who cooperated in an investigation and margins based on more adverse assumptions for those respondents who did not cooperate. (See Final Determination of Sales at Less Than Fair Value: Antifriction Bearings, Other than Tapered Roller Bearings, and Parts Thereof from the Federal Republic of Germany (54 FR 18992, May 3, 1994).) In considering the application of BIA in this case, we have taken into account that, in cases involving the PRC, the Department assigns a single rate to all PRC exporters unless a company establishes that it is entitled to a separate rate. (See Final Determination of Sales at Less Than Fair Value: Silicon Carbide from the People's Republic of China (59 FR 22585, May 2, 1994)). In this case, no company has demonstrated that it should receive a separate rate. Consequently, all of the companies must receive a single rate. Given that this single rate includes non-respondent companies, we have followed our standard practice and applied an adverse BIA rate, which is the highest margin alleged in the petition ( i.e., 376.67%). (See Initiation of Antidumping Duty Investigation: Fresh Garlic from the People's Republic of China (59 FR 9470, February 28, 1994).) This margin applies to all manufacturers, producers and exporters of fresh garlic in the PRC. Global Trading, Inc. (Global Trading), a U.S. importer of the subject merchandise, challenged the Department's reliance on petitioners' data. In particular, Global Trading questioned petitioners' average yield per acre figure in the constructed value calculation, based on its own research in China. Global Trading also challenged petitioners' calculation of U.S. price as being ``far from the actual'' price. The Department's practice with respect to challenges to petition data was outlined in the Administrative Review of Sales at Less Than Fair Value: Steel Wire Rope from Mexico (SWR from Mexico) (58 FR 7533, February 8, 1993), which established that the need for the Department to address petition deficiencies is limited. In that review, the Department stated that the ``rights [of a non-respondent company] are strictly limited to those comments that it can support without submitting any information on its costs or prices for the record,'' and the company ``is restricted to identifying clerical and methodological errors in the petition on the basis of public information.'' The Department found that to allow a company to selectively submit information when it did not submit an adequate questionnaire response would permit the company to manipulate the outcome of the proceeding. The Department determined that such actions would defeat the purpose of the BIA rule, which is to provide respondents with an incentive to cooperate fully in antidumping proceedings.
