FR940916-1-00157 FR940916-1-00016 §232.611 Requirements for changing the required interval for periodic brake tests. (a) Interested parties may request a change in the time between required periodic freight brake tests or single car tests by: (1) Following the procedure given in Appendix B of this part to initiate a program to monitor periodic freight brake or single car test results; and (2) Performing a valid statistical analysis of the results of the monitoring program. (b) A minimum of two years after the phase-in of non-high utilization freight equipment is completed, interested parties may request changes to the interval between required periodic freight brake tests for non-high utilization equipment. (c) A minimum of one year after the phase-in of all other equipment is completed, interested parties may request changes to the interval between required periodic freight brake or single car tests for that equipment. (d) A single organization shall not petition the FRA to change the time interval between required periodic freight brake or single car tests for the same or substantially the same equipment population more than once every two years. §232.613 Qualifications of inspectors. (a) Periodic freight brake tests and single car tests shall be performed only by qualified brake system inspectors who meet the qualification requirements of §232.207. (b) Periodic freight brake tests and single car tests shall be spot checked by qualified train brake system supervisors who meet the qualification requirements of §232.205. §232.615 Record keeping and stencilling requirements. (a) If a railroad opts to use the statistical methods given in Appendix B of this part to justify an increase in the time between required periodic freight brake, single car, or single unit train tests, the railroad shall keep records of the tests that include the following: (1) A certification by the railroad that each periodic freight brake or single car test was done only by qualified brake system inspectors. (2) A description of any repairs made to enable the equipment to pass the periodic freight brake or single car test. (3) A certification by the railroad that all the tasks required by periodic freight brake or single car tests were completed and the equipment successfully passed each of the required steps of the test. (b) The location the most recent periodic freight brake or single car test was performed and the date the next test is due shall be clearly stencilled, marked or labelled in two-inch high letters or numerals on the side of the equipment. §232.617 Periodic freight brake test, single car test, or single unit train test equipment and devices. (a) All test equipment and devices shall be tested for correct operation at least once each calendar day of use. (b) Mechanical test devices such as pressure gauges, flow meters, orifices, etc. shall be calibrated once every 92 days. (c) Electronic test devices shall be calibrated at least once every 365 days. (d) All test equipment and devices shall be tagged or labelled with the date its next calibration is due. (e) The single car test device must be disassembled, cleaned, and tested not less frequently than every 92 days. Subpart H_Maintenance Standards for Train Brake Systems §232.701 General requirements. (a) A railroad shall develop, implement and make available to FRA upon request written maintenance procedures for all types of train brake systems that the railroad operates. The written maintenance procedures shall:
