FR940610-0-00141 FR940610-0-00025 SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: To improve the administration of discretionary grants and to clarify for recipients the procedures and requirements of the Department, the Secretary is amending sections in the Education Department General Administrative Regulations (EDGAR) on non-competing continuation applications and the use of unobligated funds. Background In 1993 the Department chartered a Quality Improvement Team for Non-Competing Continuation Grants (the Team). The Team studied the Department's process for awarding non-competing continuation grants. To conduct its analysis, the Team collected information from a wide variety of sources within and outside the Department, including flowcharting, analyzing data from the Department's automated grants management information system, conducting focus groups and interviews of program and grants staff at all levels in the Department, and benchmarking the grant award processes with other Federal agencies. The Team developed four options, ranging from retaining the current non-competing continuation award process (with certain refinements and improvements) to establishing a new process for making NCC awards. The outline of these options was shared with the public during the data gathering stage of the Team's work. The public was given the opportunity to comment on improving the process for making non-competing continuation awards by submitting written comments or presenting testimony at a public meeting. Both the meeting and the invitation to submit written comments were announced in a notice published by the Department in the Federal Register on July 19, 1993 (55 FR 40630). Thirteen written comments were received in response to that request. The Team received additional comments at a public meeting held on August 18, 1993. The information gained from these extensive data gathering activities allowed the Team to identify deficiencies in the current process on which to base recommendations for modifying and improving the current process. Recommendation to Streamline the Non-competing Continuation Award Process Based on input from interested parties, both inside and outside the Department, the Team recommended that the Department make non-competing continuation awards on the basis of acceptable and timely performance reports without requiring the recipient to submit applications for those awards. The Team's recommendation is consistent with the goals of the Government Performance and Results Act and the specific recommendations of the National Performance Review to ``eliminate the continuation application process for budget years within the project period'' and that the process ``be replaced by yearly program progress reports focusing on program outcomes and problems related to program implementation and service delivery.'' Instead, funding levels for each budget period of a project will be determined at the time of the initial award.
