FR940711-2-00068 FR940711-2-00037 B. Provide a sample curriculum for the summer institute participants based on content and approach which will help increase participants' knowledge of science, increase their understanding and skills regarding how to create classroom environments, and capitalize on the out-of-doors and family settings as areas of scientific exploration and learning. C. List projected field experiences appropriate to the location of the college and Head Start programs. These may include trips to the ocean, visiting a quarry, aquarium, desert, nature trail, or wild life reserve. Information submitted should include the total number of hours of the institute program including a breakout of instruction vs. field trip experiences. D. Describe a plan for how many participants will be included in each summer program and how these participants will be recruited. E. Describe what provisions will be made for residential, intensive summer institutes for Head Start teachers, teacher assistants, and/or home visitors. F. Describe provision of materials, lunch and snacks, stipend or reimbursement, transportation to field activities, entry fees. G. Describe the college credit to be awarded for work completed during the summer institute and for implementing new knowledge and practice back at local programs. H. Describe the plan for the extension of the summer institute into Head Start settings and the provision of on-site feedback and ongoing support for adults applying their new skills. I. Explain the criteria and the approach to be used to recruit, fund, and mentor another teacher education college for the second year of the project. J. Develop an evaluation of the project to determine the effectiveness of the project. Describe the research questions to be addressed. Describe the evaluation that would be implemented, including the outcomes that would be measured, the evaluation design to be employed, and how the data will be analyzed. The evaluation should also include an analysis of the second summer institutes. The project and the evaluation will be completed by the end of the project period. K. Provide a description of the qualifications of each key staff member including the third-party evaluator (the evaluator cannot be a member of the demonstration project staff). Include copies of their curriculum vitae. L. Describe a plan to establish a self sustaining project, since this will be a prototype other colleges and universities may want to adapt. It is expected that the applicant may pay for more activities and services during the first year; however, attempts should be made to run a more self supporting program by year two. Outside resources or Head Start grantees that see these services as a priority can support some of the cost of the training. Part IV_Evaluation Criteria In consideration of how applicants will meet the requirements and responsibilities addressed under Parts II and III of this announcement, competing applications from colleges and universities will be reviewed and evaluated against the following criteria. A. Objectives and Need for Assistance (15 points) The extent to which the applicant identifies any relevant economic, social, financial institutional or other problems requiring a solution: demonstrates the need for the assistance: and states the principal and subordinate objectives of the project. Supporting documentation or other testimonies from concerned interests other than the applicant on the need for assistance may be used. Identify the precise location of the project and the area to be served by the proposed project. Maps and other geographic aids may be attached. Information provided in response to the following items under ``Specific Responsibilities of the Applicant'' will be used to review and evaluate applicants on this criterion: Letters A,C,D B. Results or Benefits Expected (15 points) The extent to which the applicant identifies the results and benefits to be derived which are consistent with the objectives of the proposal and indicates the anticipated contributions to policy, practice, theory and/or research. Information provided in response to the following items under ``Specific Responsibilities of the Applicant'' will be used to review and evaluate applicants on this criterion: Letters A,G,H,J C. Approach (40 points) The extent to which the applicant outlines an acceptable plan of action pertaining to the scope of the project; details how the proposed work will be accomplished and lists each organization, consultant, and other key individuals who will work on the project, along with resumes and a short description of their responsibilities or contribution to the applicant's work plan. Describe the evaluation methodology that will be used to determine if the needs identified and discussed are being met and if the results and benefits identified are being achieved. Information provided in response to the following items under ``Specific Responsibilities of the Applicant'' will be used to review and evaluate applicants on this criterion: Letters A,B,C,E,F,G,H,I D. Staff Background and Organization's Experience (20 Points) Identifies the background of the project director/principal investigator and key project staff (including name, address, training, most relevant educational background and other qualifying experiences) and the experience of the college or university to demonstrate the applicant's ability to effectively and efficiently administer this project. Information provided in response to the following items under ``Specific Responsibilities of the Applicant'' will be used to review and evaluate applicants on this criterion: Letter K E. Budget Appropriateness and Reasonableness (10 Points) The extent to which the project's costs are reasonable in view of the activities to be carried out and the anticipated outcomes. The extent to which assurances are provided that the applicant can and will contribute the non-Federal share of the total project. The extent to which the amount budgeted for the evaluation is sufficient to conduct the evaluation. Information provided in response to the following items under ``Application Requirements'' will be used to review and evaluate applicants on this criterion: Letter C,E,F,J,L Part V_Application Process A. Availability of Forms Eligible applicants interested in applying for funds must submit all of the required forms included at the end of this Announcement.
