FR941005-2-00135 FR941005-2-00091 [Rel. No. IC&hyph;20592; File No. 812&hyph;9006] Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association of America, et al. September 28, 1994. AGENCY: Securities and Exchange Commission (the ``Commission'' or the ``SEC''). ACTION: Notice of application for exemption under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the ``1940 Act''). APPLICANTS: Teachers Insurance and Annuity Association of America (``TIAA''), TIAA Separate Account VA&hyph;1 (the ``Separate Account''), and Teachers Personal Investors Services, Inc. (``TPIS''). RELEVANT 1940 ACT SECTIONS: Order requested under Section 6(c) for exemptions from Sections 12(b), 26(a)(2)(C) and 27 (c)(2) of the 1940 Act, and Rule 12b&hyph;1 thereunder. SUMMARY OF APPLICATION: Applicants seek an order to permit the deduction of a mortality and expense risk charge from the assets of the Separate Account under certain variable annuity contracts. FILING DATE: An application was filed on May 18, 1994, and amended on September 28, 1994. HEARING OR NOTIFICATION OF HEARING: An order granting the application will be issued unless the Commission orders a hearing. Interested persons may request a hearing by writing to the SEC's Secretary and serving Applicants with a copy of the request, personally or by mail. Hearing requests should be received by the SEC by 5:30 p.m. on October 24, 1994, and should be accompanied by proof of service on Applicants in the form of an affidavit or, for lawyers, a certificate of service. Hearing requests should state the nature of the writer's interest, the reason for the request, and the issues contested. Persons may request notification of a hearing by writing to the SEC's Secretary. ADDRESSES: Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street NW., Washington, D.C. 20549. Applicants, 730 Third Avenue, New York, NY 10007&hyph;3206. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Wendy Finck Friedlander, Senior Attorney, at (202) 942&hyph;0682, Office of Insurance Products (Division of Investment Management). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Following is a summary of the application. The complete application is available for a fee from the Commission's Public Reference Branch. Applicants' Representations 1. TIAA is a nonprofit corporation regulated under New York law as an insurance company. TIAA's purpose is to provide retirement benefits to teachers and other employees of nonprofit-making colleges, universities, and other institutions engaged in education or research activities. All of TIAA's stock is held by TIAA Board of Overseers, a New York not-for-profit membership corporation. TIAA is a companion organization of the College Retirement Equities Fund, a New York nonprofit corporation registered as a management investment company that issues variable annuity certificates. 2. The Separate Account was established by TIAA under the laws of New York to fund certain variable annuity contracts. The Separate Account is registered as a management investment company on Form N&hyph;3 under the 1940 Act. The Separate Account currently consists of one investment portfolio, the Stock Index Account. Other investment portfolios may be made available in the future. 3. TPIS is the principal underwriter of the variable component of a combination fixed and variable individual deferred annuity contract (``Contract'') funded by the Separate Account. TPIS is a wholly-owned subsidiary of TIAA VA Holdings, Inc., which is, in turn, a wholly-owned subsidiary of TIAA. TPIS is registering as a broker-dealer under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The Contract will be offered on a continuous basis by registered representatives of TPIS. 4. The Contracts are designed to provide retirement or long-term benefits to eligible employees, spouses or domestic partners. The Contracts require a minimum initial premium of $2000 except if payments are collected by payroll deduction by a Contractowner's employer. Additional premium payments of at least $100 may be paid at any time during the accumulation period. No sales charges are deducted from premium payments. 5. Premium taxes are deducted by TIAA from premium payments prior to allocation to the Separate Account in states that impose a premium tax charge when a premium is paid. In states that impose a premium tax later, TIAA deducts the appropriate amount when the tax is incurred.
