FR941216-1-00006 FR941216-1-00002 Availability of NPRMs Any person may obtain a copy of this NPRM by submitting a request to the FAA, Transport Airplane Directorate, ANM&hyph;103, Attention: Rules Docket No. 94&hyph;NM&hyph;191&hyph;AD, 1601 Lind Avenue, SW., Renton, Washington 98055&hyph;4056. Discussion The Direction Générale de l'Aviation Civile (DGAC), which is the airworthiness authority for France, recently notified the FAA that an unsafe condition may exist on certain Airbus Model A310 and A300&hyph;600 series airplanes equipped with certain SOGERMA&hyph;SOCEA pilot, co-pilot, and third occupant seats. The DGAC advises that a report has been received of failure of the bracket of the backrest recline control lock on a seat after the airplane accumulated 21,762 total flight hours. Investigation has revealed that the cause of this failure has been attributed to fatigue-related cracking. Fatigue cracks and/or distortion of the bracket of the backrest recline control lock, if not detected and corrected in a timely manner, could result in failure of the seat backrest attach fittings, and the subsequent uncommanded 50 angle recline of the pilot or co-pilot seat; this situation could lead to the temporary inability of the pilots to control the airplane. SOGERMA&hyph;SOCEA has issued Service Bulletin 25&hyph;229, dated November 26, 1993, which describes procedures for repetitive detailed visual inspections to detect distortion and/or cracks on the attachment brackets of the backrest recline control locks. This service bulletin also describes procedures for replacement of both of the brackets and their associated attachment fittings with new parts, which would eliminate the need for the repetitive inspections. The DGAC classified this service bulletin as mandatory and issued French airworthiness directive 94&hyph;188&hyph;162(B), dated August 17, 1994, in order to assure the continued airworthiness of these airplanes in France. This airplane model is manufactured in France and is type certificated for operation in the United States under the provisions of section 21.29 of the Federal Aviation Regulations (14 CFR 21.29) and the applicable bilateral airworthiness agreement. Pursuant to this bilateral airworthiness agreement, the DGAC has kept the FAA informed of the situation described above. The FAA has examined the findings of the DGAC, reviewed all available information, and determined that AD action is necessary for products of this type design that are certificated for operation in the United States. Since an unsafe condition has been identified that is likely to exist or develop on other airplanes of the same type design registered in the United States, the proposed AD would require repetitive detailed visual inspections to detect distortion and/or cracks on the attachment brackets of the seat backrest recline control locks. This proposed AD would also require replacement of both of the brackets and their associated attachment fittings with new parts; this replacement would constitute terminating action for repetitive inspection requirements. The actions would be required to be accomplished in accordance with the service bulletin described previously. As a result of recent communications with the Air Transport Association (ATA) of America, the FAA has learned that, in general, some operators may misunderstand the legal effect of AD's on airplanes that are identified in the applicability provision of the AD, but that have been altered or repaired in the area addressed by the AD. The FAA points out that all airplanes identified in the applicability provision of an AD are legally subject to the AD. If an airplane has been altered or repaired in the affected area in such a way as to affect compliance with the AD, the owner or operator is required to obtain FAA approval for an alternative method of compliance with the AD, in accordance with the paragraph of each AD that provides for such approvals. A note has been included in this notice to clarify this requirement. The FAA estimates that 49 airplanes of U.S. registry would be affected by this proposed AD, that it would take approximately 4 work hours per airplane to accomplish the proposed actions, and that the average labor rate is $60 per work hour. Required parts would be supplied by the manufacturer at no cost to the operators. Based on these figures, the total cost impact of the proposed AD on U.S. operators is estimated to be $11,760, or $240 per airplane, per inspection cycle. The total cost impact figure discussed above is based on assumptions that no operator has yet accomplished any of the proposed requirements of this AD action, and that no operator would accomplish those actions in the future if this AD were not adopted. The regulations proposed herein would not have substantial direct effects on the States, on the relationship between the national government and the States, or on the distribution of power and responsibilities among the various levels of government. Therefore, in accordance with Executive Order 12612, it is determined that this proposal would not have sufficient federalism implications to warrant the preparation of a Federalism Assessment. For the reasons discussed above, I certify that this proposed regulation (1) is not a ``significant regulatory action'' under Executive Order 12866; (2) is not a ``significant rule'' under the DOT Regulatory Policies and Procedures (44 FR 11034, February 26, 1979); and (3) if promulgated, will not have a significant economic impact, positive or negative, on a substantial number of small entities under the criteria of the Regulatory Flexibility Act. A copy of the draft regulatory evaluation prepared for this action is contained in the Rules Docket. A copy of it may be obtained by contacting the Rules Docket at the location provided under the caption ADDRESSES . List of Subjects in 14 CFR Part 39 Air transportation, Aircraft, Aviation safety, Safety. The Proposed Amendment Accordingly, pursuant to the authority delegated to me by the Administrator, the Federal Aviation Administration proposes to amend part 39 of the Federal Aviation Regulations (14 CFR part 39) as follows: PART 39_AIRWORTHINESS DIRECTIVES 1. The authority citation for part 39 continues to read as follows: Authority: 49 U.S.C. App. 1354(a), 1421 and 1423; 49 U.S.C. 106(g); and 14 CFR 11.89.
