FR940816-2-00057 FR940816-2-00044 Eligible Applicants Eligible applicants are the official public health agencies of States or their bona fide agents or instrumentalities. This includes the District of Columbia, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, the Federated States of Micronesia, Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands, the Republic of Marshall Islands, the Republic of Palau, and federally recognized Indian tribal governments. State organizations, including State universities, must establish that they meet their respective State's legislature definition of a State entity or political subdivision to be considered an eligible applicant. Availability of Funds Approximately $2,000,000 is expected to be available in FY 1995 to fund an estimated 10 competing new awards and 10 noncompeting continuation awards. It is expected that the awards will range from $75,000 to $125,000. Awards are funded for a 12-month budget period within a project period of up to 2 years. Continuation awards within the project period will be made on the basis of satisfactory progress and the availability of funds. Purpose The purpose of the program is to assist public health agencies in conducting site-specific health activities recommended by HARP to assess the public health impact of human exposure to hazardous substances in communities located near hazardous waste sites or releases. A current list of sites in the applicant's State rated as Urgent Public Health Hazard, Public Health Hazard, and Indeterminate Public Health Hazard may be obtained from Wendell Webb, Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry, Public Health Practice Coordination Group, telephone (404) 639&hyph;0566. Program Requirements Applicants must specify the type of award for which they are applying, either grant or cooperative agreement. These two types of Federal assistance are explained below. A. Grants In a grant, the applicant will be required to conduct the proposed study without substantial programmatic involvement from the funding agency. Therefore, the grantee's application should be presented in a manner that demonstrates the applicant's ability to conduct the study. Applications should include a protocol which will undergo scientific peer review as required by ATSDR. The applicant's protocol should contain consent forms and questionnaires, baseline morbidity and mortality information, procedures for collecting biologic and environmental specimens and for conducting laboratory analysis of the test specimens, statistical and epidemiologic analysis of the study information, and a description of the safeguards for protecting the confidentiality of individuals on whom data are collected. The applicant must include in the application a methodology for ongoing community interaction/involvement. By comparison, the activities of the recipient and the ATSDR relating to a cooperative agreement are different and are described in paragraph B. B. Cooperative Agreements In a cooperative agreement, the funding agency will assist the collaborator in conducting the study. The application should be presented in a manner that demonstrates the applicant's ability to address the health study in a collaborative manner with the funding agency. The cooperative activities of the recipient agency and the funding agency are: 1. Recipient Activities a. The recipient will develop a protocol and conduct the recommended study. This protocol will undergo scientific peer review as required by ATSDR. b. The recipient is required to provide proof by citing a State code or regulation or other State pronouncement under authority of law, that medical information obtained pursuant to the agreement will be protected from disclosure when the consent of the individual to release identifying information is not obtained. c. The recipient will develop a mechanism for ongoing interaction with the affected community. 2. ATSDR Activities a. ATSDR will provide assistance in both the planning and implementation phases of the field work called for under the study protocol. b. ATSDR will provide consultation and assist in monitoring the data and specimen collection. c. ATSDR will participate in the study analysis. d. ATSDR will collaborate in interpreting the study findings. e. ATSDR will conduct technical and peer review. Evaluation Criteria Applications will be reviewed and evaluated according to the following criteria: A. Scientific and Technical Review Criteria of New Applications 1. Proposed Program_50% The extent to which the applicant's proposal and protocol addresses (a) the study as recommended by HARP; (b) the approach, feasibility, adequacy, and rationale of the proposed project design; (c) the technical merit of the proposed project, including the degree to which the project can be expected to yield results that meet the program objective as described in the ``Purpose'' section of this announcement and the technical merit of the methods and procedures (including quality assurance and quality control procedures) for the proposed project; (d) the proposed project timeline, including clearly established project objectives for which progress toward attainment can and will be measured; (e) the proposed community involvement strategy; and (f) the proposed method to disseminate the results to State and local public health officials, community residents, and other concerned individuals and organizations. 2. Program Personnel_30% The extent to which the proposal has described (a) the qualifications, experience, and commitment of the principal investigator (or project director) and his/her ability to devote adequate time and effort to provide effective leadership; and (b) the competence of associates to accomplish the proposed activity, their commitment, and the time they will devote. 3. Applicant Capability and Coordination Efforts_20% The extent to which the proposal has described (a) the capability of the applicant's administrative structure to foster successful scientific and administrative management of a study; (b) the capability of the applicant to demonstrate an appropriate plan for interaction with the community; and (c) the suitability of facilities and equipment available or to be purchased for the project.
