FR940503-2-00122 FR940503-2-00084 F. Contract Specifications The proposed options on the Index will be cash-settled, European-style options. 12 Standard options trading hours (8:30 a.m. to 3:10 p.m. Central Standard time) will apply to the contracts. The Index multiplier will be 100. The strike price interval will be $5.00 for full-value Index options with a duration of one year or less to expiration. 13 In addition, pursuant to CBOE Rule 24.9, there may be up to six expiration months outstanding at any given time. Specifically, there may be up to there expiration months from the March, June, September, and December cycle plus up to three additional near-term months so that the two nearest term months will always be available. As described in more detail below, the Exchange also intends to list several Index LEAPS series that expire from twelve to thirty-six months from the date of issuance. 12 A European-style option can be exercised only during a specified period before the option expires. 13 For a description of the strike price intervals for reduced-value Index options and long-term Index options, See infra , Section II.G. Lastly, the options on the Index will expire on the Saturday following the third Friday of the expiration month (``Expiration Friday''). Accordingly, since options on the Index will settle based upon opening prices of the component securities on the last trading day before expiration (normally a Friday), the last trading day for an expiring Index option series will normally be the second to the last business day before expiration (normally a Thursday). G. Listing of Long-Term Options on the Full-Value or Reduced-Value Global Telecommunications Index The proposal provides that the Exchange may list long-term Index options that expire from 12 to 36 months from listing based on the full-value Global Telecommunications Index or a reduced value Global Telecommunications Index that will be computed at one-tenth the value of the full-value Index. Existing Exchange requirements applicable to full-value and reduced-value LEAPS will apply to full-value and reduced-value Index LEAPS. 14 The current and closing Index value for reduced-value Global Telecommunications LEAPS will be computed by dividing the value of the full-value Index by 10 and rounding the resulting figure to the nearest one-hundredth. For example, an Index value of 149.76 would be 14.98 for the Index LEAPS and 149.73 would become 14.97. The reduced-value Index LEAPS will have a European-style exercise and will be subject to the same rules that govern the trading of all the Exchange's index options, including sales practice rules, margin requirements and floor trading procedures. Pursuant to CBOE Rule 24.9, the strike price interval for the reduced-value Index LEAPS will be no less than $2.50 instead of $5.00. 14 See CBOE Rule 24.9(b). H. Position and Exercise Limits, Margin Requirements, and Trading Halts Because the Index is classified as an ``industry index'' under CBOE rules, 15 Exchange rules that are applicable to the trading of options on narrow-based indexes will apply to the trading of Global Telecommunications Index options and Global Telecommunications Index LEAPS. Specifically, Exchange rules governing margin requirements, 16 position and exercise limits, 17 and trading halt procedures 18 that are applicable to the trading of narrow-based index options will apply to options traded on the Index. The proposal further provides that, for purposes of determining whether a given position in reduced-value Index LEAPS complies with applicable position and exercise limits, positions in reduced-value Index LEAPS will be aggregated with positions in the full-value Index options. For these purposes, ten reduced-value contract will equal one full-value contract. 15 See CBOE Rule 24.1(i). 16 Pursuant to CBOE Rule 24.11, the margin requirements for the Index options will be: (1) for short options positions, 100% of the current market value of the options contract plus 20% of the underlying aggregate Index value, less any out-of-the-money amount, with a minimum requirement of the options premium plus 10% of the underlying Index value; and (2) for long term options positions, 100% of the options premium paid. 17 Pursuant to CBOE Rules 24.4A and 24.5, respectively, the position and exercise limits for the Index options will be 10,500 contracts, unless the Exchange determines, pursuant to Rules 24.4A and 24.5 that a lower limit is warranted. See February 14 Letter, supra note 8. 18 Pursuant to CBOE Rule 24.7, the trading on the CBOE of Index options may be halted or suspended whenever trading in underlying securities whose weighted value represents more than 20% of the Index value are halted or suspended. I. Surveillance Surveillence procedures currently used to monitor trading in each of the Exchange's other index options will also be used to monitor trading in regular Index options and in full-value and reduced-value Index LEAPS. These procedures include complete access to trading activity in the underlying securities. Further, the Intermarket Surviellance Group Agreement, dated July 14, 1983, as amended on January 29, 1990, will be applicable to the trading of options on the Index. 19 19 The Intermarket Surveillance Group (``ISG'') was formed on July 14, 1983 to, among other things, coordinate more effectively surveillance and investigative information sharing arrangements in the stock and options markets. See Intermarket Surveillance Group Agreement, July 14, 1983. The most recent amendment to the ISG Agreement, which incorporates the original agreement and all amendments made thereafter, was signed by ISG members on January 29, 1990. See Second Amendment to the Intermarket Surveillance Group Agreement, January 29, 1990. The members of the ISG are: the Amex; the Boston Stock Exchange, Inc.; the CBOE; the Chicago Stock Exchange, Inc.; the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. (``NASD''); the NYSE; the Pacific Stock Exchange, Inc.; and the Philadelphia Stock Exchange, Inc. Because of potential opportunities for trading abuses involving stock index futures, stock options, and the underlying stock and the need for greater sharing of surveillance information for these potential intermarket trading abuses, the major stock index futures exchanges ( e.g., the Chicago Mercantile Exchange and the Chicago Board of Trade) joined the ISG as affiliated members in 1990.
