FR940323-0-00046 FR940323-0-00020 (3) Both. Approved AmeriCorps position. The term approved AmeriCorps position means an AmeriCorps position for which the Corporation has approved the provision of an AmeriCorps educational award as one of the benefits to be provided for successful service in the position. Carry out. The term carry out, when used in connection with an AmeriCorps program described in section 122 of the Act, means the planning, establishment, operation, expansion, or replication of the program. Chief Executive Officer. The term Chief Executive Officer, except when used to refer to the chief executive officer of a State, means the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation appointed under section 193 of the Act. Community-based agency. The term community-based agency means a private nonprofit organization (including a church or other religious entity) that_ (1) Is representative of a community or a significant segment of a community; and (2) Is engaged in meeting educational, public safety, human, or environmental community needs. Corporation. The term Corporation means the Corporation for National and Community Service established under section 191 of the Act. Economically disadvantaged. The term economically disadvantaged, with respect to an individual, has the same meaning as such term as defined in the Job Training Partnership Act (29 U.S.C. 1503(8)). Elementary school. The term elementary school has the same meaning given the term in section 1471(8) of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 2891(8)). Empowerment zone. The term empowerment zone means an area designated as an empowerment zone by the Secretary of the Department of Housing and Urban Development or the Secretary of the Department of Agriculture. Grantmaking entity. (1) For school-based programs, the term grantmaking entity means a public or private nonprofit organization experienced in service-learning that_ (i) Submits an application to make grants for school-based service-learning programs in two or more States; and (ii) Was in existence at least one year before the date on which the organization submitted the application. (2) For community-based programs, the term grantmaking entity means a qualified organization that_ (i) Submits an application to make grants to qualified organizations to implement, operate, expand, or replicate community-based service programs that provide for educational, public safety, human, or environmental service by school-age youth in two or more States; and (ii) Was in existence at least one year before the date on which the organization submitted the application. Higher Education partnerships. The term higher education partnership means one or more public or private nonprofit organizations, or public agencies, including States, and one or more institutions of higher education that have entered into a written agreement specifying the responsibilities of each partner. Indian. The term Indian means a person who is a member of an Indian tribe, or is a ``Native'', as defined in section 3(b) of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1602(b)). Indian lands. The term Indian lands means any real property owned by an Indian tribe, any real property held in trust by the United States for an Indian or Indian tribe, and any real property held by an Indian or Indian tribe that is subject to restrictions on alienation imposed by the United States. Indian tribe. The term Indian tribe means_ (1) An Indian tribe, band, nation, or other organized group or community that is recognized as eligible for the special programs and services provided by the United States under Federal law to Indians because of their status as Indians, including_ (i) Any Native village, as defined in section 3(c) of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1602(c)), whether organized traditionally or pursuant to the Act of June 18, 1934 (commonly known as the ``Indian Reorganization Act'', 25 U.S.C. 461 et seq .); and (ii) Any Regional Corporation or Village Corporation, as defined in subsection (g) or (j), respectively, of section 3 of the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1602 (g) or (j)); and (2) Any tribal organization controlled, sanctioned, or chartered by an entity described in paragraph (1) of this definition. Individual with a disability. Except as provided in section 175(a) of the Act, the term individual with a disability has the meaning given the term in section 7(8)(B) of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 706(8)(B)), which includes individuals with cognitive and other mental impairments, as well as individuals with physical impairments, who meet the criteria in that definition. Infrastructure-building activities. The term infrastructure-building activities refers to activities that increase the capacity of organizations, programs and individuals to provide high quality service to communities. Institution of higher education. The term institution of higher education has the same meaning given the term in section 1201(a) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1141(a)). Local educational agency (LEA). The term local educational agency has the same meaning given the term in section 1471(12) of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 2891(12)). Local partnership. The term local partnership means a partnership, as defined in ยง2510.20 of this chapter, that meets the eligibility requirements to apply for subgrants under ยง2516.110 or ยง2517.110 of this chapter. National nonprofit. The term national nonprofit means any nonprofit organization whose mission, membership, activities, or constituencies are national in scope.
