FR940810-2-00033 FR940810-2-00021 (4) Reviewing and commenting upon proposed contract, grant, and cooperative agreement proposals; (5) Advising the United States on the Federal educational research and development effort; (6) Recommending ways for strengthening active partnerships among researchers, educational practitioners, librarians, and policymakers; (7) Recommending ways to strengthen interaction and collaboration between the various program offices and components; (8) Soliciting advice and information from the educational field_making sure to involve educational practitioners particularly teachers in the process_to define research needs and provide suggestions for research topics; (9) Soliciting advice from practitioners, policymakers, and researchers, and recommending missions for the national research centers which are funded by OERI by identifying topics which require long-term, sustained, systematic, programmatic, and integrated research and dissemination efforts; (10) Providing recommendations for translating research findings into workable, adaptable models for use in policy and in practice across different settings, and recommendations for other forms of dissemination; and (11) Providing recommendations for creating incentives to draw talented young people into the field of educational research, including scholars from disadvantaged and minority groups. (Section 921(c) of the Act) 4. Nomination Categories Nominations are being requested for the five outstanding school-based professional educators and the five individuals who are knowledgeable about the educational needs of the United States as described under the heading Description of the Board above. The Secretary must give due consideration to the gender, race, and ethnicity of appointees to assure that the Board is broadly representative of the diversity of the United States. (Section 921(f)(2) of the Act) 5. Applicability of Certain Federal Legal Requirements The Board is subject to Federal legislation (the Federal Advisory Committee Act, 5 U.S.C. App. 2; and the Government in the Sunshine Act, 5 U.S.C. 552b), which is designed to ensure that public business is publicly conducted, and that government advisory and policymaking groups are not inappropriately used to advance the private interests of their members. Board members are considered special government employees who are subject to certain government-wide restrictions on conflicts of interest. 6. Nomination Procedures In order to be assured of consideration, nominations_which include the nominee's name, address, telephone number and brief biography_should be mailed or hand delivered no later than September 12, 1994 to Diane Rossi, Office of the Secretary of Education, U.S. Department of Education, Attention: National Educational Research Policy and Priorities Board, 600 Independence Avenue, SW, Washington, DC 20202&hyph;0106. If the nomination is late, the Department may lack sufficient time to review it with other nominations and may decline to accept it. (a) Nominations Delivered by Mail Nominations delivered by mail must be addressed as indicated above and must show proof of mailing consisting of one of the following: (1) a legibly dated U.S. Postal Service Postmark; (2) a legible mail receipt with the date of mailing stamped by the U.S. Postal Service; (3) a dated shipping label, invoice, or receipt from a commercial carrier. The following are not accepted as proof of mailing: (1) A private metered postmark, or (2) a mail receipt that is not dated by the U.S. Postal Service. (b) Nominations Delivered By Hand/Courier Service A nomination that is hand delivered must be taken to the U.S. Department of Education, Room 6103, 600 Independence Avenue, SW, Washington, D.C. 20202&hyph;0106. Hand-delivered nominations will be accepted daily between the hours of 8:30 a.m. and 5:00 p.m., Washington, DC time, except Saturdays, Sundays, and Federal holidays. In order for a nomination sent through a Courier Service to be considered timely, the Courier Service must be in receipt of the nomination on or before the deadline. Dated: August 5, 1994. Sharon P. Robinson, Assistant Secretary for Educational Research and Improvement. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;19535 Filed 8&hyph;9&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4000&hyph;01&hyph;M
