FR940621-2-00009 FR940621-2-00005 •U.S. aid and assistance for funding telecommunications projects and delivering technical assistance to developing countries and countries with emerging economies. These informal subgroups have addressed each of these issues, looking first to the need to document existing circumstances (e.g., to clarify the respective roles of international, regional and national organizations and standard-setting bodies) and thereafter to address whether the Administration's NII objectives would be served better by changing U.S. policy and/or efforts relating to each area. In the course of its deliberations, the Working Group has concluded that traditional U.S. policy approaches toward international telecommunications have been both appropriate and constructive in achieving their objectives of obtaining greater access by U.S. firms to foreign markets, eliminating barriers caused by incompatible standards, and promoting the competitiveness of U.S. firms in providing international services. These policies should be continued. However, it also seems clear that the stimulus for changes in U.S. domestic policy_the convergence of technologies and blurring of boundaries between industries and markets_has significant bearing on the international environment, with corresponding implications for U.S. international telecommunications policy. In March, 1994, Vice President Gore discussed the creation of a GII and emphasized that it will require the participation of all countries. Many countries have already embarked on national initiatives similar to the NII, reflecting the increasingly common objective of governments to facilitate broader access by consumers to an expanded array of information technologies and services. The European Union, Japan, Canada, and several countries in developing regions of the world, such as Latin America, Asia, and Eastern Europe, have identified telecommunications and information technologies as essential to further economic growth and development. We recognize that the creation of a GII will have policy and operational issues that affect the United States and other countries. The Working Group is seeking a broader understanding of the emerging policy issues associated with the international dimension of technological convergence, and requests comments on the following issues/questions that have arisen as a result of the work of the subgroups, and certain general questions with regard to the GII: Subgroup Questions 1. Are there issues raised by technological convergence on a global scale that have not been addressed in U.S. policy? What mechanisms (governmental or private sector, bilateral or multilateral) are best suited to addressing these issues? 2. Given the manner in which the telecommunications market is emerging, are the issues in the 1993 NTIA Notice of Inquiry (58 Fed. Reg. 4846 (January 15, 1993)), which addressed the regulation of international telecommunications services provided between the United states and other countries, still primary areas of concern? 3. Given the convergence of technologies and the increase in the number of organizations developing standards, are the U.S. government/private sector preparatory processes adequate to promote U.S. interests in international standards activities? How should the U.S. government and the private sector facilitate the coordination of standards-setting bodies? 4. How should the U.S. government address compulsory licensing of intellectual property rights by international standards-setting bodies? 5. How can the process of developing international standards be enhanced to ensure the interconnectivity and interoperability of an NII, and ultimately a GII? 6. In light of the recent and significant liberalization of U.S. export controls, are further export control reforms appropriate to ensure that the United States is able to participate fully in the international marketplace? General Questions About the GII 7. What is your vision of the GII? 8. What should be the U.S. role in developing the GII? 9. What should be the private sector's role in developing the GII? 10. Given the significant amount of financial resources that will be necessary to create a GII and the fact that the United States has limited financial ability to provide aid and assistance, what should the United States do to stimulate private investment? 11. With regard to the NII, the Administration clearly has indicated that government policies should remain technologically neutral. Should this approach also be adopted for the GII? 12. Pursuant to the NII, the Administration is pursuing a domestic review of current telecommunications laws and regulations. Should this same type of exercise be pursued with regard to U.S. laws and regulations addressing international telecommunications? 13. What technical, financial and other issues need to be addressed in achieving the goal of a global digital library defined by Vice President Gore in his speech before the International Telecommunication Union's World Telecommunication Development Conference? II. Guidelines for Written Comments and Oral Testimony Written comments must be provided in triplicate and include the following information: 1. Name and affiliation of the individual responding;
