FR940405-2-00184 FR940405-2-00081 (v) To maintain necessary case files on each program participant, containing such information and kept in such form as HUD shall require, and to provide files to PAC members upon request, in connection with PAC duties. (vi) To refer program participants to service providers in the community, or those of the HA. (vii) To monitor the ongoing provision of services from community agencies and to keep the PAC and the agency providing the supportive service informed of the progress of the individual. If needed, the service coordinator may request reassessment of the individual by the PAC at intervals less than that stipulated in PAC operating procedures. (viii) To educate program participants on such issues as application procedures, service availability, client rights. (ix) To establish volunteer support programs with service organizations in the community. (x) To assist the program participant to build informal support networks with neighbors, friends and family. (xi) To educate other HA management staff on issues related to ``aging-in-place'' and services coordination. (12) Compliance with Nondiscrimination, Equal Opportunity and Other Federal Requirements The selected HA must comply with all applicable nondiscrimination, equal opportunity, affirmative outreach requirements, and other Federal requirements contained in 24 CFR part 882. II. Application Process (A) Application Submission Deadline Applications must be received in the HUD Field Office on July 5, 1994 by 4:30 p.m. local time. The application deadline is firm as to date and hour. In the interest of fairness to all competing applicants, HUD will treat as ineligible for consideration any application that is not received on or before the application deadline. Applicants should take this practice into account and make early submission of their materials to avoid any risk of loss of eligibility brought about by unanticipated delays or other delivery-related problems. HUD will not accept applications which are sent via facsimile (FAX) transmission. (B) Threshold Approvable Applications Only those applications that meet the threshold criteria set forth in section II(C) of this NOFA will be considered for rating and ranking under section II(D). Applications that meet the threshold criteria will be reviewed, rated and ranked by the Field Office using the selection criteria and point assignments set forth in section II(D) of this NOFA. All scored applications and rating sheets in each Field Office will be sent to the Regional Public Housing Director for Region I. In order to ensure that rating is consistent among the Field Offices, the Office of Public Housing for Region I will review and may re-rate these applications using the criteria in the NOFA. The highest rated application will be selected for technical processing by the HUD Field Office (i.e., determination of contract rents; environmental and historic preservation reviews under 24 CFR part 50; review of previous participation of the principals of the developer/owner; for projects using low income housing tax credits, subsidy layering review; and for new construction projects, intergovernmental review under 24 CFR part 52) and, if the application meets program requirements, will be approved by the HUD Field Office. If the selected application cannot be approved after technical processing is completed, the next highest ranked application will be selected for technical processing until an approvable application is selected for funding by HUD. (C) Threshold Criteria (1) HA Section 8 Administrative Capability The HA's administrative capability must meet, at a minimum, the following criteria: the Field Office rated the HA's overall administration of its Rental Voucher, Rental Certificate, and Moderate Rehabilitation Programs as good; any management review, fair housing and equal opportunity monitoring review, or Inspector General audit findings are being satisfactorily addressed; not more than 25 percent of the units inspected by the Field Office during the last management review failed to meet housing quality standards (HQS) and also failed to meet HQS at the time of the previous HA inspection, or the Field Office is aware of actions taken by the HA to improve its inspection procedures; and the leasing rate for rental vouchers and rental certificates under ACC for one year or more was at least 90 percent as of September 30, 1993, unless the Field Office documents that the September 30, 1993, report is not reflective of HA performance. In addition, the HA must have prior experience with rehabilitation or development of housing. If an HA is not administering a Rental Voucher, Rental Certificate, or Moderate Rehabilitation Program, the HA is not eligible to participate in this demonstration program.
