FR940426-2-00131 FR940426-2-00078 Here, FTA finds that the weight of the documentary evidence in its records, including responses of grantees to complaints by private operators, protests from labor unions representing transit workers, and documented failures of specific privatization programs to realize cost savings or improvements in service quality, strongly indicates that the policy has imposed significant administrative and financial burdens on recipients, while conferring little measurable benefit on public transit providers and users. In addition, many comments to this docket support FTA's judgment. The current policy was not developed with the benefit of prior notice and comment and is thus not due the same deference as a rule so developed, as was the rule at issue in State Farm. In addition, the effects of the current policy have not been the subject of scientific study or extensive research. FTA must accordingly base its new approach to the participation of private enterprise on its experience in administering the current policy, on the insight developed in this proceeding, and on recent legislation emphasizing greater local decisionmaking such as the ISTEA amendment to section 8(i)(5) of the FT Act. Of course, FTA has broad statutory authority in developing its approach to implementing the private sector provisions of the FT Act, ``an administrative decision which is essentially an exercise of discretion.'' South Suburban Safeway Lines, Inc. v. City of Chicago, 416 F.2d 535, 539 (7th Cir. 1969). In a decision handed down a year after State Farm, the Supreme Court emphasized the deference that must be given to an agency's judgments within the agency's field of discretion and expertise. In Chevron, the Court upheld an Environmental Protection Agency rule under the Clean Air Act allowing states to treat all pollution-emitting devices within the same industrial grouping as though they were encased in a single ``bubble.'' Having determined that Congress had not expressed any specific intention regarding the applicability of the statutory provisions in question, the Court decided that the only question on review was whether or not the agency's interpretation was a ``reasonable one'' in light of the environmental and policy objectives of the statute. For a unanimous Court, Justice Stevens stated that An agency to which Congress has delegated policymaking responsibilities may, within the limits of that delegation, properly rely upon the incumbent administration's views of wise policy to inform its judgments. While agencies are not directly accountable to the people, the Chief Executive is, and it is entirely appropriate for this political branch of the Government to make such policy choices_resolving the competing interests which Congress itself either inadvertently did not resolve, or intentionally left to be resolved by the agency charged with the administration of the statute in light of everyday realities. When a challenge to an agency construction of a statutory provision, fairly conceptualized, really centers on the wisdom of the agency's policy rather than whether it is a reasonable choice within a gap left by Congress, the challenge must fail. In such a case, federal judges_who have no constituency_have a duty to respect legitimate policy choices made by those who do. Id. at 865&hyph;866. Citing Morton v. Ruiz, 415 U.S. 199, 231 (1974), the Court noted that ``the power of an administrative agency to administer a congressionally created *␣*␣* program necessarily requires the formulation of policy and the making of rules to fill any gap left, implicitly or explicitly, by Congress.'' Id. at 844. In enacting the private enterprise provisions of the FT Act, sections 3(e), 8(o), and 9(f), Congress did not indicate how they were to be applied or implemented. Indeed, for the first 20 years, 1964&hyph;1984, the private enterprise provisions were regarded as largely self executing, as FTA issued neither formal nor informal guidance until 1984 and 1986. Instead, Congress left decisions concerning the implementation of the provisions to the discretion of the FTA Administrator. South Suburban at 539. In the FT Act, Congress made it clear that decisions regarding mass transportation services to be provided with Federal assistance are to be made locally; indeed, section 2(b) states that one of the fundamental purposes of the Act is To provide assistance to State and local governments and their instrumentalities in financing such systems, to be operated by public or private mass transportation companies as determined by local needs. 49 U.S.C. app. 1601(b)(3)(emphasis added). Congress further declared that ``[i]t is the purpose of this Act to create a partnership which permits the local community, through Federal financial assistance, to exercise the initiative necessary to satisfy its urban mass transportation requirements.'' 49 U.S.C. app. 1601(a)(emphasis added). This emphasis on local decisionmaking in determining how best to serve the transportation needs of the local area has been recognized by the courts: The statutory scheme of (FTA) emphasizes the large role to be played by local bodies responsible for mass transit *␣*␣*. This reliance on the local group is consistent with the statute's encouragement of local responsibility in urban mass transportation. The statute does not &hyph;promote a procedure which leaves all decisions with the Secretary (of Transportation), but rather emphasizes local solutions to problems. Pullman v. Volpe at 438&hyph;439. This original congressional intent that local decisionmakers determine the feasibility of private enterprise involvement has been reiterated in a recent amendment to section 8(i)(5) of the FT Act made by ISTEA, which prohibits FTA from withholding certification of a MPO on the basis of its private enterprise policies or those of a recipient. Section 8(i)(5) thus reinforces the fundamental statutory principle on this issue: local decisionmakers should make the decision as to whether transit service should be publicly or privately operated.
