FR940707-2-00011 FR940707-2-00002 ( 2 ) New processes that can be utilized in the production of products in rural areas; and ( 3 ) New enterprises that can add value to on-farm production through processing or marketing. (C) A description of the activities that the applicant will carry out to accomplish such objective. (D) A description of the proposed activities to be funded under this subpart. (E) A description of the contributions that the applicant's proposed activities are likely to make to the improvement of the economic conditions of the rural areas served by the applicant. (F) Provisions that the applicant, in carrying out its activities, will seek, where appropriate, the advice, participation, expertise, and assistance of representatives of business, industry, educational institutions, the Federal Government, and State and local governments. (G) Provisions that the applicant will consult with any college or university administering Extension Service programs and cooperate with such college or university in the coordination of the center's activities and programs. (H) Provisions that the applicant will take all practicable steps to develop continuing sources of financial support for the center, particularly from sources in the private sector. (I) Provisions for: ( 1 ) Monitoring and evaluating its activities; and ( 2 ) Accounting for money received and expended by the institution under this subpart. (J) Provisions that the applicant will provide for the optimal application of technology and cooperative development in rural areas, especially those areas adversely affected by adverse agricultural economic conditions, through the establishment of demonstration projects and subcenters for: ( 1 ) Rural technology development where the technology can be implemented by communities, community colleges, businesses, cooperatives, and other institutions; or ( 2 ) Cooperative development where such development can be implemented by cooperatives to improve local economic conditions. (xiv) If grant funds are to be used for the purpose of making loans and/or grants to eligible individuals, small businesses, or cooperatives (ultimate recipients) in rural areas for eligible purposes under this subpart, the applicant shall develop a plan which outlines the purposes and administration of the fund and include a copy of a proposed agreement to be used between the applicant and the ultimate recipient(s) which includes the following: (A) An assurance that the responsibilities of the grantee, as a recipient of grant funds under this subpart, are passed on to the ultimate recipient and the ultimate recipient understands its responsibilities to comply with the requirements set forth in this subpart, including parts 3015 and 3016 of this title. (B) Provisions that the ultimate recipient will comply with debarment and suspension requirements contained in part 3017 of this title and will execute Form AD&hyph;1048, ``Certification Regarding Debarment, Suspension, Ineligibility and Voluntary Exclusion_Lower Tier Covered Transactions.'' (C) Provisions that the ultimate recipient will execute Form FmHA 400&hyph;1, ``Equal Opportunity Agreement,'' and Form FmHA 400&hyph;4, ``Assurance Agreement.'' (D) Clear documentation that the ultimate recipient understands its responsibilities to the applicant. (E) Clear documentation that the applicant understands its responsibilities in monitoring the ultimate recipient's activities under the grant and the applicant's plan for such monitoring. (F) Brief written narrative addressing all items in ยง4284.540(a) of this subpart, regarding grant selection criteria. (3) [Reserved] (4) Applicants whose preapplications are found to be ineligible will be given notice by use of Form AD&hyph;622 and advised of their appeal rights under subpart B of part 1900 of this title. (5) If at any time prior to grant approval it is decided that favorable action will not be taken on a preapplication or application, the RDA will notify the applicant in writing of the reasons why the request was not favorably considered. The notification will advise the applicant of appeal rights under subpart B of part 1900 of this title. (6) Applicants eligible for funding within the available funds will be provided forms and instructions for filing a complete application. Applicants should be advised against incurring obligations which cannot be fulfilled without RDA funds. (b) Applications. Upon notification on Form AD&hyph;622 that the applicant is eligible for funding, the following will be submitted to the RDA by the applicant: (1) SF 424.1. (2) Proposed scope of work, detailing the proposed activities to be accomplished and timeframes for completion of each activity.
