FR940217-2-00057 FR940217-2-00031 _Data and Information System Management. For this priority, proposals are sought which reflect an understanding of the uses to which data are to be applied (e.g., patient care, quality assessment, resource allocation, research, etc.) and of the questions they are to answer. Projects should reflect familiarity with efforts of NHTSA, HRSA, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), and the EMSC program to develop national uniform data sets, if appropriate to the proposed project. States are encouraged to develop EMS data systems which include all the elements of a national uniform data set and are capable of describing the nature of EMS provided to children. Demonstrations of linkage of data sources to provide an optimal picture of EMS furnished to children is one example of a proposed project under this priority; such proposals would be expected to show considerable familiarity with previous linkage efforts by the above organizations and others. Another example is the improvement of the quality of data that relate mechanisms of injury to assigned E-codes. _Communications. For this priority, proposals are sought which take advantage of new telecommunications technologies to improve EMS for children. Proposals could promote access to ``911'' or ``enhanced 911'' emergency telephone systems. For example, projects might use the ``Make the Right Call'' campaign on a statewide basis, with modifications that include educating the public_including children_about when to access EMS services for children; such projects would be expected to incorporate a well conceived evaluation of the impact of such a campaign. Alternatively, proposals could promote the use of advanced technologies to improve care for children. For example, projects might use new technology to improve communications among health care facilities, linking hospitals, health care agencies and/or providers; or to educate various categories of providers by providing on-line pediatric medical control via new technology. Proposals are also sought which evaluate, describe, analyze, or improve the pattern of EMS communications, dispatcher protocols, or on-line medical control as they affect the care of children or in relationship to pediatric utilization of emergency medical services. This priority has been developed in cooperation with HRSA's Trauma Care Systems Planning and Development Program. _Violence and Injury Prevention. For this priority, activities could include advocacy, education, training, or curriculum development, especially in the development of programs which expand the role of EMS personnel in prevention of injury, interpersonal violence, or youth-on-youth violence. Innovative strategies to link EMS personnel with law enforcement personnel, primary care providers, and community resources are sought. Examples are programs to reduce children's access to firearms or to educate children about the use of seatbelts or bicycle helmets. Further examples include the use of EMS personnel as trainer/educators, advocates, and organizers for community based violence prevention initiatives in schools and other settings serving youth, such as recreation centers, detention centers, or youth employment centers; or the use of EMS records to study the characteristics of violence or for education about the consequences of violence. Violence and injury prevention initiatives might also focus on enhancing preparation of EMS personnel for providing initial attention and arranging appropriate follow-up when there are violent, destructive, damaging, or hurtful behaviors, or when there are injury-risking behaviors, such as combined drinking and driving, substance abuse, or attempted suicide by intentional overdosing on drugs. _Psychosocial/Behavioral. Proposals are sought for this priority focusing on strategies to reduce the emotional toll of childhood emergencies on the child, family, and/or providers. Examples include development and evaluation of techniques to increase the sensitivity of EMS personnel to psychosocial issues affecting children, adolescents, and their families and enhance EMS provider skills, knowledge, and crisis intervention capability in dealing with these issues; development and evaluation of approaches and techniques for assisting EMS personnel in dealing with child and family crises arising from abuse, neglect, sexual assault, or noncompliant and other high risk behaviors; or activities that foster greater synergy between primary care and mental health specialty personnel in dealing with psychosocial aspects of EMSC.
