FR941026-1-00013 FR941026-1-00006 In some instances, however, the requirement for the medical or psychological consultant's certification is unnecessary because the decision is made on technical, non-medical grounds alone, without consideration of any medical evidence. Many medical and psychological consultants who work with the State agencies do so on a part-time basis and are not always available to sign disability determination forms. This can result in delays of cases that are otherwise complete because no medical input or expertise is necessary. This happens, for example, when an individual who has no history of medical treatment or examination_and, hence, no existing medical records that we can obtain_refuses to attend a consultative examination purchased at our expense. In such a case, the State agency makes its determination on technical, non-medical, rather than medical, grounds. It denies such a claim because, without the individual's cooperation, the evidence needed to determine whether the individual is disabled cannot be obtained. Nevertheless, our current rules require that a medical or psychological consultant sign the standard disability determination form in such a case, even though there is no medical evidence and consequently, no medical finding can be made. We propose to address this issue by revising §§404.1615 and 416.1015 of the regulations to provide, in a new paragraph (c)(2), that a State agency disability examiner alone may make the disability determination when there is no medical evidence to be evaluated, such as when there is no existing medical evidence and the individual refuses to attend a consultative examination. We also propose to redesignate current paragraph (c)(2), which provides that a State agency disability hearing officer may also make disability determinations, as paragraph (c)(3). Regulatory Procedures Executive Order 12866 We have consulted with the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) and determined that these rules do not meet the criteria for a significant regulatory action under Executive Order 12866. Therefore they are not subject to OMB review. Regulatory Flexibility Act We certify that these regulations will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities because they affect individuals' eligibility for program benefits under the Social Security Act. Therefore, a regulatory flexibility analysis is not required. Paperwork Reduction Act These proposed regulations will, if promulgated, impose no additional reporting or recordkeeping requirements necessitating clearance by OMB. (Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance Program No. 93.802, Social Security-Disability Insurance; and 93.807, Supplemental Security Income) List of Subjects 20 CFR Part 404 Administrative practice and procedure, Blind, Death Benefits, Disability benefits, Old-Age, Survivors and Disability Insurance, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Social Security. 20 CFR Part 416 Administrative practice and procedure, Aged, Blind, Disability benefits, Public assistance programs, Supplemental Security Income (SSI), Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. Dated: September 9, 1994. Shirley S. Chater, Commissioner of Social Security. Approved: October 20, 1994. Donna E. Shalala, Secretary of Health and Human Services.
