FR940902-0-00109 FR940902-0-00010 (b) Suitability. Work experience should be designed to promote the development of good work habits and basic work skills. (c) Duration of work experience. Participation in work experience shall be for a reasonable length of time, based on the needs of the participant. The duration of work experience shall be recorded in the participant's ISS. (d) Combination with other services. Work experience under titles II&hyph;A and C shall be accompanied either concurrently or sequentially by other services designed to increase the basic education and/or occupational skills of the participant, as recorded in the ISS. (e) Work experience is not an allowable activity under title III of the Act. (Sections 204(b) and (c), 253(a), and 264 (c) and (d).) ยง627.250 Interstate agreements. The Secretary hereby grants authority to the several States to enter into interstate agreements and compacts in accordance with section 127 of the Act and, as specified in ยง627.420(g), Procurement. Subpart C_Payments, Supportive Services, and Benefits and Working Conditions ยง627.300 Scope and purpose. This subpart sets forth requirements for allowable payments to JTPA participants under titles I and II. These include needs-based payments under title II, incentive and bonus payments under title II, work-based training payments under title II, and payments for combined activities under title II. Requirements for supportive services under titles I, II, and III, including financial assistance and needs-related payments, are also included in this subpart. This subpart also sets forth rules for benefits and working conditions for JTPA participants. These include requirements for: Compliance with applicable labor laws; workers' compensation coverage or medical and accident insurance where there is no State workers' compensation coverage; and working conditions which are not detrimental to the participant's health and safety. ยง627.305 Payments. (a)(1) General. Allowable types of payments which may be made to participants are: Needs-based payments for eligible individuals in programs under title II; incentive and bonus payments for participants in title II programs; work-based training payments for work experience, entry employment experience, internships and other work-based training activities; payments for participants in title II&hyph;B activities; and training payments for combined activities in title II programs. These payments shall be made in accordance with paragraphs (b) through (f) of this section. (2) A participant shall receive no payments for training activities in which the participant fails to participate without good cause (section 142(a)(1)). (3) The SDA shall ensure to the extent possible that similarly situated participants receive similar payments. (4) Payments to participants, broadly defined for this subsection as all funds distributed to participants except OJT wages, shall not be considered as income for the purposes of determining eligibility for and the amount of income transfer and in-kind aid furnished under any Federal or federally assisted program based on need, other than as provided under the Social Security Act (section 142(b)). (5) The SDA is responsible for meeting any applicable Internal Revenue Service and Fair Labor Standards Act requirements (section 142(a)(3)). (6) An SDA may set fixed levels for any non-wage payment. (b) Needs-based payments. (1) Participants in programs funded under title II may receive needs-based payments when such payments are necessary to enable the individual to participate in training programs. Payments shall be made in accordance with a locally developed policy which is included in the job training plan approved by the Governor.
