FR940916-0-00029 FR940916-0-00012 33 CFR Part 165 [CGD01&hyph;94&hyph;138] RIN 2115&hyph;AA97 Security Zone; Indian Point Nuclear Power Station, Indian Point, NY AGENCY: Coast Guard, DOT. ACTION: Temporary final rule. SUMMARY: The Coast Guard is establishing a security zone in the waters of the Hudson River off of Indian Point, New York. This zone is needed to protect the Indian Point Nuclear Power Station from destruction, loss, or injury from sabotage or other subversive acts, accidents, or other causes of a similar nature, that may occur as a result of a marine regatta. This zone will preclude vessel traffic from transiting a portion of the east bank of the Hudson River south of Indian Point, New York. Entry into or movement within this zone is prohibited unless authorized by the Coast Guard Captain of the Port, New York. EFFECTIVE DATE: This regulation is effective from 12 p.m. until 3 p.m. on September 18, 1994, unless extended or terminated sooner by the Coast Guard Captain of the Port, New York. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: LT Rosanne Trabocchi, Project Manager, Captain of the Port, New York (212) 668&hyph;7933. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Drafting Information The drafters of this notice are LT Rosanne Trabocchi, Project Manager, Captain of the Port, New York and LCDR J.D. Stieb, Project Attorney, First Coast Guard District, Legal Office. Regulatory History Pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 553, a notice of proposed rulemaking (NPRM) was not published for this regulation and good cause exists for not publishing an NPRM as well as making it effective less than 30 days after Federal Register publication. Due to the late notification of this rally and regatta, there was insufficient time to draft and publish a notice of proposed rulemaking that allows for a reasonable comment period prior to the event. There was also insufficient time for publication of this temporary final rule 30 days prior to the event. The delay encountered if normal rulemaking procedures were followed would effectively cancel this event. Cancellation of this event is contrary to the public interest in allowing the freedom of speech and assembly. Background and Purpose Greenpeace submitted an application to hold a marine regatta as part of their Rally and Flotilla for Clean Energy on September 18, 1994. Approximately twenty (20) sailboats and small yachts will sail in the Hudson River past the Indian Point Nuclear Power Station, Indian Point, New York, to demonstrate support for their land based rally. This security zone is needed to protect this waterfront facility from damage or injury. This facility has several water intakes that extend into the Hudson River. This security zone is needed to keep vessels and swimmers at a safe distance from the water intakes in order to prevent the discharge of debris for the purpose of clogging the water intakes. This security zone prohibits vessel traffic in all waters of the Hudson River 100 yards off of the Indian Point Nuclear Power Station, Indian Point, New York. This security zone has been narrowly tailored to impose the least impact on participants and maritime interests yet provide the level of security necessary to adequately protect the nuclear power station. Entry into or movement within this security zone is prohibited unless authorized by the Coast Guard Captain of the Port, New York. Regulatory Evaluation This regulation is not a significant regulatory action under section 3(f) of Executive Order 12866 and does not require an assessment of potential costs and benefits under section 6(a)(3) of that order. It has been exempted from review by the Office of Management and Budget under that order. It is not significant under the regulatory policies and procedures of the Department of Transportation (DOT) (44 FR 11040; February 26, 1979). The Coast Guard expects the economic impact of this regulation to be so minimal that a full Regulatory Evaluation under paragraph 10(e) of the regulatory policies and procedures of DOT is unnecessary. This security zone precludes vessel traffic from transiting a portion of the east bank of the Hudson River south of Indian Point, New York. However, due to the fact that the duration of the event is limited; that this portion of the Hudson River is 1,300 yards wide, allowing ample room for the safe transit of vessel traffic without hindering the participants in this marine regatta; that the event is on a Sunday, meaning that commercial and recreational traffic is minimal; that this regulation is consistent with the sponsor's plans and causes no impact to the regatta course; that there is no impact to the course planned by the sponsor of the marine regatta; and that extensive, advance, notifications will be made to the maritime community, the Coast Guard expects the economic impact of this regulation to be so minimal that a Regulatory Evaluation is unnecessary. Small Entities Under the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. 601 et seq.), the Coast Guard must consider whether this regulation will have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. ``Small entities'' include independently owned and operated small businesses that are not dominant in their field and that otherwise qualify as ``small business concerns'' under Section 3 of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 632). For reasons set forth in the above Regulatory Evaluation, the Coast Guard certifies under 5 U.S.C. 605(b) that this regulation will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. Collection of Information This regulation contains no collection of information requirements under the Paperwork Reduction Act (44 U.S.C. 3501). Federalism The Coast Guard has analyzed this action in accordance with the principles and criteria contained in Executive Order 12612 and has determined that this regulation does not raise sufficient federalism implications to warrant the preparation of a Federalism Assessment. Environment The Coast Guard has considered the environmental impact of this regulation and concluded that under section 2.B.2.e. of commandant Instruction M16475.1B, it is categorically excluded from further environmental documentation. A Categorical Exclusion Determination will be included in the docket.
