FR940110-1-00052 FR940110-1-00006 Cancellation fees identified in paragraph (vi) above, where there is purchase, construction or rehabilitation of housing and the borrower is required to pay the fee, are a cost of financing such purchase, construction or rehabilitation and therefore are authorized uses of funds under the AHP. Because the advance would be converted to a direct subsidy, such cancellation fees would be payable only if the application also meets the requirements for modification of applications contained in ยง960.11 of the proposed rule. (These requirements are discussed in greater detail in the modification section below.) However, AHP subsidized advances or direct subsidies may not be used to pay for cancellation fees in situations where the cancellation of the advance is not part of a restructuring that results in the purchase, construction or rehabilitation of housing. The conditions identified in paragraph (vii) above on the use of funds under the AHP for refinancing are intended to ensure that the funds are not used by the borrower to take out its equity in the project and to ensure that the funds are used for authorized purposes under the AHP. The Board specifically requests comments on whether the $2,500 minimum per unit is a reasonable minimum amount to be required to be spent on rehabilitation in conjunction with a refinancing. Questions have arisen as to whether funds under the AHP should be used to pay for pre-development costs that may or may not result in the purchase, construction or rehabilitation of AHP housing. Pre-development costs are costs incurred prior to the closing of a purchase, construction or rehabilitation loan for the purpose of determining the feasibility of a proposed project. Examples of pre-development costs include architectural and engineering fees, legal fees, the costs of surveys and appraisals, local building permit and planning fees, and earnest money deposits. Since AHP applications are required to meet the threshold feasibility requirement provided in proposed ยง960.9(d) in order to be scored, authorizing the use of funds for pre-development costs raises the question how applications for such costs can or should be scored since the funds would be disbursed to applicants before the feasibility of a proposed project could be established. In addition, there is a greater likelihood that costs incurred during the pre-feasibility period, rather than during the post-feasibility period, will not result in the purchase, construction or rehabilitation of housing. Thus, if applications for AHP funds to finance pre-development costs are approved, AHP funds in perhaps significant amounts could go towards pre-development costs that do not result in the financing or production of housing. If such costs are authorized, one option for dealing with this concern could be to cap the total amount of AHP funds that may be used for pre-development costs at a specific dollar amount or percentage, such as the lesser of $200,000 or 5 percent of the Bank's total AHP contributions for the year. These funds could be set aside and disbursed in a separate competitive process. The Board specifically requests comments on whether funds under the AHP should be used for pre-development costs, how applications for such costs can or should be scored, and what limits, if any, should be placed on the amount of funds used for such purposes under the AHP. 3. Use of Funds Requirements Section 960.4(b)(1)(i) of the proposed rule provides that the total amount of a direct subsidy provided by the Bank to an applicant under the AHP must be passed on by the applicant to the recipient. Consistent with ยง960.9(c) of the Board's existing AHP regulation, ยง960.4(b)(1)(ii) of the proposed rule provides that an applicant receiving a subsidized advance shall extend credit to the borrower at a rate of interest equal to the rate of interest charged on the subsidized advance plus an interest rate spread approved by the Bank. See 12 CFR 960.9(c). These provisions implement section 10(j)(9)(E) of the Act, which provides that the Board's AHP regulation shall ensure that AHP subsidies provided by Banks to applicants are passed on to the ultimate borrower. See 12 U.S.C. 1430(j)(9)(E). Section 960.4(b)(2) of the proposed rule provides that if an applicant receives a subsidized advance or direct subsidy from a Bank or prepayment of a loan originally made under the AHP, any interest or other income earned by the applicant on such funds, not including any approved fee or interest rate spread charged to the borrower, must be forwarded to the Bank to be used for additional AHP projects, except for interest or other income earned by the applicant within 30 calendar days of receiving the subsidized advance or direct subsidy or of receiving prepayment of a loan originally made under the AHP. Section 960.4(b)(3) of the proposed rule provides that a direct subsidy received by an applicant from a Bank that is provided by such applicant to a sponsor may be lent by the sponsor in connection with an AHP rental housing project involving low-income housing tax credits (LIHTC), provided the subsidy is lent by the sponsor for a term of not less than 30 years, with all principal and interest payments deferred until the end of such term. If such a loan is repaid before the end of the 30-year term, the entire amount of the direct subsidy must be repaid to the Bank.
