FR940204-2-00155 FR940204-2-00104 Federal Highway Administration Environmental Impact Statement: Fremont, Milpitas, California AGENCY: Federal Highway Administration (FHWA), DOT. ACTION: Notice of intent. SUMMARY: The FHWA is issuing this notice to advise the public that an Environmental Impact Statement will be prepared for a proposed highway project in Alameda and Santa Clara Counties, California. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: John Schultz, Chief, District Operations A, Federal Highway Administration, 980 9th Street_suite 400, Sacramento, California 95814&hyph;2724. Telephone: (916) 551&hyph;1314. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The FHWA, in cooperation with the California Department of Transportation (CALTRANS), will prepare an Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) on a proposal to replace the Interstate 880 (I&hyph;880)/Dixon Landing Road Interchange located in the cities of Fremont and Milpitas, Alameda, and Santa Clara Counties, respectively, California. The existing 9.8m (32 ft.) wide 2-lane overcrossing will be replaced with a structure 34.1m (112 ft.) in width. The proposed 34.1m (112 ft.) wide structure will accommodate six (6) 3.7m (12 ft.) travel lanes (3 in each direction), a 4m (13 ft.) weaving lane, two 1.5m (5 ft.) wide one-way bike lanes and a 1.2m (4 ft.) median. In the northbound direction of the I&hyph;880, the existing hook off-ramp to California Circle, the loop off-ramp to Dixon Landing Road, and the diagonal on-ramp from Dixon Landing Road will be modified such that there will be one off-ramp and one on-ramp from I&hyph;880 to a collector distributor (CD) road. From the CD road there will be a hook off-ramp to California Circle, a hook on-ramp from California Circle, a loop off-ramp to Dixon Landing Road, and a diagonal on-ramp from Dixon Landing Road. In the southbound direction of I&hyph;880, the existing diagonal off-ramp will be realigned and widened. The existing hook on-ramp will be replaced with a loop on-ramp. A new existing diagonal on-ramp will be added south of the proposed overcrossing. The proposed interchange improvement will accommodate the future widening of I&hyph;880 under consideration by CALTRANS. The only alternative to the proposal under consideration is taking no action (No Project). Design refinements will be considered to avoid or minimize environmental effects. Project implementation would involve potential impact to wetlands and one endangered species. The existing and proposed rights-of-way for the Dixon Landing Interchange project contain approximately 5.1ha (12.5 acres) of U.S. Army Corps of Engineers jurisdictional seasonal wetlands. Since there is a species of concern (Salt Marsh) harvest Mouse ( Reithrodontomys raviventris ), and other possible animals known to exist within the project existing and proposed rights-of-way, the proposed project will be coordinated with the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service in accordance with the Endangered Species Act. The proposed improvements are considered necessary to improve existing traffic operations and safety within the Dixon Landing Road Interchange. The proposed improvements are also intended to provide for projected traffic demand resulting from planned growth in population and employment within the cities of Fremont and Milpitas. The proposed improvements would increase capacity of the overcrossing and maintain service levels within the Interchange at LOS ``D'' or better. Letters describing the proposed action and soliciting comments will be sent to appropriate Federal, State, and local agencies, and to private organizations and citizens and citizens who have previously expressed or are known to have interest in this proposal. A series of public information meetings will be held in Fremont and Milpitas between June and July in 1994. In addition, a public hearing will be held. Public notices indicating the time and place of the meetings and hearings will be published. The Draft EIS will be available for public and agency review and comment prior to the public hearing. No formal scoping meeting is planned at this time. To ensure that the full range of issues related to this proposed action are addressed and all significant issues identified, comments, and suggestions are invited from all interested parties. Comments or questions concerning this proposed action and the EIS should be directed to the FHWA at the address provided above. (Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance Program Number 20.205, Highway Research, Planning and Construction. The regulations implementing Executive Order 12372 regarding intergovernmental consultation of Federal programs and activities apply to this program) Issued on: January 25, 1994. John Schultz, Chief, District Operations ``A'', Sacramento, California. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;2483 Filed 2&hyph;3&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;22&hyph;M
