FR940318-2-00055 FR940318-2-00044 Under section 184 of the Act, the Administrator established a Northeast Ozone Transport Commission for the OTR consisting of the Governor of each State or their designees, the Administrator or her designee, the Regional Administrators for the EPA regional offices affected (or the Administrator's designees), and an air pollution control official representing each State in the region, appointed by the Governor. Section 184(c) specifies a procedure for the OTC to develop recommendations for additional control measures to be applied within all or a part of the OTR if the OTC determines that such measures are necessary to bring any area in the OTR into attainment for ozone by the applicable dates in the Act. Section 184(c)(1) provides that: Upon petition of any States within a transport region for ozone, and based on a majority vote of the Governors on the Commission (or their designees), the Commission may, after notice and opportunity for public comment, develop recommendations for additional control measures to be applied within all or a part of such transport region if the commission determines such measures are necessary to bring any area in such region into attainment by the dates provided by [subpart II of part D of title I of the Clean Air Act]. Section 184(c) also lays out procedures the Administrator is to follow in responding to recommendations from the OTC. Upon receipt of the recommendations, the Administrator is to publish a Federal Register notice stating that the recommendations are available and providing an opportunity for a public hearing within 90 days. The Administrator is also to ``commence a review of the recommendations to determine whether the control measures in the recommendations are necessary to bring any area in such region into attainment by the dates provided by [subpart II] and are otherwise consistent with [the] Act.'' Finally, in undertaking her review, the Administrator is to consult with members of the OTC and is to take into account the data, views, and comments received pursuant to the public hearing. Last, sections 184(c)(4) and (5) govern EPA's response to the OTC recommendations. The Administrator is to determine whether to approve, disapprove, or partially approve and partially disapprove the recommendations within nine months of receipt. For any disapproval, the Administrator is to specify: (i) Why any disapproved additional control measures are not necessary to bring any area in such region into attainment by the dates provided by [subpart II] or are otherwise not consistent with the Act; and (ii) Recommendations concerning equal or more effective actions that could be taken by the commission to conform the disapproved portion of the recommendations to the requirements of [section 184]. Section 184(c)(5) provides that, upon approval or partial approval of any recommendations, the Administrator is to issue to each State in the OTR to which an approved requirement applies a finding under section 110(k)(5) that the State Implementation Plan (SIP) for that State is inadequate to meet the requirements of section 110(a)(2)(D). Section 110(a)(2)(D) provides, in pertinent part, that each State's SIP shall contain adequate provisions: (i) Prohibiting, consistent with the provisions of this title, any source or other type of emissions activity within the State from emitting any air pollutant in amounts which will_ (I) Contribute significantly to nonattainment in, or interfere with maintenance by, any other State with respect to any such national primary or secondary ambient air quality standard.
