FR940404-0-00046 FR940404-0-00019 The Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. 605(b)) requires that, for each rule with a ``significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities,'' an analysis be prepared describing the rule's impact on small entities and identifying any significant alternatives to the rule that would minimize the economic impact on small entities. We certify that these regulations will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities because they do not affect the amount of funds provided in the covered programs, but rather modify and update administrative and procedural requirements. Executive Order 12612 (Federalism Assessment) This action has been analyzed in accordance with the principles and criteria contained in Executive Order 12612. The rule primarily applies to organizations other than State and local governments, but for some programs State or local governments are required to pass on these requirements to subrecipients covered by this rule. The rule was drafted to be as consistent as possible with requirements imposed on State and local governments. Accordingly, the Department certifies that this proposal does not have sufficient Federalism implications to warrant a full Federalism Assessment under the principles and criteria contained in Executive Order 12612. Paperwork Reduction Act The collection of information requirements in this interim final rule notice are being submitted to the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs of the OMB for review under section 3504(h) of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980. A notice will be published in the Federal Register when those requirements are approved by OMB. The notice will incorporate the OMB approval numbers into the regulation. Justification to Issue Interim Final Rule Under the Administrative Procedures Act, to issue a final rule without an NPRM, it is necessary to make a finding that issuing an NPRM would be impractical, unnecessary, and contrary to the public interest. As stated above, this rule is based on the revised OMB Circular A&hyph;110, that was developed by an interagency task force and received extensive public comment. The revised Circular specifies that Federal agencies responsible for awarding and administering grants and other agreements to recipients described therein, shall adopt the language in the Circular unless other provisions are required by Federal statute or exceptions or deviations are approved by OMB. This interim final rule essentially adopts the provisions of the Circular word-for-word to the maximum extent possible. Therefore, an NPRM would not allow the public to make comments that could have a significant impact on the content of the rule. This would make such an effort impractical, unnecessary, and contrary to the public interest. List of Subjects in 49 CFR Part 19 Accounting, Administrative practice and procedure, Grant programs, Grants administration, Insurance, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. Issued this 9th day of March 1994 at Washington, DC. Federico Peña, Secretary of Transportation. Title 49 of the Code of Federal Regulations is amended by adding part 19 to read as set forth below.
