FR940317-1-00055 FR940317-1-00013 (6) Implement claims policies and guidance furnished by TAJAG or Commander, USARCS through policy directives or the Claims Manual and establish and implement necessary claims policies and procedures not contrary to the foregoing. (7) Ensure that there are an adequate number of qualified JAs or claims attorneys, claims examiners, claims adjudicators and claims clerks in all claims offices within their area to take prompt action on claims and that they are adequately trained. (8) Budget and fund for claims investigations and activities to include per diem and transportation of claims personnel, claimants and witnesses, independent medical examinations, appraisals, independent expert opinions, long distance phone calls, recording and photographic equipment, use of express mail or couriers, and other necessary expenses. (9) Within continental United States (CONUS), procure and disseminate adequate legal publications on local law and verdicts relating to tort claims within the area of jurisdiction. (10) Notify Commander, USARCS of all claims and claims incidents as required by §536.17 and §536.21(b)(2). (11) Develop and maintain written plans for a disaster or civil disturbance. The plan should include a requirement for an advance party to assess the need for the presence of a special claims processing office. The plans may be internal Office of the SJA plans or an annex to an installation/organizational plan. (See also §536.8(c)(4)(iii).) (12) Implement the Army's Article 139 claims program. (See §536.142.) (e) Heads of claims processing offices. Heads of claims processing offices will_ (1) Investigate all potential and actual claims arising within its assigned jurisdiction, either on an area basis or on a command or agency basis. Only a claims processing office with approval authority can adjudicate and pay all presented claims within its monetary jurisdiction. (2) Ensure that units and organizations within its jurisdiction have appointed claims officers for the investigation of claims not requiring investigation by a JA. (See §536.16.) (3) Budget and fund for claims investigations and activities to include per diem and transportation of claims personnel, claimants and witnesses, independent medical examinations, appraisals, independent expert opinions, long distance phone calls, recording and photographic equipment, use of express mail or couriers, and other necessary expenses. (4) Within CONUS, procure and maintain legal publications on local law and verdicts relating to tort claims within their jurisdiction. (5) Notify the Commander, USARCS of all claims and claims incidents as required by §536.17 and §536.21(b)(2). (6) Implement the Army's Article 139 claims program. (See §536.142.) (f) Chief of Engineers. The COE, through the Chief Counsel, will_ (1) Provide general supervision of the claims activities of engineer area claims offices. (2) Ensure that each engineer area claims office has a claims attorney designated by the Commander, USARCS, as prescribed in §536.6. (3) Ensure the training of claims personnel and the continuing inspection of their activities. (4) Provide for implementation of pertinent claims policies. (5) Provide for budgeting in accordance with existing Army regulations and command directives for temporary duty (TDY), long distance phone calls, recording equipment, cameras, and other expenses for investigation and processing of claims. (6) Take action to procure and have available adequate legal publications on local law relating to claims arising within the United States, its territories, and possessions. (g) Commanding General, U.S. Army Health Services Command (CG, HSC). The CG, HSC will, through his SJA, ensure that adequate and qualified medical claims JAs and medical claims investigators are assigned for the investigation and processing of medical malpractice claims arising at Army medical centers under his or her control. In accordance with an agreement between TJAG and The Surgeon General, such personnel will be used primarily in investigating and processing of medical malpractice claims and provided with the necessary funding and research materials to carry out this function. (h) Chief, National Guard Bureau (NGB). The Chief, NGB will_ (1) Ensure that a point of contact for claims matters is designated in each adjutant general office.
