FR940318-1-00006 FR940318-1-00003 SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION 13 CFR Part 108 Loans to State and Local Development Companies; Seller Financing by Regulated Lenders AGENCY: Small Business Administration (SBA). ACTION: Proposed rule. SUMMARY: This proposed rule would provide eligibility for a 503 project in which a regulated financial institution is providing the third party financing and is also the seller of the real estate being financed. A condition of eligibility would be that the real estate being sold was previously acquired by the institution as ``other real estate owned'' (OREO) as defined by the Financial Institutions Reform Recovery and Enforcement Act (FIRREA) and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act (FDICIA). Until now, the rule has been that where any part of the permanent financing is supplied by the seller of the property for the project, such financing must be subordinate to the 503/504 loan. This proposed rule change would not require a regulated financial institution to take a subordinate position because the institution is the seller under certain prescribed conditions. An independent appraisal of the value of the property would be required, with the appraisal prepared by or under the control of the SBA or the participating Certified Development Company (CDC). This proposed rule change will grant small businesses an opportunity to purchase OREO which is being made available to purchasers with sufficient financial strength to meet the lenders' credit requirements under FIRREA and FDICIA. DATES: Comments must be submitted on or before April 18, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments should be sent to Allan S. Mandel, Director, Office of Rural Affairs & Economic Development, small Business Administration, 409 3rd Street SW., suite 8300, Washington, DC, 20416. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: 0 Allan S. Mandel, Director, Office of Rural Affairs & Economic Development, Small Business Administration, (202) 205&hyph;6485. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: By this proposed rule, 13 CFR 108.503&hyph;8(b)(2) would be amended to provide an exception to the restriction currently set forth in the paragraph which provides that where any part of the permanent financing for a development company project is supplied by the seller of the property for the project, such financing must be subordinate to the 503/504 loan. This proposed rule change would not require a regulated financial institution to take a subordinate position if the institution is the seller, and if an independent appraisal of the value of the property prepared by or under the control of the SBA or a CDC demonstrates that the value of the collateral for the 503/504 loan is sufficient to support the loan. Regulated financial institutions have increased their portfolios of ``other real estate owned'' (OREO) as a result of increased regulation pursuant to the Financial Institutions Reform Recovery and Enforcement Act (FIRREA) and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act (FDICIA). The regulations for the lending institutions require that they have the OREO property recorded on their books at a fair market value based on an appraisal prepared in conformance with state or Federal appraisal standards. The lender regulations encourage lenders and appraisers to value the property at a value which should lead to a relatively quick sale. This has resulted in very favorable real estate sales to those with the ability to meet regulated loan-to-value ratios and other currently stringent credit requirements of the lenders. However, loan-to-value ratios can not be met by lenders in possession of OREO property who wish to sell it to purchasers availing themselves of the 503/504 program when the lender takes a second lien as required under the current SBA regulation. This proposed rule is necessary to grant small businesses equal access to opportunities to acquire real estate at favorable rates and terms from such lending institutions. The existing rule was adopted to insure that the combination of a seller's price and terms of financing reflected a fair market transaction. Changes in lender regulations resulting from the FIRREA and the FDICIA and the independent fair market appraisals will protect small business borrowers and the government against the risk of over-valuation of the OREO property. Additionally, SBA field offices will be provided guidance to insure on a case by case basis that there is no other potential conflict of interest. Compliance With Executive Orders 12612, 12778, and 12866, the Regulatory Flexibility Act and the Paperwork Reduction Act Executive Order 12866 and Regulatory Flexibility Act SBA certifies that this proposed rule, if adopted, would not be a significant regulatory action for purposes of Executive Order 12866 and, for purposes of the Regulatory Flexibility Act, 5 U.S.C. 601 et seq., would not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities, for the following reasons: 1. It would not result in an annual economic effect of $100 million or more or adversely affect in a material way the economy, a sector or the economy, productivity, competition, jobs, the environment, public health or safety, or State, local, or tribal governments or communities.
