FR940511-0-00042 FR940511-0-00015 Issue: Alteration of/or Construction on the Seabed Comment: The regulation pertaining to alteration or construction of the seabed may be interpreted as prohibiting such activities as geologic research, the placement of current meters, sediment traps and similar research equipment, all of which might be necessary if environmental studies were to be conducted in the Mineral Management Service (MMS) Washington-Oregon planning area. To clarify the intent of this prohibition, ``Government sponsored environmental studies'' should be added in the second sentence of this section as one of the activities for which this prohibition does not apply. Response: NOAA supports research within the Sanctuary. However, the prohibition on alteration of, or construction on the seabed applies to all research activities, including those conducted by governmental agencies. All research activities conducted within the Sanctuary that violate a Sanctuary regulation must be undertaken pursuant to a Sanctuary research permit to ensure that the impacts from the research are minimal and temporary. Comment: The prohibition on the alteration of, or construction on the seabed should not interfere with current or future harbor maintenance or fishing activities including: (1) Jetty and groin construction; (2) permitted dredging of channels and harbors; (3) the use of dredge spoils for underwater berm construction; (4) construction and improvement of boat launching and marine facilities adjacent to reservations; (5) the retrieval of fishing gear (including crab pots) and sunken vessels; (6) bottom trawling and scallop dredging; and (7) tribal fin and shellfish operations. NOAA needs to clarify the exemption of activities incidental to routine fishing and vessel operations. The exemptions for harbor maintenance and fishing activities should read: ``attempting to alter the seabed for any purpose other than anchoring vessels, normal fishing operations to include commercial bottom trawling and crab pot recovery, and routine harbor maintenance.'' Response: Ports and harbors are not included within the boundary of the Sanctuary. The boundary of the Sanctuary adjacent to the Port of La Push is congruent with the Colreg lines at the mouth of the harbors. Further, there is the following exception to the alteration-of-the-seabed regulation: ``Harbor maintenance in the areas necessarily associated with Federal Projects in existence on the effective date of Sanctuary designation, including dredging of entrance channels and repair, replacement or rehabilitation of breakwaters and jetties.'' The noted activities incidental to fishing have been exempted from the Sanctuary regulations. Comment: NOAA should prohibit all dredging and removal of sand and gravel within the Sanctuary boundary. Response: NOAA has prohibited all dredging and removal of sand and gravel within the Sanctuary boundary except as an incidental result of harbor maintenance activities. These activities threaten the integrity of the benthic community and the food source of many fish, marine mammals and seabirds. Comment: NOAA should not subject the exploration and development of offshore mineral activities to the same restrictions proposed for the exploration and development of Outer Continental Shelf (OCS) oil and gas.
