FR940506-0-00023 FR940506-0-00012 The Commission will clarify that the process for maintenance of the data sets promulgated in the rule will be generally the same as the process used previously to adopt the revised data sets and implementation guide. The Working Groups will file their suggested changes, which will be noticed with an opportunity provided for comment. To facilitate discussion or improve understanding of proposed changes, Commission staff may convene a technical conference to review the changes with the industry. The Commission will then issue an order adopting the data sets. This process will enable the Commission to make changes in a timely fashion while still preserving the industry's ability to comment on the changes. The Commission also encourages the Working Groups to consider other methods of informing non-participants of impending changes prior to filing with the Commission so that the Working Groups themselves will be able to avail themselves of a broad spectrum of input. While the Commission recognizes the need to revise the data sets, it also recognizes that making revisions and changes on a piecemeal basis may be cumbersome and create added programming costs for both the pipelines and those obtaining information either from the EBBs or through downloadable files. The Commission encourages the Working Groups to consider an appropriate schedule for accumulating and submitting revisions. Tenneco Gas states it did not understand that the Working Groups would continue indefinitely. AER/MRT contend that the Working Groups provide only a temporary solution and urge the Commission to recognize the contemplated Gas Industry Standards Board (GISB) as the appropriate group to handle standards development. Although GISB is still in its formative stage, AER/MRT recommend the Commission endorse GISB and charge it with the mission of further standards development. Columbia Distribution suggests that one Working Group would be more efficient than the current five, because the participants in the five Working Groups are essentially the same and one Working Group would streamline the process. The Commission finds that some mechanism for consideration and modification of the standards, whether GISB or the Working Groups, must continue into the future. At this point, reliance on the GISB concept is premature, and the Commission will continue the Working Group process which has worked very well in developing standards. As stated in Order No. 563, the Commission will consider the GISB concept when a final proposal has been developed and the Commission can consider its impact on all facets of the gas industry. Meanwhile, the Working Groups should not delay or defer development of standards in anticipation of the implementation of GISB. The Commission will leave the structure of the Working Groups to be resolved by the industry at the informal conferences. 12 12 At an informal conference held on April 12, 1994, the participants did decide to consolidate into one Working Group. See Notice of Consolidation of Electronic Bulletin Board Working Groups, issued April 19, 1994. The Commission expects the combined Working Group to adhere to the schedules set forth in the rehearing requests and other filings submitted by the individual Working Groups.
