FR940907-1-00009 FR940907-1-00003 DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION Federal Aviation Administration 14 CFR Part 71 [Airspace Docket No. 94&hyph;AEA&hyph;03] Proposed Modification of Class D and Class E Airspace; Morgantown, WV AGENCY: Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), DOT. ACTION: Notice of proposed rulemaking. SUMMARY: This document proposes to revise controlled airspace in the vicinity of Morgantown, WV, due to the decommissioning of the Bobtown, WV, non-directional radiobeacon (NDB), a proposed cancellation of an NDB or Global Positioning System (GPS) standard instrument approach procedure (SIAP), and a review of air traffic control procedures in the area. Airspace Reclassification, in effect as of September 16, 1993, has discontinued the use of the terms ``control zone and transition area,'' and airspace designated from the surface to adjacent controlled airspace is now being described as Class D and Class E airspace in this vicinity. The intended effect of this proposal is to modify controlled airspace in this vicinity to that actually required for aircraft operating under instrument flight rules (IFR). DATES: Comments must be received on or before September 30, 1994. ADDRESSES: Send comments on the proposal in triplicate to: Michael Sammartino, Acting Manager, System Management Branch, AEA&hyph;530, Docket No. 94&hyph;AEA&hyph;03, F.A.A. Eastern Region, Fitzgerald Federal Building # 111, John F. Kennedy Int'l Airport, Jamaica, NY 11430. The official docket may be examined in the Office of the Assistant Chief Counsel, AEA&hyph;7, at the same address. An informal docket may also be examined during normal business hours in the Office of the Manager, System Management Branch, Air Traffic Division, at the address shown above. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Frank Jordan, Designated Airspace Specialist, System Management Branch, AEA&hyph;530, F.A.A. Eastern Region, Fitzgerald Federal Building # 111, John F. Kennedy International Airport, Jamaica, New York 11430; telephone: (718) 553&hyph;0857. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Comments Invited Interested parties are invited to participate in this proposed rulemaking by submitting such written data, views or arguments as they may desire. Comments that provide the factual basis supporting the views and suggestions presented are particularly helpful in developing reasoned regulatory decisions on the proposal. Comments are specifically invited on the overall regulatory, aeronautical, economic environmental, and energy-related aspects of the proposal. Communications should identify the airspace docket number and be submitted in triplicate to the address listed above. Commentors wishing the FAA to acknowledge receipt of their comments on this notice must submit with those comments a self-addressed, stamped postcard on which the following statement is made: ``Comments to Airspace Docket No. 94&hyph;AEA&hyph;03''. The postcard will be date/time stamped and returned to the commentor. All communications received on or before the specified closing date for comments will be considered before taking action on the proposed rule. The proposal contained in this notice may be changed in light of comments received. All comments submitted will be available for examination in the System Management Branch, AEA&hyph;530, both before and after the closing date for comments. A report summarizing each substantive public contact with FAA personnel concerned with this rulemaking will be filed in the docket. Availability of NPRM's Any person may obtain a copy of this Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (NPRM) by submitting a request to the Office of the Assistant Chief Counsel, AEA&hyph;7, F.A.A. Eastern Region, Fitzgerald Federal Building # 111, John F. Kennedy International Airport, Jamaica, NY 11430. Communications must identify the notice number of this NPRM. Persons interested in being placed on a mailing list for future NPRM's should also request a copy of Advisory Circular No. 11&hyph;2A, which describes the application procedure. The Proposal The FAA is considering an amendment to part 71 of the Federal Aviation Regulations (14 CFR part 71) to modify controlled airspace in the vicinity of Morgantown, WV, to reflect the proposed cancellation of the NDB or GPS Runway 18 SIAP, the decommissioning of the Bobtown, WV, non-directional radiobeacon (NDB), and a review of air traffic control procedures in the area. Airspace Reclassification, in effect as of September 16, 1993, has discontinued the use of the terms ``control zone and transition area,'' and airspace extending upward from the surface to overlying controlled airspace is now being described as Class D & E airspace in this area. The intended effect of this proposal is to reflect that amount of controlled airspace actually required for aircraft operations under instrument flight rules at the Morgantown Municipal-Walter L. Bill Hart Field, WV. The coordinates for this airspace docket are based on North American Datum 83. Class D and Class E airspace areas extending upward from the surface and from 700 feet above ground level are published in Paragraphs 5000, 6002, 6004, and 6005 of FAA Order 7400.9B, Airspace Designations and Reporting Points, dated July 18, 1994, and effective September 16, 1994, which is incorporated by reference in 14 CFR 71.1. The Class D & E airspace designations listed in this document would be published subsequently in the Order.
