FR940405-1-00010 FR940405-1-00003 Although the effects on particulate emissions related to a standard-induced decrease in electricity generation would be minor compared to effects on SO 2 , NO 2 , and CO 2 , any reduction would possibly be beneficial to the quality of surface water. Since the total amount of particulates emitted would decrease, it is very likely that fewer particulates would reach the surface water. Reductions in particulate emissions accompanied by drecases in SO 2 and NO 2 would have other beneficial effects on the environment. The resultant improvement to air quality and the decreased potential for acid rain formation could help improve the quality of wetlands and fish and wildlife as well as aid in the preservation of historical and archaeological sites. Reduced in-home fuel consumption of gas or oil would decrease the impact of combustion on indoor air quality. Indoor air problems are usually due to a combination of factors, including a tight house envelope, insufficient ventilation for cooking appliances, presence of sources such as cigarette smokers or formaldehyde-containing products, and radon diffusion from soil. In comparison to the above factors, and because fuel-burning appliances are normally vented to the outside, the projected changes in home fuel-burning appliance use is expected to have little effect on indoor air quality. Determination: Based upon the EA, DOE has determined that the proposal of any of the candidate amended energy-efficiency standards for room air conditioners, water heaters, direct heating equipment, mobile home furnaces, kitchen ranges and ovens, pool heaters, fluorescent lamp ballasts, and television sets would not consitute a major Federal action significantly affecting the quality of the human environment, within the meaning of NEPA. Therefore, an EIS for the proposed action is not required. Issued in Washington, DC, this 4th day of December 1992. Paul L. Ziemer, Assistant Secretary, Environment, Safety and Health. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;8122 Filed 4&hyph;4&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6450&hyph;01&hyph;P
