FR940825-1-00091 FR940825-1-00008 (B) Notify the tenant family in writing, at least 60 days in advance of the expiration of the deferral period, that termination will be deferred again (provided that the granting of another deferral will not result in aggregate deferral periods that exceed three years), and a determination was made that other affordable housing is not available; or (C) Notify the tenant family in writing, at least 60 days in advance of the expiration of the deferral period, that termination of financial assistance will not be deferred because either granting another deferral will result in aggregate deferral periods that exceed three years, or a determination has been made that other affordable housing is available. (v) Notification of decision on family preservation assistance. An IHA shall notify the family of its decision concerning the family's qualification for assistance under this section. If the family is ineligible for assistance under this section, the notification shall state the reasons, which must be based on relevant factors. For tenant families, the notice also shall inform the tenant family of any appeal rights. (s) Proration of assistance. (1) Applicability. This section applies to a mixed family other than a family receiving continued assistance under paragraph (r)(2) of this section, or other than a family for which termination of assistance is temporarily deferred under paragraph (r)(3) of this section. (2) Method of prorating assistance. The IHA shall prorate the family's assistance by: (i) Step 1. Determining total tenant payment in accordance with ยง905.325 (annual income includes income of all family members, including any family member who has not established eligible immigration status). (ii) Step 2. Subtracting the total tenant payment from a HUD-supplied ``Indian housing maximum rent'' applicable to the unit or the housing authority. (``Indian housing maximum rent'' shall be determined by HUD using the 95th percentile rent for the housing authority.) The result is the maximum subsidy for which the family could qualify if all members were eligible (``family maximum subsidy''). (iii) Step 3. Dividing the family maximum subsidy by the number of persons in the family (all persons) to determine the maximum subsidy per each family member who has citizenship or eligible immigration status (``eligible family member'). The subsidy per eligible family member is the ``member maximum subsidy''. (iv) Step 4. Multiplying the member maximum subsidy by the number of family members who have citizenship or eligible immigration status (``eligible family members''). (v) Step 5. The product of steps 1&hyph;4, as set forth in paragraph (s)(2) of this section is the amount of subsidy for which the family is eligible (``eligible subsidy''). The family's rent is the ``public housing maximum rent'' minus the amount of the eligible subsidy. (t) Prohibition of assistance to noncitizen students. (1) General. The provisions of this section permitting continued assistance, prorated assistance or temporary deferral of termination of assistance for certain families, do not apply to any person who is determined to be a noncitizen student, as defined in paragraph (t)(2) of this section, or the family of the noncitizen student, as described in paragraph (t)(3) of this section. (2) Noncitizen student. For purposes of this part, a noncitizen student is defined as a noncitizen who: (i) Has a residence in a foreign country that the person has no intention of abandoning; (ii) Is a bona fide student qualified to pursue a full course of study; and (iii) Is admitted to the United States temporarily and solely for purposes of pursuing such a course of study at an established institution of learning or other recognized place of study in the United States, particularly designated by such person and approved by the Attorney General after consultation with the Department of Education of the United States, which institution or place of study shall have agreed to report to the Attorney General the termination of attendance of each nonimmigrant student (and if any such institution of learning or place of study fails to make such reports promptly the approval shall be withdrawn). (3) Family of noncitizen student. The prohibition on providing assistance to a noncitizen student as described in paragraph (t)(1) of this section also extends to the noncitizen spouse of the noncitizen student and minor children of any noncitizen student if the spouse or children are accompanying the student or following to join such student. The prohibition on providing assistance to a noncitizen student does not extend to the citizen spouse of the noncitizen student and the children of the citizen spouse and noncitizen student. (u) Protection from liability for IHAs, State, Tribal, and local government agencies and officials. (1) Protection from liability for IHAs. HUD will not take any compliance, disallowance, penalty, or other regulatory action against an IHA with respect to any error in its determination of eligibility for assistance based on citizenship or immigration status: (i) If the IHA established eligibility based upon verification of eligible immigration status through the verification system described in paragraph (l) of this section; (ii) Because the IHA was required to provide an opportunity for the applicant or family to submit evidence in accordance with paragraphs (h) and (i) of this section; (iii) Because the IHA was required to wait for completion of INS verification of immigration status in accordance with paragraph (l) of this section; (iv) Because the IHA was required to wait for completion of the INS appeal process provided in accordance with paragraph (n) of this section; or (v) Because the IHA was required to provide an informal hearing in accordance with paragraph (o) of this section.
