FR940713-2-00102 FR940713-2-00061 A. Terms The proposed Final Consent Judgment prohibits Morton Plant and Mease from merging and requires them to remain as separate, competing hospitals. Morton Plant and Mease may, however, enter into a Partnership in which they consolidate and jointly operate certain general acute care and administrative services under specified terms. The proposed Judgment is designed to permit Morton Plant and Mease to achieve substantial efficiencies while preserving maximum competition between them. The acute care (or ``patient'') services eligible for Partnership operation include: outpatient services; laboratory services; mental health services; diagnostic and therapeutic radiology services; and certain inpatient services that are commonly recognized as ``tertiary'' services_ i.e. , those procedures performed by physician subspecialists with specialized support staff and expensive equipment. The tertiary services eligible for Partnership operation include: neonatal level III services; open heart surgery and similar procedures; robotically assisted prosthetic implantation and special spinal instrumentation procedures; stem cell procedures, HDR brachy therapy and advanced linear accelerator equipment and procedures; and stereotactic radio therapy. The Partnership also may own and operate home health care, home infusion services, durable medical equipment, rehabilitative services, skilled nursing, retirement facilities and long-term care. (Section II(A)). The eligible Partnership administrative services include: human resources (with some exceptions); medical staff organization and development; information services; telephone and other communication services; accounting, billing and collection; housekeeping and laundry; medical records; materials management and plant maintenance; support services for charitable foundations; and certain miscellaneous services. (Section II(B)). 2 2 Services currently provided by one of the hospitals may be added to the Partnership if plaintiffs are provided with written notification and any information reasonably necessary for them to assess the competitive impact of adding such services and they do not object within 120 days. (Section V(D)). Any new service not currently provided by either Morton Plant or Mease may be combined and jointly operated by the Partnership with at least 90 days notice, so long as the new service is a specialized inpatient procedure commonly recognized in the medical community as tertiary or higher and is performed only by physician subspecialists with specialized support staff and expensive equipment. ( Id .). Section V sets forth the conditions under which the Partnership may operate. Morton Plant and Mease may agree to consolidate and jointly operate any eligible Partnership patient care and administrative service. (Section V(A)). They may appoint a Partnership board, which may consist of individuals from each hospital's board. (Section V(C)). The Partnership must sell its services to Morton Plant and Mease on the same terms and conditions in an amount equal to cost. (Section V(B)). All services other than those eligible for consolidation through the Partnership are defined as ``Independent Services.'' (Section II(C)). Morton Plant and Mease must continue to operate these services separately. (Section VI(A)). Specifically, all marketing, managed care contracting and pricing decisions must remain independent. ( Id .) Each hospital must price and sell all services (both Independent and Partnership Services) in active competition with the other. (Section VI(B)). The Partnership board may not discuss Independent Services, managed care contracting for the hospitals, or the pricing of any service with the individual hospital boards with minor exceptions. (Section V(C)). 3 3 The Partnership may market and price home health care, home infusion services, durable medical equipment, rehabilitative services, skilled nursing retirement facilities and long term care as long as Morton Plant and Mease continue their present practice of providing patients and physicians with information on other providers of the services in the market. Additionally, the Judgment provides that Morton Plant may lend or grant Mease up to $21 million for Mease's planned expansion under terms preventing Morton Plant from obtaining any control or leverage over Mease's management or operations. (Section V(E)). Moreover, Morton Plant, Mease and the Partnership may become obligated parties, guarantors or co-makers on debt instruments and their assets may be pledged as security for such instruments so long as such obligations are approved separately. Neither Morton Plant nor Mease shall unreasonably withhold consent to, impose conditions on, or attempt to influence the use of funds obtained by the other hospital through such financing for Independent Services. (Section V(F)). The Judgment directs Morton Plant and Mease to establish adequate protections to ensure that the hospitals do not share competitively sensitive information concerning pricing, managed care contracts, and marketing and planning functions. These protections shall include, at a minimum, confidentiality agreements for employees with access to such information and protocols for preparation of separate reports for Morton Plant, Mease, and the Partnership. (Section V(I)). The Judgment also requires Morton Plant and Mease to maintain an antitrust compliance program and annually certify compliance with the Judgment, and permits plaintiffs access to monitor compliance. (Sections VII, VIII, and IX). B. Effect on Competition The Court's entry of this proposed Judgment would be a ``double win'' for consumers. First, the Judgment preserves the vigorous competitive rivalry between Morton Plant and Mease, thereby insuring that consumers will continue to reap the benefits of competition in the form of lower prices and better services. Second, the Judgment permits Morton Plant and Mease to achieve substantial cost savings by combining and jointly operating certain services through a Partnership. The preservation of competition between Morton Plant and Mease will insure that these savings will be passed on to consumers.
