FR940203-2-00032 FR940203-2-00017 1. Higher limits are clearly not acceptable. For example, increasing NWP 18 for minor discharges from 10 to 50 cubic yards would not be acceptable. Such conditions would confuse the regulated public and could contribute to violations. 2. Lower limits are acceptable but have the effect of denial without prejudice of those activities that are higher than the Section 401 or CZM condition limit but within the NWP limit. Thus, if an applicant obtains an individual 401 water quality certification and/or CZM concurrence for work within the limits of an NWP where the State had denied certification and/or CZM concurrence, then the activity could be authorized by the NWP. d. A condition which would delete, modify, or reduce NWP conditions would be clearly unacceptable. 4. Discretionary Enforcement: The initiation of enforcement actions by the Corps, whether directed at unauthorized activities or to ensure compliance with permit conditions, is discretionary. The district engineer will consider the following situations when determining whether to enforce 401 and/or CZM conditions. a. Unenforceable Conditions_Some conditions that a State may propose will not be reasonably enforceable by the Corps (e.g., a condition requiring compliance with the specific terms of another State permit). Provided such conditions do not violate paragraph 3 above, the conditions will be accepted by the Corps as regional conditions. However, limited Corps resources should not be utilized in an attempt to enforce compliance with 401 or CZM conditions which the district engineer believes to be essentially unenforceable, or of low enforcement priority for limited Corps resources. b. Enforceable Conditions_Some other conditions proposed by a State may be considered enforceable, (e.g., a condition requiring the applicant to obtain another State permit), but of low priority for Federal enforcement, since the Federal Government would not have required those conditions but for the State's requirement. Furthermore, the Corps will generally not enforce such State-imposed conditions except in very unusual cases, due to our limited personnel and financial resources. 5. NWP Verification and PDN Responses: In response to NWP verification requests and PDN's, district engineers should utilize the sample paragraphs presented below. This language should be used where conditional 401 certification or CZM concurrence has been issued. This specifically addresses situations when the conditions included with the certification or concurrence are such that the district engineer determines they are unforceable or the district engineer cannot clearly determine compliance with the 401/CZM conditions (see 4.a.). ``Based on our review of your proposal to [describe proposal], we have determined that the activity qualifies for the nationwide permit authorizations [insert NWP No(s.)], subject to the terms and conditions of the permit. [Insert paragraph on any Corps required activity-specific conditions]. Enclosed you will find a copy of the Section 401 Water Quality Certification and/or Coastal Zone Management special conditions, which are conditions of your authorization under Nationwide Permit [insert NWP No(s.)]. If you have questions concerning compliance with the conditions of the 401 certification or Coastal Zone Management concurrence, you should contact the [insert appropriate State agency]. If you do not or cannot comply with these State Section 401 certification conditions and/or CZM conditions, then in order to be authorized by this Nationwide Permit, you must furnish this office with an individual 401 certification or Coastal Zone Management concurrence from [insert appropriate State agency], or a copy of the application to the State for such certification or concurrence, [insert ``60 days'' for Section 401 water quality certification, unless another reasonable period of time has been determined pursuant to 33 CFR 330.4(c)(6), or insert ``six months'' for CZM concurrence] after you submit it to the State agency.'' 6. This guidance expires 21 January 1997 unless sooner revised or rescinded. For the Director of Civil Works. John P. Elmore, Chief, Operations, Construction Readiness Division, Directorate of Civil Works. Regulatory Guidance Letter (RGL 92&hyph;5) RGL 92&hyph;5 Date: 29 October 1992, Expires: 31 December 1997 Subject: Alternatives Analysis Under the section 404(b)(1) Guidelines for Projects Subject to Modification Under the Clean Air Act.
