FR940803-0-00049 FR940803-0-00019 Sections 518.11 through 518.17 prescribes forms and instructions and other pre-award matters to be used in applying for Federal awards. ยง518.11 Pre-award policies. (a) Use of Grants and Cooperative Agreements, and Contracts. In each instance, the Federal awarding agency shall decide on the appropriate award instrument (i.e., grant, cooperative agreement, or contract). The Federal Grant and Cooperative Agreement Act (31 U.S.C. 6301&hyph;08) governs the use of grants, cooperative agreements and contracts. A grant or cooperative agreement shall be used only when the principal purpose of a transaction is to accomplish a public purpose of support or stimulation authorized by Federal statute. The statutory criterion for choosing between grants and cooperative agreements is that for the latter, ``substantial involvement is expected between the executive agency and the State, local government, or other recipient when carrying out the activity contemplated in the agreement.'' Contracts shall be used when the principal purpose is acquisition of property or services for the direct benefit or use of the Federal Government. (b) Public Notice and Priority Setting. Federal awarding agencies shall notify the public of its intended funding priorities for discretionary grant programs, unless funding priorities are established by Federal statute. ยง518.12 Forms for applying for Federal assistance. (a) Federal awarding agencies shall comply with the applicable report clearance requirements of 5 CFR part 1320, ``Controlling Paperwork Burdens on the Public,'' with regard to all forms used by the Federal awarding agency in place of or as a supplement to the Standard Form 424 (SF&hyph;424) series. (b) Applicants shall use the SF&hyph;424 series or those forms and instructions prescribed by the Federal awarding agency. (c) For Federal programs covered by E.O. 12372, ``Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs,'' the applicant shall complete the appropriate sections of the SF&hyph;424 (Application for Federal Assistance) indicating whether the application was subject to review by the State Single Point of Contact (SPOC). The name and address of the SPOC for a particular State can be obtained from the Federal awarding agency or the Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance. The SPOC shall advise the applicant whether the program for which application is made has been selected by that State for review. (d) Federal awarding agencies that do not use the SF&hyph;424 form should indicate whether the application is subject to review by the State under E.O. 12372. ยง518.13 Debarment and suspension. Federal awarding agencies and recipients shall comply with the nonprocurement debarment and suspension rule, implementing E.O.'s 12549 and 12689, ``Debarment and Suspension.'' This rule restricts subawards and contracts with certain parties that are debarred, suspended or otherwise excluded from or ineligible for participation in Federal assistance programs or activities. ยง518.14 Special award conditions. (a) Federal awarding agencies may impose additional requirements as needed, if an applicant or recipient: (1) Has a history of poor performance, (2) Is not financially stable, (3) Has a management system that does not meet the standards prescribed in this part, (4) Has not conformed to the terms and conditions of a previous award, or (5) Is not otherwise responsible. (b) Additional requirements may only be imposed provided that such applicant or recipient is notified in writing as to:
