FR940413-2-00049 FR940413-2-00030 (a) The minutes shall clearly identify the date, time, and place of the meeting, the type of meeting held, the identity of Members present, and where applicable that they participated by telephone, and the identity of the Secretary and the General Counsel present, or, in their absence, the names of the persons who substituted for them. (b) The minutes shall contain a separate paragraph for each subject matter, and shall note all main motions or motions to bring a main motion before the assembly, except any that were withdrawn. (c) The minutes shall not contain any reference to statements made unless a request is specifically made that a statement be made a part of the record, or if required by the Government in the Sunshine Act. (d) The minutes of Regular Meetings shall indicate the substance and disposition of any notational votes completed since the last Regular Meeting of the Board. (e) The vote of each Member on a question shall be recorded or the Secretary will note a unanimous consent. (f) The minutes of the Board shall be signed by the Chairman and the Secretary, indicating the date of approval by the Board. Section 2. Circulation (a) Draft minutes shall be reviewed by the Chairman and General Counsel. (b) Minutes shall be circulated to all Members one (1) week prior to their consideration at a Board Meeting. (c) Copies of the minutes of the Meetings of the Board (Open Session) to be voted on at a Board Meeting shall be placed in all Board Briefing Books. (d) Copies of the minutes of the Meetings of the Board (Closed Session) to be voted on at a Board Meeting shall be placed only in the Board Briefing Books of the Members, the Secretary, and the General Counsel. Section 3. Supporting Documentation (a) Board briefing books. One copy of all Board Briefing Book material shall be maintained by the Secretary. All other copies of the Board Briefing Book material for Closed Sessions shall be returned to the Secretary for disposal or maintained in a secure location approved by the Secretary. (b) Executive summaries. One copy of each Executive Summary provided to any Member shall be provided to and maintained by the Secretary. Article V Board Meetings Section 1. Presiding Officer The Chairman shall preside at each meeting. In the event the Chairman is unavailable, the Member from the Chairman's political party shall preside. Section 2. Order of Business The agenda for each meeting shall be substantially in the following order:
