FR941212-2-00007 FR941212-2-00004 ␣ 1Sand package 1Average depth 1Permeability data wells J 8,116 0 K 8,765 1 L 9,468 0 M 9,922 1 N 10,176 1 O 10,297 0 P 10,782 4 Q 10,992 2 R 11,181 1 S 11,838 5 T 12,283 2 U 12,689 0 V 12,708 0 Y 13,877 0 Since Shell predicted permeability values for the sands with no data (i.e., untested sands), the tolling letter questioned why Texas believed the determination was supported by substantial evidence and requested additional permeability data. In its comments responding to the second tolling letter, SWEPI argues that the subject sands are of the same age, the same depositional environment, originated from the same source area, have very similar mineral composition, and have undergone the same post-depositional structural and diagenetic processes. On this basis, SWEPI concludes that the factors controlling porosity and permeability in the sands lacking pressure build-up (PBU) test data are the same, or very similar, to the PBU tested sands. SWEPI also argues that the untested sands are adjacent to sands with sufficient test data to afford sufficient control to establish the basis for using the values that were calculated for untested sands. SWEPI further contends that the empirical PBU data from the tested sands can be used to predict permeabilities in the untested sands. For this purpose, SWEPI's Texas-15 Addition 3 application includes a graph which attempts to show that initial permeabilities may be predicted based on a correlation between initial permeability, porosity, and gas saturation (i.e., that the points on the graph demonstrate that there is a linear relationship between initial permeability and the other two factors). SWEPI also argues that the few sands which lack PBU test data are either immediately above or below a PBU tested sand, or (in most cases) between PBU tested sands. We find, however, that the Texas-15 Addition 3 record does not contain substantial evidence showing that all of the sands in the recommended interval (the J through Y Sands) meet the Commission's 0.1 md guideline for tight formation designation over all of the 15,100-acre area being recommended. Our review of SWEPI's Engineering Exhibit 7 shows that initial permeability varies widely from one sand package to the next, 4 and even from one well to the next. 5 Thus, the record shows that the permeability evidence from tested sand packages does not demonstrate that the untested sands meet the 0.1 md guideline for tight formation designation. Moreover, the record does not show that initial permeability for untested sands can be predicted using the linear relationship that SWEPI drew. An examination of SWEPI's graph shows that the points on the graph are completely scattered; therefore, there is no linear relationship and no showing that initial permeability is a function of porosity and gas saturation. 4 For example, SWEPI's Engineering Exhibit 7 shows that the McAllen Ranch # 22 well's initial R Sand permeability of 3.84 md is 96 times the 0.04 md initial T Sand permeability in the McAllen Ranch # 77 well. 5 For example, SWEPI's Engineering Exhibit 7 shows that the Woods Christian # 7 well's initial P Sand permeability is 4.64 md, while the initial permeability for the P Sand in the Woods Christian # 13 well is only 0.13 md. Natural Gas Flow Rate Guideline Section 271.703(c)(2)(i)(B) of the Commission's regulations requires the jurisdictional agency to show that the average pre-stimulation stabilized natural gas flow rate (against atmospheric pressure) of wells completed for production in the formation does not exceed the applicable maximum allowable flow rate (based on the average depth to the top of the formation and the table of maximum flow rates in the regulations). Our review shows that the Texas-15 Addition 3 record does not contain individual pre-stimulation stabilized flow rates from each completion for production in a recommended sand and no additional supporting documentation (i.e., completion reports and/or copies of driller's reports) verifying which sand intervals were completed for production within each data well, and whether or not the PBU tested intervals correspond to those completion intervals. SWEPI's pre-stimulation flow rate calculations for the J&hyph;Y interval rely on the predicted permeability values for untested sands. In view of the fact that these predicted values are flawed, we find that the Texas-15 Addition 3 record does not contain substantial evidence that the stabilized production rate, against atmospheric pressure, of wells completed for production in the J&hyph;Y Sand interval, without stimulation, is not expected to exceed the applicable allowable found in the Commission's regulations. Moreover, we find that the additional pre-stimulation stabilized flow rate data developed for the separate M, R, S, and T Sand determinations does not provide evidence as to the flow rate characteristics of completions for production in other sands, in other wells. SWEPI's De Novo Review Argument SWEPI argues that the Commission has exceeded its substantial evidence review authority under Section 503 of the NGPA and conducted a de novo review of the Texas-15 Addition 3 application. SWEPI's argument is based in large part on the detailed data requests in staff's tolling letters. We find that SWEPI's argument is without merit. The Commission has consistently required that the in situ permeability and pre-stimulation natural gas and crude oil flow rate guidelines pertain to the initial permeability and flow rate characteristics of the formation, not to conditions resulting from years of sustained production. 6 Since the record in the Texas-15 Addition 3 determination clearly indicates that initial well completions in natural gas pay sections within the J&hyph;Y Sand interval (within the recommended area) exceed the guidelines for tight formation designation, and that it is only as a result of sustained production that the producing well completions begin to exhibit permeability and flow rate values below the numerical limits in the regulations, the record does not support a determination that the recommended formation meets the permeability and flow rate guidelines established by the Commission. Therefore, staff's requests for data to provide additional evidence to support Texas' determination was appropriate. As discussed above, our review shows that the record does not contain sufficient data to support Texas' determination that the recommended area and the recommended interval meets each of the Commission's guidelines. 6 See Notices of Preliminary Finding issued in Docket No. GP93&hyph;5&hyph;000 (64 FERC ¶61,004) and Docket No. GP94&hyph;7&hyph;000 (67 FERC ¶61,073). Under §275.202(a) of the regulations, the Commission may make a preliminary finding, before any determination becomes final, that the determination is not supported by substantial evidence in the record. Based on the above discussion, the Commission hereby makes a preliminary finding that Texas' determination is not supported by substantial evidence in the record upon which it was made. 7 Texas or the applicant may, within 30 days from the date of this preliminary finding, submit written comments and request an informal conference with the Commission, pursuant to §275.202(f) of the regulations. A final Commission order will be issued within 120 days after the issuance of this preliminary finding. 7 This action does not affect the portion of the M, R, S, and T Sands that are covered by the determinations the Commission approved in its September 30, 1994 order in Docket No. GP94&hyph;10&hyph;000 (68 FERC ¶61,394). By direction of the Commission. Lois D. Cashell, Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;30425 Filed 12&hyph;9&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6717&hyph;01&hyph;M
