FR941216-2-00016 FR941216-2-00007 Foreign Market Value In order to determine whether there was a sufficient volume of sales in the home market to serve as a viable basis for calculating FMV, we compared the volume of home market sales of the subject merchandise to the volume of third country sales of subject merchandise, in accordance with section 773(a)(1)(B) of the Act. Since the total volume of subject merchandise sold by IRCT in Thailand during the POI was greater than five percent of the aggregate volume of third country sales for such or similar merchandise, we determined that the home market was viable within the meaning of 19 CFR 353.48(a). Therefore, we based FMV on home market sales. In accordance with 19 CFR 353.58, we compared U.S. sales to home market sales made at the same level of trade. In accordance with 19 CFR 353.46, we calculated FMV based on FOB storage or delivered prices to unrelated customers. We made deductions, where appropriate, for inland freight and insurance, and unloading charges. We also deducted direct selling expenses including technical services, credit, and commissions in accordance with 19 CFR 353.56(a). Finally, we deducted the weighted-average home market indirect selling expenses. The deduction for home market indirect selling expenses was capped by U.S. indirect selling expenses, in accordance with 19 CFR 353.56(b) (1) and (2). We deducted home market packing and added U.S. packing costs, in accordance with section 773(a)(1) of the Act. We adjusted for value-added taxes in accordance with our practice. ( See the ``United States Price'' section of this notice, above.) Cost of Production Based on our analysis of the petitioner's allegation, we found ``reasonable grounds to believe or suspect'' that IRCT made home market sales below its COP within the meaning of section 773(b) of the Act. The Department initiated an investigation to determine whether IRCT made home market sales at prices below its COP over an extended period of time. Because IRCT's COP questionnaire response is not due until December 27, 1994, it is not possible to consider this information for the preliminary determination. This information will be considered in our final determination. Currency Conversion We made currency conversions based on the official exchange rates in effect on the dates of the U.S. sales as certified by the Federal Reserve Bank in accordance with 19 CRR 353.60. Preliminary Margin Calculation Based on the calculation methodology outlined above, we preliminarily calculate a margin of zero percent for U.S. sales of furfuryl alcohol from Thailand. Verification As provided in section 776(b) of the Act, we will verify all information that we determine is acceptable for use in making our final determination.
