FR940627-0-00246 FR940627-0-00019 Vaginal cytology evaluation means the use of wet vaginal cell smears to determine the phase of a test animal's estrous cycle and the potential for adverse exposure effects on the regularity of the animal's cycle. In the rat, common cell types found in the smears correlate well with the various stages of the estrous cycle and to changes occurring in the reproductive tract. (c) Principle of the test method. (1) For a two week period before exposures start, daily vaginal cell smears are examined from a surplus of female test animals to identify and cull those females which are acyclic. After culling, testers shall randomly assign at each exposure concentration (including unexposed) a minimum of twenty-five females for breeding and fifteen non-bred females for later histologic evaluation. Test animals shall be exposed by inhalation to graduated concentrations of the test atmosphere for a minimum of six hours per day over the next 13 weeks. Males and females in both test and control groups are mated after nine weeks of exposure. Exposures for pregnant females continue through gestation day 15, while exposures for males and all non- pregnant females shall continue for the full exposure period. (2) Beginning two weeks before the start of the mating period, daily vaginal smears resume for all to-be-bred females to characterize their estrous cycles. This will continue for four weeks or until a rat's pregnancy is confirmed, i.e. , day 0, by the presence of sperm in the cell smear. On pregnancy day 20, shortly before the expected date of delivery, each pregnant female is sacrificed, her uterus removed, and the contents examined for embryonic or fetal deaths, and live fetuses. At the end of the exposure period, males and all non-pregnant females shall be weighed, and various organs and tissues, as appropriate, shall be removed and weighed, fixed with stain, and sectioned for viewing under a light microscope. (3) This assay may be done separately or in combination with the subchronic toxicity study, pursuant to the provisions in §79.62. (d) Limit test. If a test at one dose level of the highest concentration that can be achieved while maintaining a particle size distribution with a mass median aerodynamic diameter (MMAD) of 4 micrometers (μm) or less, using the procedures described in section 79.60 of this part produces no observable toxic effects and if toxicity would not be expected based upon data of structurally related compounds, then a full study using three dose levels might not be necessary. Expected human exposure though may indicate the need for a higher dose level. (e) Test procedures _(1) Animal selection _(i) Species and strain. The rat is the preferred species. Strains with low fecundity shall not be used and the candidate species shall be characterized for its sensitivity to developmental toxins. If another rodent species is used, the tester shall provide justification for its selection. (ii) Animals shall be a minimum of 10 weeks old at the start of the exposure period. (iii) Number and sex. Each test and control group shall have a minimum of 25 males and 40 females. In order to ensure that sufficient pups are produced to permit meaningful evaluation of the potential developmental toxicity of the test substance, twenty pregnant test animals are required for each exposure and control level. (2) Observation period. The observation period shall be 13 weeks, at a minimum. (3) Concentration levels and concentration selection. (i) To select the appropriate concentration levels, a pilot or trial study may be advisable. Since pregnant animals have an increased minute ventilation as compared to non-pregnant animals, it is recommended that the trial study be conducted in pregnant animals. Similarly, since presumably the minute ventilation will vary with progression of pregnancy, the animals should be exposed during the same period of gestation as in the main study. It is not always necessary, though, to carry out a trial study in pregnant animals. Comparisons between the results of a trial study in non-pregnant animals, and the main study in pregnant animals will demonstrate whether or not the test substance is more toxic in pregnant animals. In the trial study, the concentration producing embryonic or fetal lethalities or maternal toxicity should be determined. (ii) The highest concentration level shall induce some overt maternal toxicity such as reduced body weight or body weight gain, but not more than 10 percent maternal deaths. (iii) The lowest concentration level shall not produce any grossly observable evidence of either maternal or developmental toxicity. (4) Inhalation exposure. (i) All data developed within this study shall be in accordance with good laboratory practice provisions under §79.60. (ii) The general conduct of this study shall be in accordance with the vehicle emissions inhalation exposure guideline in §79.61. (f) Test performance _(1) Study conduct. Directions specific to this study are:
