FR940314-2-00115 FR940314-2-00060 With regard to other potential radiological environmental impacts, the proposed exemption does not increase the radiological effluents from the facility and does not increase the occupational exposure at the facility. Therefore, the Commission concludes that there are no significant radiological impacts associated with the proposed exemption. With regard to potential nonradiological environmental impacts, the proposed exemption involves systems located within the restricted areas as defined in 10 CFR part 20. It does not affect nonradiological plant effluents and has no other significant nonradiological environmental impacts associated with the proposed exemption. Therefore, the proposed exemption does not significantly change the conclusions in the licensee's ``Final Environmental Statement Related to the Operation of Sequoyah Nuclear Plant Units 1 and 2'' (FES), dated February 21, 1974. The Commission concluded that operation of the Sequoyah units will not result in any environmental impacts other than those evaluated in the FES and its letter to the licensee dated September 15, 1981, which granted the facility operating license DPR&hyph;79 for Unit 2. Alternative to the Proposed Action Because the staff has concluded that there is no measurable environmental impact associated with the proposed exemption, any alternative to this exemption will have either no significantly different environmental impact or greater environmental impact. The principal alternative would be to deny the requested exemption. This would not reduce environmental impacts as a result of plant operations. Alternative Use of Resources This action does not involve the use of resources not previously considered in connection with the ``Final Environmental Statement Related to the Operation of the Sequoyah Nuclear Plant, Units 1 and 2,'' dated February 21, 1974. Agencies and Persons Consulted The NRC staff has reviewed the licensee's request. The staff did not consult other agencies or persons. Finding of No Significant Impact The Commission has determined not to prepare an environmental impact statement for the proposed exemption. Based upon the foregoing environmental assessment, we conclude that the proposed action will not have a significant effect on the quality of the human environment. For details with respect to this action, see the licensee's request for an exemption dated February 4, 1994, which is available for public inspection at the Commission's Public Document Room, Gelman Building, 2120 L Street NW., Washington, DC, and at the Chattanooga-Hamilton County Library, 1101 Broad Street, Chattanooga, Tennessee 37402. Dated at Rockville, Maryland, this 7th day of March 1994. For the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. Frederick J. Hebdon, Director, Project Directorate II&hyph;4, Division of Reactor Projects_I/II, Office of Nuclear Reactor Regulation. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;5828 Filed 3&hyph;11&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 7590&hyph;01&hyph;M
