FR940406-0-00045 FR940406-0-00002 (c) Within 90 days of receipt of an EEOC decision; or (d) After 180 days from the date of filing a request for review with the Commission if an EEOC decision has not been issued by the Commission. §268.506 Civil action: Equal Pay Act. A complainant may file a civil action under section 16(b) of the Fair Labor Standards Act (29 U.S.C. 216(b)) in a court of competent jurisdiction within two years or, if the violation is willful, three years of the date of the alleged violation of the Equal Pay Act regardless of whether he or she pursued any administrative complaint processing (29 U.S.C. 225). Recovery of back wages under the Equal Pay Act is limited to two years prior to the date of filing suit, or to three years if the violation is deemed willful. Liquidated damages in an equal amount may also be awarded. The filing of a complaint or request for review with the Commission under this part shall not toll the time for filing a civil action. §268.507 Effect of filing a civil action. Filing a civil action under §§268.505 or 268.506 of this part shall terminate the Commission's processing of any request for review. If a private suit is filed subsequent to the filing of a request for review, the parties shall notify the Commission of such filing in writing. Subpart F_Matters of General Applicability §268.601 EEO group statistics. (a) The Board shall collect and maintain accurate employment information on the race, national origin, sex and disabilities of its employees. (b) Data on race, national origin and sex shall be collected by voluntary self-identification. If an employee does not voluntarily provide the requested information, the Board shall advise the employee of the importance of the data and of the Board's obligation to report it. If the employee still refuses to provide the information, the Board shall make a visual identification and inform the employee of the data it will be reporting. If the Board believes that information provided by an employee is inaccurate, the Board shall advise the employee that the purpose for which the data is being collected is solely statistical, of the need for accuracy, of the Board's recognition of the sensitivity of the information, and of the existence of procedures to prevent its unauthorized disclosure. If, thereafter, the employee declines to change the apparently inaccurate self identification, the Board shall accept it. (c) Subject to applicable law, the information collected under paragraph (b) of this section shall be disclosed only in the form of gross statistics. The Board will not collect or maintain any information on the race, national origin, or sex of individual employees except in accordance with applicable law and when an automated data processing system is used in accordance with standards and requirements prescribed by the Commission to insure individual privacy and the separation of that information from the employee's personnel record. (d) The Board's system shall incorporate the following controls: (1) Only those categories of race and national origin approved by the Commission shall be used; and (2) Only the specific procedures for the collection and maintenance of data that are prescribed or approved by the Commission shall be used. (e) The Board shall use the data only in studies and analyses that contribute affirmatively to achieving the objectives of the Board's equal employment opportunity program. The Board shall not establish quotas for the employment of persons on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, or national origin. (f) Data on disabilities shall also be collected by voluntary self-identification. If an employee does not voluntarily provide the requested information, the Board shall advise the employee of the importance of the data and of the Board's obligation to report it. If an employee who has been appointed pursuant to the Board's affirmative action program for hiring individuals with a disability still refuses to provide the requested information, the Board shall identify the employee's disability based upon the records supporting the appointment. If any other employee still refuses to provide the requested information or provides information that the Board believes to be inaccurate, the Board shall report the employee's disability status as unknown. (g) The Board shall report to the Commission on employment by race, national origin, sex and disability in the form and at such times as the Board and Commission shall agree. §268.602 Reports to the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission. (a) The Board shall report to the Commission information concerning pre-complaint counseling and the status, processing, and disposition of complaints under this part at such times and in such manner as the Board and Commission shall agree. (b) The Board shall advise the Commission whenever it is served with a federal court complaint based upon a complaint that is pending review at the Commission. (c) The Board shall prepare annually equal employment opportunity plans of actions, in the form requested by the Commission, and shall submit such plans for review and advice by the Commission. The plans of action shall include: (1) Provision for the establishment of training and education programs designed to provide maximum opportunity for employees to advance so as to perform at their highest potential;
