FR940617-2-00092 FR940617-2-00052 This section applies to both classified and nonclassifiable areas. Once EPA makes a finding under a separate notice which grants a NO X transportation conformity exemption, an area is relieved of the transportation conformity rule's requirements for regional analysis of NO X emissions. However, EPA plans to amend the transportation conformity rule to require that once an area's maintenance plan is approved, any previously approved NO X conformity exemption no longer applies. The area must then demonstrate as part of its conformity determinations that the transportation plan and TIP are consistent with the motor vehicle emissions budget for NO X where such a budget is established by the maintenance plan. As currently written, none of the transportation conformity rule's NO X requirements would ever apply to an area once such an area had received a NO X transportation conformity exemption. EPA believes that it is crucial for maintenance areas to demonstrate consistency with the maintenance plan's motor vehicle NO X emissions budget because that budget represents the level of motor vehicle NO X emissions needed for continued maintenance. However, the maintenance plan's NO X motor vehicle emissions budget for the purposes of transportation conformity will not necessarily require annual NO X emission reductions throughout the ten-year period. EPA intends to promptly amend the conformity rule as stated above, so that NO X motor vehicle emissions budgets in maintenance plans will begin to apply at the time or shortly after those plans are approved. V. Administrative Requirements Regulatory Flexibility Act Whenever EPA is required by section 553 of the Administrative Procedures Act or any other law to publish general notice and proposed rulemaking for any proposed rule, EPA shall propose and make available for public comment an initial regulatory flexibility analysis. The regulatory flexibility requirements do not apply for this General Preamble because it is not a regulatory action in the context of the Administrative Procedures Act or the Regulatory Flexibility Act. Dated: June 8, 1994. Carol M. Browner, Administrator. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;14416 Filed 6&hyph;16&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6560&hyph;50&hyph;P
