FR940805-2-00103 FR940805-2-00056 Post Agreement Activities Guidelines for Suspension of a Section 274b Agreement I. Introduction A. This procedure provides the guidelines that will be followed by NRC staff when considering whether or not to exercise the authority contained in Section 274j(2) of the Atomic Energy Act to suspend an Agreement for a State. B. This procedure will not address the emergency situation where there is a danger to the public health and safety. Guidelines for emergency suspension are found in Procedure XXX . II. Suspension A. Section 274j. of the Atomic Energy Act gives the Commission authority to suspend all or part of its agreement with a State if the suspension is required to protect the public health and safety, or if the State has not complied with one or more of the requirements of the Act. In cases where the Commission finds that program deficiencies related to either adequacy or compatibility are such that the Commission must take action, the Commission will suspend all or part of its agreement with the State. B. Before reaching a final decision on suspension, the Commission will notify the State and provide the State an opportunity for a hearing on the proposed suspension as discussed in Part VI. Notice of the proposed suspension will also be published in the Federal Register . Suspension, rather than termination, will be the preferred option in those cases where the State provides evidence that the program deficiencies are temporary and that the State is committed to implementing program improvements. III. Management Review Board Role A. The Management Review Board (MRB) is responsible for making the adequacy assessment of each Agreement State's program based on the reviews of the program, using both common performance indicators and non-common performance indicators and the compatibility determination. The management review board consists of senior NRC managers, or their designees, to include: Executive Director for Operations Director, Office of Nuclear Material Safety and Safeguards Director, Office of State Programs Director, Office of Analysis and Evaluation of Operational Data General Counsel B. The MRB will consider the results of the Agreement State review and any other appropriate information in making a determination of adequacy and compatibility with respect to an Agreement State. MRB meetings to discuss specific program review findings normally will be open and Agreement States representatives will be invited to attend. MRB internal deliberations regarding the overall Agreement State program rating may be closed, given the predecisional nature of those discussions. C. If it is the recommendation of the MRB that NRC initiate the proceedings to suspend an Agreement, the Office of State Programs will be assigned the lead for preparation of the Commission paper. The Commission paper will contain the information supporting the suspension as described in Part IV, and will assess potential resource implications of NRC reasserting authority. The Commission paper will be coordinated with OGC, NMSS and the region. IV. Staff Work A. Before the opportunity for hearing and issuance of the Federal Register notice, OSP will draft a Commission paper for the signature of EDO on the suspension of regulatory authority in the State based on the initial recommendations of the MRB. In preparation of the Commission paper, the assigned Project manager should coordinate with OGC as to the form or type of Commission paper. The draft Commission paper (Appendix A) should contain the following information:
