FR941006-2-00111 FR941006-2-00083 As with CVRs, because ELNs are linked to another security, the Exchange has proposed safeguards that are designed to meet the investor protection concerns raised by the trading of ELNs. 29 First, pursuant to CBOE Rule 30.50(c), the Exchange will impose a duty of due diligence on its members and member firms to learn the essential facts relating to every customer prior to trading ELNs. Second, consistent with CBOE Rule 30.50(c), the Exchange will further require that a member or member firm specifically approve a customer's account for trading ELNs prior to, or promptly after, the completion of the transaction. Third, prior to the commencement of trading of ELNs, the Exchange will evaluate the nature and complexity of the issue and, if appropriate, distribute a circular to the membership providing guidance regarding member firm compliance responsibilities (including suitability recommendations and account approval) when handling transactions in ELNs. 30 29 See Amendment No. 1, supra note 4. 30 The Commission notes that the ELNs are subject to the equity margin rules of the Exchange. Id. C. Paired Securities The Exchange is also proposing to add Rule 31.5.J to its rules to set forth specific listing criteria for ``paired securities.'' Under proposed Rule 31.5.J, the term ``paired securities'' would be defined as securities which may be transferred and traded only in combination with one another as a single economic unit and for which the securities are printed back-to-back on the same certificate. 31 Under the proposed rule, the issuers of the paired securities would be required to satisfy, on an aggregate basis, the size and earnings criteria set forth in Exchange Rule 31.5.A. 32 In the event the pairing agreement between the issuers of the paired securities is terminated, the issuer which initially met the original listing criteria need only satisfy the Exchange's continued listing guidelines in order to remain listed on the Exchange. The other security, however, which at the time of listing did not qualify for listing under CBOE Rule 31.5.A must, at the time of termination, meet both the net worth, earnings, and distribution requirements of Rule 31.5.A in order to remain listed on the Exchange. 33 The Exchange has represented that it will only list an issue of paired securities as a competitive response to the listing of an issue of paired securities by another securities exchange and where the securities are being paired for purposes other than for bypassing the Exchange's equity listing standards. 34 31 See Amendment No. 1, supra note 4. 32 See supra note 7. 33 See Amendment No. 1, supra note 4; and supra note 7. 34 See Amendment No. 1, supra note 4. III. Commission Findings and Conclusions For the reasons discussed below, the Commission finds that the proposed rule change is consistent with the requirements of the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder applicable to a national securities exchange, and, in particular, the requirements of section 6(b)(5). 35 35 15 U.S.C. 78f(b)(5) (1988). Pursuant to section 6(b)(5) of the Act the Commission must predicate approval of exchange trading for new products upon a finding that the introduction of the product is in the public interest. Such a finding would be difficult with respect to a product that served no investment, hedging, or other economic function, because any benefits that might be derived by market participants would likely be outweighed by the potential for manipulation, diminished public confidence in the integrity of the markets, and other valid regulatory concerns.
