FR941110-0-00250 FR941110-0-00016 (1) Section 401.136 of this chapter for documents maintained by HCFA; and (2) State procedures for documents maintained by the State. (f) Information that must be provided to the State's long-term care ombudsman. The State must provide the State's long-term care ombudsman with the following: (1) A statement of deficiencies reflecting facility noncompliance, including a separate list of isolated deficiencies that constitute no harm with the potential for minimal harm. (2) Reports of adverse actions specified at ยง488.206 imposed on a facility. (3) Written response by the provider. (4) A provider's request for an appeal and the results of any appeal. (g) Information which must be provided to State by a facility with substandard quality of care. (1) To provide for the notice to physicians required under sections 1819(g)(5)(C) and 1919(g)(5)(C) of the Act, not later than 10 working days after receiving a notice of substandard quality of care, a SNF or NF must provide the State with a list of_ (i) Each resident in the facility with respect to which such finding was made; and (ii) The name and address of his or her attending physician. (2) Failure to disclose the information timely will result in termination of participation or imposition of alternative remedies. (h) Information the State must provide to attending physician and State board. Not later than 20 calendar days after a SNF or NF complies with paragraph (g) of this section, the State must provide written notice of the noncompliance to_ (1) The attending physician of each resident in the facility with respect to which a finding of substandard quality of care was made; and (2) The State board responsible for licensing the facility's administrator. (i) Access to information by State Medicaid fraud control unit. The State must provide access to any survey and certification information incidental to a SNF's or NF's participation in Medicare or Medicaid upon written request by the State Medicaid fraud control unit established under part 1002, subpart C, of this title, consistent with current State laws. ยง488.330 Certification of compliance or noncompliance. (a) General rules_ (1) Responsibility for certification. (i) The State survey agency surveys all facilities for compliance or noncompliance with requirements for long term care facilities. The survey by the State survey agency may be followed by a Federal validation survey. (A) The State certifies the compliance or noncompliance of non-State operated NFs. Regardless of the State entity doing the certification, it is final, except in the case of a complaint or validation survey conducted by HCFA, or HCFA review of the State's findings. (B) HCFA certifies the compliance or noncompliance of all State-operated facilities. (C) The State survey agency certifies the compliance or noncompliance of a non-State operated SNF, subject to the approval of HCFA. (D) The State survey agency certifies compliance or noncompliance for a dually participating SNF/NF. In the case of a disagreement between HCFA and the State survey agency, a finding of noncompliance takes precedence over that of compliance. (ii) In the case of a validation survey, the Secretary's determination as to the facility's noncompliance is binding, and takes precedence over a certification of compliance resulting from the State survey. (2) Basis for certification. (i) Certification by the State is based on the survey agency findings. (ii) Certification by HCFA is based on either the survey agency findings (in the case of State-operated facilities), or, in the case of a validation survey, on HCFA's own survey findings. (b) Effect of certification_ (1) Certification of compliance. A certification of compliance constitutes a determination that the facility is in substantial compliance and is eligible to participate in Medicaid as a NF, or in Medicare as a SNF, or in Medicare and Medicaid as a dually participating facility. (2) Certification of noncompliance. A certification of noncompliance requires denial of participation for prospective providers and enforcement action for current providers in accordance with subpart F of this part. Enforcement action must include one of the following: (i) Termination of any Medicare or Medicaid provider agreements that are in effect. (ii) Application of alternative remedies instead of, or in addition to, termination procedures.
