FR940720-1-00013 FR940720-1-00005 20 CFR Part 404 RIN 0960&hyph;AD79 Federal Old-Age, Survivors and Disability Insurance; Changes in Evidence Required To Presume a Person Is Dead AGENCY: Social Security Administration, HHS. ACTION: Proposed rules. SUMMARY: These proposed regulations would provide that, under title II of the Social Security Act (the Act), a presumption of death arises when the claimant established an individual has been absent from his or her residence and not heard from for 7 years. Once the presumption is made, the burden then shifts to us to rebut the presumption either by presenting evidence that the missing individual is still alive or by providing an explanation to account for the individual's absence in a manner consistent with continued life rather than death. DATES: To be sure your comments are considered, we must receive them no later than September 19, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments should be submitted in writing to the Commissioner of Social Security, Department of Health and Human Services, P.O. 1585, Baltimore, MD 21235. Alternatively, you may fax your comments to the Commissioner of Social Security at (410) 966&hyph;0869 or deliver them to the Office of Regulations, Social Security Administration, 3&hyph;B&hyph;4 Operations Building, 6401 Security Boulevard, Baltimore, MD 21235 between 8:00 a.m. and 4:30 P.M. on regular business days. Comments received may be inspected during these same hours by making arrangements with the contact person shown below. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Philip Berge, Legal Assistant, Office of Regulations, Social Security Administration, 6401 Security Boulevard, Baltimore, MD 21235, (410) 965&hyph;1769. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background Under title II of the Act, a lump sum death payment and monthly survivors' benefits may be payable based on the earnings of a deceased insured person. In order to ensure that these benefits are not paid based on mere desertion, any inquiry into entitlement begins with an assumption that a person last known to be alive is still living, and that a person's failure to communicate with a few people and to return to a particular place do not, in themselves, give rise to a presumption of death. To establish eligibility for such benefits, the claimant must establish that the insured person is dead. If proof of death (as described in §§404.720(b) and (c)) is unavailable, we will presume an insured person is dead if certain evidence is presented. Under the present §404.721(b), such evidence includes signed statements by those in a position to know and other records which show that the person has been absent from his or her residence for no apparent reason, and has not been heard from for at least 7 years. This evidentiary requirement has yielded two very different interpretations. It has long been our policy that the claimant must present the evidence necessary to establish that he or she is entitled to benefits. Accordingly, for us to presume that an insured person is dead, the claimant must establish that the insured person not only has not been heard from for at least 7 years, but also that he or she has been absent from his or her residence for no apparent reason. If the insured person's absence can be attributer to known domestic or financial difficulties or to some other rational reason for leaving home, death is not presumed. We are not required to establish that the insured person is still alive to explain the person's absence. In contrast to our interpretation, a number of United States Courts of Appeals have issued decisions which have presumed the death of a missing person despite the existence of other reasonable explanations for the person's absence. These court decisions have held that a presumption of death arises under our regulations when the claimant shows that a person has been absent from his or her residence and not heard from for 7 years. Once the claimant has made this showing, these decisions state that the Secretary bears the burden of rebutting the presumption of death either by presenting evidence showing that the missing person is alive or by providing an explanation to account for the individual's absence in a manner that is consistent with continued life. As a result of these court decisions, we published Social Security Acquiescence Rulings applicable in the Third, Fifth, Sixth, Eighth, Ninth, Tenth, and Eleventh Circuits which adopt this interpretation of §404.721. We published a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (NPRM) on February 29, 1984, (49 FR 7405&hyph;7406), containing proposed revisions of §404.721 which we hoped would clarify the regulation to avoid the varying interpretations of the regulation made by the courts. Under the previously proposed regulation, we would presume the death of the insured person if signed statements by persons, who were in a position to know, and other evidence showed that all three of the following requirements were met:
