FR940602-2-00167 FR940602-2-00094 There were 55 responses to this information, which generally supported the information presented. There was some disagreement with the use of 5 percent of appraised value to determine the annual fee, the respondents stating that the factor should be higher. Two respondents felt the Consumer Price Index (CPI) should be used instead of the IPD&hyph;GNP. Others felt the adjustment, as a national index factor, failed to recognize depressed local real estate market conditions. As a result, fees were escalating upward that should have been steady or declining. The Forest Service believes that the information presented in the notice accurately described the rationale used to develop the fee determination procedure in the 1988 policy, and that the information reflects current agency direction and policy. Therefore, the agency is adopting the explanation presented in the notice as its response to the appeal decision's direction to present the rationale for adopting the period 1978&hyph;1982 as the annual fee base period, the use of the IPD&hyph;GNP as the annual fee adjustment factor, and the use of 5 percent applied to appraised values to determine annual fees. Having considered the comments received in response to the October 10, 1991, notice of proposed policy and having reconsidered the 1988 recreation residence policy for consistency with applicable law and regulation, the Forest Service is adopting a revised recreation residence policy that it believes is fully responsive to the Assistant Secretary's appeal decision and to the concerns of holders and other interested parties. The full text of the recreation residence policy and procedural guidance containing the revisions described in this notice as it would appear in the Forest Service Directive System is set out at the end of this notice. Readers are advised that the current interim recreation residence policy will no longer be in effect upon adoption of this revised policy. Controlling Paperwork Burdens on the Public This policy will not result in additional paperwork not already required by law or not already approved for use. Therefore, the review provisions of the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980 (44 U.S.C. 3507) and implementing regulations at 5 CFR 1320 do not apply. Regulatory Impact This final policy has been reviewed under USDA procedures and Executive Order 12866 on Regulatory Planning and Review. It has been determined that this is not a significant rule. This rule will not have an annual effect of $100 million or more on the economy nor adversely affect productivity, competition, jobs, the environment, public health or safety, nor State or local governments. This rule will not interfere with an action taken or planned by another agency nor raise new legal or policy issues. Finally, this action will not alter the budgetary impact of entitlements, grants, user fees, or loan programs or the rights and obligations of recipients of such programs. Accordingly, this final policy is not subject to OMB review under Executive Order 12866. Moreover, this final policy has been considered in light of the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. 601 et seq. ), and it has been determined that this action will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities as defined by that Act. Entities affected by this policy are private individuals holding authorizations to use National Forest System lands for the purpose of constructing and maintaining a recreation residence. The requirements imposed by this final policy are the minimum necessary to protect the public interest, are not administratively burdensome or costly to meet, and are well within the capability of small entities to perform. Environmental Impact Section 31.1b of Forest Service Handbook 1909.15 (57 FR 43180; September 18, 1992) excludes from documentation in an environmental assessment or impact statement ``rules, regulations, or policies to establish Service-wide administrative procedures, program processes or instructions.'' Based on consideration of the comments received and the nature and scope of this final policy, the agency has determined that this rule falls within this category of actions and that no extraordinary circumstances exist which would require preparation of an environmental assessment or environmental impact statement. Dated: April 4, 1994. Jack Ward Thomas, Chief.
