FR940428-2-00144 FR940428-2-00067 Although Taiwan has made efforts to address the problem, as a result of the lack of sufficient progress in the key areas identified in the November 8 report, the President decided to direct the Secretary of the Treasury, working with the Secretary of the Interior, to prohibit the bringing or the importation into the United States of wildlife specimens and products of Taiwan, and that the precise products subject to the import prohibition will be determined after viewing public comments received. While the Pelly Amendment provides the authority to impose a greater level of import prohibitions, this level was deemed appropriate at this time. The situation in Taiwan will continue to be reviewed and U.S. authorities will continue to try to assist Taiwan in effecting meaningful results in the effort to eliminate the illegal trade. The import prohibitions, once imposed, will remain in effect until the President determines that sufficient progress has been made by Taiwan in securing significant reductions in the illegal commerce in the species, taking into account relevant findings of the CITES Standing Committee. The products eligible for the import prohibitions were chosen based on the CITES Standing Committee recommendation, and cover wildlife specimens, parts and products thereof, that are products of Taiwan and are defined below. All imports from Taiwan which are eligible products will be prohibited unless otherwise indicated upon completion of the review of public comments. In making the determination of final product coverage, public comments submitted in accordance with the requirements set forth below will be considered. It is expected that a final notice of the wildlife and wildlife products subject to the import prohibitions will be published in the Federal Register within approximately two weeks of the close of the public comment period, and that the import prohibitions will apply to wildlife and their parts and products exported from Taiwan beginning ten days after the date of publication of the final notice. Public Comment Requirements for Submission The TPSC invites all interested persons to provide written comments concerning the proposed action, specifically regarding economic and environmental effects of the proposed import prohibitions, including: (1) The appropriateness of prohibiting the importation of any particular product; (2) The degree to which prohibiting the importation of any particular product might have an adverse effect upon U.S. consumers of the product; and (3) Additional actions, not limited to trade restrictions, that would help bring about an end to illegal trade in these endangered species. Comments must be filed in English and provided in ten copies to: Carolyn Frank, Secretary, Trade Policy Staff committee, Office of the United States Trade Representative, 600 17th Street, NW., room 414, Washington, DC 20506. Submissions will be available for public inspection by appointment with the staff of the USTR Public Reading Room, except for confidential business information exempt from public inspection in accordance with 15 CFR 2003.6. Confidential business information must be clearly marked ``Business Confidential'' at the top of the cover letter or page and each succeeding page in each of the 10 copies, and must be accompanied by a nonconfidential summary of the confidential information. The nonconfidential summary will be placed in the file that is open to public inspection. Product Coverage Import prohibitions will apply to ``wildlife specimens and parts and products'' of Taiwan. For purposes of this action, the term ``wildlife specimens and parts and products'' includes ``fish or wildlife'' or products of ``fish or wildlife'' as defined in the ``Lacey Act'' (16 U.S.C. 3371);
