FR940913-1-00043 FR940913-1-00013 ยง28.890 Examination and certification of compliance. (a) At least once in every two years each ATA vessel must be examined for compliance with the regulations of this subchapter by the ABS, a similarly qualified organization, or a surveyor of an accepted organization. (b) Each individual performing an examination under paragraph (a) of this section, upon finding the vessel to be in compliance with the requirements of this chapter, must provide a written certification of compliance to the owner or operator of the vessel. (c) Each certification of compliance issued under paragraph (b) of this section must: (1) Be signed by the individual that performed the examination; (2) Include the name of the organization the individual performing the examination represents or the name of the accepted organization the individual belongs to; and (3) State that the vessel has been examined and found to meet the specific requirements of this chapter. (d) A certification of compliance issued under paragraph (b) of this section must be retained on board the vessel until superseded. (e) A copy of the certification of compliance issued under paragraph (b) of this section must be forwarded by the organization under whose authority the examination was performed to the Coast Guard District Commander (Attention: Fishing Vessel Safety Coordinator) in charge of the district in which the examination took place. ยง28.895 Survey and classification. (a) Each vessel which undergoes a major conversion completed after July 27, 1990, must be classed by the ABS, or a similarly qualified organization. (b) Each vessel which is classed under paragraph (a) of this section must: (1) Have on board a certificate of class issued by the organization that classed the vessel. (2) Meet all survey and classification requirements prescribed by the organization that classed the vessel. ยง28.900 Loadlines. (a) A fish tender vessel of not more than 500 gross tons, engaged in the Aleutian trade, with no load line assigned at any time prior to June 1, 1992 is not subject to the loadline provisions of 46 U.S.C. Chapter 51 if it is not on a foreign voyage and: (1) was constructed, under construction, or under contract to be constructed as a fish tender vessel before January 12, 1980; or (2) was converted for use as a fish tender vessel before January 1, 1983. (b) Prior to January 1, 2003, this section does not apply to a fish tender vessel engaged in the Aleutian trade if the vessel: (1) operated in that trade before September 8, 1990 and has not undergone a major conversion; or (2)(i) Was purchased to be used in that trade before September 8, 1990, and entered into that service before June 1, 1992; and (ii) Has not had a load line assigned at any time before November 16, 1990. ยง28.905 Post accident inspection. The owner of or master of the vessel shall ensure that a general or partial survey is performed by a Coast Guard Representative every time an accident occurs, a defect is discovered which affects the safety of the vessel or the efficacy or completeness of its lifesaving appliances, firefighting or other equipment, or whenever any repairs or alterations are made that affect the safety of the vessel. Repairs or alterations which affect the safety of the vessel include, but are not limited to: Replacement, repair, or refastening of deck or hull planking, plating, and structural members; repair of plate or frame cracks; damage repair or replacement, other than replacement in kind, of electrical wiring, fuel lines, tanks, boilers and other pressure vessels, and steering, propulsion and power supply systems; alterations affecting stability; and repair or alteration of lifesaving, fire detecting, or fire extinguishing equipment. The survey shall be such as to insure that the necessary repairs or renewals have been effectively made, that the material and the workmanship of such repairs or renewals are in all respects satisfactory, and that the vessel complies in all respects with the regulations in this part.
