FR940222-0-00037 FR940222-0-00011 (A) Teaching physicians. (1 ) General. The services of teaching physicians may be reimbursed on an allowable charge basis only when the teaching physician has established an attending physician relationship between the teaching physician and the patient or when the teaching physician provides distinct, identifiable, personal services (e.g., services rendered as a consultant, assistant surgeon, etc.). Attending physician services may include both direct patient care services or direct supervision of care provided by a physician in training. In order to be considered an attending physician, the teaching physician must: ( i ) Review the patient's history and the record of examinations and tests in the institution, and make frequent reviews of the patient's progress; and ( ii ) Personally examine the patient; and ( iiii ) Confirm or revise the diagnosis and determine the course of treatment to be followed; and ( iv ) Either perform the physician's services required by the patient or supervise the treatment so as to assure that appropriate services are provided by physicians in training and that the care meets a proper quality level; and ( v ) Be present and ready to perform any service performed by an attending physician in a nonteaching setting when a major surgical procedure or a complex or dangerous medical procedure is performed; and ( vi ) Be personally responsible for the patient's care, at least throughout the period of hospitalization. ( 2 ) Direct supervision by an attending physician of care provided by physicians in training. Payment on the basis of allowable charges may be made for the professional services rendered to a beneficiary by his/her attending physician when the attending physician provides personal and identifiable direction to physicians in training who are participating in the care of the patient. It is not necessary that the attending physician be personally present for all services, but the attending physician must be on the provider's premises and available to provide immediate personal assistance and direction if needed. ( 3 ) Individual, personal services. A teaching physician may be reimbursed on an allowable charge basis for any individual, identifiable service rendered to a CHAMPUS beneficiary, so long as the service is a covered service and is normally reimbursed separately, and so long as the patient records substantiate the service. ( 4 ) Who may bill. The services of a teaching physician must be billed by the institutional provider when the physician is employed by the provider or a related entity or under a contract which provides for payment to the physician by the provider or a related entity. Where the teaching physician has no relationship with the provider (except for standard physician privileges to admit patients) and generally treats patients on a fee-for-service basis in the private sector, the teaching physician may submit claims under his/her own provider number. (B) Physicians in training. Physicians in training in an approved teaching program are considered to be ``students'' and may not be reimbursed directly by CHAMPUS for services rendered to a beneficiary when their services are provided as part of their employment (either salaried or contractual) by a hospital or other institutional provider. Services of physicians in training may be reimbursed on an allowable charge basis only if: ( 1 ) The physician in training is fully licensed to practice medicine by the state in which the services are performed, and ( 2 ) The services are rendered outside the scope and requirements of the approved training program to which the physician in training is assigned. * * * * * (g) *␣*␣* (1) Not medically or psychologically necessary. Services and supplies that are not medically or psychologically necessary for the diagnosis or treatment of a covered illness (including mental disorder) or injury, for the diagnosis and treatment of pregnancy or well-baby care except as provided in the following paragraph.
