FR940204-1-00011 FR940204-1-00001 Table V._Petroleum Equivalency Factor Calculation 1Driving pattern factor 1Electrical transmiss. efficiency ( h t ) 1Accessory factor 1Total output elect gen. mix (%) (E total ) 1Sum of I i ×V i 1Petroleum equivalency factor 1.000 .915 1.000 .900 .810 .325 .128 2.32 2.09 1.88 6. Alternative Measure of Relative Scarcity and Value Inherent in the calculation of the petroleum equivalency is a measure of the relative scarcity and value to the Nation of all electric generation fuels. This proposed rule uses a resource based measure of scarcity and value. It utilizes the estimated reserves of electric generation fuels and their rate of consumption as an estimate of each fuel's scarcity and value. Though we are confident of the soundness of this approach, we recognize that there is some support for a measure of resource scarcity and value based on its market price. The previous rule utilized this approach. It has been suggested that a BTU adjusted market price of fuel might be a more realistic and measurable reflection of the scarcity and value of electric generation fuels. Under this approach, long term price projections such as those made by the Energy Information Administration could be used instead of marginal prices to address the problems associated with frequent updating of the petroleum equivalency factor to reflect market prices. We seek comments on this alternative market price based approach as well. Comments are sought on the merits of the market price based approach and its impact on the users of the petroleum equivalency factor. D. Public Access to Information To assist the public in commenting on this proposed rulemaking, copies of the sources of information used in developing this rulemaking (which will be incorporated by reference) are available in Docket No. EE&hyph;RM&hyph;94&hyph;101 for public inspection and copying in the DOE Freedom of Information Reading Room 1E&hyph;190, Forrestal Building, 1000 Independence Avenue, SW, Washington, DC, between the hours of 9 a.m. and 4 p.m., Monday through Friday. III. Opportunities for Public Comment A. Written Comments Interested persons are invited to participate in this rulemaking by submitting data, views, or comments with respect to the proposed rulemaking. Comments should be submitted to the address indicated in the ADDRESSES section of this notice and should be identified on the outside of the envelope and on documents submitted to DOE with the designation ``Inclusion of Electric Vehicles in Corporate Average Fuel Economy Calculation_Proposed Regulation Update'' (Docket No. EE&hyph;RM&hyph;94&hyph;101). Six copies should be submitted. All comments received on or before the date indicated at the beginning of the notice and all other relevant information will be considered by DOE before issuance of a final rule. Pursuant to the provisions of 10 CFR 1004.11 any person submitting information believed to be confidential and that may be exempt by law from public disclosure should submit one complete copy and eight copies from which information claimed to be confidential has been deleted. In accordance with the procedures established by 10 CFR 1004.11, DOE shall make its own determination with regard to any claim that information submitted be exempt from public disclosure. B. Public Hearing 1. Request To Speak Procedures The time and place of the public hearing are indicated in the DATES and ADDRESSES sections of this notice. DOE invites any person who has an interest in the proposed rulemaking, or who is a representative of a group or class of persons that has an interest in the proposed rulemaking, to make a request for an opportunity to make an oral presentation. Such a request should be directed to DOE at the address indicated in the ADDRESSES section of this notice. The person making the request should briefly describe the interest concerned and if appropriate, state why he or she is a proper representative of a group or class of persons that has such an interest, and a daytime telephone number where the requester may be contacted. Six copies of a speaker's statement should be brought to the hearing. In the event that any person wishing to testify cannot provide eight copies, alternative arrangements can be made in advance of the hearing. 2. Conduct of the Hearing DOE reserves the right to select the persons to be heard at the hearing, to schedule their respective presentations, and to establish the procedures governing the conduct of the hearing. The length of each presentation may be limited, based on the number of persons requesting to be heard. A DOE official will be designated to preside at the hearing. This will not be an evidentiary or judicial-type hearing but will be conducted in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 553 and section 501 of the Department of Energy Organization Act, 42 U.S.C. 7191. Questions may be asked only by those conducting the hearing. At the conclusion of all initial oral statements, each person who has made an oral statement will be given the opportunity, if he or she so desires, to make a rebuttal or clarifying statement. The statements will be given in the order in which the initial statements were made and will be subject to time limitations. Any further procedural rules needed for the proper conduct of the hearing will be announced by the presiding officer.
