FR940607-0-00066 FR940607-0-00017 Shortly after the agencies issued the proposed rule, the GAO completed its report entitled Regulatory Impediments to Small Business Lending Should Be Removed (September 1993). In the report's summary, the GAO stated: ``Specifically, we believe that real estate appraisal requirements can be safely modified when applied to collateral taken as supplementary support for traditional small business loans. Therefore, we agree with those aspects of the rule changes recently proposed by the banking regulators to expand the exemptions from mandatory appraisals as they pertain to such loans.'' The GAO noted that the report and its comment on the proposed appraisal regulations were limited ``to situations in which real estate collateral is used to support loans to small businesses for such purposes as working capital and equipment purchases.'' This exemption is intended to reach these loans, as well as loans for other business purposes where sale of, or rental income derived from, real estate is not the primary source of repayment. The conclusion that exempting these transactions will not threaten the safety and soundness of financial institutions is supported by responses to a 1993 OCC survey of its senior examining staff. The survey asked for information on the effect of the proposed business loan exemption on bank safety and soundness, as well as information on the significance, by loan size, of losses on loans secured by 1-to-4 family residential real estate and other categories of real estate. Eighteen of the 20 respondents to the OCC survey stated that the proposed exemption for business loans would not threaten the safety and soundness of financial institutions, although some respondents noted that the exemption could present more serious risks for small financial institutions. Respondents to the survey identified loans above $1 million secured by non-residential real estate as the category of transactions that had the most significant losses attributable to inadequate appraisals, followed by loans secured by non-residential real estate in the ranges $750,000 to $1 million and $500,000 to $750,000. In general, respondents noted that where real estate serves as only a secondary source of repayment for a business loan, an evaluation of the collateral would be sufficient to address safety and soundness issues. Although the other bank regulatory agencies' surveys did not include the specific questions posed in the OCC survey, the results of the other bank regulatory agencies' surveys also generally support the business loan exemption. In addition to the survey responses, the data from the 1992 commercial bank Call Reports and savings associations' TFR indicate that the exposure to the banking system from these transactions is limited. All commercial loans secured by non-farm non-residential real estate in the range between $250,000 and $1 million (this includes both non-exempt and exempt transactions) represent less than 4 percent of all loans for commercial banks and less than 3 percent of all loans for savings associations. Furthermore, these loans represent less than 27 percent of commercial loans secured by non-farm non-residential real estate at commercial banks and less than 36 percent of commercial loans secured by such real estate at savings associations. This generally agrees with the National Survey of Small Business Finances (1989), cosponsored by the Federal Reserve Board and Small Business Administration. The results of the survey (adjusted to 1992 dollars) show that 22 percent of all commercial mortgages were for amounts between $250,000 and $1 million. The agencies requested specific comment on loss experience for real estate-secured business loans. Only a small number of banks and no thrifts submitted the requested data. Although the agencies do not believe the response is large enough to reach conclusions about industry-wide loss experience, the data submitted is consistent with the conclusion that regulated institutions are not suffering high levels of losses in connection with real estate-secured business loans of $1 million or less that do not depend on real estate sales or rental income as the primary source of repayment. The responses that the agencies received are summarized in the following table. ␣ 1Real estate-secured loans1 1Number of loans (12/31/92) 1Outstanding principal amount of loans2 (12/31/92) 1Loss on loans2 (annual net charge-offs)3 (12/31/92) 1Loss rate4 (calculated) (percent) All real estate-secured business loans 90,410 17,488,561 178,237 1.02 Real estate-secured business loans less than $1 million that are not dependent on the sale of, or rental income derived from, the real estate taken as collateral as the primary source of repayment for the loan 59,595 8,008,422 32,680 0.41 1None of the comment letters received by OTS included data on these loans. 2Dollars rounded to thousands. 3Annual net-charges are determined by taking the dollar amount of gross losses and subtracting the amount recovered. 4The agencies have calculated the loss rate for both categories of real estate-secured loans about which the agencies required data by dividing total annual net charge-offs by the total outstanding principal balance. Limited to Business Loans of $1 Million or Less. The exemption applies only to transactions involving business loans with a value of $1 million or less. Capping the exemption at $1 million serves two purposes. It helps to ensure that the transactions involve small- and medium-sized businesses. It also limits the overall exposure of the banking system to transactions exempt under this provision. Some commenters stated that a $1 million limit may be too high for small institutions and suggested that the limit be set at a percentage of the institution's capital. Others stated that the exemption should cover business loans of any size.
