FR940124-0-00034 FR940124-0-00003 §907.20 Content of homeownership plan. The homeownership plan must address the following matters, as applicable to the particular factual situation: (a) Property description. A description of the property, including identification of the specific dwellings to be sold. (b) Plan for repair or rehabilitation. If applicable, a plan for any repair or rehabilitation required under §907.6, based on the assessment of the physical condition of the property that is included in the supporting documentation. (c) Selection of purchasers. Purchaser eligibility and selection (see §907.8). (d) Terms of sale. Terms and conditions of sale (see, particularly, §§907.11 through 907.14). (e) Consultation plan. A plan for consultation with residents during the implementation stage (see §907.5). If appropriate, this may be combined with the plan for counseling. (f) Budget estimate. A budget estimate, showing the costs of implementing the plan, and the sources of the funds that will be used. (g) Counseling plan. Counseling, training, and technical assistance to be provided in accordance with §907.9. (h) Sale to entity other than residents. If the plan contemplates sale to residents via an entity other than the Housing Authority, a description of that entity's responsibilities. (i) Plan for nonpurchasers. If applicable, a plan for nonpurchasing residents, in accordance with §907.10. (j) Administrative plan. An administrative plan, including estimated staffing requirements. (k) Plan for use of sale proceeds. An estimate of the sale proceeds and an explanation of how they will be used, in accordance with §907.15. (l) Accounting and reporting procedures. A description of the accounting and reporting procedures to be used, including those required to meet the requirements of §907.17. (m) Timetable. An estimated timetable for the major steps required to carry out the plan. (n) Affirmative Fair Housing Marketing Strategy. A description of the Housing Authority's strategy for informing and soliciting applications from people who are least likely to apply, because of race, color, religion, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin, for the homeownership program without special outreach pursuant to §907.7. (o) Supportive Services Plan. A description of the need for and availability of supportive services to be provided pursuant to §907.9(a) as well as the source and funding level for the supportive services to be provided.
