FR940627-2-00043 FR940627-2-00026 13. Anticipated Number of Projects to be Funded: It is anticipated that five (5) National Resource Centers will be funded as Cooperative Agreements_one each in Priority Area 1.01A, 1.01B, 1.01C, 1.01D, and 1.01E. 14. Length of Application: There is no page limitation on applications submitted under this priority area, but applicants are encouraged to submit as concise a package as possible. D. Discussion of Priority Area 2.01␣National Resource Center for Programs Serving Abandoned Infants and Infants at Risk of Abandonment and Their Families 1. Eligible Applicants: Any State, local, public or private nonprofit agency or organization, including accredited colleges and universities. 2. Purpose: To assist in the coordination of services, exchange of information and the continuing development, expansion and strengthening and improvement in the quality and effectiveness of programs described in Public Law 102&hyph;236, the Abandoned Infants Assistance Act of 1988, as amended (Act) whether or not the service providers receive funds authorized under the Act. The Act provides financial support for demonstration projects to prevent the abandonment of infants and young children, particularly those with the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) or who have been perinatally exposed to the virus or who have been perinatally exposed to a dangerous drug; to identify and address the needs of those infants and young children who are, or are at risk of being abandoned; to develop a program of comprehensive services for those children and their families which will strengthen family functioning and prevent abandonment, including family foster care, case management, family support, respite care and crisis intervention, counseling and group residential care services; and to recruit and train health and social services personnel, foster care families and residential providers to meet the needs of infants and young children who are at risk of abandonment. 3. Background Information: Since 1990, ACYF has awarded a total of 42 grants under the Abandoned Infants Assistance Program (AIA) to a variety of agencies, including State and local departments of social and health services; hospitals; universities; and private, nonprofit, child-serving agencies. These projects include comprehensive service demonstration programs, training projects and resource coordination efforts. Currently, there are 32 comprehensive service demonstration programs in operation. In addition, the Maternal and Child Health Bureau and the Center for Substance Abuse Programs fund related activities. These programs are designed to meet the immediate social service and health care needs of infants and young children and their families impacted by HIV infection and drug exposure; to address issues of community coordination; to improve utilization of scarce resources; and to develop systems which will meet the long-term needs of the children and their families. Also, many local jurisdictions nationwide are implementing programs, with or without federal assistance, that provide services to the same target populations. The current National Abandoned Infant Assistance Resource Center for Drug-, HIV, and Medically Involved Children, funded from September, 1991 through September, 1994, provides training, technical assistance and consultation to the AIA programs and related activities in order to improve service delivery to drug and HIV-exposed infants, young children and their families; provides training to social service, health and other workers in order to educate them about program and services for families who are at risk of abandoning their children. Although a substantial number of abandoned infants and related projects have been established, knowledge about effective strategies and services continues to evolve and develop. Existing programs vary considerably in terms of quality, experience and intervention strategies. However, the demand for such services is increasing as substance abuse and HIV infection impact on greater number of infants and young children and their families. ACF intends to continue to support a National Resource Center to assist in identifying, developing and utilizing effective program practices, information and materials in order to meet this service demand; and to continue to provide training and technical assistance as needed. 4. Minimum Requirements for Project Design: The National Resource Center should provide State and local private nonprofit agencies and organizations with broad access to information, methods, techniques and strategies for developing, expanding, improving social and health care services to infants and young children and their families impacted by substance abuse and/or HIV infection. Applicants must describe their capabilities and plans for assisting these organizations. The application should: •Demonstrate knowledge about the problems and issues involved in planning and providing services for infants and young children who are drug- and/or HIV-exposed and are at risk of abandonment and their families. •Provide documentation of the commitment to improve the quality of programs and services for infants and young children who are abandoned or in danger of abandonment and their families. •Describe a plan for continually identifying emerging issues from the fields of child welfare, developmental disabilities, maternal and child health, and substance abuse/addiction, particularly as they relate to perinatal drug exposure and pediatric HIV-infection and the impact these issues have on family functioning and stability.
