FR940203-0-00038 FR940203-0-00009 (ii) Denial of application. The Commission's Secretary may deny an application by serving a letter notifying the applicant of the decision and the reasons therefor within fourteen (14) days of the receipt of the application. The letter shall advise the applicant of the right to appeal to the Commission. Any appeal must be made within five (5) days of the service of the Commission Secretary's letter. (iii) Appeal from denial of an application. An appeal from a denial of a request must be addressed to the Chairman, United States International Trade Commission, 500 E Street, SW., Washington, DC 20436. Such appeal must be served in accordance with paragraph (c)(4)(ii)(B) of this section. The Commission shall make a final decision granting or denying the appeal within thirty (30) days from the day on which the application was filed with the Commission Secretary. (iv) Approval of the application. If the Commission Secretary does not deny an application pursuant to paragraph (d)(2)(ii) of this section, the Commission shall, by the fifteenth day following the receipt of the application, issue a protective order permitting the release of proprietary information to the applicant. (v) Filing of protective orders. If a protective order is issued to a person described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the person shall immediately file one (1) copy of the protective order with the United States Secretary. (e) Retention of protective orders. The Commission Secretary shall retain, in a public file, copies of applications granted, including any updates thereto, and protective orders issued under this section, including protective orders filed in accordance with paragraph (b)(6)(ii) of this section. (f) Filing of amendments to granted applications. Any person who has been issued a protective order under this section shall: (1) If a person described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, submit any amendments to the application for a protective order to the United States Secretary, who shall file the original and three (3) copies with the Commission Secretary; (2) If a person described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, file the original and three (3) copies of any amendments to the application with the Commission Secretary and four (4) copies with the United States Secretary; or (3) If any other person, file the original and three (3) copies of any amendments to the application with the Commission Secretary. (g) Modification or revocation of protective orders. (1) Any person may file with the Commission Secretary a request that a protective order issued under this section be modified or revoked because of changed conditions of fact or law, or on grounds of the public interest. The request shall state the changes desired and include any supporting materials and arguments. The person filing the request shall serve a copy of the request upon the person to whom the protective order was issued. (2) Any person may file a response to the request within twenty (20) days after it is filed, unless the Commission issues a notice indicating otherwise. After consideration of the request and any responses thereto, the Commission shall take such action as it deems appropriate. (3) If a request filed under this paragraph alleges that a person is violating the terms of a protective order, the Commission may treat the request as a report of violation under ยง207.101 of this subpart. (4) The Commission may also modify or revoke a protective order on its own initiative. (5) If the Commission revokes, amends or modifies a person's protective order, it shall provide to the person, the United States Secretary and all participants a copy of the Notice of Revocation, amendment or modification.
