FR940603-1-00061 FR940603-1-00009 6. Data pertinent to the original contract and amendments including this amendment are as follows (decrease to be preceded by (^) minus sign): ␣ 1Consumers 1Miles 1Signed 1Potential 1Price Original Contract: ␣ Amendment No. 1 ␣ Amendment No. 2 ␣ Amendment No. 3 ␣ Amendment No. 4 ␣ Amendment No. 5 ␣ Amendment No. 6 ␣ Total With This Amendment 7. Changes in materials furnished by Owner: This amendment provides for an increase/decrease of $ XXX in the amount of materials furnished by Owner. The details of changes in items, quantities, or prices are tabulated on sheet XXX to XXX attached and made a part hereof. 8. Bond extension attached XX Yes XX No 9. The construction period will be changed XXX days. 10. New counties (if any) XXX 11. Description and reason for change: XXX This amendment providing for an increase/decrease of $ XXX in the amount of said construction contract is submitted pursuant to the provisions thereof and pursuant to the loan contract between the United States of America and the undersigned borrower. You are hereby authorized to approve this amendment either in whole or in part and to delete such items as do not meet with your approval. To the extent the items hereof are approved by you the construction contract shall be amended. Accepted XXXX Contractor By XXXX President-Owner-Partner (Strike out inapplicable title. If signed by other than above, power of attorney should be attached or on file with REA.) XXXX Date XXXX Owner By XXXX President-Board of Directors XXXX Date Approved XXXX Date XXXX Engineer for the Borrower Details of Contract Amendment Item No. XXXX Assembly Unit Designation XXXX Quantity Previously Approved XXXX Net Change Number Of Units XXXX Contract Amended To Read (Show quantities and prices as revised by this amendment): Number of Units XXXX Unit Price: Labor XXXX Material XXXX Total XXXX Total Price XXXX Total Increase Price XXXX Total Decrease XXXX Totals XXXX Net Total XXXX [End of Clause] §1726.313 Certificate of completion, contract construction for buildings, REA Form 181. The closeout form in this section shall be used when required by this part. Certificate Of Completion; Contract Construction For Buildings XXXX (Project Designation) I, the undersigned Architect of the above-designated Rural Electrification Administration Project, hereby certify that: 1. The construction provided for pursuant to Construction Contract No. XXXX dated XXXX 19 XX , including all approved amendments (hereinafter called the ``Project''), between XXXX (``Owner'') and XXXX (``Contractor'') has been completed as of XXXX 19 XX , and is in all respects in strict compliance with the provisions of the Loan Contract and the Construction Contract, including the Plans and Specifications and all modifications thereto. 2. To the best of my knowledge, payment in full has been made to all persons who have furnished labor for the Project.
