FR940505-1-00162 FR940505-1-00012 This issue can have, if not addressed, a substantial effect on benefits of emission controls when applied to locomotives. First, because of the very slow turnover rate, the effects of emissions standards applicable to freshly manufactured locomotives require forty or more years to be fully realized. At this rate, the full effects of emissions standards applicable to freshly manufactured locomotives 80 will not be realized until midway into the twenty-first century. Second, because locomotives are rebuilt at several points during their total life, emission control regulations, if limited to a traditional useful life, would only be effective for a small fraction of the total life of a locomotive. If EPA only regulated locomotives or locomotive engines for a useful life, traditionally defined as miles and/or time operated to the first remanufacture, 81 the bulk of emission reductions possible would not be realized. 80 A freshly manufactured locomotive is a locomotive assembled completely from unused constituent parts. 81 EPA has not as yet developed a specific definition for ``remanufactured''. EPA expects, however that the definition of remanufactured to be included in the national rule will encompass the replacement or reconditioning of those parts or components of the engine or locomotive that limit or control exhaust emissions. The emission control performance of the replacement or reconditioned parts built into the locomotive or locomotive engine at remanufacture will be required to be such that the locomotive complies with the applicable standards. The parts or components that EPA presently expects to include in remanufacturing requirements include: pistons and rings, cylinder liners, cylinder head, fuel injectors and controls, injection pump and controls, camshaft, valves, charge air cooler, turbocharger, and any emission control components incorporated into the locomotive by the manufacturer. If a national program were to use the traditional useful life definition, many cost effective emissions reductions would be lost. California regulators, EPA, and the railroad industry have recognized this potential loss of benefit. A federal rule which relied on traditional useful life practices would achieve only small reductions and would deprive states of a means that could be helpful in their attainment of the health based standards for ozone and particulate. However, CARB regulators have expressed concerns that a federal rule would not require reductions sufficient to the needs of their state. The second point of concern pertains to the amount of emissions produced from the movement of freight by different transportation modes. Information currently available to EPA shows that truck-based freight movement generates more pollutants per ton of freight hauled than rail-based forms of freight movement. Estimates quantifying the difference indicate that locomotives are on the order of three times cleaner than trucks on an emissions per ton moved basis. While stringent regulations would theoretically reduce emissions from locomotives, their actual effect could be to increase total emissions. This result is due to the substantially increased operating and equipment costs for the railroads caused by overly stringent control requirements. These increased costs would be reflected in the price of hauling freight and could even eliminate rail carriers from the market. In both of these cases customers would switch to trucks for the movement of their freight. Any freight normally carried by rail that is hauled by trucks instead of by rail will increase the overall emissions level, given railroads' overall efficiency benefits, ton per mile emissions, and productivity even at current emissions levels. The effects of any such shift are very undesirable in the South Coast. For this reason, it is essential that the current balance of rail based freight and truck based freight not be shifted toward increased use of truck based systems.
