FR940505-1-00159 FR940505-1-00012 EPA specifically proposes two options for an operations fee program. The first option implements a takeoff fee for all general aviation operations in the affected areas. Conceptually, the fee would be high enough to limit general aviation activity without making such activity prohibitively expensive. The second program option also implements a takeoff fee for all general aviation activity in these areas, but would incorporate a lifetime fee exemption for engines/aircraft meeting ``clean'' emission levels. For example, aircraft engines with emissions comparable to the levels originally required by EPA in 1973 (38 FR 19088), but subsequently withdrawn, would be deemed ``clean'' for the purpose of this program and would receive a lifetime exemption from any FIP general aviation takeoff fees. Certified engines/aircraft would be identified by a certificate or decal. As with commercial aircraft, EPA proposes an initial fee based on $10,000 per ton of pollutant, and will commit in the final FIP to review the effect of this fee and adjust it upwards if necessary to achieve the target emission reductions. Emissions per LTO based on a representative fleet of general aviation aircraft are: 79 79 See Volume IV, Chapter 5 of EPA's Procedures for Emission Inventory Preparation. VOC_0.394 pounds per LTO NO X _0.065 pounds per LTO On this basis the takeoff fee can be calculated as follows: ($10,000/ton)×(0.394 lbs/LTO) divided by 2,000 lbs/ton=$1.97/LTO for VOC ($10,000/ton)×(0.065 lbs/LTO) divided by 2,000 lbs/ton=$0.325/LTO for NO X The total fee thus would be $2.30 per LTO. In light of this low dollar amount, and since EPA would plan in any case to adjust the fee upward to get the desired effect, the Agency requests comments on whether it is reasonable to depart from the $10,000 per ton level generally being used for all proposed fee systems in this NPRM, and start with a higher fee in the final rule for general aviation. The Agency also requests comment on differentiating the fee to reflect the varying pollution potential of different aircraft (e.g., single- versus twin-engined and piston versus turbine powered). As a further differentiation, EPA requests comment on a variable fee structure for specific airports where other emission reduction schemes have been implemented by the airport proprietor beyond those required by the FIP or other regulations. This would encourage control measures such as vapor recovery. A takeoff fee would be assessed by selling one-time takeoff permits. The program would be administered and ultimately enforced by EPA, presumably at each airport. Denial of takeoff permission is the most practical means of enforcement for most general aviation applications, given the number of individual pilots that would be involved in such a program. The Agency is consulting with the FAA in this regard, and requests comments on the legal authority for and practical consequences of enlisting FAA assistance in this program. At uncontrolled public and private airports, proprietors or owners may be able to refuse services such as tie-down facilities or refueling to noncomplying aircraft. Otherwise, EPA would have to have a presence or a credible prospect of enforcement against noncomplying pilots in order to enforce the program. In order to accurately track and help enforce the proposed fee program, EPA will require owners or operators of civil airports in the control areas with general aviation activity to obtain a general aviation operations certificate and submit seasonal aircraft activity reports during the ozone season. This will provide EPA with the information necessary to verify that general aviation emission reductions are occurring as intended. Military air bases with general aviation activity will not be subject to these requirements, since such activity will be included in an air base's environmental performance evaluation as described in section III.D.4.e.(2)(c) above. All civilian airports in the control areas with general aviation activity will be required to obtain a general aviation operation certificate no later than December 31, 2000. Applications for these certificates will be submitted to EPA by March 20, 2000 and will include the following information: •Airport name •Airport location, including latitude and longitude
