FR940119-2-00098 FR940119-2-00069 Proposal for a New Special Purpose Operation in the Restricted Category Under FAR 21.25(b)(7)_Space Vehicle Launching AGENCY: Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), DOT. ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: This notice proposes to specify a new restricted category special purpose operation under FAR 21.25(b)(7), ``Any other operation specified by the Administrator.'' The purpose of this notice is to improve the public's awareness of, and participation in, this aspect of FAA's regulatory activities. DATES: Comments on this notice must be received on or before February 18, 1994. ADDRESSES: Send comments on this notice in triplicate to: Federal Aviation Administration, Aircraft Certification Service, Aircraft Engineering Division, Attn.: Victor Powell, Aerospace Engineering Specialist, AIR&hyph;110, 800 Independence Avenue SW., room 804, Washington, DC 20591. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: This proposal to specify a new special purpose restricted category operation, any comments received, and a copy of any final disposition will be filed in room 804, FAA Headquarters Building (FOB 10A), 800 Independence Avenue SW., Washington, DC 20591. Telephone (202) 267&hyph;9588. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Comments Interested persons are invited to submit such written data, views, or arguments as they may desire. The FAA will consider any communication received on or before the closing date for comments from the public regarding this proposal to specify a new special purpose operation before approving the new special purpose or any related operation. Background Regulations Affected: FAR §21.25(b)(7) Discussion of Proposed New Special Purpose Operation Federal Aviation Regulations (FAR) part 21, §21.25 provides for issuance of type certificates approving specific special purpose operations for aircraft in the restricted category. Examples of special purpose operations for which restricted category type and airworthiness certificates may be issued are listed in FAR §§21.25(b)(1) Through (b)(6). Authority to specify any other special purpose operation is reserved by the FAA Administrator in FAR §21.25(b)(7). Advisory Circular (AC) 21&hyph;17 states that the only operations falling within the restricted special purpose category are those items specifically listed in FAR §21.25(b) (1) through (6), ``plus further categories established under (b)(7) after public notice and comment procedures.'' The FAA defines restricted category Operations in FAR §21.25(b) as agricultural (spraying, dusting, seeding, and livestock and predatory animal control); forest and wildlife conservation; aerial surveying (photography, mapping, and oil and mineral exploration); patrolling (pipelines, power lines, and canals); weather control (cloud seeding); aerial advertising (skywriting, banner towing, airborne signs and public address systems); and any other operation specified by the Administrator. The FAA has approximately 50 years of experience in approving restricted category type certificates and flight operations for aircraft and uses that are in the public interest, but that cannot be accomplished in standard category aircraft (normal, utility, acrobatic, commuter, or transport). Restricted category certificates are issued when an aircraft is not eligible for standard category certification as configured for a particular special purpose operation. Historically special purpose operations conducted with restricted category aircraft have provided an acceptable overall level of safety because the FAA requires restricted category aircraft to meet all the airworthiness requirements of the appropriate standard category except for those requirements that are not pertinent to the special purpose operation. In addition, to compensate for the airworthiness requirements that cannot be met by the aircraft configuration, the FAA places performance or flight limitations upon the aircraft's restricted category operation (for example, requiring operators to avoid populated areas and to carry only essential personnel) to compensate for airworthiness standards that cannot be met. Newport Aeronautical Development Corporation (NADC), seeks to establish a new special purpose operation called ``space vehicle launching'' under the restricted category provisions of §21.25(b)(7), ``Any other operation specified by the Administrator.'' The special purpose will allow restricted category aircraft to transport and release air-launched vehicles (ALV) designed to launch payloads (e.g., satellites or other research packages) into either earth orbit or sub-orbital trajectories. This notice describes one method of using the proposed special purpose operation. However, if the FAA establishes this proposed special purpose operation, other individuals and companies may use other methods for operating aircraft for ``space vehicle launching'' as a special purpose operation in restricted category. An ALV/aircraft combination represents a blend of two technologies_aviation and space. Civil aircraft established their record of safety and reliability during a long history of thorough and careful Federal oversight. The U.S. public bases its confidence in civil aviation on the knowledge that the FAA will not compromise its safety standards. The FAA is responsible for the certification of the aircraft, and its operation, to protect the aircraft, the crew, and the public and property on the ground. In a typical projected use of this category, an operator, such as Orbital Sciences Corporation (OSC), may use one of several ALV models that are within the weight carrying capacity of the restricted category aircraft used in this special purpose operation. Orbital Sciences Corporation's current ALV models range up to 85,000 pounds in weight, contain several solid or liquid propellant rocket motors, and are designed to launch a payload into outer space. In this example, an L&hyph;1011 aircraft (or ``carrier aircraft'') may be modified to carry any of the operator's ALV models aloft. In addition, when not using the carrier aircraft for ALV launch operations, the operator will use the carrier aircraft for other purposes and will be able to convert the aircraft back to a passenger and/or cargo carrying configuration after extensive modifications.
