FR940412-0-00002 FR940412-0-00001 DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE Agricultural Marketing Service 7 CFR Part 959 [FV&hyph;93&hyph;959&hyph;2FR] Onions Grown in South Texas_Regulation of Red Onions and Change in Regulatory Period AGENCY: Agricultural Marketing Service, USDA. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: This final rule establishes requirements for red variety onions grown in South Texas under Marketing Order 959. In recent years, shipments of poor quality red onions have appeared in the marketplace and have adversely affected grower prices. This rule will tend to improve grower prices by providing more desirable quality red onions for consumers. This rule also extends the termination date of the order's regulatory period from May 20 to June 15 of each year. More late season onions are being grown in a portion of the production area, increasing the need for marketing order quality requirements over a longer time period. Regulating onions from the production area through June 15 will help make more desirable onions available to markets. EFFECTIVE DATE: April 12, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Robert Matthews, Marketing Specialist, Marketing Order Administration Branch, F&V, AMS, USDA, Room 2523&hyph;S, P.O. Box 96456, Washington, DC, 20090&hyph;6456, telephone: (202) 690&hyph;0464; or Belinda G. Garza, McAllen Marketing Field Office, Marketing Order Administration Branch, F&V, AMS, USDA, 1313 E. Hackberry, McAllen, Texas 78501; telephone: (210) 682&hyph;2833. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: This rule is issued under Marketing Agreement No. 143 and Marketing Order No. 959 (7 CFR Part 959), as amended, regulating the handling of onions grown in South Texas, hereinafter referred to as the ``order.'' This order is effective under the Agricultural Marketing Agreement of 1937, as amended (7 U.S.C 601&hyph;674), hereinafter referred to as the ``Act.'' The Department of Agriculture (Department) is issuing this rule in conformance with Executive Order 12866. This rule has been reviewed under Executive Order 12778, Civil Justice Reform. This action is not intended to have retroactive effect. This rule will not preempt any state or local laws, regulations, or policies, unless they present an irreconcilable conflict with this action. The Act provides that administrative proceedings must be exhausted before parties may file suit in court. Under section 608c(15)(A) of the Act, any handler subject to an order may file with the Secretary a petition stating that the order, any provision of the order, or any obligation imposed in connection with the order is not in accordance with law and request a modification of the order or to be exempted therefrom. A handler is afforded the opportunity for a hearing on the petition. After the hearing the Secretary would rule on the petition. The Act provides that the district court of the United States in any district in which the handler is an inhabitant, or has his or her principal place of business, has jurisdiction in equity to review the Secretary's ruling on the petition, provided a bill in equity is filed not later than 20 days after date of the entry of the ruling. Pursuant to requirements set forth in the Regulatory Flexibility Act (RFA), the Administrator of the Agricultural Marketing Service (AMS) has considered the economic impact of this action on small entities. The purpose of the RFA is to fit regulatory actions to the scale of business subject to such actions in order that small businesses will not be unduly or disproportionately burdened. Marketing orders issued pursuant to the Act, and rules issued thereunder, are unique in that they are brought about through group action of essentially small entities acting on their own behalf. Thus, both statutes have small entity orientation and compatibility. There are 38 handlers of South Texas onions who are subject to regulation under the marketing order and 97 producers in the regulated area. Small agricultural service firms, which includes handlers, have been defined by the Small Business Administration (13 CFR 121.601) as those having annual receipts of less than $3,500,000, and small agricultural producers are defined as those having annual receipts of less than $500,000. The majority of handlers and producers of South Texas onions may be classified as small entities. At its November 9, 1993, meeting, the South Texas Onion Committee (committee) recommended, under the authority of ยง959.52(c) of the order, that red varieties of onions be regulated and also that the termination date of the regulatory period for all varieties of regulated onions be extended from May 20 to June 15 of each year. Red varieties of onions have been exempt from regulation since the inception of Marketing Order No. 959. The quantities of such onions produced have usually represented a small portion of the total annual production in the marketing order's regulated area. However, red variety acreage has increased significantly in recent seasons. Moreover, the committee reports that poor quality red onions grown in the production area have appeared in the marketplace from time to time. The impact on the industry is two-fold. Poor quality red onions diminish consumer confidence in the better quality red onions, leading to fewer sales and lower returns to growers. In addition, a less favorable consumer opinion of red variety onions often leads to lower sales for all onions grown in the production area, including yellow and white varieties which now enjoy an excellent reputation with receivers and consumers.
