FR940810-0-00254 FR940810-0-00021 8. The test subject shall conduct the conventional negative and positive-pressure fit checks (e.g. see ANSI Z88.2&hyph;1980). Before conducting the negative- or positive-pressure test the subject shall be told to ``seat'' the mask by rapidly moving the head from side-to-side and up and down, while taking a few deep breaths. 9. The test subject is now ready for fit testing. 10. After passing the fit test, the test subject shall be questioned again regarding the comfort of the respirator. If it has become uncomfortable, another model of respirator shall be tried. 11. The employee shall be given the opportunity to select a different facepiece and be retested if the chosen facepiece becomes increasingly uncomfortable at any time. C. Fit test. 1. The fit test chamber shall be similar to a clear 55 gal drum liner suspended inverted over a 2 foot diameter frame, so that the top of the chamber is about 6 inches above the test subject's head. The inside top center of the chamber shall have a small hook attached. 2. Each respirator used for the fitting and fit testing shall be equipped with organic vapor cartridges or offer protection against organic vapors. The cartridges or masks shall be changed at least weekly. 3. After selecting, donning, and properly adjusting a respirator, the test subject shall wear it to the fit testing room. This room shall be separate from the room used for odor threshold screening and respirator selection, and shall be well ventilated, as by an exhaust fan or lab hood, to prevent general room contamination. 4. A copy of the following test exercises and rainbow passage shall be taped to the inside of the test chamber: Test Exercises i. Breathe normally. ii. Breathe deeply. Be certain breaths are deep and regular. iii. Turn head all the way from one side to the other. Inhale on each side. Be certain movement is complete. Do not bump the respirator against the shoulders. iv. Nod head up-and-down. Inhale when head is in the full up position (looking toward ceiling). Be certain motions are complete and made about every second. Do not bump the respirator on the chest. v. Talking. Talk aloud and slowly for several minutes. The following paragraph is called the Rainbow Passage. Reading it will result in a wide range of facial movements, and thus be useful to satisfy this requirement. Alternative passages which serve the same purpose may also be used. vi. Jogging in place. vii. Breathe normally. Rainbow Passage When the sunlight strikes raindrops in the air, they act like a prism and form a rainbow. The rainbow is a division of white light into many beautiful colors. These take the shape of a long round arch, with its path high above, and its two ends apparently beyond the horizon. There is, according to legend, a boiling pot of gold at one end. People look, but no one ever finds it. When a man looks for something beyond reach, his friends say he is looking for the pot of gold at the end of the rainbow. 5. Each test subject shall wear the respirator for at a least 10 minutes before starting the fit test. 6. Upon entering the test chamber, the test subject shall be given a 6 inch by 5 inch piece of paper towel or other porous absorbent single ply material, folded in half and wetted with three-quarters of one cc of pure IAA. The test subject shall hang the wet towel on the hook at the top of the chamber. 7. Allow two minutes for the IAA test concentration to be reached before starting the fit-test exercises. This would be an appropriate time to talk with the test subject, to explain the fit test, the importance of cooperation, the purpose for the head exercises, or to demonstrate some of the exercises. 8. Each exercise described in # 4 above shall be performed for at least one minute. 9. If at any time during the test, the subject detects the banana-like odor of IAA, the test has failed. The subject shall quickly exit from the test chamber and leave the test area to avoid olfactory fatigue.
