FR940627-2-00096 FR940627-2-00045 Antitrust Division Proposed Final Judgment and Competitive Impact Statement United States v. MCI Communications Corporation and BT Forty-Eight Company ``(NewCo'') Notice is hereby given pursuant to the Antitrust Procedures and Penalties Act, 15 U.S.C. 16(b)-(h) that a proposed Final Judgment, Stipulation and Competitive Impact Statement have been filed with the United States District Court for the District of Columbia in United States v. MCI Communications Corporation and BT Forty-Eight Company (``NewCo''), Civil Action No. 94 1317(TFH). The proposed Final Judgment is subject to approval by the Court after the expiration of the statutory 60-day public comment period and compliance with the Antitrust Procedures and Penalties Act, 15 U.S.C. 16(b)-(h). The Complaint alleges that the proposed sale of 20% of the voting shares of MCI Communications Corporation (``MCI'') to British Telecommunications plc (``BT''), and the proposed formation of a joint venture, presently known as BT Forty-Eight Company (``NewCo''), between MCI and BT to provide certain international telecommunications services, would violate Section 7 of the Clayton Act, as amended, 15 U.S.C. 18, in the markets for international telecommunications services between the United States and the United Kingdom and for global seamless telecommunications services. The proposed Final Judgment includes three categories of substantive obligations and restrictions. First, it requires the defendants, MCI and NewCo, to disclose certain information about the telecommunications services that MCI and NewCo receive from BT or provide together with BT. This ongoing disclosure is a precondition for MCI and NewCo to provide international telecommunications services, including enhanced telecommunications and global seamless telecommunications services. Second, the proposed Final Judgment prohibits MCI and NewCo from receiving from BT certain non-public and confidential information provided to BT by other United States telecommunications service providers in connection with the arrangements between such United States providers and BT to provide telecommunications services, including both international correspondent relationships and interconnection with BT in the United Kingdom. Finally, the proposed Final Judgment prohibits MCI and NewCo from providing telecommunications services or facilities to BT to enable it to engage in the practice known as ``international simple resale'' from the United Kingdom to the United States, which would involve bypassing existing correspondent relationships to send BT's traffic to the United States, until two conditions are met. First, all qualified United States telecommunications services providers that had applied for licenses in the United Kingdom to engage in international simple resale on or before December 1, 1993 must have been granted such licenses. Second, all such licensed providers must be afforded the opportunity to interconnect with BT on standard, published and nondiscriminatory terms. Public comment is invited within the statutory 60-day comment period. Such comments, and the responses thereto, will be published in the Federal Register and filed with the Court. Comments should be directed to Richard L. Rosen, Chief, Communications & Finance Section, Antitrust Division, Room 8104, 555 Fourth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20001 (202&hyph;514&hyph;5621). Copies of the Complaint, proposed Final Judgment and Competitive Impact Statement are available for inspection in Room 3233 of the Antitrust Division, Department of Justice, Tenth Street and Pennsylvania Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20530 (202&hyph;514&hyph;2481) and at the office of the Clerk of the United States District Court for the District of Columbia, Third Street and Constitution Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20001. Copies of any of these materials may be obtained upon request and payment of a copying fee. Constance K. Robinson Director of Operations, Antitrust Division.
