FR941205-0-00136 FR941205-0-00027 (1) Have an annual effect on the economy of $100 million or more, or adversely affect in a material way the economy, a sector of the economy, productivity, competition, jobs, the environment, public health or safety, or State, local, or tribal governments or communities; (2) Create a serious inconsistency or otherwise interfere with an action taken or planned by another agency; (3) Materially alter the budgetary impact of entitlements, grants, user fees, or loan programs or the rights and obligations of recipients thereof; or (4) Raise novel legal or policy issues arising out of legal mandates, the President's priorities, or the principles set forth in the Executive Order. It has been determined that this rule is not a ``significant regulatory action'' under the terms of Executive Order 12866 and is therefore not subject to OMB review. B. Regulatory Flexibility Act The Regulatory Flexibility Act requires EPA to explicitly consider the effect of these regulations on small entities. By policy, EPA has decided to consider regulatory alternatives if there is any economic impact on any number of small entities. This rule is consistent with the objectives of the Regulatory Flexibility Act because it will not have any economic impact on any small entities. This rule specifies analytical methods that laboratories must use for testing regulated drinking water contaminants. Monitoring requirements were promulgated in earlier notices. The rule would require laboratories to use the most recent version of a method and imposes no additional requirements. It is actually expected to reduce cost of analysis by eliminating current requirements to use different versions of the same method, and by allowing more contaminants to be analyzed simultaneously by using a single method. Therefore, the Agency believes that this notice would have no adverse effect on any number of small entities. C. Paperwork Reduction Act The rule contains no requests for information and consequently is not subject to the Paperwork Reduction Act, 44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq. D. Science Advisory Board, National Drinking Water Advisory Council, and Secretary of Health and Human Services In accordance with section 1412(d) and (e) of the SDWA, the Agency consulted with the Science Advisory Board, the National Drinking Water Advisory Council, and the Secretary of Health and Human Services on this action and took their comments into account. VII. References APHA. 1992. Eighteenth edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater , 1992, American Public Health Association, 1015 Fifteenth Street NW, Washington, D.C. 20005.
