FR940325-0-00073 FR940325-0-00016 a. Use values. The original type B rule provided a ranked list of valuation methodologies that could be used to calculate lost use values. If the market for the injured resource was ``reasonably competitive,'' then the diminution of the market price attributable to the discharge or release was used to estimate damages. If a market-price methodology was not available, then the trustee officials were required to use appraisal methodologies. Only when neither market-price nor appraisal methodologies were appropriate for the resources being assessed did the original version of the rule allow trustee officials to use non-market-based methodologies. The court ruled that the hierarchy of valuation methodologies incorrectly established a strong presumption in favor of market-price and appraisal methodologies. The proposed rule continued to rank valuation methodologies according to reliability but allowed trustee officials to use any of the methodologies whenever they wanted, notwithstanding the ranking. In light of potential confusion over the practical effect of the ranking in the absence of any restrictions on trustee officials' selections, the Department has eliminated the ranking from the final rule. The final rule leaves trustee officials free to choose any of the specified valuation methodologies. The rule provides a number of criteria to guide the selection of valuation methodologies, including a requirement that the chosen methodologies are reliable for the particular incident and type of damage being measured. Trustee officials include the rationale for their selection in the Restoration and Compensation Determination Plan. b. Nonuse values . Sections 11.83(b)(2) and 11.83(d)(5)(ii) of the original version of the type B rule provided that lost nonuse values could only be assessed if trustee officials could not determine any lost use values. In the August 1, 1986, preamble to the original type B rule, the Department provided the following explanation for this restriction: Ordinarily, option and existence values would be added to use values. However, section 301(c) of CERCLA mentions only use values. Therefore, the primary emphasis in this section is on the estimation of use values. 51 FR 27719. Ohio v. Interior held that the Department had ``erroneously construed the statute,'' stating: [S]ection 301(c)(2) requires Interior to ``take into consideration factors including, but not limited to *␣*␣* use value.'' 42 U.S.C. §9651(c)(2) (emphasis added). The statute's command is expressly not limited to use value; if anything, the language implies that DOI is to include in its regulations other factors in addition to use value. 880 F.2d at 464. The court went on to say that the Department_ *␣*␣* is entitled to rank methodologies according to its view of their reliability, but it cannot base its complete exclusion of option and existence values on an incorrect reading of the statute. Id. The court instructed the Department to consider a rule that would permit trustee officials to include all reliably calculated lost values in their damage assessments. Id. CV is currently the only method available for the express purpose of estimating nonuse values. CV can also be used to calculate use values. Under the original type B rule, CV was listed as a non-market-based methodology for calculating either lost use values or lost nonuse values. Ohio v. Interior held that the Department's decision to include CV as a best available procedure was not improper. Id. at 478. However, the court did not require the Department to allow unlimited use of CV. Moreover, the court did not address the difference between use of CV to calculate lost use values and use of CV to calculate lost nonuse values. The Department received numerous comments on the use of CV. These comments focused on use of CV to estimate lost nonuse values rather than lost use values. In the April 29, 1991, notice of proposed rulemaking, the Department stated that ``[w]hen CVM is used to quantify use values alone, it is judged to be just as reliable as the other nonmarket valuation methodologies.'' 56 FR 19762. Commenters did not dispute this assertion and have not provided any information to the contrary, even though the Department specifically solicited ``reviews of CVM that address its reliability for measuring use values'' in the July 22, 1993, Federal Register notice. 58 FR 39329. Thus, this final rule allows trustee officials to use CV to assess lost use values subject only to the restrictions applicable to any of the listed methodologies for assessing lost use values. However, during the upcoming biennial review of the type B rule, the Department will reconsider whether additional standards for the use of CV to estimate lost use values are appropriate.
