FR940426-2-00074 FR940426-2-00049 LEGAL SERVICES CORPORATION Bylaws of the Legal Services Corporation AGENCY: Legal Services Corporation. ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: This notice announces the availability of the bylaws of the Legal Services Corporation (LSC or Corporation) and proposes to amend the provision of the bylaws governing amendments to the bylaws. ADDRESSES: Legal Services Corporation, 750 First Street NE., Washington, DC 20002. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Victor M. Fortuno, General Counsel, Legal Services Corporation, 202&hyph;336&hyph;8810. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: By final rule published elsewhere in this issue of the Federal Register , the Corporation has withdrawn its bylaws from the Code of Federal Regulations. Copies of the Corporation's bylaws, however, are available to the public, and may be obtained by submitting a request to: Victor M. Fortuno, General Counsel, at the address noted. At the April 16, 1994, meeting of the Corporation's Board of Directors (Board), the Board proposed to delete the following provision of the bylaws governing publication of proposed amendments to the bylaws: Whenever feasible, the proposed amendment [to the bylaws] shall have been published in the Federal Register at least thirty (30) days before the meeting [at which the action to amend the bylaws is taken] and interested parties shall have been afforded a reasonable opportunity to comment thereon. The Corporation's bylaws are purely internal procedural rules governing the Board and the officers and employees of the Corporation. As such, the bylaws are rules of organization and procedure which do not affect the rights and interests of parties outside the Corporation. Therefore, the bylaws are not subject to the notice and comment and/or publication requirements of the LSC Act, 42 U.S.C. 2996g(e), and are not of sufficient interest to the public to otherwise require that a notice and comment and/or publication procedure be followed prior to their amendment. Furthermore, in order to proceed with the process of updating the Corporation's bylaws, the Board believes that prompt consideration of this proposed amendment is important and desirable. Thus, the Board has deemed it necessary to act on the proposed amendment at the next Board meeting, scheduled for May 14, 1994. Publication of this notice of proposed amendment 30 days prior to Board consideration would, therefore, not be feasible. The Board believes, however, that since the proposed amendment affects a single provision of the bylaws in a very straightforward manner, a shorter notice period provides an ample and reasonable opportunity for comment by any interested members of the public. Dated: April 20, 1994. Victor M. Fortuno, General Counsel. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;10060 Filed 4&hyph;25&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 7050&hyph;01&hyph;P
