FR940511-1-00006 FR940511-1-00001 OGC. Refers to the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA) Regional Attorney, Associate Regional Attorney, or Assistant Regional Attorney, who provides legal counsel to FmHA for loan making and loan servicing actions. Program regulations. Refers to the FmHA regulations for the particular loan program involved (e.g., subpart A of part 1944 for rural housing loans). Quitclaim deed. A transfer of the grantors' interest in the title, without warranties or covenants. This type of deed is used by FmHA to convey title to purchasers of inventory property. Seller. Individual(s) or other entity(ies) which are conveying ownership in real property to an FmHA applicant/buyer. Special warranty deed. A deed containing a covenant whereby the grantor agrees to protect the grantee against any claims arising during the grantor's period of ownership. Title clearance. Examination of a title and its exceptions to assure FmHA that the loan is legally secured and has the required priority. Title defects. Any exception or legal claim of ownership (through deed, lien, judgement, or other recorded document), on behalf of a third party, which would prevent the seller from conveying a clear title to the entire property. Vendee. The buyer. Vendor. The seller. Voluntary conveyance. A method of liquidation by which title to FmHA security is transferred by a borrower to FmHA by deed in lieu of foreclosure. Warranty deed. A deed in which the grantor warrants that he/she has the right to convey the property, the title is free from encumbrances, and the grantor shall take further action necessary to perfect or defend the title. §1927.53 Costs of title clearance and closings of transactions. The borrower or the seller, or both, will be responsible for payment of all costs of title clearance and closing of the transaction and will arrange for payment before the transaction is closed. In voluntary conveyance cases to FmHA, these costs will be paid as provided in §955.10(g) of subpart A of part 1955 of this chapter. In a case involving the purchase or sale of real estate, the option or sales contract must state who will pay the title clearance and closing costs. These costs will include any costs of abstracts of title, land surveys, attorney's fees, owner's and lender's policies of title insurance, obtaining curative material, notary fees, documentary stamps, recordation costs, tax monitoring service, and other expenses necessary to complete the transaction. §1927.54 Requirements for closing agents. (a) Form of Title Certification. The State Director will, with OGC approval, issue a state instruction specifying whether title insurance will be required at loan closing for some or all loans in the state or if, in some or all cases, a title opinion from an approved attorney will be sufficient. Title insurance is the recommended method for protecting FmHA interests. State Directors are authorized to require title insurance for all loan closings or some loan closings based on the type of loan and/or the geographical area of the state. If title insurance is used, State Directors are authorized to require a closing protection letter issued by an approved title insurance company to cover the closing agent, if such closing protection letters are customarily provided by title insurance companies in the state. The State Director's determination to require the use of title insurance will be based on the commercial and residential loan closing practices of the state and the economic and legal feasibility of obtaining title insurance. (b) General. An attorney or title company may act as a closing agent and close FmHA real estate loans, provide necessary title clearance, and perform such other duties as are set forth in this subpart. A closing agent will be responsible for closing FmHA loans and disbursing both FmHA loan funds and funds provided by the borrower in connection with the FmHA loan. The borrower will select his or her closing agent. FmHA employees will not recommend the use of any particular closing agent or title insurance company, although as provided in §927.54(a) the borrower may be required by a state instruction to provide title clearance with either a title insurance policy or an attorney's opinion. If title clearance is by an attorney's opinion, the approval official will approve the attorney who will perform the closing on a case-by-case basis in accordance with §927.54(c) prior to loan closing. In such cases the attorney will be approved after submitting Form FmHA 1927&hyph;19, ``Certification of Attorney.'' If title certification will be by means of a policy of title insurance, the title company which will issue the policy must have been approved in accordance with §927.54(d).
