FR940127-2-00022 FR940127-2-00015 (A) Conversion of cellulosic biomass to liquid fuels. (B) Ethanol and ethanol byproduct processes. (C) Direct combustion or gasification of biomass. (D) Biofuels energy systems. (E) Photovoltaics, including utility scale and remote applications. (F) Solar thermal, including solar water heating. (G) Wind energy. (H) High temperature and low temperature geothermal energy. It is anticipated that requirements of the solicitation will include that: (1) All teams or applicants in projects selected shall include at least one for-profit entity; (2) projects selected shall require manufacture and reproduction substantially within the United States for any invention or product that may result from the project; (3) projects selected must demonstrate a significant need for federal financial assistance to commercialize or speed commercialization of the technology. In general, the solicitation will require cost sharing by applicants of at least 50% of the total project costs in order to receive an award under the solicitation. All participant cost sharing must come from non-Federal funding sources. Currently, it is anticipated that total DOE funding in the amount of $10 million will be available for all awards under the solicitation. The solicitation will be issued on or about March 1, 1994, and will contain detailed information on funding, cost sharing requirements, eligibility, application preparation, and evaluation. Responses to the solicitation will be due 45 days after solicitation release. However, applications are encouraged to be submitted prior to the closing date. All responsible sources are encouraged to submit an application and all applications will be considered. Project Summary While not a requirement, DOE strongly encourages all parties interested in applying for financial assistance under the Commercialization Ventures Program to respond to this notice by providing DOE with a short summary of the prospective project. The primary use of these summaries by DOE will be to ensure that the overall Program adequately addresses industry needs. In addition, DOE will review individual summaries in order to advise potential applicants on whether their proposed project appears to fit within the overall objectives of the Commercialization Venture Program. DOE will not evaluate individual project summaries on whether they meet any criteria for eventual award. All potential applicants who submit a project summary will be advised in writing of whether the summary would seem to fit within the Program or whether the summary seems to present a project that is unsuitable for the Program. If the latter, the potential applicant will be advised of the reasons the potential project may be unsuitable. Project summaries submitted in response to this notice should be received no later than 30 calendar days after the appearance of this notification in order to be considered by DOE in formulating the solicitation. Failure to respond or furnish the information requested will not disqualify anyone from competing when the competitive solicitation is issued. However, the distribution list for the solicitation will be generated as a result of responses to this notice; therefore, all interested parties should respond in some manner, if only by furnishing their name, address and telephone number. Project summaries are not expected to include detailed plans. Information contained in the responses will not be released to the public; however, if proprietary information is included, this should be marked on the applicable pages. Summaries should be limited to eight (8) pages and include the following information: 1. Name, address, telephone and fax numbers of the primary contact person. 2. The potential participants, proposed roles, key personnel and qualifications. 3. A concise description of the project including discussion of the following: (a.) product concept; (b.) development status; (c.) where the technology has been demonstrated; (d.) how the technology works; (e.) technical viability, reliability, and manufacturability, including the identity of a potential manufacturing partner, if known and; (f.) the estimated cost per kWh or MMBTU the project will produce and the estimated cost once the technology is fully commercialized. 4. A discussion of the potential market for the product or project. 5. A discussion of the potential benefits of the product or project, such as environmental, energy savings and/or energy supply contributions. 6. The total estimated cost of the project, the percentage of cost sharing and the potential source(s) of cost sharing. 7. Length of time to fully construct or implement the project. Questions Respondents are encouraged to submit any questions about the Program discussed in this announcement as part of their response. Questions should be submitted as an attachment to the summary, if a project summary is furnished, and will not be counted against the eight (8) page limit. Submit four (4) copies of your project summary or other response to John Meeker at the above address within 30 days of the date of this notice. Issued in Chicago, Illinois, on January 7, 1994. Alan E. Smith, Director, Information Management and Support Division. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;1772 Filed 1&hyph;26&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6450&hyph;01&hyph;M
