FR940328-2-00015 FR940328-2-00008 February 8, 1994. Memorandum For: Louis J. Boezi Wx2 From: Dean P. Gulezian MIC/AM WSFO DTX Subject: Evaluation of Office Move Reference: Your Memo, Same Subject 1/21/94 Listed below are the responses to each of the questions raised in your 1/21/94 memo. Before answering the specific questions, I'll provide a little background on how we approached the move. Our office move from Ann Arbor to White Lake Michigan was a TQM effort from the start. A move task team was developed which included everyone in the office who volunteered or was assigned responsibility for certain aspects of the move. The union had a representative on the task team as well, and he worked ``hand in hand'' with us every step of the way. We especially worked closely with the union on such matters as floor plans, short distance transfer benefits, paperwork necessary to process transfers, etc. A letter was presented to the union 60 days in advance of the move specifying the pertinent information regarding the move (attachment 1). Most move related tasks were delegated to various staff members who were given full authority and responsibility to execute these tasks. My responsibility was to oversee everything, and carry out the few tasks that I took on myself. Many ``move task force'' meetings were held during the time the move was being planned, with the meetings becoming more frequent (daily at the end) as the move drew closer. A ``battle plan'' (attachment 2 shows the final summary) for executing the move was developed at the first meeting. Subsequent meetings evaluated the progress of this plan. Input for the battle plan came from a number of sources. They were: the relocation kickoff meeting conducted by CRH SOD (agenda in attachment 3), the draft ROML issued by CRH on Facilities Relocation Management (attachment 4), the Facilities Prep List prepared by the SFT (attachment 5), and the Office Relocation Plan prepared by CRH SOD with input from members of the move task force (attachment 6). Furthermore, a Move Activities Plan was written, using CRH guidance. Attachment 7 is the final copy of the plan. Rather than me commenting on your draft relocation checklist, I offer our ``battle plan'' and move activities plan as well as the additional documents mentioned in this paragraph as alternatives to the plan you drafted.
