FR940203-0-00071 FR940203-0-00017 Comment: One commenter believed that it would be ``better and wiser to wait, if at all possible, until the [computer-model] technology is perfected than to gamble so much on the current imperfections of the [ship shock trial] technology.'' Response: As stated in the EA, the ``no action'' alternative is unacceptable to the Navy as the ``Live Fire'' testing program is required by the National Defense Authorization Act (10 U.S.C. 139). By law, ships and critical components or systems constructed for the Navy must undergo shock tests prior to service with the fleet to determine the integrity of the structure and electronic systems that are vital to the overall function and performance of the vessel and crew under wartime combat conditions. While full-scale testing is minimized by the use of laboratory tests and calculations, the Navy believes that it is essential to have large-scale tests at sea to determine total system response. The alternative of not testing at all would expose the ship and its crew to its first real test under hostile fire. It is the Navy's judgement that this is not the appropriate time nor place to determine that a component or system fails a test. While alternatives are theoretically possible, they have not been developed to the point of practical application. Other Environmental Concerns Comment: Commenters were concerned that the area of ship shock testing could be a feeding area for whales and/or have an impact on marine mammal food sources or migratory routes. Response: There is no evidence that the offshore SCB area is an especially important area for feeding, although it is known that some of the larger whales tend to prefer the Patton Escarpment area and may migrate along it. NMFS review of the best available scientific information indicates that impacts on food sources and migratory routes however, would be minimal and would not result in a long-term impact. Sea Otters Comment: Several commenters were concerned about the potential for taking California sea otters and that the Navy has not applied to the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS) for an incidental take authorization. Response: As noted in the EA accompanying the proposed rule, an incidental take of sea otters has not been requested because sea otters are coastal animals found north of San Luis Obispo, CA, that prefer to remain within a few kilometers of the coast. Those sea otters inhabiting San Nicolas Island as a result of the USFWS' translocation efforts are unlikely to be within the OSTR. The Navy will be consulting with USFWS on their activity under section 7 of the ESA. Gray Whales Comment: Many commenters expressed concern that the detonation of explosives may impact gray whales, especially pregnant females and those females with calves and that the EA is in error on statements regarding times of gray whale migration through the SCB. Many commenters were concerned about pregnant gray whales being in the area in February.
