FR941110-0-00298 FR941110-0-00018 These factors and their application to Adenophorus periens L.E. Bishop (pendant kihi fern), Bonamia menziesii A. Gray (no common name (NCN)), Diellia erecta Brack. (NCN), Flueggea neowawraea W. Hayden (mehamehame), Hibiscus brackenridgei A. Gray (ma'o hau hele), Mariscus pennatiformis (Kekunth.) T. Koyama (NCN), Neraudia sericea Gaud. (ma'aloa), Plantago princeps Cham. and Schlechtend. (ale), Sesbania tomentosa Hook. and Arnott ('ohai), Solanum incompletum Dunal (thorny popolo), Spermolepis hawaiiensis Wolff (NCN), and Vigna o-wahuensis Vogel (Oahu vigna) are as follows: A. The Present or Threatened Destruction, Modification, or Curtailment of Their Habitat or Range Native vegetation on all of the main Hawaiian Islands has undergone extreme alteration because of past and present land management practices including ranching, deliberate alien animal and plant introductions, and agricultural development (Cuddihy and Stone 1990, Wagner et al. 1985). The Northwestern Hawaiian Islands have undergone similar alteration, but to a lesser degree. The primary threats facing the 12 plant species included in this ruling are ongoing and threatened destruction and adverse modification of habitat by feral animals and competition with alien plants. Eleven of the 12 species in this ruling are variously threatened by feral animals. (See Table 2.) Animals such as pigs, goats, axis deer, black-tailed deer, and cattle were introduced either by the early Hawaiians (pigs) or more recently by European settlers (all ungulate species) for food and/or commercial ranching activities. Over the 200 years following their introduction, their numbers increased and the adverse impacts of feral ungulates on native vegetation have become increasingly apparent. Beyond the direct effect of trampling and grazing native plants, feral ungulates have contributed significantly to the heavy erosion still taking place on most of the main Hawaiian islands. Pigs ( Sus scrofa ), originally native to Europe, Africa, and Asia, were introduced to Hawaii by the Polynesian ancestors of Hawaiians, and later by western immigrants. The pigs escaped domestication and invaded primarily wet and mesic forests and grasslands of Kauai, Oahu, Molokai, Maui, and Hawaii. They presently threaten the existence of at least eight of the taxa in those habitats. While foraging, pigs root and trample the forest floor, encouraging the establishment of alien plants in the newly disturbed soil. Pigs also disseminate alien plant seeds through their feces and on their bodies, accelerating the spread of alien plants through native forest (Cuddihy and Stone 1990, Stone 1985). On Kauai, three populations each of Adenophorus periens and Flueggea neowawraea and a single population each of Plantago princeps var. anomala and P. p. var. longibracteata have sustained loss of individual plants and/or habitat as a result of feral pig activities (HHP 1992d18, 1992i2; J. Lau, pers. comm., 1992). The following numbers of populations of the plants on Oahu are threatened by pigs: 4 populations of Bonamia menziesii, 15 of Flueggea neowawraea, 1 of Hibiscus brackenridgei ssp. mokuleianus, and 2 populations each of Plantago princeps var. longibracteata and P. p. var. princeps. On Molokai, one population each of Diellia erecta, Plantago princeps var. laxiflora, and Vigna o-wahuensis, and two populations of Neraudia sericea are also threatened by pigs. On East Maui, pigs are destroying the habitat of three populations of Plantago princeps var. laxiflora (HHP 1992i12; J. Lau, pers. comm., 1992). On the island of Hawaii, feral pigs are a major threat to species at the following locations: in Kahaualea NAR, Olaa Tract, and 2.4 km (1.5 mi) northwest of Puu Kauka, where at least three populations of Adenophorus periens occur; and in the regions of Manuka and Honomalino in the South Kona District, where one or more populations of Diellia erecta and Flueggea neowawraea remain (J. Lau, pers. comm., 1992).
