FR940105-1-00005 FR940105-1-00002 9 CFR Part 381 [Docket No. 92&hyph;026P] RIN 0583&hyph;AB65 Use of Trisodium Phosphate on Raw, Chilled Poultry Carcasses AGENCY: Food Safety and Inspection Service, USDA. ACTION: Proposed rule. SUMMARY: FSIS is proposing to amend the poultry products inspection regulations to permit the application of trisodium phosphate (TSP) on raw, chilled poultry carcasses passed for wholesomeness. TSP would be permitted as an antimicrobial agent on such poultry carcasses at a level of 8 to 12 percent. The TSP treatment solution would be maintained at a temperature of 45 ○ F. to 55 ○ F. and applied by spraying or dipping carcasses for up to 15 seconds. Tests conducted by industry have shown that the use of TSP at a level of 8 to 12 percent reduces microbial populations on raw, chilled poultry surfaces. This proposed rule is in response to a petition filed by Rhone-Poulenc, Inc., Cranbury, New Jersey. DATES: Comments must be received on or before March 7, 1994. ADDRESSES: Written comments to: Policy Office, Attn: Diane Moore, room 3171, South Agriculture Building, Food Safety and Inspection Service, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250. Oral comments, as provided under the Poultry Products Inspection Act (PPIA), should be directed to Dr. William O. James at (202) 720&hyph;3219. (See also ``Comments'' under supplementary information .) FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Dr. William O. James, Director, Slaughter Inspection Standards and Procedures Division, Science and Technology, Food Safety and Inspection Service, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250; (202) 720&hyph;3219. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Executive Order 12866 FSIS has determined that this regulatory action is not a significant rule under Executive Order 12866. It would not likely result in a rule that may (1) have an annual effect on the economy of $100 million or more or adversely affect in a material way the economy, a sector of the economy, productivity, competition, jobs, the environment, public health or safety, or State, local, or tribal governments or communities; (2) create a serious inconsistency or otherwise interfere with an action taken or planned by another agency; (3) materially alter the budgetary impact of entitlements, grants, user fees, or loan programs or the rights and obligations of recipients thereof; or (4) raise novel legal or policy issues arising out of legal mandates, the President's priorities, or the principles set forth in this Executive Order. Executive Order 12778 This proposed rule has been reviewed under Executive Order 12778, Civil Justice Reform. This proposed rule would provide for the use of TSP as an antimicrobial treatment on raw, chilled poultry carcasses passed for wholesomeness. States and local jurisdictions are preempted under the Poultry Products Inspection Act (PPIA) from imposing any requirements with respect to federally inspected premises and facilities, and operations of such establishments, that are in addition to, or different than, those imposed under the PPIA. States and local jurisdictions are also preempted under the PPIA from imposing any marking, labeling, packaging, or ingredient requirements on federally inspected poultry products that are in addition to, or different than, those imposed under the PPIA. States and local jurisdictions may, however, exercise concurrent jurisdiction over poultry products that are outside official establishments for the purpose of preventing the distribution of poultry products that are misbranded or adulterated under the PPIA or, in the case of imported articles, which are not at such an establishment, after their entry into the United States. States and local jurisdictions may also make requirements or take other actions that are consistent with the PPIA, with respect to any other matters regulated under the PPIA. Under the PPIA, States that maintain poultry inspection programs must impose requirements on State-inspected products and establishments that are at least equal to those required under the PPIA. These States may, however, impose more stringent requirements on such State-inspected products and establishments.
