FR941110-0-00252 FR941110-0-00016 §488.331 Informal dispute resolution. (a) Opportunity to refute survey findings. (1) For non-Federal surveys, the State must offer a facility an informal opportunity, at the facility's request, to dispute survey findings upon the facility's receipt of the official statement of deficiencies. (2) For Federal surveys, HCFA offers a facility an informal opportunity, at the facility's request, to dispute survey findings upon the facility's receipt of the official statement of deficiencies. (b)(1) Failure of the State or HCFA, as appropriate, to complete informal dispute resolution timely cannot delay the effective date of any enforcement action against the facility. (2) A facility may not seek a delay of any enforcement action against it on the grounds that informal dispute resolution has not been completed before the effective date of the enforcement action. (c) If a provider is subsequently successful, during the informal dispute resolution process, at demonstrating that deficiencies should not have been cited, the deficiencies are removed from the statement of deficiencies and any enforcement actions imposed solely as a result of those cited deficiencies are rescinded. (d) Notification. Upon request, HCFA does and the State must provide the facility with written notification of the informal dispute resolution process. §488.332 Investigation of complaints of violations and monitoring of compliance. (a) Investigation of complaints. (1) The State survey agency must establish procedures and maintain adequate staff to investigate complaints of violations of participation requirements. (2) The State survey agency takes appropriate precautions to protect a complainant's anonymity and privacy, if possible. (3) If arrangements have been made with other State components for investigation of complaints, the State must have a means of communicating information among appropriate entities, and the State survey agency retains responsibility for the investigation process. (4) If, after investigating a complaint, the State has reason to believe that an identifiable individual neglected or abused a resident, or misappropriated a resident's property, the State survey agency must act on the complaint in accordance with §488.335. (b) On-site monitoring. The State survey agency conducts on-site monitoring on an as necessary basis when_ (1) A facility is not in substantial compliance with the requirements and is in the process of correcting deficiencies; (2) A facility has corrected deficiencies and verification of continued substantial compliance is needed; or (3) The survey agency has reason to question the substantial compliance of the facility with a requirement of participation. (c) Composition of the investigative team. A State may use a specialized team, which may include an attorney, auditor and appropriate health professionals, to identify, survey, gather and preserve evidence, and administer remedies to noncompliant facilities. §488.334 Educational programs. A State must conduct periodic educational programs for the staff and residents (and their representatives) of SNFs and NFs in order to present current regulations, procedures, and policies on the survey, certification and enforcement process under this subpart and subpart F of this part. §488.335 Action on complaints of resident neglect and abuse, and misappropriation of resident property. (a) Investigation. (1) The State must review all allegations of resident neglect and abuse, and misappropriation of resident property and follow procedures specified in §488.332. (2) If there is reason to believe, either through oral or written evidence that an individual used by a facility to provide services to residents could have abused or neglected a resident or misappropriated a resident's property, the State must investigate the allegation. (3) The State must have written procedures for the timely review and investigation of allegations of resident abuse and neglect, and misappropriation of resident property. (b) Source of complaints. The State must review all allegations regardless of their source. (c) Notification_ (1) Individuals to be notified. If the State makes a preliminary determination, based on oral or written evidence and its investigation, that the abuse, neglect or misappropriation of property occurred, it must notify in writing_ (i) The individuals implicated in the investigation; and (ii) The current administrator of the facility in which the incident occurred.
