FR940606-1-00063 FR940606-1-00008 J. Operating Permit Program Under 40 CFR part 70, all major sources of HAP will be required to obtain an operating permit. Emission limits, monitoring, and reporting and recordkeeping requirements are typically scattered among numerous provisions of State implementation plans (SIP's) or Federal regulations. As discussed in the rule for the operating permit program, this new permit program would include in a single document all of the requirements that pertain to a single source. Once a state's permit program has been approved, each aerospace facility that is a major source within that state must apply for and obtain an operating permit. If the state wherein the aerospace facility is located does not have an approved permitting program, the owner or operator of an aerospace facility must submit a part 71 permit application if requested under 40 CFR part 71. K. Solicitation of Comments The Administrator welcomes comments from interested persons on any aspect of the proposed standards, and on any statement in the preamble or the referenced supporting documents. The proposed standards were developed on the basis of information available. The Administrator is specifically requesting factual information that may support either the approach taken in the proposed standards or an alternate approach. To receive proper consideration, documentation or data should be provided. VI. Administrative Requirements A. Public Hearing A public hearing will be held, if requested, to discuss the proposed standards in accordance with section 307(d)(5) of the Act. Persons wishing to make an oral presentation on the proposed standards for aerospace manufacturing and rework should contact the EPA at the address given in the ADDRESSES section of this preamble. Oral presentations will be limited to 15 minutes each. Any member of the public may file a written statement before, during, or within 30 days after the hearing. Written statements should be addressed to the Air and Radiation Docket and Information Center address given in the ADDRESSES section of this preamble, and should refer to Docket No. A&hyph;92&hyph;20. A verbatim transcript of the hearing and any written statements will be available for public inspection and copying during normal working hours at the EPA's Air and Radiation Docket and Information Center in Washington, DC (see ADDRESSES section of this preamble). B. Docket The docket is an organized and complete file of all the information submitted to or otherwise considered by the EPA in the development of this proposed rulemaking. The principal purposes of the docket are: (1) To allow interested parties to readily identify and locate documents so that they can intelligently and effectively participate in the rulemaking process, and (2) to serve as the record in case of judicial review (except for interagency review materials) (section 307(d)(7)(A) of the Act). C. Executive Order 12866 Under Executive Order 12866 (58 FR 61736 (October 4, 1993)), the EPA must determine whether the regulatory action is ``significant'' and therefore subject to Office of Management and Budget (OMB) review and the requirements of the Executive Order. The Order defines ``significant regulatory action'' as one that is likely to result in a rule that may: (1) Have an annual effect on the economy of $100 million or more or adversely affect in a material way the economy, a sector of the economy, productivity, competition, jobs, the environment, public health or safety, or state, local, or tribunal governments or communities, (2) Create a serious inconsistency or otherwise interfere with an action taken or planned by another agency,
