FR940318-2-00080 FR940318-2-00064 F. Reporting Requirements 1. The grantee must submit an interim and a final annual program report describing the coordination, training and technical assistance activities, and the public education services supported by grant funds. The annual report must also provide an assessment of the effectiveness of the grant supported activities. The interim annual program report is due 90 days after the end of the obligation period. The final annual program report is due 90 days after the end of the liquidation period. Program Reports are to be sent to: Office of Community Services, Administration for Children and Families, Attn: William D. Riley, 370 L'Enfant Promenade, SW., 4th floor, Washington, DC 20447. 2. Grantees must submit annual financial reports, Standard Form 269 (SF&hyph;269). An interim financial report is due 90 days after the end of the obligation period. A final financial report is due 90 days after the end of the liquidation period. Financial reports are to be sent to: Director for Formula, Entitlement, and Block Grants, Office of Financial Management, Administration for Children and Families, 370 L'Enfant Promenade, SW., 6th floor, Washington, DC 20447. G. Application Requirements The Domestic Violence Coalition application must be signed by the Executive Director of the Coalition or the official designated as responsible for the administration of the grant. The application must contain the following information (Please note the new 4.): 1. A description of the public education campaign regarding domestic violence to be conducted by the coalition through the use of public service announcements and informative materials that are designed for print media; (A) Billboards; (B) Public transit advertising; (C) Electronic broadcast media; and (D) Other forms of information dissemination that inform the public about domestic violence issues (Sec. 311(a)(3)). 2. A discussion of anticipated outcomes and a description of planned grant activities to be conducted in conjunction with judicial and law enforcement agencies concerning appropriate responses to domestic violence cases and an examination of issues including the: (A) Inappropriateness of mutual protection orders; (B) Prohibition of mediation when domestic violence is involved; (C) Use of mandatory arrest of accused offenders; (D) Discouragement of dual arrests; (E) Adoption of aggressive and vertical prosecution policies and procedures; (F) Use of mandatory requirements for presentence investigations; (G) Length of time taken to prosecute cases or reach plea agreements; (H) Use of plea agreements; (I) Consistency of sentencing, including comparisons of domestic violence crimes with other violent crimes; (J) Restitution to victims; (K) Use of training and technical assistance to law enforcement and court officials and other professionals;
