FR940506-1-00035 FR940506-1-00012 3. Ensure that the groundfish and crab observer programs are efficient and cost effective, that any increased costs are commensurate with the quality and usefulness of the data to be derived from any revisions to the programs, and that such changes are necessary to meet fishery management needs; and 4. Provide for cooperation and coordination between the groundfish observer program administered by NMFS and the crab observer program administered by the Alaska Department of Fish and Game (ADF&G). Determination of Research Plan Fees NMFS would annually establish a Research Plan fee percentage for the upcoming calendar year. As described in this preamble, the fee percentage would be based on standard exvessel prices by species and projections of the following: (1) Retained catches by species (i.e., catch retained by either at-sea or shoreside processors) in all Research Plan fisheries; (2) observer program costs; and (3) the surplus in the North Pacific Fishery Observer Fund (Fund), other sources of funding for the Research Plan, and nonpayments. After consulting with the Council and State, NMFS would publish the fee percentage and the values of the variables on which it is based in the Federal Register and invite comments. After considering comments received and again consulting with the Council and the State, NMFS would publish final values in the Federal Register . Standard Exvessel Prices. NMFS would annually establish standard exvessel prices for species harvested in Research Plan fisheries. These prices would be used in estimating the total exvessel value of the Research Plan fisheries for the coming year and in assessing fees. The standard exvessel prices would be based on: (1) Exvessel price information for the most recent 12-month period for which data are available, (2) factors that are expected to change exvessel prices in the upcoming calendar year, and (3) any other relevant information that may affect expected exvessel prices during the upcoming calendar year. Retained Catch. NMFS would project retained catch, by species, for the Research Plan fisheries annually, using the best available information concerning expected catches and discards. Total Exvessel Value. NMFS would annually calculate the total exvessel value of retained catches for Research Plan fisheries as the sum of the products of the standard exvessel prices and projected retained catches, for all Research Plan species. Observer Program Costs. NMFS and ADF&G would each prepare an annual budget that identifies expected recoverable Research Plan costs for the upcoming calendar year. Recoverable costs identified in each budget would include: (1) Costs for observer training, certification, briefing, and debriefing; (2) costs for stationing observers, including travel, salaries, benefits, and insurance; (3) costs for data collection, transmission, input, processing, and management; and (4) contract services and general program operational costs, excluding overhead. The estimated budget would be based on anticipated observer coverage and the anticipated costs directly incurred in carrying out the Research Plan. The observer program costs also would include the costs associated with a risk-sharing pool to provide comprehensive insurance coverage for vessels and owners if such an insurance program is established under section 313 of the Magnuson Act (see Risk-sharing Pool, in this preamble.) Surplus Funds, Other Sources of Funding, and Fee Nonpayment. Annually, NMFS would project each of the following: (1) The surplus that would be in the Fund at the end of the current calendar year, (2) the funds that would be available from other sources for use in funding the Research Plan during the upcoming calendar year, and (3) the nonpayment rate on fees assessed under the Research Plan during the upcoming calendar year. Calculation of the Fee Percentage. Under the Magnuson Act, the fee percentage established to pay for the costs of implementing the Research Plan may not exceed 2 percent of the exvessel value of fish harvested under the authority of the Council (except salmon), including shellfish and the Northern Pacific halibut fishery. Annually, the fee percentage for the upcoming calendar year will be set equal to the lesser of 2 percent of the exvessel value of retained catch in the Research Plan fisheries or the fee percentage calculated using the equation described above and set out at ยง677.11(a)(3). If the fee percentage calculated using this formula is greater than 2 percent, there would be a funding shortfall due to the 2 percent limit in the Magnuson Act. This would require a reevaluation of the levels of coverage that would be required and funded. Available funds would be utilized to address the Research Plan objectives in the following priority: (1) Status of stock assessments (i.e., collection of data on total catch, species composition, size, sex, and age); (2) inseason management; (3) bycatch monitoring; and (4) vessel incentive programs and regulatory compliance.
