FR940628-1-00054 FR940628-1-00010 (ii) The HHS may at any time request submission of, or review on site, all records pertinent to these certifications. To the extent permitted by law, all records of financial interests will be maintained confidentially. (iii) An investigator may participate in a PHS-funded research project that is being simultaneously supported by an organization that has a commercial interest in the finding of the research project. However, the research support must be provided through the PHS awardee Institution. Any direct compensation or payment to the Investigator under that support is considered a financial interest under this subpart. §50.605 Management of Significant Financial Interests. (a)(1) Institutions applying for PHS funding for research shall ensure that the following types of Significant Financial Interests attributable to an Investigator are managed, reduced, or eliminated, in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section, prior to award of the grant: (i) Any Significant Financial Interest of the Investigator that would reasonably appear to be directly and significantly affected by the research funded by PHS, or proposed for funding; and (ii) Any Significant Financial Interest of the Investigator in an entity whose financial Interest would reasonably appear to be directly and significantly affected by the research funded by PHS, or proposed for funding. (2) In addition to the types of Significant Financial Interests described in this paragraph that must be managed, an Institution may require the management of other financial interests as the Institution deems appropriate. (b) The designated official(s) must review all financial disclosures, determine whether Significant Financial Interests could affect the design, conduct, or reporting of the research activities funded by PHS, or proposed for such funding, and determine what conditions or restrictions, if any, should be imposed by the institution to manage such interests. Examples of conditions or restrictions that might be imposed to manage actual or potential conflicts of interest include: (1) Public disclosure of significant financial interests; (2) Monitoring of research by independent reviewers; (3) Modification of the research plan; (4) Disqualification from participation in all or a portion of the research funded by the PHS; (5) Divestiture of significant financial interests; or (6) Severance of relationships that create actual or potential conflicts. §50.606 Remedies. (a) Each Institution that applies for research funding from the PHS must include in its policy for the identification and management of Significant Financial Interest procedures for enforcement action against employees who do not comply with the Institution's policy. If the failure of an employee to comply with the policy of the Institution has biased the design, conduct, or reporting of the PHS-funded research, the Institution must promptly notify the PHS Awarding Component of the corrective action taken. The PHS Awarding Component will consider the situation and, as necessary, take appropriate action, or refer the matter to the Institution for further action, which may include directions to the Institution on how to maintain appropriate objectivity in the funded project. (b) The HHS may inquire into the Institutional procedures and actions regarding financial interests in PHS-funded research, including the disposition of a particular financial interest. Such inquiry may be initiated based on information obtained by the HHS under this subpart, from an award-related document (application, progress report, publication of results), or any other source. Based on a specific inquiry, the HHS may decide that a particular Significant Financial Interest of the type described in §50.606 will bias the objectivity of the PHS-funded research to such an extent that further corrective action is needed or that the Institution has not managed a Significant Financial Interest described in §50.606 in accordance with this subpart. The PHS may determine that suspension of funding is necessary until the matter is resolved. (c) In any case in which the Department determines that a PHS-funded project of clinical research whose purpose is to evaluate the safety or effectiveness of a drug, medical device, or treatment has been designed, conducted, or reported by an Investigator with a Significant Financial Interest that was not disclosed or managed as required by this subpart, the Institution must require disclosure of the financial interest in each public presentation of the results of the research. §50.607 Other HHS regulations that apply. Several other regulations and policies apply to this subpart. They include, but are not necessarily limited to: 42 CFR Part 50, Subpart D_Public Health Service grant appeals procedure 45 CFR Part 16_Procedures of the Departmental Grant Appeals Board 45 CFR Part 74_Administration of grants 45 CFR Part 76_Government-wide debarment and suspension (non-procurement) 45 CFR Part 92_Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and Cooperative Agreements to State and Local Governments
