FR940526-2-00187 FR940526-2-00064 Appendix B Potential applicants frequently direct questions to officials of the Department regarding application notices and programmatic and administrative regulations governing various direct grant programs. To assist potential applicants, the Department has assembled the following most commonly asked questions followed by the Department's answers. Q. Can we get an extension of the deadline? A. No. A closing date may be changed only under extraordinary circumstances. Any change must be announced in the Federal Register and must apply to all applications. Waivers for individual applications cannot be granted regardless of the circumstances. Q. How many copies of the application should I submit and must they be bound? A. Our new policy calls for an original and six copies to be submitted. The binding of applications is optional. Q. We just missed the deadline for the XXX competition. May we submit under another competition? A. Yes, however, the likelihood of success is not good. A properly prepared application must meet the specifications of the competition to which it is submitted. Q. I'm not sure which competition is most appropriate for my project. What should I do? A. We are happy to discuss any such questions with you and provide clarification on the unique elements of the various competitions. Q. Will you help us prepare our application? A. We are happy to provide general program information. Clearly, it would not be appropriate for staff to participate in the actual writing of an application, but we can respond to specific questions about application requirements, evaluation criteria, and the priorities. Applicants should understand, however, that prior contact with the Department is not required, nor will it in any way influence the success of an application. Q. When will I find out if I'm going to be funded? A. You can expect to receive notification within 3 to 4 months of the application closing date, depending on the number of applications received and the number of Department competitions with similar closing dates. Q. Once my application has been reviewed by the review panel, can you tell me the outcome? A. No. Every year we are called by a number of applicants who have a legitimate reasons for needing to know the outcome of the panel review prior to official notification. Some applicants need to make job decisions, some need to notify a local school district, etc. Regardless of the reason, because final funding decisions have not been made at that point, we cannot share information about the results of panel review with anyone. Q. Will my application be returned if I am not funded? A. No. We no longer return unsuccessful applications. Thus, applicants should retain at least one copy of the application. Q. Can I obtain copies of reviewers' comments? A. Upon written request, reviewers' comments will be mailed to unsuccessful applicants. Q. Is travel allowed under these projects? A. Travel associated with carrying out the project is allowed. Because we may request the project director of funded projects to attend an annual project directors' meeting, you may also wish to include a trip or two to Washington, DC in the travel budget. Travel to conferences is sometimes allowed when the purpose of the conference will be of benefit and relates to the project. Q. If my application receives high scores from the reviewers, does that mean that I will receive funding? A. Not necessarily. It is often the case that the number of applications scored highly by the reviewers exceeds the dollars available for funding projects under a particular competition. The order of selection, which is based on the scores of all the applications reviewed and other relevant factors, determines the applications that can be funded. Q. What happens during negotiations? A. During negotiations technical and budget issues may be raised. These are issues that have been identified during the panel and staff reviews that require clarification. Sometimes issues are stated as ``conditions.'' These are issues that have been identified as so critical that the award cannot be made unless those conditions are met. Questions may also be raised about the proposed budget. Generally, these issues are raised because an application contains inadequate justification or explanation of a particular budget item, or because the budget item seems unimportant to the successful completion of the project. If you are asked to make changes that you feel could seriously affect the project's success, you may provide reasons for not making the changes or provide alternative suggestions. Similarly, if proposed budget reductions will, in your opinion, seriously affect the project activities, you may explain why and provide additional justification for the proposed expenses. An award cannot be made until all issues under negotiation have been resolved. Q. How do I provide an assurance? A. Except for SF&hyph;424B, ``Assurances_Non-Construction Programs,'' you may provide an assurance simply by stating in writing that you are meeting a prescribed requirement. Q. Where can copies of the Federal Register , program regulations, and Federal statutes be obtained? A. Copies of these materials can usually be found at your local library. If not, they can be obtained from the Government Printing Office by writing to Superintendent of Documents, U.S. Government Printing Office, Washington, DC 20402. Telephone: (202) 708&hyph;8228. When requesting copies of regulations or statutes, it is helpful to use the specific name or public law, number of a statute, or part number of a regulation. The material referenced in this notice should be referred to as follows: (1) The Carl D. Perkins Vocational and Applied Technology Education Act (Pub. L. 101&hyph;302). (2) Education Department General Administrative Regulations, 34 CFR parts 74, 75, 77, 79, 90, 81, 82, and 85. (3) 34 CFR part 401 (Indian Vocational Education Program) as published in the Federal Register on August 14, 1992 (57 FR 36730). [FR Doc. 94&hyph;12751 Filed 5&hyph;25&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4000&hyph;01&hyph;P
