FR940927-0-00028 FR940927-0-00003 Final Rule Accordingly, pursuant to the authority contained in the Federal Crop Insurance Act, as amended (7 U.S.C. 1501 et seq.), the Federal Crop Insurance Corporation hereby amends the Common Crop Insurance Regulations (7 CFR Part 457), effective for the 1995 and succeeding crop years, in the following instances: PART 457_COMMON CROP INSURANCE REGULATIONS; REGULATIONS FOR THE 1994 AND SUBSEQUENT CONTRACT YEARS 1. The authority citation for 7 CFR Part 457 continues to read as follows: Authority: 7 U.S.C. 1506, 1516. 2. 7 CFR Part 457 is amended by adding ยง457.105 ELS Cotton Crop Provisions to read as follows: ยง457.105 Extra Long Staple Cotton Crop Insurance Provisions. The Extra Long Staple Cotton Crop Insurance Provisions for the 1995 and succeeding crop years are as follows: UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE Federal Crop Insurance Corporation ELS Cotton Crop Provisions If a conflict exists between the Common Crop Insurance Policy (ยง457.8) and the Special Provisions, the Special Provisions will control. If a conflict exists between these Crop Provisions and the Special Provisions, the Special Provisions will control. 1. Definitions (a) Cotton _Varieties identified as Extra Long Staple (ELS) cotton and American Upland (AUP) cotton if ELS cotton is destroyed by an insured cause and acreage is replanted to AUP cotton. (b) Days _Calendar Days. (c) ELS cotton _Extra Long Staple cotton (also called Pima cotton, American-Egyptian cotton, and American Pima cotton). (d) Final planting date _The date contained in the Special Provisions for the insured crop by which the crop must initially be planted in order to be insured for the full production guarantee. (e) Good farming practices _The cultural practices generally in use in the county for the insured crop to make normal progress toward maturity and produce at least the yield used to determine the production guarantee and are those recognized by the Cooperative Extension Service as compatible with agronomic and weather conditions in the area. (f) Harvest _The removal of the seed cotton from the open cotton boll, or the severance of the open cotton boll from the stalk by either manual or mechanical means. (g) Interplanted _Acreage on which two or more crops are planted in a manner that does not permit separate agronomic maintenance or harvest of the insured crop. (h) Irrigated practice _A method of producing a crop by which water is artificially applied during the growing season by appropriate systems, and at the proper times, with the intention of providing the quantity of water needed to produce at least the yield used to establish the irrigated production guarantee on the irrigated acreage planted to the insured crop. (i) Mature ELS cotton _ELS cotton that can be harvested either manually or mechanically. (j) Planted acreage _Land in which seed has been placed by a machine appropriate for the insured crop and planting method, at the correct depth, into a seedbed which has been properly prepared for the planting method and production practice. Cotton must be planted in rows to be considered planted. Planting in any other manner will be considered as a failure to follow recognized good farming practices and any loss of production will not be insured unless otherwise provided by the Special Provisions or by written agreement to insure such crop. The yield conversion factor normally applied to non-irrigated skip-row cotton acreage will not be used if the land between the rows of cotton is planted to any crop. (k) Practical to replant _(In lieu of subsection 1.(ff) of the Common Crop Insurance Policy (ยง457.8) practical to replant is defined as our determination, after loss or damage to the insured crop, based on factors including, but not limited to moisture availability, condition of the field, and time to crop maturity, that replanting the insured crop will allow the crop to attain maturity prior to the calendar date for the end of the insurance period. It will not be considered practical to replant after the final planting date unless replanting is generally occurring in the area.
