FR940722-0-00135 FR940722-0-00019 205. In adopting these affiliation rules, we emphasize that these rules will not be applied in a manner that defeats the objectives of our attribution rules. Our attribution rules expressly permit applicants to disregard the gross revenues, total assets and net worth of passive investors, provided that an eligible control group has de facto and de jure control of the applicant. Our attribution rules are designed to preserve control of the applicant by eligible entities, yet allow investment in the applicant by entities that do not meet the size restrictions in our rules. Therefore, so long as the requirements of our attribution rules are met, the affiliation rules will not be used to defeat the underlying policy objectives of allowing such passive investors. More specifically, if a control group has de facto and de jure control of the applicant, we shall not construe the affiliation rules in a manner that causes the interests of passive investors to be attributed to the applicant. 206. Applying these SBA affiliation rules, and affiliation would arise, for example, where an entity with an attributable interest in a broadband PCS applicant is under the control of another entity. An affiliation would also arise where an entity with an attributable interest in a broadband PCS applicant controls, or has the power to control, another entity. For example, if a 10 percent voting shareholder of a PCS applicant is also a shareholder in a large Corporation X, when should Corporation X be deemed an affiliate of the PCS applicant as a result of the shareholder's ownership interest in both entities? Under the SBA rules and the rules we adopt here, Corporation X would be deemed an affiliate of the applicant if the shareholder controlled or had the power to control Corporation X, in which case, Corporation X's gross revenues must be included in determining the applicant's gross revenues. 207. For purposes of determining control, ownership interests will be calculated on a fully-diluted basis. Thus, for example, stock options, convertible debentures, and agreements to merge (including agreements in principle) will generally be considered to have a present effect on the power to control or own an interest in either an outside entity or the PCS applicant or licensee. 183 We will treat such options, debentures, and agreements generally as though the rights held thereunder had been exercised. 184 However, an affiliate cannot use such options and debentures to appear to terminate its control over or relationship with another concern before it actually does so. 185 183 We recognize that we have adopted a different rule for purposes of our broadband PCS-cellular ownership rules. See 47 C.F.R. ยง24.204(d)(2)(v). In that context, however, our purpose was not to establish the financial position, or potential financial position, of applicants bidding in auctions. 184 See 13 C.F.R. ยง121.401(f). SBA's rules provide the following examples to guide the application of this provision: Example 1. If company ``A'' holds an option to purchase a controlling interest in company ``B,'' the situation is treated as though company ``A'' had exercised its rights and had become owner of a controlling interest in company ``B.'' The [annual revenues] of both concerns must be taken into account in determining size. Example 2. If company ``A'' has entered into an agreement to merge with company ``B'' in the future, the situation is treated as though the merger has taken place. [A and B are affiliates of each other]. 185 Id . SBA's rules provide this example: If large company ``A'' holds 70% (70 of 100 outstanding shares) of the voting stock of company ``B'' and gives a third party an option to purchase 66 of the 70 shares owned by company ``A,'' company ``B'' will be deemed to be an affiliate of company ``A'' until the third party actually exercises its option to purchase such shares. In order to prevent large company ``A'' from circumventing the intent of the regulation which [gives] present effect to stock options, the option is not considered to have present effect in this case. 208. Voting and Other Trusts. In a similar vein, we also borrow from the SBA's rules and our own rules in other services to find affiliation under certain voting trusts in order to prevent a circumvention of eligibility rules. The SBA's rules provide that a voting trust, or similar agreement, cannot be used to separate voting power from beneficial ownership of voting stock for the purpose of shifting control of or the power to control an outside concern, if the primary purpose of the trust is to meet size eligibility rules. 186 Similarly, under the Commission's broadcast multiple ownership rules, stock interests held in trust may be attributed to any person who holds or shares the power to vote such stock, has the sole power to sell such stock, has the right to revoke the trust at will or to replace the trustee at will. 187 Also, under the broadcast rules, if a trustee has a familial, personal or extra-trust business relationship to the grantor or the beneficiary of a trust, the stock interests held in trust will be considered assets of the grantor or beneficiary, as appropriate. 188 Because we believe the broadcast rules provide more definitive guidance in this particular area, we shall use them as a model for the affiliation rules adopted here. Thus, for example, if an investor with an attributable interest in a PCS applicant holds a beneficial interest in stock of another firm that amounts to a controlling interest in that other firm, depending on the identity of the trustee, the other firm may be considered an affiliate and its assets and gross revenues may be attributed to the PCS applicant. 186 13 CFR ยง121.401(g). 187 See 47 CFR ยง73.3555 note 2(e). 188 Id .
