FR941003-1-00096 FR941003-1-00006 (3) Determine the range of likely historic preservation issues that may need to be considered. What is the extent of knowledge of historic properties that may be affected? Are effects likely to be detrimental or beneficial? Is public interest or controversy likely? What are the program and fiscal consequences of these issues in relation to the planning, approval, and implementation of the undertaking? (4) Decide what legal responsibilities, policy objectives, and performance standards need to be satisfied in the planning and execution of the proposed undertaking. What other statutory, policy, fiscal, or timing requirements apply that may affect consultation and decisions under Section 106? What legal or practical constraints may affect the planning and execution of the proposed undertaking, such as access for identification of historic properties? (5) Establish how to identify and consult with others who may have a legal responsibility or a likely interest in the proposed undertaking, and what those responsibilities or interests might be. To what extent should other branches within the lead Federal agency be consulted? Other Federal, State, or local government agencies and organizations? Can the State Historic Preservation Officer help identify other parties with an interest in or information about local historic preservation values and concerns? (6) Establish the area of potential effects of each alternative under consideration, including the likelihood of direct, indirect, and cumulative effects on historic properties. (i) The area of potential effects: (A) should be broadly and prospectively defined, but with a logical linkage to reasonably foreseeable potential effects that various alternatives for the particular type of undertaking could have; (B) should consider possible direct, indirect, and cumulative effects on the physical characteristics, contextual environment, use, or long-term preservation of properties that help qualify them for inclusion in the National Register, recognizing that: (I) direct effects are caused by the undertaking and occur at the same time and place; (II) indirect effects include those caused by the undertaking that are later in time or farther removed in distance, but are still reasonably foreseeable; (III) cumulative effects refer to the incremental effect of an action when added to other past, present, and reasonably foreseeable future actions regardless of what entity (Federal or non-Federal) or person undertake such other actions;
