FR940817-2-00008 FR940817-2-00005 During the scoping process, the Forest Service sought information, comments, and assistance from Federal, State, and local agencies and individuals or organizations who may be interested in or affected by the proposal. News releases were published in local newspapers; individual letters were distributed to government agencies, organizations, landowners along the rivers and individuals assumed to be interested in this action; and several meetings were held in the local community along the rivers. Informal contacts through phone calls and visits have also occurred throughout the study. Additional mailings and media releases will occur when the Draft EIS and Final EIS are completed and available for public review. The responsible official is Mike Espy, Secretary of Agriculture, Administration Bldg., 12th Street and Jefferson Drive, SW., Washington, DC 20250. The Draft Environmental Impact Statement is expected to be filed with the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and available for public review by August 1994. The comment period on the draft environmental impact statement will be 45 days from the date the EPA publishes the Notice of Availability in the Federal Register . The Forest Service believes, at this early stage, it is important to give reviewers notice of several court rulings related to public participation in the environmental review process. Upon release of the draft environmental impact statement, projected for August 1994, reviewers must structure their participation in the environmental review of the proposal so that it is meaningful and alerts an agency to the reviewer's position and contentions. Vermont Yankee Nuclear Power Corp. vs. NRDC, 435 U.S. 519, 553 (1978). Also, environmental objections that could be raised at the draft environmental impact statement stage, but are not raised until after the completion of the final environmental impact statement may be waived or dismissed by the courts. City of Angoon vs. Hodel, 803 F.2d 1016, 1022 (9th Cir. 1986) and Wisconsin Heritages, Inc. vs. Harris, 490 F. Supp. 1334, 1338 (E.D. Wis. 1980). Because of these court rulings, it is very important that those interested in this proposal participate by the close of the 45 day comment period so that substantive comments and objections are made available to the Forest Service at a time when it can meaningfully consider and respond to them in the Final Environmental Impact Statement. To assist the Forest Service in identifying and considering issues and concerns on the proposed action, comments on the draft environmental impact statement should be as specific as possible. It is also helpful if comments refer to specific pages and chapters of the draft statement. Comments may also address the adequacy of the draft environmental impact statement or the merits of the alternatives formulated and discussed in the statement. (Reviewers may wish to refer to the Council on Environmental Quality Regulations for implementing the procedural provisions at the National Environmental Policy Act at 40 CFR 1503.3 in addressing these points. After the comment period ends on the draft environmental impact statement, the comments will be analyzed and considered by the Forest Service in preparing the Final Environmental Impact Statement. The final statement is scheduled to be completed by March 1995. The Secretary of Agriculture will consider comments, responses, and environmental consequences discussed in the final environmental impact statement and applicable laws, regulations, and policies in making his recommendation to the President regarding the suitability of these rivers for inclusion in the National Wild and Scenic Rivers System. The decision on the inclusion of a river in the National Wild and Scenic Rivers System rests with the United States Congress. Dated: July 29, 1994. Bertha C. Gillam, Acting Director of Environmental Coordination. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;20209 Filed 8&hyph;16&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3410&hyph;11&hyph;M
