FR941216-1-00084 FR941216-1-00012 (5) Unmanned auxiliary power facilities, transformer stations, water treatment and pollution abatement facilities, and other utility installations that serve the PES but are not integral, the loss of which would not create an immediate secondary hazard. These do not need barricades. However, unmanned auxiliary power generating or converting facilities supplying power exclusively to the explosives storage area and security fence lighting may be located as close as fire distance from explosives facilities (50 feet for fire resistant structures and 100 feet for non-fire resistant structures). (6) Dunnage preparation and similar support structures housing non-explosives operations, if used only by PES employees. (7) Service magazines that are a part of operating lines. Distances are based on the quantity/type of ammunition or explosives in the service magazine(s), not in the operating building. (8) Exposures as indicated in paragraph (b) of this section, if blast suppression, structure hardening, and so forth, provides comparable protection for the personnel and equipment involved. (b) At sites exposed to potential blast overpressure of 3.5 psi (0.24 bars) occurring at 18W 1/3 (see column 4, Appendix B to Subpart F and Appendix C to Subpart F of this part), the following facilities or operations are permitted: (1) Construction workers in the vicinity of ammunition production areas, waterfront areas where ammunition is being handled, or areas for loading explosives onto aircraft. (2) Surveillance, maintenance, and inspection buildings; and labor-intensive operations closely related to PES. (3) Comfort, safety, and convenience buildings exclusively supporting PES, including lunchrooms, motor pools, area offices, auxiliary fire stations, transportation dispatch points, and shipping and receiving buildings (not magazine area loading docks). (4) Operations and training functions manned or attended only by personnel operating the PES. (5) Parking lots for privately owned vehicles belonging to personnel at the PES. See ยง184.33. (6) Service magazines that are part of operating lines. Distances are based on quantity/type of ammunition or explosives in the service magazine(s), not in the operating building. (7) Container stuffing and unstuffing operations that are routine support of PES. This applies to main support functions set aside for support of manufacturing operations. Container stuffing and unstuffing in magazine areas are permitted at intermagazine distances. (c) At sites exposed to potential blast overpressure of 2.3 psi (0.16 bars) occurring at 24W 1/3 (see column 8, Appendix A to Subpart F of this part), the following facilities or operations are permitted: (1) Public traffic routes for NEW under 100,000 pounds. (2) Personnel exposed to remotely controlled operations. NOTE: Personnel at control stations less than 24W 1/3 from the PES, though provided with blast-attenuating and fragment-defeating shields, shall not be exposed to overpressure greater than 2.3 psi (0.16 bars). (3) Open-air recreation facilities exposed to PES containing NEW of up to 100,000 pounds, such as baseball diamonds, volleyball courts, and so forth, used by personnel assigned to the facility, where structures are not involved. (d) At sites exposed to potential blast overpressure of 1.7 psi (0.1 bars) occurring at 30W 1/3 , the following facilities or operations are permitted: (1) Public traffic routes. (2) Private vehicle parking in administrative areas. Minimum fragment distance should be applied. (e) At sites exposed to potential blast overpressure of 1.2&hyph;0.90 psi (0.08&hyph;0.06 bars) occurring at 40W 1/3 to 50W 1/3 (see column 5, Appendix A, to Subpart F of this part), the following facilities or operations are permitted: (1) Inhabited buildings; administration and housing areas. (2) Plant boundaries and magazines servicing the establishment in general (see ยง184.45(j)). (3) Athletic fields and other recreation areas when structures are present. (4) Flight line passenger service facilities. (5) Utilities providing power to most of an establishment. (6) Storehouses and shops having strategically or intrinsically valuable contents which shall not be jeopardized. (7) Functions which, if momentarily out of action, would cause an immediate secondary hazard. ยง184.44 Ammunition and explosives facilities. This section identifies the types, general specifications, and siting requirements of various magazines for ammunition, explosives, and other dangerous materials. (a) Barricades and earth cover for magazines_ (1) General. Both constructed barricades and undisturbed earth can protect ammunition and explosives, structures, and operations against high-velocity, low-angle fragments, although the barricades may be destroyed in the process. Further, barricades provide limited protection against blast in their immediate vicinity, provide no protection against high-angle fragments, and are ineffective in reducing the blast pressure in the far field (inhabited building or public traffic route distance). (2) Barricade requirements. Protection is considered effective when barricades meet the following minimum requirements: (i) The slope of a barricade will not be steeper than 2/3 (rise/run). To reduce erosion and facilitate maintenance operations, future constructions should have a slope of 1/2. (ii) The earth barricade shall consist of material described in paragraph (a)(4) of this section. (iii) Barricade height and length shall be determined as follows: (A) Heights. Establish a reference point at the top of the far edge of one of the two stacks that the barricade is to separate. If the tops of the stacks are at different elevations, this reference point shall be on the lower stack. Draw a line from the reference point to the top of he other stack. Draw a second line from the reference point to form a 2 degree angle above the first line. To limit barricade height, each should be as close as possible to the stack that served as the reference point. See Appendices A and B of this subpart. (B) Lengths. The length of the barricade shall be determined as shown in Appendix C of this subpart.
