FR940516-1-00033 FR940516-1-00001 (F) The worst ever continuous peak-to-valley draw-down in for the trading program specified during the most recent five calendar year and year-to-date, indicating the months and year of the draw-down, expressed as a percentage of net asset value (for example, a peak-to-valley draw-down of ``4 to 8&hyph;91/25%'' means that the peak-to-valley draw-down lasted from April to August of 1991 and resulted in a twenty-five percent cumulative draw-down;) and (G) The annual and year-to-date rate-of-return for the program specified, computed on a compounded monthly basis. (2) The performance of the pool offered must be identified as such and separately presented first and its rate of return must be stated in monthly increments. (3) With respect to pools other than the pool offered for which performance is required to be presented under this section: (i) Pools of the same class as the pool offered must be presented following the performance of the pool offered, on a pool by pool basis. (ii) Pools of a different class must be presented less prominently and, unless such presentation would be misleading, may be presented in composite form; Provided, That the disclosure document must disclose how the composite was developed and that pools of different classes may not be presented in a composite. The commodity pool operator must be prepared to justify the inclusion in a composite of the pools contained therein. (iii) For the purpose of ยง4.25(3)(ii), without limitation, the following shall be considered pools of different classes: Pools privately offered pursuant to Regulation D of the Securities Act and public offerings; pools of materially different leverages; limited and non-limited risk pools; pools using different trading programs; and multi-advisor pools as defined in ยง4.10(h) and non-multi-advisor pools. (iv) Material differences among the pools for which past performance is disclosed must be described. (4) The past performance of accounts required to be presented under this section must be presented on a program by program basis using the format set forth in ยง4.25(a)(1)(ii). (5) The disclosure document must indicate whether the pool offered will use any of the trading programs for which past performance is presented. (6) All past performance presented in a disclosure document, including voluntarily presented performance, must be calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles as specified below or by a method otherwise approved by the Commission. All performance data presented in a disclosure document must be current as of a date not more than three months preceding the date of the document. The commodity pool operator or commodity trading advisor must maintain all supporting documents necessary to substantiate such calculations, in accordance with ยง1.31. (i) The beginning net asset value for the period, which shall be the same as the previous period's ending net asset value; (ii) All additions, whether voluntary or involuntary, during the period; (iii) All withdrawals and redemptions, whether voluntary or involuntary, during the period; (iv) The net performance for the period, which shall represent the change in the net asset value net of additions, withdrawals, and redemptions; (v) The ending net asset value for the period, which shall represent the beginning net asset value plus or minus additions, withdrawals, redemptions and net performance; (vi) The rate of return for the period, which shall be calculated by dividing the net performance by the beginning net asset value or by a method otherwise approved by the Commission; and (vii) The number of units outstanding at the end of the period, if applicable. (7) All required performance information must be presented for the most recent five calendar years and year-to-date or for its entire duration, if less than five years.
