FR941222-0-00037 FR941222-0-00003 M.9. Comment. One commenter suggested wording changes to the draft Certificate of Compliance in Attachment A, Section 1.2.6, Action b, as follows: ``Visually inspect placement of top shield plug. Re-install or adjust position of top shield plug if it is not properly seated.'' The commenter also proposed wording changes to Action c of the same section as follows: ``Install additional temporary shielding or implement other ALARA actions, as appropriate.'' Response. The NRC staff agrees with the first comment and has added the suggested words to the Certificate of Compliance, Section A.1.2.6, Action b. It is not necessary to change Action c because 10 CFR Part 20 ALARA already applies to these activities. M.10. Comment. One commenter wanted draft Certificate of Compliance, Attachment A, Section 1.2.6, Action d deleted. The user should be permitted to analyze and document higher dose rates under 10 CFR 72.48, which is available for NRC review. Another commenter wanted the complete Section 1.2.6 of Attachment A to the draft Certificate of Compliance deleted. Given that HSM dose rates are specified, a specification for DSC dose rates is not necessary because only the workers involved in the canister closure operations are affected by them and they are already covered by the reactor radiation protection program. One commenter wanted draft Certificate of Compliance, Attachment A, Section 1.2.11 deleted. Given that HSM dose rates are specified, a specification for transfer cask dose rates is not necessary because only the workers involved are affected, not the general public. The commenter also stated that if Section 1.2.11 cannot be deleted the action statement should be revised to read as follows: ``If specified dose rates are exceeded, place temporary shielding around the affected areas of the transfer cask or implement other ALARA actions, as appropriate. Review the plant records of the fuel assemblies which have been placed in the DSC to ensure they conform to the fuel specifications of Section 1.2.1. The report to the NRC should be deleted with the user being able to analyze and document the higher dose rates under 10 CFR 72.48, which is available for NRC review.'' Response. The dose rate limits are for design purposes. The dose rate is limited to ensure that the DSC has not inadvertently been loaded with fuel not meeting the vendor/applicant spent fuel specifications. The NRC will require reporting if the specified dose limits are exceeded. For these reasons, the NRC will not grant the above requests. M.11. Comment. One commenter stated that the requirement for a dissolved boron concentration in the DSC of 2000 ppm is in excess of the 1810 ppm site-specific license. The 1810 ppm dissolved boron is sufficient to ensure reactivity below 0.95 K-eff (95/95 tolerance level with uncertainties) assuming 24 fresh fuel assemblies. For the unlikely worst case with water density of 0.2 to 0.7 gm/cc (a condition not achievable for fresh fuel), reactivity remains below 0.98 K-eff. The pool dissolved-boron verification- measurement frequency should be changed from not to exceed 48 hours to once per month to be consistent with 10 CFR Part 50 requirements. Another commenter stated that the NUHOMS&hyph;24P canister was designed using burnup credit, the basis for licensing is ``credit for soluble boron.'' The burnup-enrichment curve requirement (Figure 1&hyph;1, draft Certificate of Compliance) should be removed until the NRC accepts burnup credit and the pool boron specification (Section 1.2.15, draft Certificate of Compliance) is removed. The NRC has not yet approved the use of burnup credit in criticality analyses for spent fuel storage and transportation casks. The applicant did, however, analyze credit for burnup as an alternative design acceptance basis for the NUHOMS&hyph;24P DSC, pending further consideration of burnup credit by NRC. As discussed in the SER, the NUHOMS&hyph;24P DSC criticality safety is approved based on, among others, the key assumptions of loading with irradiated fuel assemblies with equivalent enrichment <1.45 wt% U&hyph;235, misloading unirradiated fuel with maximum enrichment of 4.0 wt% U&hyph;235, and soluble boron in water for wet loading and unloading. The NRC considered the use of the burnup- enrichment curve, Certificate of Compliance, Figure 1&hyph;1, as a fuel selection criteria, to be prudent. Its use adds additional unanalyzed conservatism in the criticality safety margin. It is comparable to previous NUHOMS&hyph;24P approvals. Its use would also be consistent with the requirement that storage cask designs be, to the extent practicable, compatible with removal of the stored spent fuel from the reactor site, transportation, and ultimate disposition by DOE. Therefore, the NRC disagreed with the commenter's request to allow Standardized NUHOMS&hyph;24P users the option of using these burnup- enrichment curve. Response. The comment appears to refer to the use of a NUHOMS 24P associated with a site-specific license. The ``standardized NUHOMS 24P and 52B'' are the subject of this general rulemaking and should not be confused with a site license. The SER for this rulemaking is clear about conditions for use, i.e., 2000 ppm boron concentration is required to ensure that the k eff remains below 0.95. The SAR for this rulemaking does not request, nor does the SER grant, exemption from the requirement of k eff = 0.95 for all accident conditions, including misloading of 24 unirradiated fuel assemblies and optimum moderation density.
