FR940930-0-00170 FR940930-0-00028 iii. Exemptions for small volume manufacturers. EPA proposed that, for the Pilot program, small volume manufacturers of clean-fuel LDVs and LDTs would not have to fulfill a calculated share of the required CFV sales requirements until the 2001 MY. EPA is finalizing this requirement today. However, in 2001 and subsequent model years, no further distinction will be made between small volume manufacturers and larger manufacturers for purposes of the Pilot program. As defined in the CARB LEV program, a small volume manufacturer has average annual vehicle sales less than or equal to 3,000 vehicles based on the consecutive three-year period 1989&hyph;1991. If a small volume manufacturer exceeds this average level, they are then subject to the LEV program fleet average NMOG requirements applicable to larger manufacturers beginning four model years after the last of the consecutive three model years. Larger manufacturers with average sales that fall below the 3,000 unit threshold over any consecutive three-year period qualify as small volume manufacturers beginning with the following model year. Due to the many parallels between the Pilot program and the CARB LEV program, EPA continues to believe it is logical that the ``small volume manufacturer'' definition under the Pilot program should be as similar as possible to the definition under the CARB LEV program. Several commenters also supported consistency between the two programs. Therefore, for purposes of the Pilot program, EPA is defining ``small volume manufacturer'' as one whose average annual LDV and LDT sales in California are less than or equal to 3,000 units during a consecutive three-year period beginning no earlier than 1993. (This accommodates new manufacturers who may have less than three consecutive years of sales but which do not exceed the 3,000 threshold.) And, like CARB, EPA is also granting leadtime to small volume manufacturers who exceed the average annual level. A manufacturer who qualifies as a small volume manufacturer for the first year of the Pilot program (i.e., in model year 1996) will not have to fulfill a CFV sales requirement until model year 2001. As proposed in the NPRM and finalized here today, beginning with model year 2001, all manufacturers, regardless of average annual sales, will have to calculate and fulfill their CFV sales share based on the formula above. This five-year delay is intended to encourage the viability of small volume manufacturers whose limited capital and resources do not allow them to comply as easily. It is also intended to provide consistency with the CARB LEV program and minimize adminstrative burden. iv. Sales reporting and enforcement of requirements. In order for EPA to administer and enforce the sales requirements of the Pilot Program, manufacturers will have to report their California vehicles sales to EPA. Currently, there is a requirement for manufacturers to submit sales data to EPA in Code of Federal Regulations (CFR), 40 CFR 86.085&hyph;37); however, the reporting requirements do not distinguish between California vehicle sales and sales throughout the U.S. Such a distinction is necessary for purposes of the Pilot Program. Therefore, EPA will require that manufacturers, in addition to complying with the requirements of 40 CFR 86.085&hyph;37, report the number of vehicles sold only in California. If a manufacturer fails to meet its required sales volume, EPA believes that it has the authority to penalize the manufacturer to the full extent allowed for such an infraction under CAA section 205(a). In accordance with this section, a $25,000 penalty will be levied on a manufacturer in the event of a failure to meet the prescribed sales requirements for certified Pilot Program vehicles. 2. State Opt-In Program CAA section 249(f) requires that EPA promulgate regulations which will (1) allow states other than California to encourage the sale of CFVs in their state which are sold in California under the Pilot program and (2) allow such states to use incentives to promote the sale and use of CFVs and clean alternative fuels. States opting into the program may voluntarily decide to implement a clean fuel vehicle incentive program as described in this Final Rule. Any state that contains all or part of any ozone nonattainment area that is classified under subpart D of Title I as serious, severe, or extreme can choose to submit a revision of their applicable state implementation plan (SIP) under part D of Title I and section 110. A state's SIP shall include incentives for the sale and use of CFVs and for the production and distribution of clean alternative fuels such as those that are required to be produced, sold, and distributed in the State of California. These SIP provisions shall come into effect at least one year after the state has notified vehicle manufacturers and fuel suppliers of the plan provisions. As mentioned above, section 249(f) directs EPA to establish the voluntary opt-in program under which states may use incentives to promote the sale and use of CFVs and clean alternative fuels. Examples of incentives listed in section 249(f) include higher registration fees for non-CFVs, financial incentives, exemptions from high occupancy vehicle or trip reduction requirements, and parking preferences. Today's rule establishes these incentives for use by states under a section 249(f) opt-in provision. States may develop additional incentives, as well, subject to EPA approval via the SIP approval process. Section 249(f) prohibits a state opting into the program from including sales or production mandates for CFVs or clean alternative fuels in its SIP revision opting into the Pilot program. In addition, the SIP revision must provide that vehicle manufacturers and fuel suppliers will not be penalized or subject to sanctions for failing to produce or sell CFVs or clean alternative fuels. D. Technical Amendments to CFF Definitions and Other Clarifications
