FR941205-0-00161 FR941205-0-00029 Under this partial claim procedure, upon the HFA providing the above-described relief, HUD makes a partial claim payment to the HFA in an amount that is a percentage of the relief provided by the HFA to the mortgagor. The percentage is equal to HUD's percentage of the risk of loss on the original mortgage loan or 50 percent, whichever is less. The HFA, in turn, must remit to HUD the same percentage of all amounts that it collects on its second mortgage. When HUD pays a claim ( i.e ., entire amount, in cash), §266.638 provides that the HFA will issue a debenture (or a promissory note, a bond, or any other instrument, hereinafter referred to as ``debenture'') to HUD for the full amount of the claim. The debenture will have a term of five years in order to afford the HFA ample time to work with the mortgagor to cure the default or foreclose and/or resell the project. During the five year period, the HFA will pay HUD interest on the debenture, due and payable on the anniversary of the claim payment. At the end of five years, or at the point of settlement when the debenture is paid, HUD will determine the amount of losses to be apportioned between HUD and the HFA. Sections 266.640 through 266.656 concern the final disposition of a claim, including the HFA's ability to accept a deed-in-lieu of foreclosure; the use of an appraisal to determine property value in the absence of a foreclosure sale; the manner in which the amount of a loss is determined; and final settlement. IV. Public Comment on Interim Rule On December 3, 1993 the Department published in the Federal Register (58 FR 64032) an interim rule entitled Housing Finance Agency Risk Sharing Program for Insured Affordable Multifamily Loans. What follows is a description of the significant issues raised by the public in written comments on the rule along with HUD's responses to each of these issues. During the public comment period, the Department received 12 comments from the following commenters: 1. Idaho Housing Agency 2. Massachusetts Housing Finance Agency 3. National Association of Home Builders 4. Congressman Owen Pickett (2nd Dist., Virginia) 5. American Institute of Certified Public Accountants 6. Colorado Housing and Finance Authority 7. National Council of State Housing Agencies 8. Association of Local Housing Agencies 9. Mortgage Bankers Association 10. American Association of Retired Persons 11. President, Hoover Mortgage Company, Spokane, WA 12. Michigan State Housing Development Authority The commenters generally favored the program, with comments or recommendations on the specific areas discussed below. The commenters are referred to by their corresponding numbers as listed above. Section 266.10␣Fund allocations. Comments . Commenter 7 pointed out that the rule states that HUD will allocate unused insuring authority at the beginning of FY 1995, and the draft handbook indicates that HUD may increase or decrease these allocations at the end of FY 1994 depending upon the number of units that have received initial endorsement. The commenter recommended that since HFAs will only have six months to process applications in FY 1994, HUD reduce a participating HFA's allocations only if the HFA agrees that it will be unable to use all its insurance authority by the end of FY 1995. Commenter 1 was also concerned about the short time left in FY 1994 after the application process, and asked whether an HFA would risk the possibility of losing units that are in the application process but which have not reached initial endorsement. That commenter believed that the September 30, 1994 deadline for achieving initial endorsement seemed very unrealistic.
