FR940428-2-00170 FR940428-2-00072 (b) That did not commence the ``discharge of pollutants'' at a particular ``site'' prior to August 13, 1979; (c) Which is not a ``new source''; and (d) Which has never received a finally effective NPDES permit for discharges at that ``site''. This definition includes an ``indirect discharger'' which commences discharging into ``waters of the United States'' after August 13, 1979. It also includes any existing mobile point source (other than an offshore or coastal oil and gas exploratory drilling rig or a coastal oil and gas developmental drilling rig) such as a seafood processing rig, seafood processing vessel, or aggregate plant, that begins discharging at a ``site'' for which it does not have a permit; and any offshore or coastal mobile oil and gas exploratory drilling rig or coastal mobile oil and gas developmental drilling rig that commences the discharge of pollutants after August 13, 1979, at a ``site'' under EPA's permitting jurisdiction for which it is not covered by an individual or general permit and which is located in an area determined by the Regional Administrator in the issuance of a final permit to be an area of biological concern. In determining whether an area is an area of biological concern, the Regional Administrator shall consider the factors specified in 40 CFR Sections §§125.122.(a)(1) through (10). An offshore or coastal mobile exploratory drilling rig or coastal mobile developmental drilling rig will be considered a ``new discharger'' only for the duration of its discharge in an area of biological concern. New source means any building, structure, facility, or installation from which there is or may be a ``discharge of pollutants,'' the construction of which commenced: (a) After promulgation of standards of performance under Section 306 of CWA which are applicable to such. (b) After proposal of standards of performance in accordance with Section 306 of CWA which are applicable to such source, but only if the standards are promulgated in accordance with Section 306 within 120 days of their proposal. NPDES means ``National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System.'' Non-Contact Cooling Water is water used to reduce temperature which does not come in direct contact with any raw material, intermediate product, a waste product or finished product. Owner or operator means the owner or operator of any ``facility or activity'' subject to regulation under the NPDES programs. Permit means an authorization, license, or equivalent control document issued by EPA or an ``approved State.'' Person means an individual, association, partnership, corporation, municipality, State or Federal agency, or an agent or employee thereof. Point source means any discernible, confined, and discrete conveyance, including but not limited to any pipe, ditch, channel, tunnel, conduit, well, discrete fissure, container, rolling stock, concentrated animal feeding operation, vessel, or other floating craft, from which pollutants are or may be discharged. This term does not include return flows from irrigated agriculture. Pollutant means dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, filter backwash, sewage, garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, chemical wastes, biological materials, radioactive materials (except those regulated under the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended (42 U.S.C. §§2011 et seq. )), heat, wrecked or discarded equipment, rock, sand, cellar dirt and industrial, municipal, and agricultural waste discharged into water. It does not mean: (a) Sewage from vessels; or (b) Water, gas, or other material which is injected into a well to facilitate production of oil or gas, or water derived in association with oil and gas production and disposed of in a well, if the well used either to facilitate production or for disposal purposes is approved by authority of the State in which the well is located, and if the State determines that the injection or disposal will not result in the degradation of ground or surface water resources. Primary industry category means any industry category listed in the NRDC settlement agreement ( Natural Resources Defense Council et al. v. Train, 8 E.R.C. 2120 (D.D.C. 1976), modified 12 E.R.C. 1833 (D.D.C. 1979)); also listed in Appendix A of 40 CFR Part 122. Process wastewater means any water which, during manufacturing or processing, comes into direct contact with or results from the production or use of any raw material, intermediate product, finished product, byproduct, or waste product. Regional Administrator means the Regional Administrator, EPA, Region I, Boston, Massachusetts.
