FR941206-1-00024 FR941206-1-00001 Effect on Small Entities The Administrator has determined that this proposed rule would not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities, as defined by the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. 601). It is likely that producers with smaller lot sizes would have higher compliance costs per pound of product because some costs such as testing and recordkeeping occur on a lot basis. Any relabeling costs also would be lower per pound for products with large annual production. No data is available which gives the establishment size breakdown for establishments producing products containing MS(K). Paperwork Requirements This proposed rule would require establishments to maintain records of bone solids content and bone particle size as a measure of process control, and to make such records available to any duly authorized representative of the Secretary. This proposed rule would also require labels of poultry products produced by mechanical separation (i.e., products currently termed mechanically deboned poultry or MDP) or products containing this ingredient to be revised to include in the ingredients statements the regulated term ``Mechanically Separated (Kind)'' and be submitted to FSIS for approval. The paperwork requirements contained in this proposed rule have been submitted to the Office of Management and Budget for approval under the Paperwork Reduction Act (44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq. ). Comments Interested persons are invited to submit written comments concerning this notice. Submit comments in triplicate to Diane Moore, Docket Clerk, Food Safety and Inspection Service, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Room 3171&hyph;S, Washington, DC 20250. Any person desiring an opportunity for an oral presentation of views should make such request to Mr. John W. McCutcheon so that arrangements can be made for such views to be presented. A record will be made of all views orally presented. All comments submitted in response to this notice will be available for public inspection in the Policy, Evaluation and Planning Office from 8:30 a.m. to 1:00 p.m., and from 2:00 p.m. to 4:30 p.m., Monday through Friday. List of Subjects 9 CFR Part 318 Meat inspection. 9 CFR Part 381 Food labeling, Poultry and poultry products, Standards of identity. Proposed Rule For the reasons set forth in the preamble, FSIS is proposing to amend 9 CFR parts 318 and 381 of the Federal meat and poultry inspection regulations as follows: PART 318_ENTRY INTO OFFICIAL ESTABLISHMENTS: REINSPECTION AND PREPARATION OF PRODUCTS
