FR940511-1-00059 FR940511-1-00012 Grantees have flexibility in the method of implementing this requirement. For example, grantees may require parents to provide proof of immunization as part of the initial eligibility determination and again at redetermination, or grantees may require child care providers to maintain proof of immunization for children enrolled in their care. However, the requirements established by the grantee must apply to all children receiving CCDBG assistance and in all child care settings, unless the child is in one of the exempt groups cited below. While we propose to require children to be immunized in order to receive services, grantees may continue to exempt: (1) Children who are cared for by relatives (defined as grandparents, aunts and uncles); (2) Children who receive care in their own homes; (3) Children whose parents object for religious reasons; and (4) Children whose medical condition contraindicates immunization. In proposing that children be immunized, we considered that parents may not always have had access to immunizations. However, we believe that the increasing national focus on immunization will ease this difficulty. The President has made vaccine delivery a national priority and has signed into law the Vaccine for Children program which provides free vaccines to States for the inoculation of uninsured children, children eligible for Medicaid, and Native American children. Underinsured children whose health insurance does not cover immunizations are also eligible to be served by Federally Qualified Health Centers and Rural Health Clinics. The new program will also allow federally purchased vaccine to be distributed to private physicians to vaccinate eligible children. Where grantees impose burdens on providers to check on the immunization status of children in their care and to ensure that necessary immunizations are received, we would expect grantees to assist providers in meeting these requirements. At a minimum, the assistance should include: (1) Provision of updated immunization schedules; (2) information on the availability of free vaccines; and (3) information on locations where parents of eligible children can be referred for immunizations. These expectations are consistent with section 658E(c)(2)(G) of the CCDBG statute which requires that procedures be in place to ensure that providers comply with applicable health and safety requirements. We also expect that some children may not have all of the required immunizations at the time eligibility is determined. In order to ensure that children eligible to receive services under the Block Grant are not denied services, we recommend that grantees establish a grace period in which children can receive services while taking the necessary actions to comply with the requirements. Grantees will be required to describe the grace period allowed to these families in their CCDBG plan. The health of all children is important, and we therefore strongly encourage immunizations for children receiving title IV&hyph;A child care. However, we believe that there is no authority under the Social Security Act to require immunizations for children receiving title IV&hyph;A child care and therefore we cannot propose a parallel regulation for title IV&hyph;A child care. Unlike the CCDBG statutory mandate for State requirements for the prevention and control of infectious diseases, including immunization, for all providers, the Social Security Act is silent. Nevertheless, we wish to emphasize that States already have the necessary flexibility to choose to require immunizations for children receiving title IV&hyph;A care under the existing title IV&hyph;A applicable standards regulations. The application to title IV&hyph;A child care of the proposed immunization requirement would facilitate the seamless delivery of child care services across programs. The applicable standards regulations at §§255.4 and 257.41 require title IV&hyph;A child care providers to meet any generally applicable standard of State, local or Tribal law. Additionally, the applicable standards regulations allow States to deny payment for care that does not meet the additional standards used in other Federal (e.g., CCDBG) or State child care programs in the area of prevention and control of infectious diseases, including immunizations. Thus additional Federal regulations are not necessary for title IV&hyph;A child care for States to have the ability to require consistent health and safety standards, including the proposed immunization requirement. Foster Care We are clarifying that CCDBG grantees have the flexibility to include foster care in their definition of protective services. The preamble to the existing regulations distinguishes between protective services cases and children placed in foster care by allowing child care subsidies for foster care cases only if the foster parent is working, in education or in training. The distinction made in the preamble was an interpretation of the regulatory language. The regulation discusses child protective services only; it is silent on foster care. This change in interpretation does not require a regulatory change. In many States, foster care is an integral part of the protective services system. It is one of the many services provided to children and families who, for a variety of reasons, may need protective intervention. A child is placed in foster care when remaining in the home places him or her at risk. States, acting in loco parentis, may provide on-going supportive services to meet the developmental needs and redress developmental delays which may exist as a result of neglect or abuse. These services are available both for a child who remains in his or her own home and for a child in a foster placement. For purposes of protective services benefits, some grantees do not differentiate between the protective services for families who remain intact and for those children who are in a foster placement. In the preamble to the existing regulations, a child in a family that is receiving, or needs to receive, some type of protective, interventive services can be eligible for child care subsidies under CCDBG if he or she remains in his or her own home even if the parent is not working, in education or in training. However, such therapeutic child care outside of the home may be a necessary part of the individual child's supportive services plan regardless of the child's living situation. In these cases, child care is needed to carry out the social services plan for the child and the family_not necessarily because the parent is working, in education or in training. Therefore we are changing our interpretation of the regulation to allow States the option of including children in foster care in the State's definition of protective services cases.
