FR941110-0-00082 FR941110-0-00016 Comment: One commenter asked that we indicate whether the 2 weeks specified in §488.310(c) is 2 work or calendar weeks (that is, 10 work days or 14 calendar days). Another commenter asked that we define ``partial extended survey.'' One commenter wondered whether the survey agency would notify facilities that they were going to receive an extended survey. Response: We are revising §488.310(c) to state that the 2 weeks are computed in calendar days. We are defining the term ``partial extended survey'' in §488.301 (``Definitions''). The survey agency will not notify a facility when an extended survey will be conducted. The survey team will let the facility know at the exit conference when it finds substandard quality of care. Based on the finding of substandard quality of care, the facility will then know that an extended survey will be conducted any time within the next 14 calendar days. In most cases, we expect that the survey team will conduct the extended survey immediately following the standard survey especially when it would be more cost effective for the State to complete both the standard and extended survey while on site rather than scheduling another visit. Section 488.312␣Consistency of Survey Results We specifically asked in the preamble of the proposed regulation for comments or suggestions for enhancing surveyor consistency. Comment: Several commenters support efforts by HCFA to assure consistency of survey results and the application of remedies. However, it was stressed that consistency should not receive greater emphasis than accuracy and efficiency. Increased accuracy of the citation of deficiencies will lead to greater consistency within the survey process. Response: In the preamble of the proposed rule, we stressed that surveyors should be trained to ``exercise consistency and accuracy.'' We agree that accuracy is as important as consistency and we are including the term in the text of the final regulation. Additionally, we believe that the recommendations of the studies and analyses required by the regulation should be implemented to enhance consistency and be monitored by each HCFA regional office. These changes are reflected in the final text at §488.312.
