FR941102-2-00060 FR941102-2-00046 FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM [Docket No. R&hyph;0806] Policy Statement on Payment System Risk AGENCY: Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Board) has approved a modification to its Policy Statement on Payment System Risk regarding net debit caps. Specifically, the Board has approved that the multiple associated with the de minimis net debit cap be doubled from 20 to 40 percent of risk-based capital. In addition, the Board approved administrative counseling flexibility for institutions that continue to exceed their net debit caps due to the posting of non-Fedwire transactions. Under this flexibility, the Reserve Banks will work with affected institutions on means of avoiding daylight overdrafts, but will not subject these institutions to routine counseling for daylight overdrafts. EFFECTIVE DATE: October 13, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Jeffrey C. Marquardt, Assistant Director (202/452&hyph;2360), Paul Bettge, Manager (202/452&hyph;3174), Division of Reserve Bank Operations and Payment Systems, Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. For the hearing impaired only, Telecommunication Device for the Deaf (TDD), Dorothea Thompson (202/452&hyph;3544). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Board has established a Payment System Risk Policy Statement pursuant to its authority under the Federal Reserve Act. 12 U.S.C. 221 et seq. In October 1993, the Federal Reserve implemented a set of intraday posting rules for debits and credits affecting depository institution accounts with Reserve Banks. The posting rules provide for the posting of non-Fedwire transactions at specific times during the day, in addition to the posting of Fedwire funds and securities transfers as they occur throughout the day. In contrast, according to the posting rules that were in effect prior to last October, non-Fedwire payments for each depository institution were netted and, if a net credit resulted, the amount was posted to the institution's Federal Reserve account as of the opening of business and, if a net debit, as of the close of business. Prior to implementation of the new posting rules, about 200 institutions, on average, exceeded their daylight overdraft caps during any given two-week reserve maintenance period. Immediately following implementation of the new posting rules, this number increased to between 1200 and 1500 institutions per period. In anticipation of this increase, the Board adopted a ``transition period'' for routine administrative counseling in order to provide institutions with a period of time to implement changes to their Federal Reserve account management procedures in order to reduce the incidence of daylight overdrafts in excess of daylight overdraft caps. Following nearly one year of ``transition,'' about 750 to 800 institutions per period still typically exceed their caps. The new posting rules were intended, in large part, to support the assessment of daylight overdraft fees, which began on April 14, 1994. The posting rules were developed by the Board over a three-year period and included two separate requests for public comment. In developing the new posting rules, four general principles were established. First, the intraday posting rules were designed not to generate intraday float. The old posting rules typically created approximately $30 billion in intraday float. Second, the new posting rules were to permit depository institutions to anticipate precisely when transactions would be posted to their account. Under the old posting rules, an institution would not know until after the close of business whether the net of all non-Fedwire activity was a credit or a debit and, accordingly, whether the netted amount would be posted as of the opening or closing of business. Third, the posting rules were designed to be consistent with the legal rights and responsibilities of depository institutions. Under this principle, check debits would not be posted to an institution's account prior to presentment of the checks. Finally, the new posting rules were intended to be competitively neutral. That is, neither the Reserve Banks nor private sector providers of correspondent banking services should be artificially advantaged by the new posting rules. Under these principles, the debit to an institution for any payment is posted at the same time as the credit is posted to the account of the counterparty to the transaction. The exception to this guideline is for check transactions where, by virtue of the nature of check processing, it is not possible to match debits and credits on a transaction-by-transaction basis throughout the day. In addition, because checks should not be debited prior to presentment, a single time for all check debits and credits would necessarily be later in the day than many depository institutions believed appropriate. Therefore, debits for checks presented to depository institutions are posted on the next clock hour at least one hour following presentment, beginning at 11:00 a.m., Eastern Time. Credits for check deposits are either posted (1) at a single, float-weighted posting time or (2) at multiple times throughout the day, beginning at 11:00 a.m., Eastern Time, using a set of fractions that are based upon Reserve Bank check collection experience. For check credits, depository institutions are permitted to select either option, based upon which alternative best meets their needs. Currently, the earliest float-weighted posting time (Option 1), which enables an institution to have full use of check deposit credits, is 11:45 a.m. Eastern Time. On average over a day, these check posting rules result in a minimal amount of intraday check float. At specific points in time during the day, however, the check posting rules appear to be giving rise to as much as $20 billion in ``credit float,'' whereby the Reserve Banks have posted debits to depository institution accounts prior to providing corresponding credits on check transactions to other institutions. The impact of this float, and the measured daylight overdrafts it creates, appears to be falling primarily on smaller depository institutions.
