FR940720-0-00131 FR940720-0-00010 In 1958, in an effort to meet Rio Grande Compact water delivery requirements, the Bureau of Reclamation initiated operation of a 97 km (60 mi) long conveyance channel from San Acacia to Elephant Butte Reservoir. The purpose of the conveyance channel is to divert all flow less than 63 cubic meters per second (2000 cubic feet per second) in order to prevent loss of the Rio Grande flow to seepage and evaporation from the aggraded riverbed. Prior to 1985, the conveyance channel had been operated to its full capacity for about 28 years. Since 1985, it has not been operated at full capacity. If, however, the channel were to be operated at full capacity, the natural stream bed downstream of San Acacia would be dry more frequently and for longer periods of time. Both the Corps and the Bureau of Reclamation are drafting plans to rehabilitate and protect the conveyance channel in order to bring it into full operation. Should the conveyance channel be placed in full operation, the portion of the Rio Grande silvery minnow's habitat downstream of San Acacia dam would be desiccated when river flows at the dam became less than 63 cubic meters per second (2000 cubic feet per second), resulting in death or displacement of individuals. Water diversions also occur above the Middle Rio Grande Valley in both Colorado and New Mexico. These diversions, which provide irrigation for about 248,000 ha (620,000 ac) in Colorado and about 24,400 ha (61,000 ac) in New Mexico, have a significant effect on flows (Cruz et al. 1993). In addition to these upstream diversions, about 94,000 acre-feet of water are diverted annually from the San Juan River basin and transported via a tunnel into the Rio Grande basin. This diversion may benefit the species since it is used to supplement flows during periods of low flow. Growth of agriculture and cities along the Rio Grande during the last century may have adversely affected the quality of the river's water. During low-flow periods, a large percentage of the river's flow consists of municipal and agricultural discharge and less water is available to dilute pollutants. This degradation of water quality may affect H. amarus survival. Poor water quality in the Rio Grande near Albuquerque, especially during low flows, may be a problem, as low numbers of H. amarus and an overall reduced fish community are found there (Bestgen and Platania 1991). B. Overutilization for Commercial, Recreational, Scientific, or Educational Purposes It is not presently known if the species is being overutilized for commercial, recreational, scientific, or educational purposes. New Mexico Department of Game and Fish controls scientific taking of the species through a permit process. Licensed commercial bait dealers may sell bait minnows only within the drainage where they have been collected. They are also restricted from selling any State-listed fish species. However, it has been demonstrated on the Pecos River, New Mexico, that often the dealers and retailers cannot identify listed fish species. Utilization of the species for recreational purposes could occur should an individual unknowingly collect the species while gathering bait minnows for personal use. C. Disease or Predation When fish are forced into confined habitats due to low flow, they are more susceptible to both disease and predation. Predation takes place when non-native species, including northern pike ( Esox lucius ), walleye ( Stizostedion vitreum ), white crappie ( Pomoxis annularis ), white bass ( Morone chrysops ), black and brown bullheads ( Ameiurus melas, A. nebulosus ), smallmouth bass ( Micropterus dolomieui ), and largemouth bass ( Micropterus salmoides ) are confined, during low flow or no flow, in limited habitat with H. amarus and other native species. These species have been introduced primarily by State and Federal fish and wildlife management agencies in efforts to develop sport fisheries in reservoirs created by the mainstream dams. The species have not remained confined to the reservoirs and have become established in the river both upstream from the impoundments and downstream of the dams where it is suspected they may compete with H. amarus for space and food in addition to preying upon them. Native predatory fish species, including the Rio Grande chub ( Gila pandora ) and bluegill ( Lepomis macrochirus ), may also prey upon subadult H. amarus under these circumstances. Avian and mammalian predation probably increases when H. amarus become confined in small clear-water pools. Confining fish to pools causes stress that can often result in outbreaks of parasitic disease. Most notable is parasitism by the protozoan Ichthyophthirius multifilis, which can be promoted by stress. External parasites, such as the copepod Lernaea, are more common among fish in confined conditions. No studies have been conducted on the impact of disease and parasites upon H. amarus; therefore, the significance of these threats for existing populations of the species is not known. However, stress-induced outbreaks may be exacerbated when high levels of pollutants or other stresses are present. D. The Inadequacy of Existing Regulatory Mechanisms The State of New Mexico lists H. amarus as an endangered species, Group 2 (New Mexico Department of Game and Fish 1993), which includes those species ``.␣.␣. whose prospects of survival or recruitment within the State are likely to be in jeopardy within the foreseeable future.'' This listing provides the protection of the New Mexico Wildlife Conservation Act (Section 17&hyph;2&hyph;37 through 17&hyph;2&hyph;46 NMSA 1978) and prohibits taking of such species except under the issuance of a scientific collecting permit. The protection afforded to the species by the State does not provide protection to the habitat upon which the species depends. New Mexico water law does not include provisions for acquisition of instream water rights for protection of fish and wildlife and their habitats. This has been a major factor affecting the survival of species dependent upon the presence of instream flow. Agencies responsible for administering water rights have been unable to administer the rights in a manner that protects, maintains, and recovers the Rio Grande silvery minnow. Under the existing water rights administration, two native fish species in the Rio Grande have become extinct, and two others have been extirpated.
