FR940916-2-00014 FR940916-2-00012 Procurement List; Addition AGENCY: Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled. ACTION: Addition to the Procurement List. SUMMARY: This action adds to the Procurement List a service to be furnished by nonprofit agencies employing persons who are blind or have other severe disabilities. EFFECTIVE DATE: October 17, 1994. ADDRESS: Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled, Crystal Square 3, Suite 403, 1735 Jefferson Davis Highway, Arlington, Virginia 22202&hyph;3461. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Beverly Milkman (703) 603&hyph;7740. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: On March 18, 1994, the Committee for Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled published notice (59 F.R. 12895) of proposed addition to the Procurement List. Comments were received through a Member of Congress from an employee of the current contractor for this service indicating that addition of the service to the Procurement List would greatly increase the cost of the service. The commenter also indicated that the tasks involved are dangerous for people with severe disabilities. The Committee is required by law to set a fair market price for each service it places on the Procurement List. Consequently, the price the Government pays will not increase substantially beyond what it is currently paying, contrary to the commenter's contention. Grounds maintenance services have long been a part of the Committee's program and have been performed by people with severe disabilities without incident. People with severe disabilities are not assigned tasks which are not within their capabilities. Where such tasks exist, they are performed by the non-disabled direct labor workers nonprofit agencies are permitted to employ under the Committee's program. Nonprofit agencies participating in the Committee's program must conform to the same occupational safety and health requirements as other Government contractors. Under these circumstances, the Committee believes that the commenter's concerns are unfounded. After consideration of the material presented to it concerning capability of qualified nonprofit agencies to provide the service, fair market price, and impact of the addition on the current or most recent contractors, the Committee has determined that the service listed below are suitable for procurement by the Federal Government under 41 U.S.C. 46&hyph;48c and 41 CFR 51&hyph;2.4. I certify that the following action will not have a significant impact on a substantial number of small entities. The major factors considered for this certification were: 1. The action will not result in any additional reporting, recordkeeping or other compliance requirements for small entities other than the small organizations that will furnish the service to the Government. 2. The action does not appear to have a severe economic impact on current contractors for the service. 3. The action will result in authorizing small entities to furnish the service to the Government. 4. There are no known regulatory alternatives which would accomplish the objectives of the Javits-Wagner-O'Day Act (41 U.S.C. 46&hyph;48c) in connection with the service proposed for addition to the Procurement List. Accordingly, the following service is hereby added to the Procurement List: Grounds Maintenance, Fairchild Air Force Base, Washington. This action does not affect current contracts awarded prior to the effective date of this addition or options exercised under those contracts. Beverly L. Milkman, Executive Director. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;23007 Filed 9&hyph;15&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6820&hyph;33&hyph;P
