FR940505-1-00144 FR940505-1-00012 EPA believes that fee collected under this program must be submitted to the United States treasury and can not be redirected for air pollution mitigation projects or other purposes. The Agency requests comment, however, whether this is true for fees collected from foreign flag air carriers under international aviation agreements. For a general discussion on the disposition of collected fees see section III.A.2.b. ( d ) Averaging and Trading. The Agency proposes to allow an airline to calculate its average seasonal environmental performance across the entire area in order to determine compliance with the emission rate target. This approach will provide airlines with the flexibility to shift operations within the basin to meet demand in an environmentally beneficial manner; an airline could move some of its operations to a less-congested airport to take advantage of reduced taxi times and resultant emissions reductions, for example. It also allows an airline to operate at some airports in excess of the pounds-per-PEU level and offset the excess at other airports where emission control may be more economical. EPA requests comment on the feasibility and desirability of determining compliance in such a manner. EPA also requests comment on including an emissions credit program as part of the control strategy proposed today. Any commercial airline that achieves emission reductions greater than those required could sell or otherwise transfer credits thus generated to other commercial airlines, which in turn could use the credits to comply with the pounds per PEU target and minimize or avoid paying emissions fees. Such a credit program would provide commercial aircraft operators with an incentive to reduce emissions to a level below that required, thus rewarding those airlines with the ability to operate in an efficient and environmentally beneficial manner. A credit program also would accommodate those airlines that cannot achieve their individual emission rate targets because of certain operating circumstances. Simple, direct airline-to-airline credit trades could be incorporated into EPA's annual reporting and fee calculation program fairly easily with little extra resources on EPA's part. An expanded credit system in which credits become a commodity that can be purchased and re-sold would require more monitoring and enforcement to prevent error and fraud. EPA would be likely to allow such a system only if a state or local agency took responsibility for the work of keeping it honest and accurate, given the expected limits on EPA resources to implement all aspects of the FIP. EPA notes that the RECLAIM credit trading program for NO X emissions was recently adopted in the South Coast, and is an example of cross-source trading of excess emission reductions relative to well quantified baselines and requirements for further emission reduction. The RECLAIM program covers certain NO X source types that were most amenable to emissions quantification and verification. Such a cross-source trading system has obvious attractions in terms of achieving a given environmental goal, while allowing the most economically efficient business choices consistent with that goal. EPA anticipates that commercial airlines may be interested in a program that provides the option of purchasing emission credits to allow more operational flexibility. Since the RECLAIM program operates off a declining schedule of allowable emissions from the subject sources, rather than from the declining emissions caps established by the FIP, RECLAIM NO X credits are not necessarily surplus to the FIP and cannot be used by sources, including commercial airlines, to meet their FIP emission limits or to reduce their fee liability. Given EPA's concern about the adequacy of its implementation resources, EPA is not proposing to establish a cross-source trading program of its own. However, EPA welcomes comments on whether and how state or local agencies could help operate a credit trading system which would be in keeping with the FIPs control levels and which would be available to the airline industry. ( e ) Reporting and Recordkeeping. (i) Compliance plans. The stationary source cap program includes a requirement for affected sources to submit compliance plans that describe planned emission reduction measures. EPA could establish a similar requirement for commercial airlines as part of today's proposed control strategy. Such compliance plans would be submitted by airlines in advance of the control period and would describe in some detail the various emission reduction measures planned for the 2001&hyph;2005 control period. Compliance plans also could include information on expected activity during the control period, which would provide EPA with an opportunity to review the PEU forecast and update the environmental performance targets if necessary. Most importantly, compliance plans could provide an opportunity for the FAA to review airline emission reduction plans for safety considerations. Compliance plans would impose significant administrative burdens on commercial airlines, EPA, and the FAA, however. The Agency therefore requests comment on the desirability of requiring airlines to submit compliance plans, and on the information that should be provided in such plans should they be required. EPA does not contemplate that compliance plans if required would become legally binding on the airlines that submit them since that would impede business flexibility and is not essential to the effectiveness of the program. However, if EPA does require compliance plans, deliberate misrepresentation of an airlines plans may be made a violation of the FIP.
