FR940505-1-00248 FR940505-1-00012 The percent reduction requirement is a further reduction from year 1990 baseline VOC and NO X emissions, beyond all mobile source reductions required or credited in the California FIP as of [ Insert date of publication of the final rule ]. (l) Contingency Measures. EPA commits to publish contingency measures by 1/1/1999 to achieve the cumulative percent reduction in VOC and NO X emissions from the sources described in paragraphs (b), (d), (f), (h), and (j) of this section, on the schedule set forth in paragraphs (c), (e), (g), (i), and (k) of this section, if the new technology measures are not developed or fail to achieve the emissions reductions specified in paragraphs (c), (e), (g), (i), and (k) of this section. ยง52.2952 Stationary and area source caps (Sacramento). 2 2 EPA intends to issue a supplemental document in the Federal Register which addresses portions of proposed ยง52.2952. (a) General Provisions. (1) Applicability. The provisions of this section shall apply to all stationary emission sources located in the ``control area'' as defined as the Sacramento Metro ozone nonattainment area in 40 CFR 81.305, and all other persons identified in subsequent applicability paragraphs in this section. (2) Compliance dates. Unless otherwise specified in this section, compliance with all requirements of this section is required as of [ Insert date of publication of the final rule ]. This paragraph (a)(2) shall not operate to provide additional time for compliance under section 113(d) of the Act, 42 U.S.C 7413(d), for sources subject to compliance as of [ Insert date of publication of the final rule ]. (3) Definitions. For the purposes of this section, the following definitions apply. All terms not defined herein shall have the meaning given them in ยง52.2950. Actual emissions means the actual quantity of VOC emissions from an emissions source during a particular time period. Actual emissions rate means the actual quantity of VOC emissions from an emissions source per unit of actual production or throughput. Agency means the United States Environmental Protection Agency. Air contaminant means any solid, liquid, or gaseous matter, any odor, or any form of energy, that is capable of being released into the atmosphere from an emission source. Air pollution means the presence in the atmosphere of one or more air contaminants in sufficient quantities and of such characteristics and duration as to be injurious to human, plant, or animal life, to health, or to property, or to unreasonably interfere with the enjoyment of life or property. Air pollution control equipment means any equipment or facility of a type intended to eliminate, prevent, reduce or control the emission of specified air contaminants to the atmosphere. Allowable emissions rate means the most stringent of the applicable standards in 40 CFR parts 60 and 61; the applicable implementation plan; or a federally enforceable permit. Baseline emissions means the emissions calculated using 1990 emission inventory data in the affected FIP areas and adjusted for emission reductions projected to occur by the implementation year of the FIP cap program in the affected FIP area. The baseline shall be denominated in pounds per year of FIP cap pollutant (e.g., pounds of VOC per year) and monthly caps shall be prorated based on this data. Coating applicator means any equipment or device including but not limited to cloth, rollers, brushes, spray guns, or dip tanks used to apply a coating. Day means a period of consecutive 24 hours beginning at 12 a.m. (midnight) local time, or beginning at a time consistent with a facility's operating schedule. Emission rate means the total mass of VOCs released or discharged from an emissions source into the atmosphere per unit of production or throughput (e.g., pound VOC/gallon of coating solids). Emission source or source means any building, structure, facility, property, equipment, device, container, or any combination thereof, at, from, or by reason which VOC is emitted or discharged into the atmosphere. Facility means all of the pollutant-emitting activities which belong to the same industrial grouping, are located on one or more contiguous or adjacent properties, and are under the control of the same person (or persons under common control), except the activities of any vessel. Pollutant-emitting activities shall be considered as part of the same industrial grouping if they belong to the same ``Major Group'' (i.e., which have the same two-digit code) as described in the ``Standard Industrial Classification Manual, 1987'' (National Technical Information Service order No. PB 87&hyph;10012). Federally enforceable means all limitations and conditions that are enforceable by the Administrator including those requirements contained in permits issued pursuant to 40 CFR parts 70 and 71, except those terms or conditions designated as not federally enforceable; those requirements developed pursuant to 40 CFR parts 60 and 61; requirements within any applicable implementation plan; and any permit requirements established pursuant to 40 CFR 52.21 or under regulations approved pursuant to 40 CFR part 51, subpart I, and 40 CFR 51.166. Incinerator means a combustion apparatus in which solid, semi-solid, liquid, or gaseous combustible wastes are ignited and burned and from which the solid and gaseous residues contain little or no combustible material. Monitor means to measure and record. Organic compound means a chemical compound of carbon, excluding carbon monoxide, carbon dioxide, carbonic acid, metallic carbides, carbonates, and ammonium carbonate.
