FR940812-0-00062 FR940812-0-00019 Real property. The term real property means land, including land improvements, structures and appurtenances thereto, excluding movable machinery and equipment. Share. The term share, when referring to the awarding agency's portion of real property, equipment or supplies, means the same percentage as the awarding agency's portion of the acquiring party's total costs under the grant to which the acquisition costs under the grant to which the acquisition cost of the property was charged. Only costs are to be counted_not the value of third-party in-kind contributions. State. The term State means any of the several States of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, any territory or possession of the United States, or any agency or instrumentality of a State exclusive of local governments. The term does not include any public and Indian housing agency under the United States Housing Act of 1937. Subgrant. The term subgrant means an award of financial assistance in the form of money, or property in lieu of money, made under a grant by a grantee to an eligible subgrantee. The term includes financial assistance when provided by contractual legal agreement, but does not include procurement purchases, nor does it include any form of assistance which is excluded from the definition of ``grant'' in this part. Subgrantee. The term subgrantee means the government or other legal entity to which a subgrant is awarded and which is accountable to the grantee for the use of the funds provided. Supplies. The term supplies means all tangible personal property other than ``equipment'' as defined in this part. Suspension. The term suspension means, depending on the context, either_ (1) Temporary withdrawal of the authority to obligate grant funds pending corrective action by the grantee or subgrantee or a decision to terminate the grant; or (2) An action taken by a suspending official in accordance with agency regulations implementing E.O. 12549 (3 CFR, 1986 Comp., p. 189) to immediately exclude a person from participating in grant transactions for a period, pending completion of an investigation and such legal or debarment proceedings as may ensue. Termination. The term termination means permanent withdrawal of the authority to obligate previously-awarded grant funds before that authority would otherwise expire. It also means the voluntary relinquishment of that authority by the grantee or subgrantee. Termination does not include_ (1) Withdrawal of funds awarded on the basis of the grantee's underestimate of the unobligated balance in a prior period; (2) Withdrawal of the unobligated balance as of the expiration of a grant; (3) Refusal to extend a grant or award additional funds, to make a competing or noncompeting continuation, renewal, extension, or supplemental award; or (4) Voiding of a grant upon determination that the award was obtained fraudulently, or was otherwise illegal or invalid from inception. Terms of a grant or subgrant mean all requirements of the grant or subgrant, whether in statute, regulations, or the award document. Third party in-kind contributions. The term third party in-kind contributions means property or services which benefit a federally assisted project or program and which are contributed by non-Federal third parties without charge to the grantee, or a cost-type contractor under the grant agreement. Unliquidated obligations for reports prepared on a cash basis. The term unliquidated obligations for reports prepared on a cash basis means the amount of obligations incurred by the grantee that has not been paid. For reports prepared on an accrued expenditure basis, they represent the amount of obligations incurred by the grantee for which an outlay has not been recorded. Unobligated balance. The term unobligated balance means the portion of the funds authorized by the Federal agency that has not been obligated by the grantee and is determined by deducting the cumulative obligations from the cumulative funds authorized. ยง2541.40 Applicability. (a) General. Subparts A through D of this part apply to all grants and subgrants to governments, except where inconsistent with Federal statutes or with regulations authorized in accordance with the exception provision of ยง2541.60, or: (1) Grants and subgrants to State and local institutions of higher education or State and local hospitals. (2) The block grants authorized by the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1981 (Pub. L. 97&hyph;35, 95 Stat. 357) (Community Services; Preventive Health and Health Services; Alcohol, Drug Abuse, and Mental Health Services; Maternal and Child Health Services; Social Services; Low-Income Home Energy Assistance; States' Program of Community Development Block Grants for Small Cities; and Elementary and Secondary Education other than programs administered by the Secretary of Education under title V, subtitle D, chapter 2, section 583_the Secretary's discretionary grant program) and titles I&hyph;III of the Job Training Partnership Act of 1982 (29 U.S.C. 1501 et seq.) and under the Public Health Services Act (42 U.S.C. 201 et seq.), Alcohol and Drug Abuse Treatment and Rehabilitation Block Grant and part C of title V, Mental Health Service for the Homeless Block Grant). (3) Entitlement grants to carry out the following programs of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 301 et seq.): (i) Aid to Needy Families with Dependent Children (title IV&hyph;A of the Act, not including the Work Incentive Program (WIN) authorized by section 402(a)19(G); HHS grants for WIN are subject to this part); (ii) Child Support Enforcement and Establishment of Paternity (title IV&hyph;D of the Act); (iii) Foster Care and Adoption Assistance (title IV&hyph;E of the Act); (iv) Aid to the Aged, Blind, and Disabled (titles I, X, XIV, and XVI&hyph;AABD of the Act); and (v) Medical Assistance (Medicaid) (title XIX of the Act) not including the State Medicaid Fraud Control program authorized by section 1903(a)(6)(B). (4) Entitlement grants under the following programs of The National School Lunch Act (42 U.S.C. 1751 et seq.): (i) School Lunch (section 4 of the Act); (ii) Commodity Assistance (section 6 of the Act);
