FR940328-2-00122 FR940328-2-00068 (b) the organization's plan and ability to meet compelling and ongoing needs, in collaboration with others where possible and appropriate; (c) the organization's capacity, including staff strengths and backgrounds, resumes of key people, and the organization's track record; (d) the innovation and replicability of the proposed T/TA activity; and (e) outcome objectives and indicators to be used to assess success. _A detailed budget, including an estimate of travel costs for delivery of T/TA services, with a supporting narrative explaining how costs are calculated and information on funding from other sources. _A detailed workplan for accomplishing the specific objectives including a timeline showing when each step toward the objectives will be accomplished. Where specified, a concept paper must include: _A cover page listing the title of the organization applying; the amount of funds requested; a brief summary of the proposed T/TA program or activity; the name, address, phone number, and fax number of the organization; and the name and title of a contact person. _A brief narrative of no more than 5 double-spaced typed pages in 12-point font describing proposed T/TA activity. _A brief budget, with major expense line items, which may include a supporting narrative. _A preliminary workplan for accomplishing the specific objectives. _A preliminary timeline. Selection Criteria The Corporation will assess applications based on the criteria listed below. The percentage weight of each criterion in the assessment is given. Quality (45%). The Corporation will consider the quality of the proposed activities, based on_ _Scope of proposed T/TA activity relative to the amount of the grant requested, the number of people, programs, and/or State Commissions proposed T/TA activities are expected to reach; _Demonstration that the proposed activities meet clear compelling program and/or state needs related to the Corporation's mission and goals for national service; _Description of proposed T/TA techniques, including opportunities for peer exchange and peer training, experiential learning, and individual assistance tailored to meet specific program or state needs; also description of plans to use tested methods or ways to test training activities or curricula on a small scale and refine them before offering them on a large scale; _Plan for implementing mechanisms continually to assess and improve value and impact of T/TA services. This may include providing opportunities for customer(s) participation in design of activity and opportunities for ongoing training and feedback from AmeriCorps or Learn and Serve participants and programs, community partners of AmeriCorps or Learn and Serve programs, State Commissions, Corporation staff, and others; _Commitment to build on existing resources and collaborate with other technical assistance providers; ability to coordinate planning, development, and execution with other providers; efforts to prevent duplication of work or inefficient use of resources; and ways to establish networks with other T/TA providers to ensure coordination among providers and presentation of a clear, coherent set of assistance activities to programs, states, and the Corporation; and _Cost-effectiveness of proposed activity, the degree to which the T/TA provider proposes a reasonable estimate of the amount of services the organization will be able to provide given the requested amount of funds and the organization's existing resources. Organizational Capacity (45%). Applicants should demonstrate evidence of either organizational experience and success in delivering high-quality technical assistance and training, particularly in the specific area under consideration, or the similar experience of identified staff retained for the T/TA project. Backgrounds of key staff, leadership, and other individuals proposed to contribute to the proposed program will be considered in assessing organizational capacity. In some cases, the capacity to begin providing training and/or technical assistance quickly will be required. In certain instances, noted in the description of applicable activities, services will be needed as early as summer 1994. The applicant must demonstrate the ability to provide high quality services in the desired time frame. Innovation and Replicability (10%). The Corporation will assess the extent to which the T/TA activity, or its elements, are creative or distinctive in approach or in the need that is met. The Corporation will assess the degree to which the proposed T/TA activity could serve as a long-term resource by identifying other sources of funding and the extent to which the activity or its elements are applicable or adaptable to various program types, locations, or approaches to service. In addition, the Corporation will assess the use of innovative technology in providing training or technical assistance, where appropriate. This criterion includes use of technology to increase access to training and technical assistance activities and convenience for users. For example, an information session might be conducted by video conference, allowing users to participate from a local facility and avoid travel costs. The Corporation expects that all of its program grantees will be connected through on-line networks. Training and technical assistance providers will be expected to be connected to electronic networks as well and should be prepared to use technology and to distribute information through on-line networks when appropriate. Requirements There are certain requirements that every recipient of a T/TA grant or cooperative agreement must fulfill. They include the following provisions: (a) T/TA providers must work closely with Corporation staff and other T/TA providers, especially the ``National Service Resource Center'' described in the ``Concept Paper'' section below. Providers must be willing to receive input from Corporation staff during development and delivery of T/TA activities; periodically attend meetings and conferences at the Corporation's request; inform other T/TA providers of plans and progress and coordinate efforts when appropriate; and work with Corporation staff to assess the direction and value of each T/TA activity every six months and modify T/TA activity to better serve the users of T/TA and adapt to changing needs. (b) T/TA grantees must develop and continually apply mechanisms for assessing the value and impact of their T/TA activities and show evidence of continuous program improvement resulting from the application of such mechanisms. (c) While the Corporation has a vested interest in promoting best practices throughout the field, to grantee and potential grantees alike, grantees will be given preference when resources are limited. (d) Databases or other on-line materials should be created in Foxpro or Oracle software. This will allow easy data transfer both to the Corporation and among T/TA grantees. Assistance may be available to convert existing databases to Foxpro or Oracle if necessary.
