FR941103-0-00041 FR941103-0-00007 The commenters in the Pricing Inquiry almost unanimously requested that the Commission allow flexibility. To that end, the Commission has attempted to provide pricing principles and general guidance that allow broad experimentation consistent with federal law and the physics of transmission. Certain experiments, particularly pricing methods that attempt to recognize loop flow, clearly require regional involvement and cooperation if they are to be effective. RTGs are encouraged to address such issues as pricing reform and loop flow. The Commission encourages filing utilities and new groups that may form, such as RTGs and pool companies, to work closely with state regulatory authorities in developing transmission pricing policy. The Commission is committed to cooperating with all affected parties, especially state regulatory authorities, to ensure that any such pricing reform is implemented in an equitable manner and facilitates an orderly transition to a fully competitive bulk power market. Our pricing principles are expected to provide the foundation for the industry to continue its exploration of transmission pricing reform. Finally, the Commission in this Policy Statement has proposed procedures under which non-conforming pricing proposals will be considered. We believe these procedures are flexible enough to permit utilities to propose non-conforming pricing innovations which they believe will benefit ratepayers and promote the development of a competitive bulk power market. The Commission is making this Policy Statement effective immediately. It is based on the voluminous record developed to date in the Pricing Inquiry. We will accept motions for reconsideration submitted within 30 days in order to help us refine the principles established herein and to provide an opportunity to respond to any questions or clarify any ambiguity. We will apply the Policy Statement to transmission pricing proposals submitted in individual cases filed after the date of this Policy Statement. List of Subjects in 18 CFR Part 2 Administrative practice and procedure, Electric power, Natural gas, Pipelines, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. By the Commission. Lois D. Cashell, Secretary. In consideration of the foregoing, the Commission amends Part 2, Chapter I, Title 18 of the Code of Federal Regulations as set forth below.
