FR941028-2-00203 FR941028-2-00109 E. Maintenance and Monitoring 1. Labelling and Posting Warning signs should be posted on UV lamps and wherever high-intensity (i.e., UV exposure greater than the REL) germicidal UV irradiation is present (e.g., upper-room air space and accesses to ducts [if duct irradiation is used]) to alert maintenance staff or other HCWs of the hazard. Some examples are shown below: CAUTION ULTRAVIOLET ENERGY: TURN OFF LAMPS BEFORE ENTERING UPPER ROOM CAUTION ULTRAVIOLET ENERGY: PROTECT EYES & SKIN 2. Maintenance Because the intensity of UV lamps fluctuates as they age, a schedule for replacing the lamps should be developed. The schedule can be determined from either a time/use log or a system based on cumulative time. The tube should be checked periodically for dust build-up, which lessens the output of UVGI. If the tube is dirty, it should be allowed to cool, then cleaned with a damp cloth. Tubes should be replaced if they stop glowing or if they flicker to an objectionable extent. Maintenance personnel must turn off all UV tubes before entering the upper part of the room or before accessing ducts for any purpose. Only a few seconds of direct exposure to the intense UV radiation in the upper-room air space or in ducts can cause burns. Protective equipment (e.g., gloves and goggles [and/or face shields]) should be worn if exposure greater than the recommended standard is anticipated. Banks of UVGI tubes can be installed in ventilating ducts. Safety devices should be used on access doors to eliminate hazard to maintenance personnel. For duct irradiation systems, the access door for servicing the lamps should have an inspection window* through which the lamps are checked periodically for dust build-up and malfunctioning. The access door should have a warning sign written in languages appropriate for maintenance personnel to alert them to the health hazard of looking directly at bare tubes. The lock for this door should have an automatic electric switch or other device that turns off the lamps when the door is opened. * Ordinary glass (not quartz) is sufficient to filter out UV radiation. Two types of fixtures are used in upper-room air irradiation: wall-mounted fixtures that have louvers to block downward radiation and ceiling-mounted fixtures that have baffles to block radiation below the horizontal plane of the UV tube. The actual UV tube in either type of fixture must not be visible from any normal position in the room. Light switches that can be locked should be used, if possible, to prevent injury to personnel who might unintentionally turn the lamps on during maintenance procedures. In most applications, properly shielding the UV lamps to provide protection from most, if not all, of the direct UV radiation is not difficult. However, radiation reflected from glass, polished metal, and high-gloss ceramic paints can be harmful to persons in the room, particularly if more than one UV lamp is in use. Surfaces in irradiated rooms that can reflect UVGI into occupied areas of the room should be covered with non-UV reflecting material. 3. Monitoring A regularly scheduled evaluation of the UV intensity to which HCWs, patients, and others are exposed should be conducted. UV measurements should be made in various locations within a room using a detector designed to be most sensitive at 254 nm. Equipment used to measure germicidal UV radiation should be maintained and calibrated on a regular schedule. A new UV installation must be carefully checked for hot spots (i.e., areas of the room where the REL is exceeded) by an industrial hygienist or other person knowledgeable in making UV measurements. UV radiation levels should not exceed those in the recommended guidelines.
