FR940429-0-00210 FR940429-0-00015 Some commenters argued that withdrawal rates are an academic matter and should not be subject to Federal regulation. Other commenters questioned the basis for the standard. Some stated their belief that an institution's withdrawal rate has nothing to do with the administration of the Title IV, HEA programs. A few commenters said review of withdrawal rates fell within the purview of accrediting agencies; others asserted it was no longer necessary for the Secretary to review withdrawal rates as the SPREs and accrediting agencies will have specific criteria relating to completion and placement rates. Others simply said they could see no basis for using 33 percent as a standard. Quite a few commenters supported the use of withdrawal rates in assessing administrative capability, albeit as an indicator rather than an absolute. One of the commenters believed the language in current regulations was sufficient to allow the Secretary to make administrative capability determinations. One commenter supported the proposed regulation, as written. Others had no problem with the use of a 33 percent rate as an absolute, provided that students who register, but never show up, are not included in the calculation. One other commenter said the proposed rate was too high. Discussion: For many years, the administrative capability regulations have provided for the use of withdrawal rates in excess of 33 percent as an indicator of impaired administrative capability. The Secretary notes, therefore, that the use of withdrawal rates as a determining factor in the evaluation of an institution's administrative capability is not new. The Secretary does not accept the argument of some commenters that withdrawal rates are not an appropriate measure of administrative capability. On the contrary, the Secretary finds that withdrawal rates are a clear measure of administrative capability as they are a function of overall institutional performance and the information and support services that an institution provides to its students and prospective students. The Secretary expects that an institution that has good admissions procedures and administers the ability-to-benefit provisions properly will have a lower withdrawal rate than one which admits students who cannot benefit from the program either because they lack the academic ability or do not receive adequate support services. An institution that provides proper disclosures, such as the institutional and financial assistance information required to be provided to students and prospective students under subpart D of these regulations, and in the case of an institution that advertises job placement rates as a means of attracting students, data concerning graduation and employment, and applicable State licensing requirements, as required in the program participation agreement in §668.14(b)(10), will be providing information necessary for prospective students to make informed decisions. The Secretary believes that if prospective students receive adequate and accurate information, they will not drop out of an institution in great numbers. Further, if an institution provides the financial aid counseling required in §668.16(h), the Secretary expects that students are not likely to withdraw because of a lack of understanding about the financial resources available to them. In sum, an institution that provides students with comprehensive, accurate information on the institution and its programs, thereby enabling prospective students to make informed decisions about applying to the institution, screens students adequately from the outset to determine that the student can benefit from the program selected, and provides adequate counseling to students who apply for Title IV, HEA program assistance is expected to have a withdrawal rate below 33 percent. The Secretary notes further that students who withdraw may be eligible for a refund, especially now that more stringent refund policies have been set forth in these regulations at §668.22. Were an institution to have a high withdrawal rate, it follows that an institution might experience difficulty complying with the refund requirement. By questioning the administrative capability of an institution with a high withdrawal rate, the Secretary can monitor compliance with the refund requirement. The Secretary also believes withdrawal rates are related to default rates in the FFEL and Federal Perkins loan programs in that students who withdraw are more likely to default. By dealing with institutions that have high withdrawal rates, the Secretary hopes to reduce dollars lost due to default in the future. The Secretary agrees that the withdrawal rate calculation should not include students that complete registration procedures but never begin classes. Similarly, the Secretary agrees that a student who receives a 100 percent refund (less any allowable administrative fee) should not be counted for the purposes of this calculation. The Secretary agrees with the commenter who wrote that withdrawal rates are a function of overall institutional performance and the support services that are provided to students. The Secretary believes that transfer students, high- risk students, and students who withdraw for other reasons are accounted for by allowing up to 33 percent of the students to withdraw from the institution. Changes: This provision is amended in §668.16(l) to provide for use of net enrollment figures, after deduction of students who were entitled to a 100 percent refund. Comments: Several commenters objected to this proposed requirement that an institution must not otherwise appear to lack the ability to administer the Title IV, HEA programs competently on the grounds that it is redundant and too open-ended. They recommended that it be removed. Discussion: This paragraph contains language that is in current regulations. Obviously, should the Secretary find it necessary to invoke this paragraph in support of an action, the Secretary would provide the affected institution with detailed information that supports the determination that the institution lacks the ability to administer the Title IV, HEA programs competently. Changes: None. Section 668.17␣Default Reduction Measures Default rates. Comments: A number of commenters suggested that any institution with a cohort default rate above 20 percent should be allowed to appeal its cohort default rate because that is the minimum standard for punitive action against an institution. Discussion: There are varying types of appeals offered to institutions depending on their cohort default rates. An institution which has default rates above the thresholds for participation in the FFEL programs may appeal on the grounds that: (1) The calculation of the rate was erroneous; (2) it satisfies the criteria for exceptional mitigating circumstances; or (3) the calculation included loans which due to improper servicing or collection resulted in an inaccurate or incomplete calculation of the cohort default rate. Institutions with cohort defaults above 20 percent for the most recent year may challenge the calculation of the rate based on allegations of improper loan servicing. In addition, an institution which receives provisional certification based on a default rate above 25 percent over a three year period also can show that it meets the criteria for exceptional mitigating circumstances and should receive full certification under the appropriate regulatory standards. For further information on this provision, see the section of the Analysis of Comments and Changes that addresses standards of administrative capability (§668.16). Thus, institutions with rates above 20 percent have a significant opportunity to challenge their cohort default rate. Changes: None.
