FR940606-1-00032 FR940606-1-00008 C. Energy Impacts Some of the control measures proposed for aerospace manufacturing and rework operations would lead to increases in energy consumption. Both of the control options for chemical milling maskant operations, operation of a carbon adsorber or conversion to waterborne chemical milling maskant, would involve increased electricity usage (waterborne chemical milling maskants must be cured at elevated temperatures). The total additional energy needed if all affected sources operate new carbon adsorbers is estimated to be 1.7 billion kilowatt-hours (kWh) per year, and the energy increase for all affected sources to operate new curing ovens for waterborne chemical milling maskants is estimated at 324,700 kWh per year. Baseline energy consumption for chemical milling maskant operations is considered to be negligible since the use of solvent-based chemical milling maskants does not directly require the use of electricity. The dry media paint removal systems that would be installed at rework facilities consume additional energy compared to the solvent stripping method. Baseline energy consumption for solvent stripping is considered to be negligible since the use of these strippers does not directly require the use of electricity. The increase in energy consumption involved in operating dry media blasting systems is estimated to be 51 million kWh per year. The use of chemical strippers that do not contain organic HAP is essentially the same as the baseline solvent stripping operation; therefore, no energy impact will result from their use. The proposed standards for the control of inorganic HAP emissions from primer and topcoat application operations would require some facilities to install additional spray booths. These spray booths, whether equipped with dry filters or waterwash, will increase the energy consumption of the affected sources. This increase in energy consumption is estimated to be 5.9 million kWh per year, compared to the baseline energy consumption of 117.4 million kWh per year. D. Cost Impacts The total capital and annualized control costs (1992 dollars), including recovery credits, attributable to compliance with the proposed standards have been estimated for both existing and new facilities. The following two subsections summarize the results of this cost analysis. 1. Existing Facilities a. Capital costs. Capital costs would be incurred with the implementation of control measures for chemical milling maskants (both solvent-based chemical milling maskants with a carbon adsorber and waterborne chemical milling maskants), dry media blasting for depainting, spray gun cleaning, and control of HAP emissions from primer, topcoat, and depainting operations. With the exception of dry media blasting for depainting, the nationwide capital costs listed below represent the maximum costs that would be incurred assuming that all facilities implemented the specific control option. For dry media blasting, it is not reasonable to assume that all commercial and military rework facilities (a total of 2,026 facilities) depaint the outer surface of aerospace vehicles. Therefore, it was assumed that only 5 percent of the small and medium size rework facilities and all of the large rework facilities perform outer surface depainting. For carbon adsorbers used in conjunction with solvent-based chemical milling maskants, the nationwide capital cost is estimated to be $500 million, and for waterborne chemical milling maskants it is estimated to be $289 million. The implementation of dry media blasting systems for depainting would require a nationwide capital cost of $61 million. It should be noted that other control measures exist for depainting other than dry media blasting, such as chemical strippers that do not contain organic HAP, that require no capital investment. Selection of chemical strippers that do not contain organic HAP by all affected sources instead of dry media blasting would decrease the total nationwide capital investment by approximately 10 percent. The proposed rule would also require capital costs for high transfer efficiency application equipment and spray gun cleaning equipment totalling $130 million and $10 million, respectively. The control of inorganic HAP emissions from primer and topcoat application operations would require the installation of spray booths and filter systems at a capital cost of $13 million.
