FR940513-1-00050 FR940513-1-00012 (B) Any government official or employee (other than a member or employee of a legislative body) who may participate in the formulation of the legislation which the taxpayer desires to influence. (ii) Communication. For purposes of paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section, the term communication is limited to any communication (referred to as a lobbying communication ) that_ (A) Refers to specific legislation and reflects a view on that legislation; or (B) Clarifies, amplifies, modifies, or provides support for views reflected in a prior communication satisfying the requirements of paragraph (b)(1)(ii)(A) of this section. (iii) Attempt to influence legislation. An attempt to influence legislation means the lobbying communication and all activities, such as research, preparation, and other background activities, engaged in for a purpose of making or supporting the lobbying communication. See paragraph (c) of this section for rules for determining the purpose or purposes for engaging in an activity. (iv) Legislation . Legislation includes action with respect to Acts, bills, resolutions, or other similar items by the Congress, any state legislature, any local council, or similar governing body. Legislation includes a proposed treaty required to be submitted by the President to the Senate for its advice and consent from the time the President's representative begins to negotiate its position with the prospective parties to the proposed treaty. (v) Specific legislation . Specific legislation includes both legislation that has already been introduced in a legislative body and a specific legislative proposal that the taxpayer either supports or opposes. (vi) Action . For purposes of paragraph (b)(1)(iv) of this section, the term action is limited to the introduction, amendment, enactment, defeat, or repeal of Acts, bills, resolutions, or similar items. (vii) Legislative and administrative bodies . Legislative body does not include executive, judicial, or administrative bodies. Administrative bodies include school boards, housing authorities, sewer and water districts, zoning boards, and other similar Federal, State, or local special purpose bodies, whether elective or appointive. (2) Examples . The provisions of this paragraph (b) are illustrated by the following examples: Example 1 . Taxpayer P's employee, A, is assigned to approach members of Congress to gain their support for a pending bill. A drafts and P prints a position letter on the bill. P distributes the letter to members of Congress. Additionally, A personally contacts several members of Congress or their staffs to seek support for P's position on the bill. The letter and the personal contacts are lobbying communications. Therefore, P is influencing legislation. Example 2 . Taxpayer R is invited to provide testimony at a congressional oversight hearing concerning the implementation of The Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989. Specifically, the hearing concerns a proposed regulation increasing the threshold value of commercial and residential real estate transactions for which an appraisal by a state licensed or certified appraiser is required. In its testimony, R states that it is in favor of the proposed regulation. Because R does not refer to any specific legislation or reflect a view on any such legislation, R has not made a lobbying communication. Therefore, R is not influencing legislation. Example 3 . State X enacts a statute that requires the licensing of all day-care providers. Agency B in State X is charged with writing rules to implement the statute. After the enactment of the statute, Taxpayer S sends a letter to Agency B providing detailed proposed rules that S recommends Agency B adopt to implement the statute on licensing of day-care providers. Because the letter to Agency B neither refers to nor reflects a view on any specific legislation, it is not a lobbying communication. Therefore, S is not influencing legislation. Example 4 . Taxpayer T proposes to a State Park Authority that it purchase a particular tract of land for a new park. Even if T's proposal would necessarily require the State Park Authority eventually to seek appropriations to acquire the land and develop the new park, T has not made a lobbying communication because there has been no reference to, nor any view reflected on, any specific legislation. Therefore, T's proposal is not influencing legislation. Example 5 . (i) Taxpayer U prepares a paper that asserts that lack of new capital is hurting State X's economy. The paper indicates that State X residents either should invest more in local businesses or increase their savings so that funds will be available to others interested in making investments. U forwards a summary of the unpublished paper to legislators in State X with a cover letter that states in part: You must take action to improve the availability of new capital in the state. (ii) Because neither the summary nor the cover letter refers to any specific legislative proposal, forwarding the summary to legislators in State X is not a lobbying communication. Therefore, U is not influencing legislation. (iii) Q, a member of the legislature of State X, calls taxpayer U to request a copy of the unpublished paper from which the summary was prepared. U forwards the paper with a cover letter that simply refers to the enclosed materials. Because U's letter to Q and the unpublished paper do not refer to any specific legislation or reflect a view on any such legislation, the letter is not a lobbying communication. Therefore, U is not influencing legislation. Example 6 . (i) Taxpayer V prepares a paper that asserts that lack of new capital is hurting the national economy. The paper indicates that lowering the capital gains rate would increase the availability of capital and increase tax receipts from the capital gains tax. V forwards the paper to its representatives in Congress with a cover letter that says, in part: I urge you to support a reduction in the capital gains tax rate. (ii) V's communication is a lobbying communication because it refers to and reflects a view on a specific legislative proposal that V supports (i.e., lowering the capital gains rate). Therefore, V is influencing legislation. Example 7 . Taxpayer W, based in State A, notes in a letter to a legislator of State A that State X has passed a bill that accomplishes a stated purpose and then says that State A should pass such a bill. No such bill has been introduced into the State A legislature. The communication is a lobbying communication because it refers to and reflects a view on a specific legislative proposal that W supports. Therefore, W is influencing legislation. Example 8 . (i) Taxpayer Y represents citrus fruit growers. Y writes a letter to a Senator discussing how pesticide O has benefited citrus fruit growers and disputing problems linked to its use. The letter discusses a bill pending in Congress and states in part: This bill would prohibit the use of pesticide O. If citrus growers are unable to use this pesticide, their crop yields will be severely reduced, leading to higher prices for consumers and lower profits, even bankruptcy, for growers. (ii) The communication is a lobbying communication because it refers to and reflects a view on specific legislation. Therefore, Y is influencing legislation. Example 9 . (i) B, the president of Taxpayer Z, an insurance company, meets with Q, who chairs the X state legislature's committee with jurisdiction over laws regulating insurance companies, to discuss the possibility of legislation to address current problems with surplus-line companies. B recommends that legislation be introduced that would create minimum capital and surplus requirements for surplus-line companies and create clearer guidelines concerning the risks that surplus-line companies can insure. B's discussion with Q is a lobbying communication because B refers to and reflects a view on a specific legislative proposal that Z supports. Therefore, Z is influencing legislation.
