FR940819-0-00093 FR940819-0-00019 In response to comments received from ATA and Delta Airlines, the FAA has determined that it is not necessary to include in this final rule provisions for permitting the 24-hour-in-7-day rest requirement to be delayed. This final rule imposes restrictions for flight attendants that parallel the restrictions that currently exist for flight crewmembers. The absence of provisions to permit the 24-hour-in-7-day rest requirement to be delayed does not preclude a flight attendant from completing a duty period assignment that has extended into the seventh calendar day because of a delay that is beyond the control of the operator. In addition, the 24-hour-in-7-day rest requirement may be delayed for reasons such as deadheading, assignment to training, and others. However, if the requirement is delayed, the flight attendant must be given the 24-consecutive-hour rest period before beginning any subsequent duty period assignment. In response to unscheduled operators, the FAA notes that unscheduled part 135 operators conducting operations that require flight attendants have the option to apply the flight crewmember flight time limitations to flight attendants instead of using the duty period limitations and rest requirements contained in this final rule. Sections 135.267(f) and 135.269(d) require certificate holders to provide each flight crewmember with at least 13 rest periods of at least 24 consecutive hours each in each calendar quarter. Among other requirements, operators that choose to apply flight crewmember requirements to flight attendants would be required to provide flight attendants with at least 13 rest periods of at least 24 consecutive hours in each calendar quarter instead of relief from duty for 24 consecutive hours every 7 consecutive calendar days. Comments on the costs associated with the 24-hour-in-7-day rest requirement are addressed in the Regulatory Evaluation Summary. Compensatory Rest Periods Although there was no specific proposal in the notice, the FAA requested comments on the feasibility of establishing compensatory rest periods for flight attendants when scheduled duty periods are exceeded. ATA, the Coalition of Flight Attendant Unions, and Delta Air Lines opposed the establishment of compensatory rest periods. FAA Response In response to the comments submitted, the FAA will not mandate compensatory rest periods in this final rule. The FAA has determined that compensatory rest is not necessary, because the duty period limitations and rest requirements contained in this final rule ensure that flight attendants receive the opportunity to be adequately rested to perform safety duties. Reserve Status, Stand-by Status, or Similar Assignments The FAA recognizes that current industry practice varies with regard to the use of these terms and their relationship to duty or rest. In the NPRM, the FAA requested comments on the most appropriate way to address reserve status, stand-by status, or a similar assignment. The FAA received 13 comments, primarily from air carrier associations and labor organizations. Commenters described different types of reserve status and suggested situations when reserve should be considered duty or rest. ATA recommended adding the following phrase to the definition of rest period: ``except that reserve status assignments shall be considered `rest' for purposes of this rule, provided that the only work-related restriction shall be to report for a flight assignment within a specified period of time pursuant to a collective bargaining agreement or company work rules.'' The Coalition of Flight Attendant Unions recommended that the definition of rest period be revised to ``the time period free of all restraint or duty from a domestic, flag, or supplemental air carrier or commercial operator and free of all responsibility, or interruption by, work or duty.''
