FR941125-2-00062 FR941125-2-00049 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY [FRL&hyph;5111&hyph;9] Agency Information Collection Activities Under OMB Review AGENCY: Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: In compliance with the Paperwork Reduction Act (44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq.), this notice announces that the Information Collection Request (ICR) abstracted below has been forwarded to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) for review and comment. The ICR describes the nature of the information collection and its expected cost and burden; where appropriate, it includes the actual data collection instrument. DATES: Comments must be submitted on or before December 27, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Sandy Farmer at EPA, (202) 260&hyph;2740. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Office of Solid Waste and Emergency Response Title: National Oil and Hazardous Substances Pollution Contingency Plan (EPA ICR # 1463.03; OMB # 2050&hyph;0096). This ICR requests renewal of the existing clearance. Abstract: The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (CERCLA), and as amended in 1986, establishes broad Federal authority to undertake removal and remedial actions in response to releases or threats of releases of hazardous substances and certain pollutants and contaminants into the environment. The NCP establishes procedures for data collection, analysis, and reporting to be conducted during remedial and removal actions at Superfund sites. The Response Program is comprised of activities that fall into two phases: the pre-remedial phase, during which the extent of contamination at a site is assessed and those sites that represent the highest priority cleanup are identified; and the remedial phase, during which investigations are conducted to determine viable remedies for a site, a remedy is chosen and constructed, and the long-term operation and maintenance of the remedy is conducted. This information collection addresses only the reporting and recordkeeping requirements in the remedial phase of the response program under the current NCP. The remedial phase begins once a site plan is proposed for listing on the National Priorities List. A detailed project plan is developed, and a Remedial Investigation and Feasibility study (RI/FS) is begun. The RI/FS is a detailed site evaluation and analysis conducted to determine the alternatives to be used to clean up a site. A progress report summarizes the results, and a proposed plan is developed which identifies the preferred alternatives and informs the public about how to participate in the remedy selection process. The final action is selected based on the RI/FS and public comment, and is documented in a Record Decision (ROD). Remedial action begins following Agency signoff on the ROD.
