FR940630-0-00052 FR940630-0-00015 DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE Office of the Secretary 32 CFR Part 379 [DoD Directive 5134.8] Assistant to the Secretary of Defense for Atomic Energy (ATSD(AE)); Organizational Charter AGENCY: Office of the Secretary, DoD. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: This part updates the responsibilities, functions, and organizational arrangements of the Assistant to the Secretary of Defense for Atomic Energy as the result of a reorganization. EFFECTIVE DATE: June 8, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mr. R. Kennedy, Office of Organizational and Management Planning, telephone 703&hyph;697&hyph;1142. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: List of Subjects in 32 CFR Part 379 Organization and functions (Government agencies). Accordingly, Title 32, Chapter I, Subchapter R is amended to add Part 379 to read as follows: PART 379_ASSISTANT TO THE SECRETARY OF DEFENSE FOR ATOMIC ENERGY (ATSD(AE)) Sec. 379.1␣Purpose. 379.2␣Applicability. 379.3␣Responsibilities and functions. 379.4␣Relationships. 379.5␣Authorities. Authority: 10 U.S.C. 113 and 142. §379.1 Purpose. Pursuant to 10 U.S.C. 142 and the authority vested in the Secretary of Defense by 10 U.S.C. 113, this part updates the responsibilities, functions, relationships, and authorities of the ATSD(AE). §379.2 Applicability. This part applies to the Office of the Secretary of Defense (OSD), the Military Departments, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the Unified Combatant Commands, the Office of the Inspector General of the Department of Defense, the Defense Agencies, and the DoD Field Activities (hereafter referred to collectively as ``the DoD Components''). §379.3 Responsibilities and functions. The ATSD(AE) is the principal staff assistant and advisor to the Secretary and Deputy Secretary of Defense and the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Technology (USD(A&T)) for all matters concerning the formulation of policy and plans for nuclear, chemical, and biological weapons. The ATSD(AE) also is directly responsible to the Secretary and Deputy Secretary of Defense for matters associated with nuclear weapons safety and security, chemical weapons demilitarization, chemical and biological defense programs, and smoke and obscurants. In the exercise of this responsibility, the ATSD(AE) shall: (a) Oversee and develop plans for nuclear and chemical weapons safety, security, and survivability, and survivability of material and systems relative to nuclear effects and nuclear, chemical, and biological contamination; and plan and implement the modernization and upgrading of the nuclear stockpile. (b) Coordinate the risk reduction efforts of the Department of Defense by developing a counter proliferation acquisition strategy. (c) Integrate management of all Defense atomic energy, chemical and biological defense, chemical and biological medical defense, smoke and obscurants; the safety, surety, and security of the current chemical weapons stockpile; destruction of U.S. chemical weapons; chemical and biological (CB) arms control activities; and assistance to other nations. (d) Serve as the Staff Director, Nuclear Weapons Council, and as Chairman, Nuclear Weapons Standing and Safety Committee. The Nuclear Weapons Council Committees shall advise the Staff Director, Nuclear Weapons Council, as the Staff Director deems appropriate and necessary. (e) Develop policies, provide advice, and make recommendations to the USD(A&T) and the Secretary and Deputy Secretary of Defense, and issue guidance on Defense atomic energy; chemical and biological defense; chemical and biological medical defense; smoke and obscurants; safety, surety, and security of the current chemical weapons stockpile; destruction of the U.S. chemical weapons; CB arms control activities; and plans and programs. (f) Serve as the USD(A&T) focal point for: (1) Compliance with nuclear, chemical, and biological arms control agreements in accordance with DoD Directive 2060.1. 1 1 Copies may be obtained, at cost, from the National Technical Information Service, 5285 Port Royal Road, Springfield, VA 22161. (2) Oversight of the chemical weapons verification research and development programs, and chair the Chemical Weapons Convention Implementation Working Group and the Chemical Weapons Convention Review Group. (3) Research, development, and acquisition related to counter proliferation.
