FR940202-1-00044 FR940202-1-00014 The Service carefully has assessed the best scientific and commercial information available regarding the past, present, and future threats faced by the California red-legged frog in determining to propose this rule. Based on this evaluation, the preferred action is to list the California red-legged frog ( Rana aurora draytonii ) as endangered. This subspecies has been extirpated from 75 percent of its former range. Seventy-seven percent of remaining aggregations currently are threatened by one or more factors, including (1) introduction of exotic predators and competitors, (2) urban encroachment, (3) construction of large and small reservoirs, water diversions and well development, (4) flood control maintenance, (5) grazing, and (6) timber harvest. Only 44 drainages, with the majority being in Monterey, Santa Barbara, and San Luis Obispo Counties, currently provide habitat free from the above threats. Fragmentation of habitat, however, renders these populations vulnerable to random extinction (stochastic) events. For the reasons discussed below, critical habitat is not being proposed at this time. Critical Habitat Section 4(a)(3) of the Act, as amended, and implementing regulations (50 CFR 424.12) require that, to the maximum extent prudent and determinable, the Secretary propose critical habitat at the time a species is proposed to be endangered or threatened. The Service finds that designation of critical habitat is not presently prudent for the California red-legged frog. As discussed under Factor B in the ``Summary of Factors Affecting the Species'' section, the California red-legged frog has been and continues to be threatened by taking, an activity difficult to control. Listing of the frog may result in an increase in the threat of vandalism, a concern expressed by the petitioners and other experts (M. Jennings, S, Sweet, pers. comms., 1993). California red-legged frogs occur in isolated and fragmented wetland habitat on private property and are at risk from vandalism. Publication of specific localities, which would be required in proposing critical habitat, would reveal precise locality data and thereby make the species more vulnerable to collection and acts of vandalism, and increase the difficulties of enforcement. Protection of this species' habitat will be addressed in the recovery process and through the section 7 consultation process. Therefore, it would not now be prudent to determine critical habitat of the California red-legged frog. Available Conservation Measures Conservation measures provided to species listed as endangered or threatened under the Endangered Species Act include recognition, recovery actions, requirements for Federal protection, and prohibitions against certain activities. Recognition through listing encourages and results in conservation actions by Federal, State, and private agencies, groups, and individuals. The Act provides for possible land acquisition and cooperation with the States and requires that recovery actions be carried out for all listed species. The protection required of Federal agencies and the prohibitions against taking and harm are discussed, in part, below. Section 7(a) of the Act, as amended, requires Federal agencies to evaluate their actions with respect to any species that is proposed or listed as endangered or threatened and with respect to its critical habitat, if any is being designated. Regulations implementing this interagency cooperation provision of the Act are codified at 50 CFR part 402. Section 7(a)(4) of the Act requires Federal agencies to confer informally with the Service on any action that is likely to jeopardize the continued existence of a proposed species or result in destruction or adverse modification of proposed critical habitat. If a species is listed subsequently, section 7(a)(2) requires Federal agencies to ensure that activities they authorize, fund, or carry out are not likely to jeopardize the continued existence of such a species or to destroy or adversely modify its critical habitat. If a Federal action may affect a listed species or its critical habitat, the responsible Federal agency must enter into formal consultation with the Service. Federal agencies that may be involved as a result of this proposed rule are the Bureau of Reclamation, Bureau of Land Management, National Park Service, Forest Service, and the Departments of the Army, Navy and Air Force. At several parks, the National Park Service has conducted or is planning to conduct surveys of California red-legged frogs on park property (Daphne A. Hatch, National Park Service, in litt., 1993; James Sleznick, National Park Service, in litt., 1992; Gary Fellers, National Park Service, pers. comm., 1993). The Forest Service has conducted and has ongoing amphibian surveys in many National Forests within the historic range of the California red-legged frog (J. Stephenson, pers. comm., 1993; D. Martin, pers. comm., 1993). The Bureau of Reclamation is cosponsoring a proposed reservoir construction project (Los Vaqueros Reservoir) on Kellogg Creek, Contra Costa County (Contra Costa Water District 1993). A mitigation and monitoring program is proposed to compensate for California red-legged frog habitat losses. The mitigation plan includes a bullfrog and exotic fish control program to be carried out for the life of the reservoir project (Contra Costa Water District 1993). The potential for success of the mitigation plan is unknown. The proposed Los Banos Grande reservoir project on Los Banos Creek in Merced County, also cosponsored by the Bureau of Reclamation, does not provide mitigation specifically for the California red-legged frog (Cay Goude, Fish and Wildlife Service, pers. comm., 1993). The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers would be involved through their permitting authority under section 404 of the Clean Water Act. Any of the above mentioned Federal agencies would be required to consult with the Service if any action they fund, authorize, or carry out is likely to jeopardize the continued existence of the California red-legged frog.
