FR941102-1-00090 FR941102-1-00018 (e) Class I differential price. The Class I differential price shall be the difference between the current month's Class I and Class III prices (this price may be negative). (f) Class II differential price. The Class II differential price shall be the difference between the current month's Class II and Class III prices (this price may be negative). (g) Skim milk price. The skim milk price per hundredweight, rounded to the nearest cent, shall be the Class III price less an amount computed by multiplying the butterfat differential by 35. (h) Butterfat price. The butterfat price per pound, rounded to the nearest one-hundredth cent, shall be the Class III price plus an amount computed by multiplying the butterfat differential by 965 and dividing the resulting amount by one hundred. (i) Protein price. The protein price per pound, rounded to the nearest one-hundredth cent, shall be 1.32 times the average monthly price per pound for 40-pound block Cheddar cheese on the National Cheese Exchange as reported by the Department. (j) Other solids price. Other solids are herein defined as solids-not-fat other than protein. The other solids price per pound, rounded to the nearest one-hundredth cent, shall be the skim milk price times .965, less the average protein test of the basic formula price as reported by the Department for the month times the protein price, and dividing the resulting amount by the average other solids test of the basic formula price as reported by the Department. If the resulting price is less than zero, then the protein price will be reduced so that the other solids price equals zero. (k) Somatic cell adjustment. The somatic cell adjustment per hundredweight shall be computed by subtracting the monthly average somatic cell count, in thousands, of the producer's milk from 350 and multiplying the remaining quantity by .0005 times the monthly cheddar cheese price as defined in paragraph (i) of this section. 4. Section 1030.53 is revised to read as follows: ยง1030.53 Announcement of class and component prices. (a) On or before the 5th day of the month, the market administrator shall announce the following prices: (1) The Class I price for the following month; (2) The Class III price for the preceding month; (3) The Class III&hyph;A price for the preceding month; (4) The skim milk price for the preceding month; (5) The butterfat price for the preceding month; (6) The protein price for the preceding month; (7) The other solids price for the preceding month; and (8) The butterfat differential for the preceding month. (b) On or before the 15th day of the month, the market administrator shall announce the Class II price for the following month computed pursuant to ยง1030.50(b). 5. The section heading in ยง1030.60 and the undesignated centerheading preceding it, the introductory text, and paragraphs (a) and (f) are revised to read as follows: Producer Price Differential ยง1030.60 Handler's value of milk.
