FR940916-0-00002 FR940916-0-00001 OFFICE OF PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT 5 CFR Part 731 RIN 3206&hyph;AG36 Suitability, Personnel Security and Related Programs, Investigations, and Suitability Disqualification Actions AGENCY: Office of Personnel Management. ACTION: Interim rule. SUMMARY: In April 1991, OPM published interim final regulations that effected major changes in procedures governing background investigations to determine suitability for competitive service employment and eligibility for employment or retention in employment in national security positions (56 FR 18650, April 23, 1991). The interim regulations set forth separate criteria and procedures for security clearances in national security cases and for suitability determinations in cases not involving national security, and created the OPM Review Panel, an intermediate appellate body for appeals from OPM suitability decisions. OPM has decided to revoke the section of the interim regulations establishing the OPM Review Panel, based on comments received from the public and experience acquired under the interim regulations during the last three years. OPM has concluded, as several commenters predicted, that the OPM Review Panel has not served a useful independent reviewing function. EFFECTIVE DATE: October 17, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: John J. Lafferty, Deputy Associate Director for Investigations, (202) 376&hyph;3800. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: OPM promulgated the current suitability and personnel security regulations as an interim final rule with a request for comments in April 1991. 56 FR 18650&hyph;18656 (April 23, 1991). Comments were received from 16 sources, including individuals, Federal agencies, Federal employee unions, and public interest organizations. A number of commenters objected to creation of the OPM Review Panel. One agency criticized the Panel on the ground that it would create unnecessary delay in the appeal process and increase agency operating costs by keeping appellants on the payroll for longer periods of time. One public interest organization voiced concern that decisions of the Panel might not be impartial, given the fact that Panel members would be employed by OPM and their performances would be appraised by OPM officials. A Federal employee union noted that, historically, internal review boards tend to support decisions of the parent organization. OPM is now abolishing the Review Panel primarily because the Panel has not accomplished its intended purpose. In creating the Panel, OPM had hoped to decrease costs, provide appellants with a streamlined resolution of their cases, and cut down on the number of appeals taken in suitability cases to the Merit Systems Protection Board (MSPB). Experience has shown, however, that a large number of appellants still proceed with appeals after review by the Panel; thus, the original purpose conceived for the Panel has not been realized. OPM has, therefore, concluded that the OPM Review Panel does not provide a useful independent reviewing function and should be abolished. Prior to the creation of the Review Panel, individuals could appeal OPM suitability decisions directly to the MSPB, and the appellants' agencies had the option to suspend them or to retain them in a pay status pending adjudication of the appeal. Under OPM's interim final rule that established the Review Panel, appellants were retained in a pay status while their appeals were pending with the Panel, but, if the Panel affirmed OPM's decision, the appellants' agencies were directed to remove the appellants within five days of receipt of the Panel's decision by the agency. With the elimination of the Review Panel as announced herein, OPM has determined that appellants' pay status will be the same as it was prior to creation of the Panel. Therefore, the appellants' employing agencies will have the option to suspend the appellants or to retain them in an active pay status pending adjudication of the appeal to the MSPB. EO 12866, Regulatory Review This rule has been reviewed by the Office of Management and Budget in accordance with EO 12866. Regulatory Flexibility Act I certify that these regulations will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities because they relate to internal personnel matters within the Federal Government. List of Subjects in 5 CFR Part 731 Administrative practice and procedure, Government employees. U.S. Office of Personnel Management. James B. King, Director.
