FR941227-2-00069 FR941227-2-00051 GENERAL SERVICES ADMINISTRATION Industrial Funding of Federal Supply Schedule Program AGENCY: General Services Administration, Federal Supply Service. ACTION: Notice. This notice invites comments on proposed clauses that will implement industrial funding of the Federal Supply Service, Federal Supply Schedule Program. As directed by the House of Representatives' Committee on Appropriations, the Federal Supply Service of GSA has examined a number of alternatives for reimbursable funding of several of its programs for which it currently receives appropriations. The Federal Supply Schedule Program was identified as appropriate for conversion to an industrially funded operation. It has been determined that the most viable method of reimbursable funding of schedule program would be through adjusting the schedule contract prices upward by 1%. Under this concept, schedule pricelists would show the adjusted price. Agencies would order from the contractor at the adjusted price; the contractor would invoice GSA at the award price; GSA would bill agencies the adjusted price and retain the difference to fund the program. This method of funding is consistent with a National Performance Review recommendation that GSA service operations be paid for through customer revenues. Under this concept, agencies would continue to submit purchase/delivery orders directly to the contractor; however, contractor invoices would be sent to GSA for payment. DATES: Comments should be submitted to the address shown below on or before January 26, 1995 to be considered in the formulation of a final notice. ADDRESSES: Interested parties should submit written comments to Nicholas M. Economou, Director, FSS Acquisition Management Center (FCO), Crystal Mall Building #4 , Room 716, Washington, DC 20406. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Linda S. Hauenstein, FCO (703) 305&hyph;6566. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: A. Background The Federal Supply Schedule Program is a major contracting program used by the Federal Supply Service (FSS) to provide a variety of commercial supplies and services to Federal Government agencies. The program accounts for over $2.8 billion in sales annually, and provides lucrative contracting opportunities for over 5,000 commercial contractors, most of which are small business entities. During the fiscal year 1994 budget process, Congress directed FSS to review its appropriated activities for conversion to reimbursable funding. Based upon that review, the schedules program was identified as one of the programs suitable for reimbursable funding. The GSA fiscal year 1995 budget, therefore, reflected a $7.8 million reduction in operating expenses for the schedules program. The remaining appropriated monies will be eliminated over the next two fiscal years. The cost of providing supplies and services through this program must therefore be included in the cost of those supplies and services. FSS will accomplish this by adjusting each schedule contract award price upwards by 1%. For example, a retail price for an item is $100.00. GSA negotiates a discount of 10 percent resulting in an award price of $90.00. The schedule pricelist will reflect an adjusted price of $90.90. The contractor delivers the goods to the agency and invoices GSA in the amount of $90.90 (the award price). GSA bills the agency the adjusted schedule pricelist amount of $90.90. GSA retains the $.90 adjustment as it cost recovery allowance charge, thereby funding the program.
