FR940128-1-00103 FR940128-1-00006 (b) Each processor shall maintain sanitation control records that document that the steps required under paragraph (a) of this section are performed with requisite frequency. (c) Sanitation control measures shall be taken on a daily basis, and the sanitation control records shall be prepared according to the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section, except that: (1) The hand sanitizer strength and sanitary practices of the processing employees, especially as these relate to hand washing and sanitizing practices and the potential for cross contamination, shall be checked and recorded at least every 4 hours during processing. (2) All utensils and food-contact surfaces of equipment shall be inspected immediately after each cleaning and sanitizing operation under paragraph (a)(4)(ii) of this section. Each such cleaning and sanitizing shall be documented, and such documentation shall at a minimum record the time of each cleaning, the concentration of the sanitizer, and the condition of the equipment. (3) The requirements of paragraphs (a)(1), (a)(2), (a)(3), (a)(8)(i), (a)(12), and (a)(18) of this section shall be performed and documented with such frequency as is necessary to ensure control. (4) The requirement of paragraph (a)(14) of this section shall be ensured by the continuous monitoring of the refrigeration unit with an accurate process control instrument. The instrument shall be checked and the measurements documented with such frequency as is necessary to ensure control. (d) Where deviations from the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section are noted during these inspections, appropriate corrective actions shall be taken and documented on the sanitation control record. (e) Every plant should have a written standard operating procedure (SOP) for assuring the maintenance of proper sanitary conditions and practices during processing that is specific to each fish and fishery product produced at that location. The SOP should include, at a minimum, requirements as described in paragraph (a) of this section. (f)(1) All fish to be smoked or salted shall be eviscerated and free of residual viscera, except for: (i) Small species of fish, such as anchovies and herring sprats, provided that they are processed in a fashion so that they contain a water-phase salt level of at least 10 percent, a water activity below 0.85, or a pH of 4.6 or less; and (ii) Fish that are fully cooked before further processing. (2) Evisceration shall be conducted in an area that is segregated and separate from other processing operations. Evisceration shall be performed with minimal disturbance of the intestinal tract contents. The fish, including the body cavity, shall be washed thoroughly with a vigorous water spray or a continuous water flow system. ยง123.11 Obligations of importers. This section sets forth the specific obligations of importers of fish and fishery products into the United States. (a) An importer of fish or fishery products shall have and implement a Hazard Analysis Critical Control Point (HACCP) plan in accordance with ยง123.6 that describes how the fish will be prepared, packed, or held while it is in the control of the importer. (b) The importer of fish or fishery products shall have on file the HACCP plans of each of its foreign processors. (c) The importer shall take affirmative steps to ensure that the fish and fishery products that it offers for import were produced under the HACCP plan that it has in its possession and subject to the sanitation controls listed in ยง123.10. Such steps may include, but would not be limited to: (1) Obtaining from the foreign processor the HACCP monitoring records that relate to the specific fish or fishery products being offered for import. (2) Obtaining a certificate from a foreign government inspection authority certifying that the firm is operating under a valid HACCP plan or certification on a lot-by-lot basis. (3) Regularly inspecting its suppliers' facilities to ensure that they are being operated in compliance with the applicable HACCP plan and ยง123.10. (4) Periodic end-product testing by the importer or a private laboratory hired by the importer; or
