FR940622-1-00082 FR940622-1-00029 (B) The monthly repayment of principal and interest for a 10-year repayment period is less than the minimum monthly repayment; or (ii) An institution may require a borrower to pay a minimum monthly repayment if the borrower has received loans with different interest rates at the same institution and the total monthly repayment would otherwise be less than the minimum monthly repayment. (2) Minimum monthly repayment of loans from more than one institution. If a borrower has received loans from more than one institution, the following rules apply: (i) If the total of the monthly repayments is equal to at least the minimum monthly repayment, no institution may exercise a minimum monthly repayment option. (ii) If only one institution exercises the minimum monthly repayment option when the monthly repayment would otherwise be less than the minimum repayment option, that institution receives the difference between the minimum monthly repayment and the repayment owed to the other institution. (iii) If each institution exercises the minimum repayment option, the minimum monthly repayment must be divided among the institutions in proportion to the amount of principal advanced by each institution. (3) Minimum monthly repayment of both Defense and Direct or Federal Perkins loans from one or more institutions. If the total monthly repayment is less than $30 and the monthly repayment on a Defense loan is less than $15 a month, the amount attributed to the Defense loan may not exceed $15 a month. (4) Minimum monthly repayment of loans with differing grace periods and deferments. If the borrower has received loans with different grace periods and deferments, the institution shall treat each note separately, and the borrower shall pay the applicable minimum monthly payment for a loan that is not in the grace or deferment period. (5) Hardship. The institution may reduce the borrower's scheduled repayments for a period of not more than one year at a time if_ (i) It determines that the borrower is unable to make the scheduled repayments due to hardship (see ยง674.33(c)); and (ii) The borrower's scheduled repayment is the minimum monthly repayment described in paragraph (b) of this section. (6) Minimum monthly repayment rates. For the purposes of this section, the minimum monthly repayment rate is_ (i) $15 for a Defense loan; (ii) $30 for a Federal Perkins loan made before October 1, 1992, or for a Federal Perkins loan made on or after October 1, 1992, to a borrower who, on the date the loan is made, has an outstanding balance of principal or interest owing on any loan made under this part; or (iii) $40 for a Federal Perkins loan made on or after October 1, 1992, to a borrower who, on the date the loan is made, has no outstanding balance of principal or interest owing on any loan made under this part. (7) The institution shall determine the minimum repayment amount under paragraph (b) of this section for loans with repayment installment intervals greater than one month by multiplying the amounts in paragraph (b) of this section by the number of months in the installment interval. (c) Extension of repayment period _(1) Hardship. The institution may extend a borrower's repayment period due to prolonged illness or unemployment. * * * * * (d) Forbearance. (1) Forbearance means the temporary cessation of payments, allowing an extension of time for making payments, or temporarily accepting smaller payments than previously were scheduled. (2) Upon written request and receipt of supporting documentation, the institution shall grant the borrower forbearance of principal and, unless otherwise indicated by the borrower, interest renewable at intervals of 12 months for a period not to exceed three years. (3) The terms of forbearance must be agreed upon, in writing, by the borrower and the institution. (4) In granting a forbearance under this section, an institution shall grant a temporary cessation of payments, unless the borrower chooses another form of forbearance subject to paragraph (d)(1) of this section.
