FR941110-2-00020 FR941110-2-00009 Comments Regarding Annual Average FMV, Model Match, and Cost Test Methodology Comment 7: Both NSK and Timken argue that the Department's calculations incorrectly excluded home-market models which lacked physical criteria information from the model-match portion of the analysis. NSK and Timken contend that, where possible, the Department should match such home-market models with U.S. models with identical nomenclature. Department's Position: We agree. In the preliminary results of review we did not intend to exclude from the model-match analysis any home-market models lacking physical criteria information. We have made the necessary correction to our calculations for these final results of review to ensure that we consider all home-market models in determining whether they are identical to models respondents sold in the United States. Comment 8: Koyo states that for the final results the Department should follow the CIT's direction in Koyo Seiko Co., Ltd. and Koyo Corporation of U.S.A. v. United States, 834 F.Supp. 431 (CIT 1993). In that case, the CIT concluded that a 10-percent cap was required to limit the permissible deviation of the criteria used to match TRB models and agreed with Koyo that the use of a 10-percent cap on the comparison of each physical criterion is necessary to avoid ``comparisons between products which differ so dramatically that they simply cannot be considered commercially similar'' ( Koyo Seiko, Co., 834 F.Supp. 435). Timken disagrees with Koyo, stating that the ``sum of the deviations'' method of determining comparison merchandise, in conjunction with the 20-percent difference-in-merchandise (difmer) limit, implements the intent of section 771(16) of the Tariff Act that the comparison merchandise be ``like'' the merchandise sold in the United States, and of approximately equal commercial value. Section 771(16) of the Tariff Act, Timken argues, does not require that home-market models be technically substitutable. Therefore, in Timken's opinion, because this issue is currently under judicial review, the Department should decline to modify its methodology, pending a ``final'' judicial decision on the issue. Department's Position: We agree with Timken. As we stated in Tapered Roller Bearings, Four Inches or Less in Outside Diameter, and Certain Components Thereof, from Japan (58 FR 64721, December 9, 1993) ( 1990/91 and 1991/92 TRBs ), we are satisfied that use of the original sum of the deviations methodology, without the 10-percent cap but including the 20-percent difmer cap, accurately determines the most similar model sold in the home market. We have, therefore, used the original sum of the deviations methodology for model-match comparisons in these final results of review.
