FR941110-0-00094 FR941110-0-00016 Response: We understand the commenter's concerns. However, sections 1819(g)(3)(B) and 1919(g)(3)(B) of the Act are explicit that HCFA must conduct surveys in no fewer than five facilities in each State. Comment: A few commenters said that validation surveys should be focused on State survey performance, not facility compliance. Unless the HCFA survey discovers a serious threat to residents, the findings should be directed toward the State. For egregious failures of State survey performance, HCFA should consider contracting with another professional survey entity. Response: The primary purpose of the validation survey is to assess State survey performance. In the process, we do determine facility compliance and must take action consistent with this information. Therefore, the validation survey can result in actions against non-compliant facilities and against the State. Section 488.320 provides the sanctions authorized by the Act to be imposed against the States. Comment: One commenter said that validation surveys should focus on the validity of State deficiencies cited as well as the failure to cite deficiencies. If the focus is on only the State's failure to cite deficiencies, it may lead State surveyors to cite more deficiencies as a means of preventing Federal sanctions. Response: We agree with this comment. The HCFA focus is now and will continue to be on the accuracy of the State survey. Part of that focus is to alert the State survey agency to situations where State surveyors are failing to cite valid deficiencies. We are aware of the possibility that some State surveyors might cite more deficiencies in order to avoid sanctions against the State. We have no concrete evidence that any actually have done so. In any case, our education efforts, including training on the ``Principles of Documentation,'' are directed to the writing of accurate, well documented deficiencies. Well documented deficiencies are more likely to prompt corrective action and avoid unnecessary contentiousness between providers and survey agencies than poorly documented deficiencies. Comment: One commenter said that HCFA should provide for two separate hearings because the deficiency determinations and the remedies selected are based on two sets of facts. Other commenters said it would be better to have one hearing; either State or Federal. One commenter suggested that the closer the validation survey was to the State survey, the easier it would be to hold one hearing.
