FR940223-2-00194 FR940223-2-00099 ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of the United States Section of the Secretariat, the Secretary of the Mexican Section of the Secretariat or the Secretary of the Canadian Section of the Secretariat and includes any person authorized to act on behalf of that Secretary; ``special committee'' means a special committee established pursuant to Article 1905 of the Agreement; ``United States'' means the United States of America. Operation of the Special Committee 4. (1) Subject to subrule (2), unless the involved Parties otherwise agree, special committee meetings shall take place at the offices of the responsible Secretariat or at such alternative location as the committee members may agree. (2) A special committee may conduct meetings or exchange information by any means, including by means of a telephone conference call or facsimile or computer transmission. 5. The members of a special committee shall select from among themselves a chairperson, who shall preside over all meetings and hearings of the special committee. 6. The chairperson of the special committee shall fix the date and time of its meetings in consultation with other special committee members and the responsible Secretary. 7. All reports, findings, determinations and decisions of a special committee shall be made or issued by a majority vote of all members of the special committee. 8. A special committee proceeding commences on the day on which a request for a special committee is filed with the responsible Secretariat and terminates on the day on which a notice of completion of the special committee proceeding is issued pursuant to rule 36. 9. (1) A special committee may adopt internal procedures of its own, not inconsistent with these rules, for routine administrative matters. (2) A special committee may delegate to its chairperson the authority to make decisions regarding internal procedures or routine administrative matters. 10. The terms of reference of a special committee shall be limited to (a) making a finding as to whether any allegations set out in Article 1905.1 of the Agreement made by the Complaining Party regarding the application of the Responding Party's domestic law are substantiated; (b) determining whether a suspension of benefits by the Complaining Party pursuant to Article 1905.8(b) of the Agreement is manifestly excessive; and (c) determining whether the Responding Party has corrected a problem with respect to which the special committee has made an affirmative finding. Service of Documents 11. A document to be filed by an involved Party with the responsible Secretariat shall (a) be served on the other involved Party by express courier, overnight mail or by any other means agreed upon by the involved Parties; and (b) when filed, be accompanied by a proof of service certifying that the document has been served on the other involved Party, indicating the manner, date and time of service. Written Submissions 12. All written submissions and responses filed with a responsible Secretariat shall be accompanied by four copies thereof. 13. (1) A request for the establishment of a special committee under Article 1905.2 of the Agreement shall be made by filing the request with the responsible Secretariat. (2) On the filing of a request under subrule (1), the responsible Secretary and the other involved Secretary shall cause a notice of the filing of the request to be published in the official publications of the countries in which their sections of the Secretariat are located. 14. The written initial submission of a Complaining Party shall be filed with the responsible Secretariat no later than 10 days after the date on which the last member of the special committee is appointed.
