FR941020-0-00014 FR941020-0-00005 The major change to the reporting requirements was to reduce the pipelines' reporting burden by eliminating maintenance and posting requirements relating to requests for transportation service and replacing them with more limited requirements that better comport with pipeline operations under Order No. 636. The revised regulations were designed to better capture the information used by pipelines to allocate capacity among shippers when available capacity is not sufficient for the pipelines to honor all requests for service. For those pipelines whose tariffs rely upon contract information or other data to allocate capacity, the pipelines will be required to maintain a log (for both affiliates and non-affiliates) of contract dates or other relevant information used to allocate capacity. The affiliate log must be posted on the pipelines' EBBs, while the full log (for both affiliates and non-affiliates) must be provided to the Commission, within a reasonable time, upon request. However, pipelines that allocate capacity on a pro rata basis will not have to maintain the log. Because Standard H was modified to codify Commission policy requiring EBB posting of discount offers, the Commission eliminated the provision, under §250.16, requiring pipelines to post information relating to affiliate discounts on their EBBs. Under the revised regulations, pipelines must only maintain the relevant discount information for both affiliates and non-affiliates and provide that information to the Commission upon request. Several of the rehearing requests challenge the Commission's decision not to rescind the Standards of Conduct and reporting requirements in their entirety. They then focus on the Commission's decisions on individual requirements. The Commission will first address the considerations relating to the affiliate requirements as a whole and will then address the contentions made with respect to specific items. III. Consideration of the Affiliate Regulations Taken as a Whole In the Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (NOPR), 10 the Commission stated that, as part of its continuing assessment of the Order No. 497 regulations, it would consider comments on the need to retain these requirements as a whole. Many pipeline commenters contended that all the Order No. 497 requirements should be removed, because they were duplicative of existing prohibitions on undue discrimination and because the changes created by Order No. 636 made these requirements unnecessary. In Order No. 566, the Commission determined that the changes effected by Order No. 636 had not reduced the pipelines' incentive or ability to favor affiliates significantly enough to warrant complete rescission of the regulations at this point. The Commission, however, committed to reviewing these requirements as the industry obtains more experience operating in the restructured environment brought about by Order No. 636. 10 Standards of Conduct and Reporting Requirements for Transportation and Affiliate Transactions, Notice of Proposed Rulemaking, 59 FR 268 (Jan. 4, 1994), IV FERC Stats. & Regs. Proposed Regulations ¶32,504 (Dec. 23, 1993). Several pipelines contend the Commission erred in not rescinding all of the Order No. 497 regulations. 11 They make five arguments. First, they contend that the requirements cannot be substantiated because during the six years they have been in effect, the evidence does not show that pipelines have acted to favor affiliates. 11 Enron, INGAA, MGS/Natural, Panhandle Pipelines. Second, they argue that Order No. 636 has introduced added competition to the marketplace by unbundling the sale of gas from the transportation of gas and by permitting firm shippers to release their capacity. They assert this added competition has eviscerated the pipelines' monopoly over transportation and hence their ability to discriminate unfairly in favor of their marketing affiliates. Third, they maintain that the conduct sought to be prevented by the affiliate regulations is already covered by the regulations under Part 284 that prohibit pipelines from engaging in undue discrimination. Fourth, they maintain that whatever benefits may be derived from the regulations do not warrant the reduction in competition the regulations create. For example, INGAA maintains that pipeline affiliates are placed at a competitive disadvantage because affiliate discounts are posted, while non-affiliates can conduct their business without such disclosure. Fifth, they maintain that given the limited benefits from the requirements, the burdens and costs on the pipelines of complying with the posting and record maintenance requirements are not justified. The Panhandle Pipelines, for instance, maintain that few in the industry are interested in the information posted on EBBs, stating that shippers have accessed the affiliate EBBs on their four pipelines only a limited number of times. If the regulations are maintained, many pipelines 12 contend the Commission should include a sunset date on which the regulations will expire. They point out a sunset date had been a feature of the prior Order No. 497 reporting requirements and the Commission acknowledged in Order No. 566 that developments in the industry may well make continued enforcement of the rules unnecessary. They point out that the Commission has committed to reviewing these requirements and argue that a sunset date will make that commitment tangible. 13 12 Enron, INGAA K N Energy, MGS/Natural, Panhandle Pipelines, Tenneco. 13 If the Commission does not have sufficient evidence within the sunset period to make its determination, they assert the Commission can extend the requirements as it has in the past.
