FR940525-1-00083 FR940525-1-00008 (vii) The claim may state that individuals with elevated blood total- or LDL-cholesterol should consult their physicians for medical advice and treatment. If the claim defines high or normal blood total- or LDL-cholesterol, then it shall state that individuals with high blood cholesterol should consult their physicians for medical advice and treatment. (5) Model health claims. The following model health claims may be used in food labeling to describe the relationship between dietary saturated fat and cholesterol and risk of heart disease: (i) While many factors affect heart disease, diets low in saturated fat and cholesterol may reduce the risk of this disease. (ii) Development of heart disease depends upon many factors, but its risk may be reduced by diets low in saturated fat and cholesterol and healthy lifestyles. (iii) Development of heart disease depends on many factors, including a family history of the disease, high blood LDL-cholesterol, diabetes, high blood pressure, being overweight, cigarette smoking, lack of exercise, and the type of dietary pattern. A healthful diet low in saturated fat, total fat, and cholesterol, as part of a healthy lifestyle, may lower blood cholesterol levels and may reduce the risk of heart disease. (iv) Many factors, such as family history of the disease, increased blood total- and LDL-cholesterol levels, high blood pressure, cigarette smoking, diabetes, and being overweight, contribute to developing heart disease. Eating a diet low in saturated fat, cholesterol, and total fat may help reduce the risk of heart disease. (v) Diets low in saturated fat, cholesterol, and total fat may reduce the risk of heart disease. Heart disease is dependent upon many factors, including diet, a family history of the disease, elevated blood LDL-cholesterol levels, and physical inactivity. (e) Fiber-containing grain products, fruits, and vegetables and cancer_ (1) Relationship between diets low in fat and high in fiber-containing grain products, fruits, and vegetables and cancer risk. (i) Cancer is a constellation of more than 100 different diseases, each characterized by the uncontrolled growth and spread of abnormal cells. Cancer has many causes and stages in its development. Both genetic and environmental risk factors may affect the risk of cancer. Risk factors include a family history of a specific type of cancer, cigarette smoking, alcohol consumption, overweight and obesity, ultraviolet or ionizing radiation, exposure to cancer-causing chemicals, and dietary factors. (ii) The scientific evidence establishes that diets low in fat and high in fiber-containing grain products, fruits, and vegetables are associated with a reduced risk of some types of cancer. Although the specific role of total dietary fiber, fiber components, and the multiple nutrients and other substances contained in these foods are not fully understood, many studies have shown that diets low in fat and high in fiber-containing foods are associated with reduced risk of some types of cancer. (2) Significance of the relationship between consumption of diets low in fat and high in fiber-containing grain products, fruits, and vegetables and risk of cancer. (i) Cancer is ranked as a leading cause of death in the United States. The overall economic costs of cancer, including direct health care costs and losses due to morbidity and mortality, are very high. (ii) U.S. diets tend to be high in fat and low in grain products, fruits, and vegetables. Studies in various parts of the world indicate that populations who habitually consume a diet high in plant foods have lower risks of some cancers. These diets are generally low in fat and rich in many nutrients, including, but not limited to, dietary fiber. Current dietary guidelines from the Federal Government and nationally recognized health professional organizations recommend decreased consumption of fats (less than 30 percent of calories), maintenance of desirable body weight, and increased consumption of fruits and vegetables (five or more servings daily), and grain products (six or more servings daily). (3) Requirements. (i) All requirements set forth in §381.414 shall be met. (ii) Specific Requirements. (A) Nature of the claim. A health claim associating diets low in fat and high in fiber-containing grain products, fruits, and vegetables with reduced risk of cancer may be made on the label or labeling of a poultry product described in paragraph (e)(3)(ii) (B) of this section; Provided, That: ( 1 ) The claim states that diets low in fat and high in fiber-containing grain products, fruits, and vegetables ``may'' or ``might'' reduce the risk of some cancers; ( 2 ) In specifying the disease, the claim uses the terms ``some types of cancer'' or ``some cancers''; ( 3 ) The claim is limited to grain products, fruits, and vegetables that contain dietary fiber; ( 4 ) The claim indicates that the development of cancer depends on many factors; ( 5 ) The claim does not attribute any degree of cancer risk reduction to diets low in fat and high in fiber-containing grain products, fruits, and vegetables; ( 6 ) In specifying the dietary fiber component of the labeled product, the claim uses the terms ``fiber,'' ``dietary fiber,'' or ``total dietary fiber''; and (7 ) The claim does not specify types of dietary fiber that may be related to risk of cancer. (B) Nature of the food. ( 1 ) The product shall contain a grain product, fruit, or vegetable; ( 2 ) The product shall meet the requirements for ``low fat'' as defined in §381.462, except that the product may meet the total fat and cholesterol criteria for ``extra lean'' in §381.462; and ( 3 ) The product shall meet the requirements for a ``good source'' of fiber as defined in §381.454 prior to any nutrient addition, except the basis for meal-type products as defined in §381.413(l) shall be per labeled serving size.
