FR940118-1-00071 FR940118-1-00010 Proposed §600.56 (current §§601.6 and 601.7)␣Duration of eligibility determination. The Secretary proposes to provide for the expiration of a foreign institution's eligibility after four years, unless the Secretary specifies a shorter period of eligibility. Currently, a foreign institution's eligibility generally expires after two years. The Secretary proposes this change to allow for treatment of foreign institutions consistent with that for institutions in the United States. The Secretary proposes to provide for the continued eligibility of a foreign graduate medical school to be contingent upon the school's annual submission of the information in §600.55 concerning the school's enrollment and pass rate on ECFMG examinations. Currently, a foreign graduate medical school's eligibility is not terminated solely because of a failure to maintain the specified pass rate. The Secretary proposes to make this change to conform to changes made by the Higher Education Amendments of 1992. The Secretary also proposes to provide for the continued eligibility of an otherwise eligible student for loans under the FFEL programs for up to an academic year after the academic year in which a foreign institution loses eligibility, if the student received an FFEL program loan for attendance at the institution while the institution was eligible. This change would merely reflect statutory changes made by the Higher Education Amendments of 1992. Current §601.7␣Exception for students who received a GSLP loan to attend a foreign medical school prior to the publication date of this subpart. The Secretary proposes to remove this section, which governed the eligibility of certain students for loans under the FFEL programs before the publication date of the current regulations (February 25, 1983). This section is no longer needed. Regulatory Flexibility Act Certification The Secretary certifies that these proposed regulations would not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. The small entities affected by these regulations are small foreign institutions. However, the regulations would not have a significant economic impact on the small institutions affected because the regulations would not impose excessive regulatory burdens or require unnecessary Federal supervision. The regulations would impose minimal burdens necessary to implement statutory requirements. Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980 Section §600.53 contains information collection requirements. As required by the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980, the Department of Education will submit a copy of this section to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) for its review. (44 U.S.C. 3504(h)) These regulations affect businesses or other for-profit entities and nonprofit institutions that participate in the FFEL programs. The Secretary needs to collect this information to enable the Secretary to enforce the statutory provisions for determining the eligibility of foreign institutions to apply to participate in the FFEL programs. Annual public reporting burden for this collection of information is estimated to average three hours per response for 1,100 institutions, including the time for reviewing instructions, searching existing data sources, gathering and maintaining the data needed, and completing and reviewing the collection of information. Organizations and individuals desiring to submit comments on the information collection requirements should direct them to the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, OMB, room 3002, New Executive Office Building, Washington, DC 20503; Attention: Daniel J. Chenok. Invitation To Comment Interested persons are invited to submit comments and recommendations regarding these proposed regulations. All comments submitted in response to these proposed regulations will be available for public inspection, during and after the comment period, in room 4318, Regional Office Building 3, 7th and D Streets, SW., Washington, DC., between the hours of 8:30 a.m. and 4 p.m., Monday through Friday of each week except Federal holidays. Assessment of Educational Impact The Secretary particularly requests comments on whether the proposed regulations in this document would require transmission of information that is being gathered by or is available from any other agency or authority of the United States. List of Subjects in 34 CFR Part 600 Administrative practice and procedure, Colleges and universities, Consumer protection, Education, Grant programs_education, Loan programs_education, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Student aid. (Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance Number does not apply.) Dated: January 5, 1994. Richard W. Riley, Secretary of Education.
