FR940607-0-00020 FR940607-0-00007 (3) Litigation costs . Litigation costs are not reasonable administrative costs because they are not incurred in connection with an administrative proceeding. Litigation costs include_ (i) Costs incurred in connection with the preparation and filing of a petition with the United States Tax Court or in connection with the commencement of any other court proceeding; and (ii) Costs incurred after the filing of a petition with the United States Tax Court or after the commencement of any other court proceeding. (4) Examples . The provisions of this section are illustrated by the following examples: Example 1 . Taxpayer A receives a notice of proposed deficiency (30-day letter). A files a request for and is granted an Appeals office conference. At the conference no agreement is reached on the tax matters at issue. The Internal Revenue Service then issues a notice of deficiency. Upon receiving the notice of deficiency, A discontinues A's administrative efforts and files a petition with the Tax Court. A's costs incurred in connection with the preparation and filing of a petition with the Tax Court are litigation costs and not reasonable administrative costs. Furthermore, A's costs incurred before the administrative proceeding date (date of the notice of deficiency as set forth in ยง301.7430&hyph;3(c)(3)), are not reasonable administrative costs. Example 2 . Assume the same facts as in Example 1 except that after A receives the notice of deficiency, A recontacts Appeals. Again, A's costs incurred before the administrative proceeding date, the date of the notice of deficiency as set forth in ยง301.7430&hyph;3(c)(3), are not reasonable administrative costs. A's costs incurred in recontacting and working with Appeals after the issuance of the notice of deficiency, and up to and including the time of filing of the petition, are reasonable administrative costs. A's costs incurred in connection with the filing of a petition with the Tax Court are not reasonable administrative costs because those costs are litigation costs. Similarly, A's costs incurred after the filing of the petition are not reasonable administrative costs, as those are litigation costs. ยง301.7430&hyph;5 Prevailing party. (a) In general . For purposes of an award of reasonable administrative costs under section 7430, a taxpayer is a prevailing party only if the taxpayer_ (1) Establishes that the position of the Internal Revenue Service was not substantially justified; (2) Substantially prevails as to the amount in controversy or with respect to the most significant issue or set of issues presented; and (3) Satisfies the net worth and size limitations referenced in paragraph (f) of this section. (b) Position of the Internal Revenue Service . The position of the Internal Revenue Service in an administrative proceeding is the position taken by the Internal Revenue Service as of the administrative proceeding date (as defined in ยง301.7430&hyph;3(c)) or any date thereafter. (c) Substantially justified _(1) In general . The position of the Internal Revenue Service is substantially justified if it has a reasonable basis in both fact and law. A significant factor in determining whether the position of the Internal Revenue Service is substantially justified as of a given date is whether, on or before that date, the taxpayer has presented all relevant information under the taxpayer's control and relevant legal arguments supporting the taxpayer's position to the appropriate Internal Revenue Service personnel. The appropriate Internal Revenue Service personnel are personnel responsible for reviewing the information or arguments, or personnel who would transfer the information or arguments in the normal course of procedure and administration to the personnel who are responsible. (2) Exception . If the position of the Internal Revenue Service was substantially justified with respect to some issues in the proceeding and not substantially justified with respect to the remaining issues, any award of reasonable administrative costs to the taxpayer may be limited to only reasonable administrative costs attributable to those issues with respect to which the position of the Internal Revenue Service was not substantially justified. If the position of the Internal Revenue Service was substantially justified for only a portion of the period of the proceeding and not substantially justified for the remaining portion of the proceeding, any award of reasonable administrative costs to the taxpayer may be limited to only reasonable administrative costs attributable to that portion during which the position of the Internal Revenue Service was not substantially justified. Where an award of reasonable administrative costs is limited to that portion of the administrative proceeding during which the position of the Internal Revenue Service was not substantially justified, whether the position of the Internal Revenue Service was substantially justified is determined as of the date any cost is incurred. (d) Amount in controversy . The amount in controversy shall include the amount in issue as of the administrative proceeding date as increased by any amounts subsequently placed in issue by any party. The amount in controversy is determined without increasing or reducing the amount in controversy for amounts of loss, deduction, or credit carried over from years not in issue.
