FR940222-1-00040 FR940222-1-00008 In order to estimate what percentage, if any, of an organization's costs is attributable to inefficiency, we would compare the average annual per capita cost for the organization's non-outliers with the average annual per capita cost for non-outliers under the fee-for-service system. If the organization's average for non-outliers were less than the fee-for-service average, we would consider the organization to be operating more efficiently than Medicare operates under the fee-for-service system. We would make the assumption that, since the organization operates efficiently for its non-outliers (who constitute the majority of its enrollment) its costs in excess of the presumptive limit are attributable to a sicker than average enrollment. We would pay any excess costs that are otherwise allowable. However, if the organization's average for non-outliers exceeded the fee-for-service average, we would consider it to be operating less efficiently than Medicare operates under the fee-for-service system. If, for example, the organization's average exceeded the fee-for-service average by 3 percent, we would consider that the organization's services cost 3 percent more than Medicare would have paid for those services under the fee-for-service system. We would assess a presumptive overpayment of 3 percent on the organization's total costs for services to Medicare enrollees, that is, costs for both outliers and non-outliers. C. Application and Example The methodology consists of 3 stages: Stage 1. Determine whether the organization's total costs exceed the presumptive limit. Example of Stage 1: (a) Determine the presumptive limit on the organization's costs for Medicare enrollees, which is 100 percent of the weighted average of the AAPCC's of each class of Medicare beneficiaries. Presumptive limit: $4,230,000. b. Determine the organization's total costs for its Medicare enrollees, that is, part A and part B costs, both in-plan and out-of-plan, and administrative costs. ␣ 1␣ 1␣ Audited Cost Report Costs1 $1,500,000 In-plan hospital & SNF costs 2,700,000 Out-of-plan costs, parts A & B 800,000 n,s Total Costs 5,000,000 1Costs on the cost report currently include costs for in-plan part B services (except hospital outpatient department services), costs for part A services other than hospital and SNF, and administrative costs. c. Determine whether the organization's total costs exceed the presumptive limit. ␣ 1␣ 1␣ Total costs $5,000,000 Presumptive limit (4,230,000) n,s Presumptive overpayment 770,000 •If the costs were equal to, or less than, the presumptive limit, HCFA would pay the total allowable costs for the organization's Medicare enrollees. •Since there is a presumptive overpayment, the process would continue to Stage 2. (HCFA would give the organization written notice and opportunity to respond in accordance with §417.532(a)(6) of the proposed rules.) To carry out Stage 2, we need the annual outlier cost threshold, which HCFA establishes on a national or regional basis, to distinguish ``outlier costs'' from ``non-outlier costs.'' For example, if the threshold is $39,000, the costs for all beneficiaries whose costs exceed $39,000 would be outlier costs, and the costs for all beneficiaries whose annual costs are equal to, or less than, $39,000 would be considered ``non-outlier costs.'' HCFA's determination of the outlier threshold is discussed under section VI of this preamble. The organization would determine its costs for outliers using HCFA's payment methods such as fee schedules, reasonable charge limits, and reasonable cost limits, as appropriate. Stage 2. Determine whether the average annual per capita non-outlier cost for the organization's Medicare enrollees exceeds the average non-outlier costs for the fee-for-service beneficiaries in the organization's service area. a. If the average for the organization's enrollees is equal to, or less than, the average for the fee-for-service beneficiaries, there is no final overpayment. As noted above, the presumption is that the organization is also efficient in furnishing services to outlier enrollees.
