FR940830-1-00011 FR940830-1-00002 SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION 13 CFR Parts 121 and 124 Small Business Size Regulations; Minority Small Business and Capital Ownership Development Assistance AGENCY: Small Business Administration. ACTION: Proposed rule. SUMMARY: The Small Business Administration (SBA) proposes to amend its regulations governing the Minority Small Business and Capital Ownership Development program authorized by sections 7(j)(10) and 8(a) of the Small Business Act, 15 U.S.C. 636(j)(10), 637(a). This proposed rule would amend both eligibility requirements for and contractual assistance provisions within the 8(a) program. Of particular note, this rule would recognize participation of Community Development Corporations in the 8(a) program to an extent that would not be inconsistent with the requirements of the 8(a) program as imposed by the Small Business Act, increase the personal net worth limitations for 8(a) applicants and Program Participants to take into account inflation, eliminate the distinctions established in SBA's regulations concerning ``local'' and ``national buy'' 8(a) requirements, eliminate the restrictions on the number and dollar value of 8(a) contracts received by Program Participants due to SBA-approved ``support levels'', and eliminate the distinction for applying the competitive 8(a) requirements currently existing for indefinite quantity or indefinite delivery requirements. DATES: Comments must be submitted on or before September 29, 1994. ADDRESSES: Written comments should be addressed to Herbert L. Mitchell, Associate Administrator, Office of Minority Enterprise Development, U.S. Small Business Administration, 409 3rd Street, SW, Washington, DC 20416. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Office of Minority Enterprise Development, (202) 205&hyph;6410. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: This proposed rule, if adopted in final form, would (1) make several clarifications of the eligibility requirements for admission to SBA's 8(a) program, the need for which has been identified by SBA through the practical experience gained in operating the program and in defending the agency's actions in 8(a) eligibility appeals brought before SBA's Office of Hearings and Appeals (OHA), (2) authorize participation by business concerns owned by Community Development Corporations in the 8(a) program in accord with 42 U.S.C. 9815, and (3) make several changes to the 8(a) contractual assistance requirements, including eliminating 8(a) support levels and the concepts of local buy and national buy 8(a) requirements. This rule would clarify that 8(a) eligibility decisions are based on the facts before the Associate Administrator for Minority Small Business and Capital Ownership Development (AA/MSB&COD) at the time of his/her eligibility decision. The rule would specify that actual control of the applicant concern must be in the hands of one or more socially and economically disadvantaged individuals at the time the appropriate district Certification and Eligibility Branch (C & E Branch) determines that an application for the 8(a) program is complete. Potential control or the power of disadvantaged individuals to change the applicant concern's Board of Directors or other aspects of control so that the applicant concern could be controlled by disadvantaged individuals, no matter how easily exercised, would not satisfy the requirement that the applicant be actually controlled by disadvantaged individuals at the time the SBA district office C & E Branch determines an application to be complete. One reason to require actual control at the time that an applicant applies for admission to the 8(a) program is to prevent ``front companies'' from being admitted to the 8(a) program. It is SBA's view that this potential for abuse would be greatly lessened by the clarifications made in this rule. In addition, Section 626(a)(2) of the Omnibus Reconciliation Act of 1981, Pub. L. 97&hyph;35, codified at 42 U.S.C. 9815(a)(2), required ``regulations to ensure the availability to community development corporations of such programs as shall further the purposes of this subchapter, including programs under section [8(a) of the Small Business Act].'' The purpose of the subchapter referred to in this provision ``is to encourage the development of special programs by which the residents of urban and rural low-income areas may, through self-help and mobilization of the community at large, with appropriate Federal assistance, improve the quality of their economic and social participation in community life in such a way as to contribute to the elimination of poverty and the establishment of permanent economic and social benefits.'' 42 U.S.C. 9801. SBA has not heretofore implemented this authority through regulations. This proposed rule would recognize participation of Community Development Corporations (CDCs) in the 8(a) program to an extent that would not be inconsistent with the requirements of the 8(a) program imposed by the Small Business Act. SBA believes that only CDC-owned or financed small business concerns can be eligible for the 8(a) program, and not the CDC itself. This position is consistent with the Agency's longstanding regulations implementing the Small Business Act that a small business must be a for-profit business entity. See 13 CFR 121.403. Since CDCs are non-profit entities, they could not be considered small business concerns within the meaning of the size regulations and, hence, would not be eligible for the 8(a) program on that basis. This rule is not intended to imply in any way that the basic requirement of the Small Business Act that 8(a) concerns be owned by disadvantaged individuals can be administratively changed. Presently, two statutory exceptions to this ownership requirement have been implemented in regulations. Subclauses 8(a)(4)(A)(i)(II) and (III) of the Small Business Act, 15 U.S.C. 637(a)(4)(A)(i)(II) and (III), statutorily extend 8(a) program eligibility to small business concerns which are owned by either an economically disadvantaged Indian tribe, or a wholly owned business entity of such a tribe, or a Native Hawaiian organization. These provisions have been implemented in 13 CFR §§124.112 and 124.113, respectively. The authority for extending eligibility for the 8(a) program to CDC-owned entities is also statutory. Thus, similar to SBA's treatment of tribally-owned concerns and concerns owned by Native Hawaiian organizations, this proposed rule recognizes CDC-owned concerns in accord with the authority set forth in 42 U.S.C. 9815(a)(2). Pursuant to this proposed rule, SBA would consider CDCs comparable to Indian tribes. A CDC could have an ownership interest in several business enterprises, just like an Indian tribe under current regulations. Where statute and implementing regulations authorize a tribally-owned business concern to participate in the 8(a) program, but not the tribe acting on its own behalf, SBA proposes that similar treatment be afforded CDCs and CDC-owned business concerns. SBA also believes that the regulatorily created exclusion from affiliation that has been afforded tribally-owned business concerns (i.e., one tribally-owned business is not considered affiliated with the tribe or other businesses owned by the tribe merely because of common tribal ownership) should be extended to CDC-owned business concerns as well (this proposal would also make that exclusion available to concerns owned by Native Hawaiian Organizations).
