FR940912-1-00054 FR940912-1-00011 Concession refers to any non-Federal entity operating on Reclamation lands that is remunerated by visitors for use of facilities, goods, and/or services that it provides for their recreational purposes, general enjoyment, and/or needs. Concession fee refers to compensation received by the managing agency from a concession as defined under ``concession'' above. Credit to the project or tail-end credit refers to the disposition of revenues to the Reclamation fund as a credit to the project construction costs. This method accelerates the return of construction costs to the Reclamation fund. Direct or front-end credit refers to the disposition of revenues that allows the water users or districts to receive credit for the revenues to help satisfy their next capital obligation to the Government, for annual project operation and maintenance expenses, or as the district directs. Easement refers to a grant of an interest to a party in the land of another for a specific use of specified land. Easements usually consist of long-term rights-of-way for public roads, telecommunication lines, transmission lines, and pipelines. General credit refers to those revenues credited to the Reclamation fund without benefit to the water users, the districts, or the project construction costs. Grazing means a lease granted by the Government that entitles the lessee to use project lands for the purpose of grazing livestock. Grazing lands refers to lands currently under lease for that purpose. Lease means a contract by which the lessor (Government) gives to another (tenant or lessee), the use or possession of land, facilities, or water for a specific purpose for a specified period of time, in exchange for agreed upon payments. License or permit refers to a grant of authority for a person or entity to use a specific piece of land for a specific purpose without gaining any interest in the land. A license or permit may allow use for: the construction and placement of small transmission lines; temporary access roads; trails; small pipelines; small power lines; removal of timber, sand and gravel, and other building material; miscellaneous agricultural uses; cabin sites; and like activities. A permit or license is used when Reclamation does not intend to grant control of the surrounding area, as is the case with an easement or lease. Mineral materials includes, but is not limited to, common varieties of sand, stone, gravel, pumice, pumicite, cinders, clay, and petrified wood. Project means any Reclamation irrigation or multi-purpose project, including incidental features thereof, authorized by Federal Reclamation law, or constructed by the United States pursuant to such a law, or in connection with which there is a repayment or water service contract executed by the United States pursuant to such law, or any project constructed by the Secretary of the Interior through Reclamation. Public domain lands refers to lands that have never left Federal ownership. Reclamation fund means a special fund within the Treasury, established by the Congress under the Reclamation Act of June 17, 1902, as amended and supplemented. Monies from the fund are available for the investigation, construction, operation, and administration of Reclamation projects. Collections from water users for reimbursable costs of these projects are returned to the fund unless Congress has specified otherwise. Revenues refers to monies generated from the use of lands. This excludes administrative fees, annual obligations paid in accordance with repayment contracts and water service contracts, monies generated from the marketing of surplus power, and revenues from the sale or rental of surplus water or storage and conveyance capacity. Right-of-use refers to legal temporary uses of project lands resulting from easements, permits, licenses, leases, and rights-of-way. Right-of-way refers to a legal right of passage over another's land, such as for roads and transmission lines. Special use permit refers to a permit issued with or without charge to a group for activities such as the rental of picnic shelters, off-road vehicle access, river running excursions, etc. Townsite refers to lands withdrawn from public entry to be used for the purpose of townsite lots of up to 160 acres which were surveyed, subdivided, and sold in conjunction with irrigation projects.
