FR940622-0-00049 FR940622-0-00011 Comment: Two commenters recommended that the regulations specify which person(s) at the receiving hospital may consent to receive the patient. Response: We believe it is properly the receiving hospital's decision as to who may consent to receive patients and how to implement this policy among its staff. Comment: One commenter suggested that the regulations specifically state that the transferring physician is legally responsible for the patient's care until the patient is admitted to the receiving hospital. Response: We do not believe it is appropriate to make this an explicit requirement of the regulations. The statute makes clear that the transferring hospital is responsible for ensuring that when the individual is transferred, the transfer is ``appropriate.'' The hospital, in ensuring that the individual is appropriately transferred, may, for example, delegate to the transferring physician the duty to ensure that the transfer is made through the use of appropriate personnel or equipment. Further, section 1867 of the Act and the regulations require that the hospital must provide medical care within its capabilities to minimize the risks associated with transfer; this too may be delegated to a physician. In this way, the physician may be responsible for the patient's care during the transfer. Reporting Violations Comment: One commenter suggested that we allow transferring and receiving hospitals an opportunity to work out an agreement for handling transfers before we mandate formal reporting procedures, which might have the unintended result of pitting one hospital against another. Response: We encourage local hospitals, municipalities, and States to develop cooperative transfer agreements; however, the formal reporting procedures are an integral part of the Department's enforcement scheme to ensure that hospitals are complying with the statute. To the extent that hospitals do have agreements for handling transfers in accordance with the statute, and act in accordance with that agreement, then the statute will not be violated and the necessity for reporting violations will be diminished. Comment: Four commenters believe that the requirement that hospitals report suspected violations of section 1867 of the Act within 72 hours of their occurrence is too rigid and should be changed to ``with reasonable promptness'' to deter excessive reporting and to allow for investigation by the hospital to assure that reporting is warranted. Response: If transfers occur that needlessly jeopardize people's lives, HCFA must have that information immediately to meet its responsibility to assure that these inappropriate transfers cease quickly. Therefore, we have made no changes.
