FR940603-1-00024 FR940603-1-00007 NMFS would determine the maximum LOA for each qualifying vessel prior to the implementation of the moratorium. When the moratorium qualification of a qualifying vessel is transferred to another vessel or person, the maximum LOA of the qualifying vessel also would be transferred to the vessel or person receiving the moratorium qualification. Maximum LOA would remain attached to a specific moratorium qualification regardless of how many times that moratorium qualification was transferred. If moratorium qualification is transferred to a smaller vessel, that smaller vessel would retain the maximum LOA of the qualifying vessel. Definition of Vessel Length The Council intended that the limitations on increases in vessel length be based on the LOA of the vessel. The current LOA of a vessel can be measured as it is defined in §§672.2 and 675.2, but complete records of the historical LOA of vessels during the qualifying period are not available for calculating the maximum LOA as proposed by NMFS. Various methods for measuring vessel length were used on vessel permit and license forms during the qualifying period by NMFS, the State, IPHC, and the U.S. Coast Guard (USCG). For example, several different methods of measuring ``registered length'' were used, and an undefined vessel ``length'' was used in addition to LOA. NMFS proposes, for purposes of the moratorium, that historical LOA equal the registered length listed on the most recently submitted application prior to June 24, 1992, for U.S. Coast Guard Certificate of Documentation to provide a single source of data for most original qualifying vessels. A vessel under 32 ft (9.8 m) LOA that does not have USCG documentation may use vessel length as specified in State registration. A difficulty with the NMFS proposal is that the USCG registered length is sometimes less than actual LOA. This may cause a problem for a vessel that already has increased its length using actual historical LOA according to the Council's recommendations, resulting in an increase that exceeds the maximum LOA. Consequently, the vessel would be an ineligible vessel. Also, a vessel that has not yet increased its length according to the Council's 20 percent limit would not be able to increase its length as much as would be allowed if historical LOA were used instead of historical registered length. NMFS particularly requests comment from the public on this subject. Replacement or Salvage of a Lost or Destroyed Vessel If a vessel owner submits an application to NMFS for the replacement or salvage of a lost or destroyed vessel, NMFS proposes to determine whether a vessel is lost or destroyed by consulting the U.S. Coast Guard Report of Marine Casualty, form 2692. If NMFS determines that a vessel is lost or destroyed, a vessel owner would then be required to submit documentation that satisfies the Council's requirements for eligibility of a replacement or salvaged vessel. These proposed information requirements are specified in §676.3(b)(3)(iii). Permit Issuance Procedure For purposes of the moratorium, NMFS would prepare a database that contains each vessel that made a qualifying landing during the qualifying period. The database also would include information concerning ownership and vessel length derived from permit and license data. The database would be used by NMFS for determining eligible vessels. NMFS proposes the following vessel permit and license issuance procedure. Groundfish A vessel owner that intends to harvest groundfish in the GOA and BSAI from January 1, 1995, through December 31, 1997, would have to submit to the Director of the Alaska Region, NMFS (Regional Director), a written application for a groundfish vessel permit. An applicant would be issued a permit if: a. The vessel owner submitted a completed vessel permit application; b. the vessel made a qualifying landing during the qualifying period or submitted a completed moratorium qualification transfer application with the vessel permit application; and c. the LOA of the vessel did not exceed the maximum LOA for that vessel. If the vessel reconstruction provisions at §676.3(b)(2) apply, a vessel owner also should submit a completed vessel reconstruction application with the vessel permit application. All permits issued by NMFS would list the maximum LOA applicable for that vessel and for any vessel to which the moratorium qualification is transferred.
