FR940106-1-00071 FR940106-1-00011 D. Executive Order 12866 Executive Order 12866 requires EPA and other agencies to assess the potential costs and benefits of all significant regulatory actions. Significant regulatory actions are those that impose a cost on the economy of $100 million or more annually or have certain regulatory, policy, or economic impacts. Today's proposed rule meets the criteria of a significant regulatory action set forth in section 3(f) of the Executive Order. The regulatory analysis for this proposed rule is presented in ``Draft Regulatory Impact Assessment of the Proposed Water Quality Standards for the San Francisco Bay/Sacramento-San Joaquin River Delta'' (see Section F for the availability of this and other documents). This draft RIA was submitted to OMB for review as required by the Executive Order. EPA's action is the proposal of water quality standards and this action explicitly does not include a proposed implementation plan. The implementation plan has not yet been developed by the State. Therefore, this draft RIA analyses a range of possible implementation scenarios. Importantly, the analysis illustrates that the level of costs for the same level of environmental benefits varies significantly depending on assumptions in implementation scenarios. Specifically, mechanisms for economically-efficient allocation of water or for the widespread distribution of responsibility, such as water transfers and/or a drought water bank, result in the most cost-effective scenarios. EPA is committed to working with the State on an implementation plan and welcomes additional information and analysis on the economic costs and benefits of its proposals. EPA is interested in both improved information and policies and programs to minimize the economic impacts upon water users. The draft RIA evaluated the costs and benefits of the combined federal proposals, including EPA's proposed water quality standards and USFWS's actions under the ESA. The primary method of implementation is assumed to be increased Delta outflow resulting in reduced water supplies to urban and agricultural water users. Further, critical habitat designation may result in additional costs by possibly limiting sand and gravel operations and affecting marina operations. Benefits are to the Delta ecosystem as a whole, species diversity, and commercial and recreational fisheries. Assessment of Costs and Impacts The draft RIA shows that the costs to both agricultural and urban water users would depend upon how water supplies are allocated to implement the proposals. •The primary method for implementing the combined federal proposals will be increases in Delta outflow. Current estimates of the additional outflow developed by the California DWR are 540,000 acre-feet on average and 1.1 million acre-feet in critically dry years.
