FR940127-2-00103 FR940127-2-00070 [Release No. 34&hyph;33494; File No. SR&hyph;CBOE&hyph;93&hyph;41] Self-Regulatory Organizations; Filing and Order Granting Accelerated Approval of Proposed Rule Change by the Chicago Board Options Exchange, Inc., Relating to Opening Transactions in Exchange-Traded Options and Duties of Designated Primary Market Makers January 19, 1994. Pursuant to Section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act''), 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1), notice is hereby given that on September 24, 1993, the Chicago Board Options Exchange, Inc. (``CBOE'' or ``Exchange'') filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``SEC'' or ``Commission'') the proposed rule change as described in Items I and II below, which Items have been prepared by the self-regulatory organization. The Commission is publishing this notice to solicit comments on the proposed rule change from interested persons. I. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Terms of Substance of the Proposed Rule Change Currently, Interpretation and Policy .01 to CBOE Rule 6.2, ``Trading Rotations,'' provides that the opening transaction in each class of options traded on the Exchange shall be held promptly following the opening transaction in the underlying security on the principal exchange where the security is traded. The rules of the other options exchanges allow opening rotations to commence following the opening of the underlying security. 1 In order to conform its rules to the rules of the other options exchanges, the CBOE proposes to amend Interpretation and Policy .01(a) to state that the opening rotation in each class of options shall be held promptly following the opening of the underlying security on the principal market where the security is traded. Under proposed paragraph (d) to Commentary .01, an underlying security shall be deemed to have opened on the principal market where it is traded if the market has (i) reported a transaction in the underlying security or (ii) disseminated opening quotations for the underlying security and not given an indication of a delayed opening, whichever first occurs. In addition, the CBOE proposes to amend Interpretation and Policy .01 to provide that any member appointed as a Designated Primary Market-Maker (``DPM'') shall participate in opening rotations to the same extent as an Order Book Official (``OBO''). 1 See American Stock Exchange (``Amex'') Rule 918(a)(1); New York Stock Exchange (``NYSE'') Rule 717(a); Pacific Stock Exchange (``PSE'') Rule 6.64, Commentary .01; and Philadelphia Stock Exchange (``PHLX'') Rule 1047, Commentary .01. The text of the proposal is available at the Office of the Secretary, CBOE and at the Commission. II. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change In its filing with the Commission, the self-regulatory organization included statements concerning the purpose of and basis for the proposed rule change and discussed any comments it received on the proposed rule change. The text of these statements may be examined at the places specified in Item IV below. The self-regulatory organization has prepared summaries, set forth in sections (A), (B), and (C) below, of the most significant aspects of such statements.
