FR940819-1-00017 FR940819-1-00004 Any party who has not filed a notice of intention to appear may be allowed to testify for no more than 10 minutes as time permits, at the discretion of the Administrative Law Judge (ALJ), but will not be allowed to question witnesses. Notices of intention to appear, testimony and evidence will be available for inspection and copying at the Docket Office at the address above. Conduct and Nature of Hearing The hearing will commence at 9:30 a.m. on the first day. At that time, any procedural matters relating to the proceeding will be resolved. The nature of an informal rulemaking hearing is established in the legislative history of section 6 of the OSH Act and is reflected by OSHA's rules of procedure for hearings (29 CFR 1911.15(a)). Although the presiding officer is an Administrative Law Judge and questioning by interested persons is allowed on crucial issues, the proceeding is informal and legislative in type. The Agency's intent is to provide interested persons with an opportunity to make effective oral presentations which can proceed expeditiously in the absence of procedural restraints which might impede or protract the rulemaking process. Additionally, since the hearing is primarily for information gathering and clarification, it is an informal administrative proceeding rather than an adjudicative one. The technical rules of evidence, for example, do not apply. The regulations that govern hearings, and the pre-hearing guidelines which the ALJ will issue for this hearing, will ensure fairness and due process and also facilitate the development of a clear, accurate and complete record. Those rules and guidelines will be interpreted in a manner that furthers that development. Thus, questions of relevance, procedure and participation generally will be decided so as to favor development of the record. The hearing will be conducted in accordance with 29 CFR part 1911. It should be noted that ยง1911.4 allows the Assistant Secretary, upon reasonable notice, to issue alternative procedures to expedite proceedings or for other good cause. The hearing will be presided over by an Administrative Law Judge who makes no decision or recommendation on the merits of OSHA's proposal. The responsibility of the Administrative Law Judge is to ensure that the hearing proceeds at a reasonable pace and in an orderly manner. The Administrative Law Judge, therefore, will have all the powers necessary and appropriate to conduct a full and fair informal hearing as provided in 29 CFR part 1911, including the powers: A. To regulate the course of the proceedings; B. To dispose of procedural requests, objections and comparable matters; C. To confine the presentations to the matters pertinent to the issues raised; E. To regulate the conduct of those present at the hearing by appropriate means; F. In the Judge's discretion, to question and permit the questioning of any witnesses and to limit the time for questioning; and G. In the Judge's discretion, to keep the record open for a reasonable, stated time (known as the post-hearing comment period) to receive written information and additional data, views and arguments from any person who has participated in the oral proceedings. OSHA recognizes that there may be interested persons or organizations who, through their knowledge of the subject matter or their experience in the field, would wish to endorse or support the whole proposal or certain provisions of the proposal. OSHA welcomes such supportive comments, including any pertinent data and cost information which may be available, in order that the record of this rulemaking will present a balanced picture of public response on the issues involved. This document was prepared under the direction of Joseph A. Dear, Assistant Secretary of Labor for Occupational Safety and Health, U.S. Department of Labor, 200 Constitution Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20210. It is issued under section 6(b) of the OSH Act (29 U.S.C. 655); Sec. 41, Longshore and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act (33 U.S.C. 941); and 29 CFR part 1911. Signed at Washington, DC, this 11th day of August, 1994. Joseph A. Dear, Assistant Secretary of Labor. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;20379 Filed 8&hyph;18&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4510&hyph;26&hyph;M
