FR940224-2-00164 FR940224-2-00095 3. Project Personnel: Information provided regarding the thematic and logistical expertise of project personnel should be relevant to the proposal at hand. Resumes or C.V.s should be summaries appropriate to the specific proposal and no longer than two pages each. 4. Program Planning: A detailed agenda and relevant work plan should demonstrate substantive rigor and logistical capacity. 5. Thematic Expertise: Proposal should demonstrate the organization's expertise in the subject area and its ability effectively to share information. 6. Cross-Cultural Sensitivity and Area Expertise: Evidence should be provided of sensitivity to historical, linguistic, religious, and other cross-cultural factors, as well as relevant knowledge of the target geographic area/country. 7. Ability To Achieve Program Objectives: Objectives should be realistic and feasible. The proposal should clearly demonstrate how the grantee institution will meet program objectives. 8. Multiplier Effect: Proposed programs should strengthen mutual understanding and should contribute to maximum sharing of information and establishment of long-term institutional and individual ties. 9. Cost-Effectiveness: Costs to USIA per exchange participant (American and foreign) should be kept to a minimum, and all items proposed for USIA funding should be necessary and appropriate to achieve the program's objectives. 10. Cost-Sharing: Proposals should maximize cost-sharing through private sector support as well as through direct funding contributions and/or in-kind support from the prospective grantee organization and its partners. 11. Follow-on Activities: Proposals should provide a plan for continued exchange activity (without USIA support) which ensures that USIA-supported programs are not isolated events. 12. Project Evaluation: Proposals should include a plan to evaluate the project. USIA recommends that the applicant discuss the evaluation methodology chosen and the techniques which will be employed to assess the effectiveness of the project and the correspondence between observable outcomes and original project objectives. Grantees will be expected to submit intermediate reports after each project component is concluded or quarterly, whichever is less frequent. Notice The terms and conditions published in this RFP are binding and may not be modified by any USIA representative. Explanatory information provided by the Agency which contradicts published language will not be binding. Issuance of the RFP does not constitute an award commitment on the part of the U.S. Government. Awards cannot be made until funds have been fully appropriated by Congress and allocated and committed through internal USIA procedures. Notification All applicants will be notified of the results of the review process on or about July 1, 1994. Awarded grants will be subject to periodic reporting and evaluation requirements. Dated: February 14, 1994. Barry Fulton, Associate Director, Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;3984 Filed 2&hyph;23&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8230&hyph;01&hyph;M
