FR941013-1-00101 FR941013-1-00014 (3) 50 percent for fiscal year 1997 and succeeding fiscal years. (c) Calculation. (1) For purposes of paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section, the amount shall be determined by calculating for each applicable institution, the amount by which the loans received for attendance by each institution's current and former students who_ (i) Enter repayment during the fiscal year used for the calculation of the cohort default rate; and (ii) Default before the end of the following fiscal year; (2) Exceeds 20 percent of the loans received for attendance by all the current and former students who enter repayment during the fiscal year used for the calculation of the cohort default rate. (d)(1) School Fee. A State may charge a fee to an institution of higher education that participates in the FFEL Program that is located in its State according to a fee structure, approved by the Secretary, that_ (i) Is based on the institution's cohort default rate and the State's risk of loss; and (ii) Includes procedures under which a school that is subject to a fee under paragraph (d)(1) of this section may appeal the fee if the institution can demonstrate to the satisfaction of the State that_ (A) The fee it is assessed by the State is greater than the fee it is liable for under the fee structure established by the State and approved by the Secretary; or (B) Exceptional mitigating circumstances contributed to its cohort default rate. (2) For purposes of paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section, the State may not assess a fee to a school that is greater than the amount that the school contributes to the State's fee. (3) For purposes of paragraph (d)(1)(ii)(B) of this section, the State may select the exceptional mitigating circumstances which must be approved by the Secretary as part of the State's fee structure plan under section (d)(1) of this section. (4) A State may not assess a fee to a school under paragraph (d)(1) of this section until it has received written approval from the Secretary of its fee structure and the exceptional mitigating circumstances. (5) A State must provide a school a reasonable amount of time after the date the school receives notification from the State of the fee it is being assessed by the State to either pay the fee or_ (i) Demonstrate to the State that the fee it is assessed by the State is greater than the fee it is liable for under the fee structure established by the State and approved by the Secretary; or (ii) Submit the documentation or other evidence required by the State to demonstrate that exceptional mitigating circumstances contributed to its cohort default rate. (6) A State may not attempt to collect a fee from a school under paragraph (d)(1) of this section_ (i) During the timeframes established by the State under section (d)(5) of this section; and (ii) If the school satisfactorily demonstrates to the State that exceptional mitigating circumstances contributed to its cohort default rate. (7) A school is not exempt from a fee under this section if it withdraws its participation in the FFEL Program after receiving notification by a State that it is being assessed a fee under paragraph (d)(1) of this section. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1078) [FR Doc. 94&hyph;25363 Filed 10&hyph;12&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4000&hyph;01&hyph;P
