FR941007-1-00093 FR941007-1-00009 Appendix A to Part 25_Ratings (a) Ratings in general. (1) In assigning a rating, the OCC shall evaluate a bank's performance under the applicable assessment criteria in this part, subject to ยง25.28 of this part, which provides for adjustments on the basis of evidence of discriminatory or other illegal credit practices and prior ``needs to improve'' ratings. (2) A bank's performance need not fit each aspect of a particular rating profile in order to receive that rating, and exceptionally strong performance with respect to some aspects may compensate for weak performance in others. The bank's overall performance, however, should generally be consistent with the appropriate profile stated below. (b) Banks that are not wholesale or limited purpose banks or small banks. (1) Lending performance rating. The OCC shall assign each bank's lending performance one of the five ratings described below. (i) Outstanding. The OCC shall rate a bank's lending performance ``outstanding'' if, in general, it demonstrates: (A) Excellent responsiveness to credit needs in its service area(s); (B) A substantial majority of its loans are made in its service area(s); (C) An excellent geographic distribution of loans throughout its service area(s); (D) An excellent distribution, particularly in its service area(s), of loans among individuals of different income levels and businesses (including farms) of different size given the product lines offered by the bank; (E) An excellent record of serving the credit needs of the most economically disadvantaged areas of its service area(s), low-income individuals, or businesses (including farms) with gross annual revenues less than or equal to $1 million, consistent with safe and sound operations; (F) Extensive use of innovative or flexible lending practices to address the credit needs of low- or moderate-income individuals or geographies; and (G) It is a leader in making community development loans. (ii) High satisfactory. The OCC shall rate a bank's lending performance ``high satisfactory'' if, in general, it demonstrates: (A) Good responsiveness to credit needs in its service area(s); (B) A high percentage of its loans are made in its service area(s); (C) A good geographic distribution of loans throughout its service area(s); (D) A good distribution, particularly in its service area(s), of loans among individuals of different income levels and businesses (including farms) of different size given the product lines offered by the bank; (E) A good record of serving the credit needs of the most economically disadvantaged areas of its service area(s), low-income individuals, or businesses (including farms) with gross annual revenues less than or equal to $1 million, consistent with safe and sound operations; (F) Use of innovative or flexible lending practices to address the credit needs of low- or moderate-income individuals or geographies; and (G) It has made a relatively high level of community development loans. (iii) Low satisfactory. The OCC shall rate a bank's lending performance ``low satisfactory'' if, in general, it demonstrates: (A) Adequate responsiveness to credit needs in its service area(s); (B) An adequate percentage of its loans are made in its service area(s); (C) An adequate geographic distribution of loans throughout its service area(s); (D) An adequate distribution, particularly in its service area(s), of loans among individuals of different income levels and businesses (including farms) of different size given the product lines offered by the bank;
