FR940223-1-00011 FR940223-1-00001 Several conforming changes must be made in the order language of both orders to implement component pricing. Other minor changes, though not strictly of a conforming nature, have been made to clarify and improve order language. Other sections of the orders, however, have been changed to accommodate reference changes, date changes, and minor terminology changes resulting from component pricing. These changes require some explanation here. Section 19 (``product prices'') of both orders has been modified to accommodate reference changes, eliminate unnecessary language, and to include the butterfat differential that previously was described in section 74 of both orders. The latter change was made because the description of the butterfat differential fits better with the product prices which are used to compute the butterfat differential and because of the diminished importance of the butterfat differential under a component pricing system. This change also eliminates redundant language that was included in both sections. As a result of making this change, several sections following section 74 (i.e., §§1124.75&hyph;1124.78 and §§1135.75&hyph;1135.79) had to be redesignated to close the gap created and several reference changes had to be made as a result. Sections 30 and 31 of both orders were modified to accommodate the reporting of nonfat milk solids in Order 124 and protein content in Order 135. In addition, under Order 135 the date for filing reports of receipts and utilization was changed from the 7th day to the 9th day after the end of the month, and the date for filing payroll reports was changed from the 20th to the 22nd day after the end of each month. In support of these changes, the spokesman for Darigold Farms testified that the present reporting date for the report of receipts and utilization leaves no time to review the report, investigate apparent errors, or make corrections. He also stated that the modified reporting dates will correspond to those of the Pacific Northwest order. There was no opposition to these proposals. The ``other reports'' section of Order 124 was modified to improve the language of that section. There was no intention to substantively change the meaning of this section. The present §§1124.51a and 1135.51a have been eliminated, but the contents of those sections have been incorporated in §§1124.51 and 1135.51, respectively. These changes, which are also of a non-substantive nature, were made in conformance with Federal Register guidelines. Comments on the component pricing portion of the recommended decision were filed on behalf of Darigold Farms, Farmers Cooperative Creamery, Magic Valley Quality Milk Producers Association, Tillamook Cooperative Creamery Association, and Western Dairy Cooperative, Inc. The commentors stated that they endorsed all aspects of the Recommended Decision which pertain to MCP and urged its prompt implementation. 2. Performance standards for supply plants under the Pacific Northwest order. The Pacific Northwest order should be amended to provide that the delivery requirements for qualification as a supply plant be not less than 20 percent of the total quantity of milk that is (1) physically received at the plant from dairy farmers eligible to be producers or (2) is diverted as producer milk to another plant. To qualify as a pool plant, the order currently requires a supply plant to ship ``not less than 30 percent'' of the total quantity of milk that is physically received at the plant from producers or that is diverted as producer milk to another plant. Tillamook County Creamery Association (TCCA) proposed a decrease in the shipping percentage from 30 percent to 20 percent. TCCA requested, and was granted, a temporary reduction in the delivery requirements in 1990, 1991, and 1992. A TCCA spokesman testified that the request to reduce the supply plant shipping percentage was made by TCCA as a result of continuing changes in the industry. He pointed out that the present 30 percent shipping percentage was adopted when the Federal order was adopted February 1, 1989. The witness noted that at the time of order implementation (early 1989), Class I utilization was 155 million pounds, which represented in excess of 39 percent of total producer milk in the Pacific Northwest market. By February 1992, however, Class I utilization was 164 million pounds in the Pacific Northwest market, and the Class I pool utilization had dropped to 35 percent. By May of 1992, the percent Class I utilization decreased even further to 30.8 percent. Two other witnesses, one representing Darigold Farms and the other Northwest Independent Milk Producers, testified in favor of TCCA's proposal. No one testified in opposition to it.
