FR941116-0-00178 FR941116-0-00022 (5) Executing the cash marketing plan; and (6) Offsetting options positions. (c) ES shall, assisted by representatives of county Agricultural Stabilization and Conservation Service (ASCS) offices: (1) Conduct educational meetings for all interested producers in a participating county; (2) Prepare an informational video for producers to view; and (3) Encourage producers to visit the local ES office to obtain information about the Options Program. §1415.3 Appeals. The appeal regulations set forth in part 780 of this title are applicable to this part. §1415.4 Performance based upon advice or action of county or State committee. The provisions of part 790 of this title, with respect to performance based upon action or advice of any authorized representative of the Secretary, shall be applicable to this part. §1415.5 Compliance with part 12 of this title, highly erodible land and wetland conservation provisions. The provisions of part 12 of this title, Highly Erodible Land and Wetland Conservation, are applicable to this agreement. Each person who violates such provisions shall refund any premium or incentive payment received for such crops on the farm participating in this program for which such person has an interest. §1415.6 Paperwork Reduction Act assigned numbers. The information collection requirements contained in this part have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) under the provisions of 44 U.S.C. 35 and OMB number 0560&hyph;0092 has been assigned. Subpart B_Definitions Used in This Part §1415.9 Definitions. The terms defined in parts 719 of this title and 1413 of this chapter shall be applicable to this part, except as otherwise provided in this section. Agreement means form CCC&hyph;300, 1994 Options Program Agreement. CBOT means the Chicago Board of Trade. Exercise means the action taken by the holders of put options if they wish to sell the underlying futures contract. Expiration Date means the last date on which the option may be exercised. Although options expire on a specified date during the month before the specified month, an option on a December futures contract is referred to as a December option, because the exercise on this contract would lead to the creation of a December futures position. KCBOT means the Kansas City Board of Trade. MGE means the Minneapolis Grain Exchange. Premium means the price of an option contract determined by open outcry between buyers and sellers on the trading floor of a commodity exchange. The premium does not include related brokerage commission fees. The premium is the maximum amount of potential loss to which the option buyer may be subject. Premium payment means the reimbursement from Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC) to the producer for the purchase price paid by the producer for a put option, not including brokerage commission fees. Price support equivalent strike price means the strike price that would give producers an expected return on the options market equivalent to an amount they would have received by pledging the commodity for a CCC price support loan. Pricing means providing documentary evidence of the establishment of a monetary value for a commodity through contract or bill of sale. Producer means, as determined in accordance with part 1413 of this chapter, and as used in this agreement, both the ``operator'' and other producers of the crop on the farm. Program means the 1994 Options Pilot Program. Put Option means an option that gives the option buyer the right to sell the underlying futures contract at the strike price on or before the expiration date. Sale means the transfer of title. Strike Price means the price at which the holders of a put option may choose to exercise their right to sell the underlying futures contract.
