FR940506-1-00057 FR940506-1-00014 C. Paperwork Reduction Act The Paperwork Reduction Act does not apply because the proposed changes to the FAR do not impose recordkeeping information collection requirements, or collections of information from offerors, contractors, or members of the public which require the approval of the Office of Management and Budget under 44 U.S.C. 3501, et seq. Approval for the affected FAR segments was originally provided under OMB Control Number 9000&hyph;0102. List of Subjects in 48 CFR Parts 32 and 52 Government procurement. Dated: April 29, 1994. Albert A. Vicchiolla, Director, Office of Federal Acquisition Policy. Therefore, it is proposed that 48 CFR parts 32 and 52 be amended as set forth below: 1. The authority citation for 48 CFR parts 32 and 52 continues to read as follows: Authority: 40 U.S.C. 486(c); 10 U.S.C. chapter 137; and 42 U.S.C. 2473(c). PART 32_CONTRACT FINANCING 2. Section 32.102 is amended by revising paragraph (d) to read as follows: 32.102 Description of contract financing methods. * * * * * (d) Partial payments for accepted supplies and services that are only a part of the contract requirements are authorized under section 305 of the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act (41 U.S.C. 255). OMB Circular A&hyph;125, Prompt Payment, requires agencies to pay for partial delivery of supplies or partial performance of services unless specifically prohibited by the contract. Although partial payments are generally treated as a method of payment and not as a method of contract financing, using partial payments can assist contractors to participate in Government contracts without, or with minimal, contract financing. When appropriate, contract statements of work and pricing arrangements shall be designed to permit acceptance and payment for discrete portions of the work, as soon as accepted (but see 32.903(f)(2)). * * * * * 3. Section 32.902 is amended by revising the definitions ``Day'', ``Designated billing office'', ``Discount for prompt payment'', and ``Payment date''; and adding, in alphabetical order, the definitions ``Invoice'' and ``Specified payment date'' to read as follows: 32.902 Definitions. * * * * * Day, as used in this subpart, means calendar day, including weekends and holidays, unless otherwise indicated. (However, see 32.903(e)(3) concerning payments due on Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays.) Designated billing office, as used in this subpart, means the office or person (governmental or nongovernmental) designated in the contract where the contractor first submits invoices and contract financing requests. This might be the Government disbursing office, contract administration office, office accepting the supplies delivered or services performed by the contractor, contract audit office, or a nongovernmental agent. In some cases, different offices might be designated to receive invoices and contract financing requests. * * * * * Discount for prompt payment means an invoice payment reduction voluntarily offered by the contractor, in conjunction with the clause at 52.232&hyph;8, Discounts for Prompt Payment, if payment is made by the Government prior to the due date. The due date is calculated from the date of the contractor's invoice. If the contractor has not placed a date on the invoice, the due date is calculated from the date the designated billing office receives a proper invoice, provided the agency annotates such invoice with the date of receipt at the time of receipt. When the discount date falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday when Federal Government offices are closed and Government business is not expected to be conducted, payment may be made on the following business day and a discount may be taken. * * * * * Invoice means a contractor's bill or written request for payment under the contract for supplies delivered or services performed. * * * * * Payment date means the date on which a check for payment is dated or the date an electronic funds transfer is specified for settlement at a Federal Reserve Bank (see 32.903(e)(2)). * * * * * Specified payment date means, for an electronic funds transfer (EFT) payment, the date which the Government has placed in the EFT payment transaction instruction given to the transfer network, as the date on which funds are to be transferred to the contractor's financial institution. 4. Section 32.903 is revised to read as follows: 32.903 Policy. (a) All solicitations and contracts subject to this subpart shall specify payment procedures, payment due dates, and interest penalties for late invoice payment. (b) The Government shall not make invoice and contract financing payments earlier than 7 days prior to the due dates specified in the contract unless the agency head, or designee, determines to make earlier payment on a case-by-case basis (see 32.908 for required clauses). (c) Payment will be based on receipt of a proper invoice or contract financing request and satisfactory contract performance. (d) Agency procedures shall ensure that, when specifying due dates, full consideration is given to the time reasonably required by Government officials to fulfill their administrative responsibilities under the contract. (e)(1) Checks shall be mailed on the same day they are dated. (2) Payments made by electronic funds transfer shall be specified by the Government (see 32.902 definition of specified payment date ) for settlement at a Federal Reserve Bank on or before the established due date. (3) When the due date falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday when Federal Government offices are closed and Government business is not expected to be conducted, payment may be made on the following business day without incurring a late payment interest penalty.
