FR940407-0-00005 FR940407-0-00002 SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION 13 CFR Part 121 Small Business Size Standards; Inflation Adjusted Size Standards AGENCY: Small Business Administration. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: On September 2, 1993, the Small Business Administration (SBA) published a proposed rule in the Federal Register , 58 FR 46573, re-proposing to streamline its size standards by reducing the current number of fixed size standard levels from thirty to nine (retaining the five existing employee-based levels and establishing four new receipts-based levels). As a part of the proposed rule, an inflation adjustment percentage of 45.8% was applied to most of SBA's receipts-based size standard levels and then rounded to the nearest newly established four receipts-based levels. The SBA has decided to further review the effectiveness of reducing the current number of fixed size standard levels in order to simplify the size standards program. However, the SBA continues to believe that the application of an inflationary adjustment, to account for the effects of inflation since the third quarter of 1982, to its receipts-based size standards is still warranted. This final rule reflects the SBA's finding that the application of an inflation adjustment percentage of 48.2% (based upon the latest inflation information) to the receipts-based size standard of each and every industry, not otherwise prohibited for change by statute, is necessary. EFFECTIVE DATE: April 22, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: 0 Ajoy K. Sinha, Program Analyst, Size Standards Staff (202) 205&hyph;6618. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: On December 21, 1992, SBA published a proposed rule in the Federal Register , 57 FR 62515, that sought to achieve the twin goals of adjusting SBA's receipt-based size standards for inflation and streamlining the SBA size standards system. Following a withdrawal of that proposed rule on February 19, 1993 (58 FR 9131) and further review of the proposal by the Agency, SBA again published a proposed rule in the Federal Register on September 2, 1993, 58 FR 46573, to accomplish those same dual purposes. Pursuant to the September 2, 1993 proposed rule, SBA's current system of approximately thirty size standards would first have been simplified by reducing the number of different size standards to nine. More specifically, SBA's twenty-one different receipts-based size standards would have been reduced to only the four most common receipts-based size standards_$3.5 million in average annual receipts, $7.0 million, $12.5 million, and $17.0 million. In addition, SBA proposed to increase the receipts-based size standards for inflation. The inflation rate to be applied was then calculated at 45.8 percent. This rate covered the period between the third quarter of 1982 (the last date for which size standards were adjusted for inflation) and the first quarter of 1993 (the most recent data available at the time of the publication of the proposed rule). The 45.8 percent inflation rate would then have been applied to the four remaining receipts-based size standards. This application would have in turn generated the four most common receipts-based size standards with an inflation adjustment_$5 million, $10 million, $18 million and $25 million. The inflation adjustment then would have been calculated for each of the existing receipts-based size standards, except where the Agency is legally prohibited from doing so. Each of these standards, preliminarily adjusted for the full inflation rate, would have then been modified by reducing or increasing them to the closest of the four inflation-adjusted simplified size standards. As a result, many industries would have received a net inflation adjustment that would have been significantly larger or smaller than the 45.8 percent inflator. After further considering the proposed rule in light of comments received, the SBA has concluded that further study is needed on the issue of how best to simplify its size standards. In addition, SBA feels that the manner in which size standards would have been increased for inflation (that is, adjusting upward or downward from a full inflation increase to one of the four newly created simplified size standards) may not have adequately taken into account the effects of inflation on a significant number of industries. Indeed, it believes that the need to adjust current size standards for inflation is an urgent one. Small business owners have requested quick action. In SBA's view, updating such standards as soon as possible is necessary to make them more appropriate. Several commenters to the proposed rule maintained that the proposed rule was inequitable in that certain industries would not have received a full inflationary adjustment. These commenters recommended that SBA modify every size standard upward to the next highest of the four inflation-adjusted simplified size standards, but never downward to give certain industries less than a full increase for inflation. While SBA is not convinced that increasing each of these size standards upward to the next highest level is the appropriate solution, SBA does believe that the concerns raised regarding the unequal inflation adjustments are valid. Accordingly, the SBA has decided to finalize only that portion of the proposed rule that called for an increase in the receipts-based size standards due to inflation. In other words, this final rule will adjust each of the current twenty-one receipts-based size standards for inflation.
