FR940505-1-00123 FR940505-1-00012 On the basis of the Nonroad Study, EPA has proposed its determination that emissions of CO, NO X , and VOCs from nonroad engines and vehicles contribute significantly to ozone or CO in more than one NAAQS nonattainment area (see 58 FR 28809, May 17, 1993). According to the Nonroad Study, nonroad engines and vehicles contribute an average of 10 percent of summer VOCs and 17 percent of summer NO X in the 19 ozone nonattainment areas included in the study. Small SI engines are the source of half of those nonroad summer VOC emissions. CI engines over 50 kW used in farm, construction, and utility applications are a major source of nonroad NO X emissions. In the 16 CO nonattainment areas included in the study, nonroad engines and vehicles account on average for 9 percent of winter CO emissions. Small SI engines are the source of 56 percent of the nonroad winter CO contribution, according to the study. In the Sacramento, Ventura, and South Coast FIP areas, nonroad sources comprise 10 percent, 5 percent, and 6 percent of the baseline VOC inventory, respectively. Nonroad sources contribute 22 percent of Sacramento's baseline NO X inventory, 12 percent of Ventura's, and 21 percent of South Coast's. (3) Sierra Club Suit. The Sierra Club Legal Defense Fund brought suit against EPA in Federal District Court for the District of Columbia for failure to meet certain deadlines required under the Clean Air Act ( Sierra Club v. Browner, Civ. No. 93&hyph;0197 NHJ (DDC 1993)). Plaintiffs and EPA have entered into a settlement agreement in that case that, among other things, requires EPA to finalize Federal emission standards for certain categories of nonroad engines on the following schedule: ␣ 1␣ 1␣ Heavy Duty CI Ignition Engines May 1994. Small Nonroad SI Engines Phase I May 1995. Small Nonroad SI Engines Phase II April 1997. Marine Pleasure Craft November 1995. The Settlement also requires that EPA make a decision regarding whether to regulate SI engines over 19 kW (25 hp) and CI engines under 37 kW (50 hp) by December 1996. Given the reductions available through other measures proposed today, it will not be necessary to develop special control measures for the FIP areas for these two categories of nonroad engines. However, certain SI engines over 37 kW (50 hp) may be affected by the enhanced nonroad program described in the Appendices of today's proposal. (4) Rationale for Implementing the Federal Programs in the FIP Areas. Nonroad sources are a diverse class of engines used in as many as 80 applications. The structure of the industry that manufactures nonroad engines and vehicles is complicated in that it is not integrated. Some manufacturers manufacture only engines, others manufacture only equipment, few manufacture both engines and equipment. Much of the equipment is portable and is not registered, making enforcement of regulations challenging. Almost without exception, nonroad engines have not been regulated previously by EPA for emissions. Much of the data which existed relating to emissions from nonroad engines prior to 1991, while adequate to estimate emissions inventories for the purpose of the Nonroad Study, needed updating and analysis before comprehensive regulatory programs could be developed. For some categories of engines, little emissions data existed; for other categories of engines, EPA believes that the emission test procedures need to be validated to ensure accurate representation of in-use emissions using advanced control technology. The Agency is now in the process of gathering more emissions data and validating and developing test procedures for nonroad engines. Because of the need to achieve near-term emissions reductions from nonroad sources in the nonattainment areas and the lack of certain data, the Agency adopted phased Federal regulatory strategies for two nonroad categories: CI engines at or over 37 kW and SI engines at or under 19 kW. In Phase 1 for each of these categories, EPA either has proposed or will soon propose standards that will achieve maximum reductions in the near term using existing test procedures and technology or modifications of existing technology. Phase 2 will deal with those issues for which a longer review time is advisable, such as development of new technologies and test procedures. For the purposes of the FIP, the Agency proposes to implement certain Federal programs that have not yet been promulgated by EPA. In particular, the Agency proposes to implement the Phase 1 and Phase 2 Federal Standards for nonroad SI engines at or under 19 kW. These Phase 1 and 2 standards are now under development and will be proposed by May of 1994 and May 1996, respectively. EPA also proposes to implement the Federal Standards for CI Nonroad Engines at or over 37 kW which have been proposed (58 FR 28809) and will be made final by May 31, 1994, and National Standards for Spark-ignition Marine Pleasure Craft which are under development and will be proposed by September 1994. These programs are described in the section entitled, ``Federal Nonroad Requirements.''
