FR940405-1-00020 FR940405-1-00006 Availability of NPRMs Any person may obtain a copy of this NPRM by submitting a request to the FAA, Transport Airplane Directorate, ANM&hyph;103, Attention: Rules Docket No. 93&hyph;NM&hyph;206&hyph;AD, 1601 Lind Avenue, SW., Renton, Washington 98055&hyph;4056. Discussion Transport Canada Aviation, which is the airworthiness authority for Canada, recently notified the FAA that an unsafe condition may exist on certain de Havilland Model DHC&hyph;8&hyph;100 and DHC&hyph;8&hyph;300 series airplanes. Transport Canada Aviation advises that three field reports indicate that the electrical power supplies of the white anti-collision lights may develop a fault which produces greater than normal electrical emissions. The cause of this fault has been attributed to a capacitor failure in some ``Grimes'' strobe light systems. This electromagnetic interference can adversely affect the operation of the proximity switch electronics unit (PSEU) and its associated systems. The following occurrences have resulted: 1. Flashing of the landing gear green locked down advisory lights during cruise; 2. Fluctuation of the cabin pressurization rate needle during cruise; 3. Retraction and extension of roll and ground spoilers during ground operation; 4. Inoperative nose gear steering subsequent to landing; and 5. Unavailable normal wheel brakes below 35&hyph;40 knots. Incorrect operation of the PSEU and its associated systems may interfere with or distract the flight crew in carrying out its regular duties during flight or on the ground, and thus serve to compromise the safe operation of the airplane. De Havilland, Inc., has issued Alert Service Bulletin S.B. A8&hyph;33&hyph;33, dated May 31, 1993, that describes flight crew and maintenance procedures to detect faulty power supply units. The alert service bulletin also describes procedures for replacement of any faulty ``Grimes'' unit with a new or serviceable ``Grimes'' unit, or installation of a new ``Whelan'' system (Modification 8/1273). De Havilland, Inc., has also issued Service Bulletin S/B 8&hyph;33&hyph;19, `Revision A', dated May 31, 1993, that describes procedures for installation of Modification 8/1273, which entails replacing the existing anti-collision strobe light system (consisting of anti- collision strobe lights, brackets, and power supplies) at all three locations with the new, improved ``Whelen'' anti-collision strobe light system. (The ``Whelen'' system includes new dual strobes, new brackets, and new power supplies.) This new system is considered more durable than the currently installed anti-collision strobe light system. The ``Whelan'' system also has a back-up strobe light at each position. Transport Canada Aviation classified these service bulletins as mandatory and issued Canadian Airworthiness Directive CF&hyph;93&hyph;20, dated August 3, 1993, in order to assure the continued airworthiness of these airplanes in Canada. This airplane model is manufactured in Canada and is type certificated for operation in the United States under the provisions of ยง21.29 of the Federal Aviation Regulations and the applicable bilateral airworthiness agreement. Pursuant to this bilateral airworthiness agreement, Transport Canada Aviation has kept the FAA informed of the situation described above. The FAA has examined the findings of Transport Canada Aviation, reviewed all available information, and determined that AD action is necessary for products of this type design that are certificated for operation in the United States. Since an unsafe condition has been identified that is likely to exist or develop on other airplanes of the same type design registered in the United States, the proposed AD would require revising the Limitations section of the FAA-approved Airplane Flight Manual (AFM) to advise flight crew members that certain cockpit indications during in-flight or ground operations may reveal faulty anti-collision strobe light units, and to provide procedures for subsequent flight crew action. This proposal would also require replacement of faulty ``Grimes'' units with new or serviceable ``Grimes'' units or installation of the new ``Whelan'' system (Modification 8/1273). The proposed AD would also require eventual replacement of the existing anti-collision strobe light system with the ``Whelen'' anti-collision strobe light system (Modification 8/1273) at all three locations. When accomplished, incorporation of this modification would constitute terminating action for the requirements of this proposal. Following incorporation of Modification 8/1273, operators would be permitted to remove the proposed changes to the AFM. The actions would be required to be accomplished in accordance with the service bulletins described previously. Additionally, applicability of the proposed rule would exclude those airplanes on which Modification 8/1273 has been accomplished previously, since airplanes so modified are not subject to the unsafe condition addressed by this proposed AD. The manufacturer has installed Modification 8/1273 on airplanes having serial numbers 215 and subsequent. The FAA estimates that 74 airplanes of U.S. registry would be affected by this proposed AD, that it would take approximately 16 work hours per airplane to accomplish the proposed actions, and that the average labor rate is $55 per work hour. Required parts for installation of Modification 8/1273 at all three locations would cost approximately $1,397 per airplane. Based on these figures, the total cost impact of the proposed AD on U.S. operators is estimated to be $168,498, or $2,277 per airplane. The total cost impact figure discussed above is based on assumptions that no operator has yet accomplished any of the proposed requirements of this AD action, and that no operator would accomplish those actions in the future if this AD were not adopted. The regulations proposed herein would not have substantial direct effects on the States, on the relationship between the national government and the States, or on the distribution of power and responsibilities among the various levels of government. Therefore, in accordance with Executive Order 12612, it is determined that this proposal would not have sufficient federalism implications to warrant the preparation of a Federalism Assessment. For the reasons discussed above, I certify that this proposed regulation (1) is not a ``significant regulatory action'' under Executive Order 12866; (2) is not a ``significant rule'' under the DOT Regulatory Policies and Procedures (44 FR 11034, February 26, 1979); and (3) if promulgated, will not have a significant economic impact, positive or negative, on a substantial number of small entities under the criteria of the Regulatory Flexibility Act. A copy of the draft regulatory evaluation prepared for this action is contained in the Rules Docket. A copy of it may be obtained by contacting the Rules Docket at the location provided under the caption ADDRESSES . List of Subjects in 14 CFR Part 39 Air transportation, Aircraft, Aviation safety, Safety. The Proposed Amendment Accordingly, pursuant to the authority delegated to me by the Administrator, the Federal Aviation Administration proposes to amend 14 CFR part 39 of the Federal Aviation Regulations as follows: PART 39_AIRWORTHINESS DIRECTIVES 1. The authority citation for part 39 continues to read as follows: Authority: 49 U.S.C. App. 1354(a), 1421 and 1423; 49 U.S.C. 106(g); and 14 CFR 11.89. ยง39.13 [Amended] 2. Section 39.13 is amended by adding the following new airworthiness directive:
