FR940805-1-00085 FR940805-1-00013 (xi) suicide screening; and (xii) orientation, classification and assignment to a housing unit. (2) Mass arrests. Written plans shall govern temporary space arrangements and procedures to be followed in the event of a mass arrest that exceeds the maximum capacity of the facility. The administrator or designee shall update the plans as needed and review them at least annually. (3) Suicide screening. The administrator shall ensure that all juveniles shall be screened for risk of suicide at the time of admission. When a risk is identified, detention staff shall make an emergency referral to the health authority for evaluation by a health care professional and shall monitor the juvenile until the assessment has been completed. (4) Orientation. All newly admitted juveniles shall receive written or oral information in the language they understand. The admitting officer shall document completion of orientation by a statement that shall be signed and dated by the juveniles. The facility shall separate newly admitted juveniles until completion of the orientation process. The orientation shall include, but not limited to: (i) juvenile rules of conduct and potential disciplinary actions that may be taken; (ii) programs and services available in the facility; (iii) procedures for accessing health care services; and (iv) juvenile rights and privileges. (5) Personal property inventory. The admitting officer shall complete a written, itemized inventory of all personal property of newly admitted juveniles and shall store securely all juvenile property, including money and other valuables. The admitting officer shall give the juvenile a receipt for all property held until release. (6) Regulation of juvenile property. The administrator or designee shall identify personal property that juveniles may receive or keep in their possession while in the facility, the sources from which these items may be obtained and how these items are received and inspected. (h) Classification._ (1) Classification policy. The administrator or designee shall provide for juvenile classification in terms of the custody level, housing assignment and program participation. The administrator shall review these policies and procedures annually and update them as necessary. (2) Classification plan. The administrator or designee shall develop a written classification plan, which includes, at a minimum: (i) criteria and procedures for determining and changing the status of a juvenile relative to custody; (ii) transfer and major changes in program participation; (iii) an appeals process for classification decisions; and (iv) the separate management of the following categories of juveniles: male and female, education and work release, special needs (substance abusers, disabled, etc.) and special management (disciplinary confinement and juveniles removed from the program by administrative action). (3) Prohibited segregations. The administrator shall prohibit the segregation of juveniles by race, color, creed, tribal affiliation, national origin, political beliefs, nepotism, favoritism or other prohibited criteria. (i) Food service._ (1) Food service records. At a minimum, the facility shall maintain records of the number of meals served to the juvenile population, the expenditures for food supplies and menus (planned and as served). (2) Dietary allowances. The facility shall document that a registered dietician reviews dietary allowances at least annually to ensure compliance with nationally recommended food allowances. A diet manual, approved by a registered dietician, shall guide dietary allowances, including special diets. (3) Menu planning. The administrator or designee shall plan, date and make all menus available for review at least one week in advance. The administrator or designee shall make notations of any substitutions, which shall be of equal nutritional value, in the meals actually served. The administrator or designee shall consider Native American food preferences in menu planning. The administrator or designee shall direct that menu evaluations shall be conducted at least quarterly to verify adherence to the nationally recommended basic daily servings. (4) Medical special diets. The administrator or designee shall provide for special diets that are prescribed by appropriate medical or dental personnel. (5) Religious preference special diets. The administrator or designee shall provide for special diets for juveniles whose beliefs require adherence to religious dietary laws. (6) Food and discipline. The administrator shall prohibit the use of food as a disciplinary measure. (7) Health protection. Food service facilities and equipment shall meet health and safety standards. Food service personnel and juveniles assisting in the food service area shall comply with applicable health regulations. The administrator or designee shall document compliance with health and safety regulations, including but not limited to, a pre-assignment medical examination. (8) Inspections of food products. The appropriate government agency shall inspect and approve food products that are grown or produced within the system. The administrator or designee shall implement a distribution system that ensures prompt delivery of foodstuffs. (9) Inspection of food service area. The administrator or designee shall conduct a weekly inspection of all food service areas, including dining and food preparation areas and equipment to ensure that they are sanitary, that all food storage areas are temperature controlled, and that food service personnel have made daily checks of refrigerator and water temperatures. (10) Meal service. The facility shall serve meals under the direct supervision of staff, and staff shall supervise juveniles during meal times. The facility shall provide at least three meals, of which two shall be hot, served at regular meal times during each twenty-four hour period, with no more than fourteen hours between the evening meal and breakfast. Provided that basic nutritional goals are met, variations may be allowed based on weekend and holiday food service demands.
