FR940325-0-00046 FR940325-0-00010 In the July 17 notice, the USEPA established an August 17, 1992 deadline for public comment. At the request of GM, USEPA extended the comment period to September 16, 1992, (57 FR 42536). Comments by General Motors On September 15, 1992, GM submitted comments to the USEPA on the proposal. In its comments, GM objected to the USEPA's reliance on the information concerning the GE facility as ``data which is to a critical degree secret and completely beyond scrutiny or verification.'' GM further stated that this information was the USEPA's sole basis for its proposal. GM added, however, that if the USEPA decides to promulgate the 3.5 lb/gallon limits, then it should adopt the proposed compliance date of one year from promulgation date. GM stated that this was the ``minimum period which can reasonably be provided for compliance.'' In response to these comments, the USEPA maintains that its reliance on the GE data is entirely appropriate. The data relied upon by the USEPA, and available in the August 1991 RACT analysis for this rule (which is included in the rulemaking docket), include ``Specification and Properties'' sheets that indicate coating type and use, and the maximum applied VOC content at the GE facilities (3.5 lb/gal. for all primers, topcoats and final repair coats). Information in the RACT analysis also shows that those coatings are required to pass GE's tests for adhesion, gloss, color and other critical properties. While the suppliers of the complying coatings used by GE are not identified (because of claims of business confidentiality asserted by GE), the availability of these coatings is clearly established. Although the GE data is compelling, the USEPA also rejects GM's claim that this was the USEPA's sole basis of its proposal. The July 17, 1992 rulemaking notice also cites the following factors as support: (1) The CTG for miscellaneous metal parts specifies a VOC limit of 3.5 lb/gal. as a presumptive RACT level, (2) the USEPA Region III issued a SIP deficiency letter to Pennsylvania finding that its 4.3 lb/gal. limit for locomotive coatings was deficient, and needed to be changed to 3.5 lb/gal., (3) Pennsylvania has lowered its locomotive and heavy-duty truck topcoat limit to 3.5 lb/gal. based on a finding that such coatings are available to the industries involved; and (4) GM did not adequately support its technical arguments. Final Rulemaking Action The USEPA has reviewed GM's comments, as well as the information identified in the July 17, 1992 proposed rule, and determined that the proposed emission limits of 3.5 lb/gal. for EMD's topcoat and final repair coating operations constitute RACT. As stated in the USEPA's proposed rule, compliance with these limits is required no later than one year from the date of today's promulgation. Also as proposed, the USEPA is withdrawing the May 31, 1991, stay pending reconsideration. Under the Regulatory Flexibility Act, 5 U.S.C. 600 et seq. , the USEPA must prepare a regulatory flexibility analysis assessing the impact of any proposed or final rule on small entities. 5 U.S.C. 603 and 604. Alternatively, the USEPA may certify that the rule will not have a significant impact on a substantial number of small entities. Small entities include small businesses, small not-for-profit enterprises and government entities with jurisdictions over populations of less than 50,000. This action involves only one source, EMD. EMD is not a small entity. Therefore, the USEPA certifies that this disapproval action does not have a significant impact on a substantial number of small entities. Under Executive Order 12866, this action is not ``Major.'' It has been submitted to the Office of Management and Budget for review. List of Subjects in 40 CFR Part 52 Environmental protection, Air pollution control, Hydrocarbons, Incorporation by reference, Intergovernmental relations, Ozone. Dated: March 17, 1994. Carol M. Browner, Administrator.
