FR940505-1-00300 FR940505-1-00012 Emission source or source means any building, structure, facility, property, equipment, device, container, or any combination thereof, at, from, or by reason which VOC is emitted or discharged into the atmosphere. Facility means all of the pollutant-emitting activities which belong to the same industrial grouping, are located on one or more contiguous or adjacent properties, and are under the control of the same person (or persons under common control), except the activities of any vessel. Pollutant-emitting activities shall be considered as part of the same industrial grouping if they belong to the same ``Major Group'' (i.e., which have the same two-digit code) as described in the ``Standard Industrial Classification Manual, 1987'' (National Technical Information Service order No. PB 87&hyph;10012). Federally enforceable means all limitations and conditions that are enforceable by the Administrator including those requirements contained in permits issued pursuant to 40 CFR parts 70 and 71, except those terms or conditions designated as not federally enforceable; those requirements developed pursuant to 40 CFR parts 60 and 61; requirements within any applicable implementation plan; and any permit requirements established pursuant to 40 CFR 52.21 or under regulations approved pursuant to 40 CFR part 51, subpart I, and 40 CFR 51.166. Incinerator means a combustion apparatus in which solid, semi-solid, liquid, or gaseous combustible wastes are ignited and burned and from which the solid and gaseous residues contain little or no combustible material. Monitor means to measure and record. Organic compound means a chemical compound of carbon, excluding carbon monoxide, carbon dioxide, carbonic acid, metallic carbides, carbonates, and ammonium carbonate. Organic vapor means the gaseous phase of an organic compound or a mixture of organic compounds present in the atmosphere. Owner or operator means any person who owns, operates, leases, controls, or supervises an emissions source or air pollution control equipment. Person means any individual, corporation, copartnership, firm, company, partnership, joint stock company, trust, association, State, municipality, political subdivision, or any other legal entity, or their legal representative, agent, or assigns. Process means any stationary emission source other than a fuel combustion emission source or an incinerator. Source means emission source. Standard conditions means a temperature of 20 ○C (68 ○F) and a pressure of 760 mm Hg (29.92 in. Hg). Stationary emission source and Stationary source mean an emission source which is not self-propelled. (4) Test Methods and Procedures. (i) Coatings, Inks, and Fountain Solutions. The following test methods and procedures shall be used to determine the VOC content of as applied coatings, inks, and fountain solutions to determine compliance with the limitations set forth in this section. (A) Sampling. Samples collected for analyses shall be one-liter taken into a one-liter container at a location and time such that the sample will be representative of the coating as applied (i.e., the sample shall include any dilution solvent or other VOC added during the manufacturing process). The container must be tightly sealed immediately after the sample is taken. Any solvent or other VOC added after the sample is taken must be measured and accounted for in the calculations in paragraph (a)(4)(i)(C) of this section. For multiple package coatings, separate samples of each component shall be obtained. A mixed sample shall not be obtained as it will cure in the container. Sampling procedures shall follow the guidelines presented in: (1) ASTM D3925&hyph;81 (1985) Standard Practice for Sampling Liquid Paints and Related Pigment Coating. This practice is incorporated by reference in paragraph (c) of this section. (2) ASTM E300 Standard Practice for Sampling Industrial Chemicals. This practice is incorporated by reference in paragraph (c) of this section. (B) Analyses. The applicable analytical methods specified below shall be used to determine the composition of coatings, inks, or fountain solutions as applied. (1) Method 24 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A shall be used to determine the VOC content and density of coatings.
