FR941003-2-00022 FR941003-2-00017 DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY Federal Energy Regulatory Commission [Project No. 11402&hyph;000] City of Crystal Falls, MI; Notice of Intent to Prepare an Environmental Assessment and Conduct Public Scoping Meetings September 27, 1994. The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) has received an application for license of the existing Crystal Falls Project No. 11402. The Crystal Falls Project is located on the Paint River in Iron County, Michigan. The FERC staff intends to prepare an Environmental Assessment (EA) on the hydroelectric project in accordance with the National Environmental Policy Act. The staff's EA will objectively consider both site specific and cumulative environmental impacts of the project and reasonable alternatives, and will include an economic, financial and engineering analysis. A draft EA will be issued and circulated for review by all the interested parties. All comments filed on the draft EA will be analyzed by the staff and considered in a final EA. The staff's conclusions and recommendations will then be presented for the consideration of the Commission in reaching its final licensing decision. Scoping Meetings The FERC will conduct two scoping meetings. An evening scoping meeting is primarily for public input while the morning meeting will focus on resource agency concerns. All interested individuals, organizations, and agencies are invited to attend and assist the staff in identifying the scope of environmental issues that should be analyzed in the EA. Staff will also visit the project site on November 2, 1994, at 9 a.m. Both scoping meetings will be held at the City Hall Auditorium, 401 Superior Avenue, Crystal Falls, Michigan. The first meeting will be held on November 1, 1994, from 7 p.m. to 10 p.m. and will focus primarily on issues of concern to the general public. The second meeting will be held on November 2, 1994, from 11 a.m. to 2 p.m. and will focus primarily on issues of concern to the resource agencies. Prior to the meetings, a scoping document will be mailed to the list of interested parties. The scoping document identifies resource issues to be addressed in the EA. Copies of the scoping document will also be available at the scoping meetings or can be obtained by writing: FERC-Crystal Falls Project, c/o Elaine Bazarian, Stone and Webster, 245 Summer Street, Boston, MA 02110. Objectives At the scoping meetings the staff will: (1) Summarize the environmental issues tentatively identified for analysis in the EA; (2) determine the relative depth of analysis for issues to be addressed in the EA; (3) identify resource issues that are not important and do not require detailed analysis; (4) solicit from the meeting participants all available information, especially quantified data, on the resources at issue; and (5) encourage statements from experts and the public on issues that should be analyzed in the EA, including points of view in opposition to, or in support of, the staff's preliminary views. Procedures The meetings will be recorded by a stenographer and all statements (oral and written) thereby become a part of the formal record of the Commission proceedings. Individuals presenting statements at the meetings will be asked to clearly identify themselves for the record. Individuals, organizations, and agencies with environmental expertise and concerns are encouraged to attend the meetings and assist the staff in defining and clarifying the issues to be addressed in the EA. Participants at the public meeting are asked to keep oral comments brief and concise to allow everyone the opportunity to speak. Persons choosing not to speak at the meetings, but who have views on the issues or information relevant to the issues, may submit written statements for inclusion in the public record. In addition, written scoping comments may be filed with the Secretary, Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, 825 North Capitol Street, NE, Washington, DC 20426, until December 2, 1994. All written correspondence should clearly show the following caption on the first page: Crystal Falls Project No. 11402. All those that are formally recognized by the Commission as intervenors in the licensing proceeding are asked to refrain from engaging staff or its contractor in discussions of the merits of the project outside of any announced meeting. Further, parties are reminded of the Commission's Rules of Practice and Procedure, requiring parties filing documents with the Commission, to serve a copy of the document on each person whose name appears on the official service list. For further information, please contact Thomas Dean at (202) 219&hyph;2778. Lois D. Cashell, Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;24317 Filed 9&hyph;30&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6717&hyph;01&hyph;M
