FR940831-0-00040 FR940831-0-00015 Under these final rules, we continue to require the filing of a formal written application before we will make a determination on a claim for benefits under section 202(j)(5) or 1631(e)(5) of the Act based on an allegation that misinformation was provided which caused an individual not to apply for benefits. If we determine that such misinformation was provided, however, we will deem the filing date of the application to be the date the misinformation was provided or, if later, the date the claimant, i.e., the individual who is claiming benefits for himself or herself or the person on whose behalf benefits are being claimed, met all the requirements for entitlement to Social Security benefits or eligibility for SSI benefits, as appropriate, other than the requirement of filing an application. Under our current regulations, an application for SSI benefits is also an application for any applicable federally administered State supplementary payments under section 1616 of the Act. The current regulations which govern the filing of applications for SSI benefits, therefore, also apply to applications for these State supplementary payments. This is reflected in current §416.302 which provides that for purposes of the regulations on filing applications for SSI benefits, §416.301 et seq. , `` [b]enefits means any payments made under the SSI program,'' and ``SSI benefits also include any federally administered State supplementary payments.'' As explained below, these definitions would continue to apply under the regulations which implement section 1631(e)(5) of the Act. Section 1631(e)(5) of the Act applies specifically to cases in which an individual failed to apply for SSI benefits because of the receipt of misinformation relating to eligibility for SSI benefits. However, because the application form and our current rules on filing applications are the same for both SSI claims and claims for federally administered State supplementary payments, we also will apply the provisions under section 1631(e)(5) to cases involving misinformation about eligibility for federally administered State supplementary payments. This rule is based on the authority under section 1631(e)(1)(A) of the Act which directs the Secretary to ``prescribe such requirements with respect to the filing of applications *␣*␣* as may be necessary for the effective and efficient administration of this title.'' Therefore, while not required under section 1631(e)(5) of the Act, the final regulations will permit the establishment of a ``deemed'' filing date of an application in situations in which an individual failed to file an application because we provided the individual misinformation about his or her eligibility for these State supplementary payments.
