FR940811-2-00138 FR940811-2-00084 Appendix A Criteria and Specifications for the Use of the ``Star of Life'' Symbol The ``Star of Life'' is a certification mark that was issued on February 1, 1977 (Certificate of Registration No. 1,058,022), by the Commissioner of Patents and Trademarks to the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA). The certification mark is to be used on emergency medical care vehicles to certify that they meet Federal standards; by emergency medical care personnel to certify, based on their training and affiliation with a qualified emergency medical care system, that they are authorized to provide emergency medical care; on road maps and highway signs to indicate the location of or access to qualified emergency medical care services; and such other EMS-related uses that the Administrator of the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) may authorize. Any other use is prohibited. Unauthorized use shall be reported to the NHTSA Administrator for investigation and legal action as may be required. NHTSA authorizes the States (as defined in 23 U.S.C. ยง401) and Federal agencies with EMS involvement to permit use of the ``Star of Life'' symbol for the following purposes: 1. To identify emergency medical care vehicles that meet the Federal Specifications for Ambulances_Emergency Care Vehicles (KKK&hyph;C&hyph;1822 GSA&hyph;FSS) or are authorized by a State or Federal agency involved in the provision of emergency medical care to respond to scenes requiring the provision of emergency medical care. 2. To indicate the location of and access to qualified emergency medical care services. 3. On patches or other apparel or personal items (such as badges, lapel pins, buckles, name plates, plaques, etc.) worn or used by an individual: a. who: i. has satisfactorily completed any training course that meets or exceeds the U.S. Department of Transportation National Standard Curricula or has been approved by a State or Federal agency involved in the provision of emergency medical care; and ii. is authorized by a State or Federal agency involved in the provision of emergency medical care to participate in a qualified emergency medical care system; or b. who by title and function is authorized by a State or Federal agency involved in the provision of emergency medical care to administer, directly supervise, or otherwise participate in all or a specific part of a qualified emergency medical care system. 4. On bracelets or other items of apparel worn by a patient to inform authorized emergency medical care providers to medical conditions or to identify appropriate treatment with regard to that patient, in accordance with programs established by a State or Federal agency involved in the provision of emergency medical care. 5. On training materials that meet or exceed the U.S. Department of Transportation National Standard Curricula or have been approved by a State or Federal agency involved in the provision of emergency medical care. 6. On materials such as books, pamphlets, letterheads, plans, manuals, reports, and publications that either have direct EMS application or were generated by an EMS organization. An EMS organization is an organization that either is involved in the provision of emergency medical care or represents persons or organizations who are so involved. 7. To identify medical equipment and supplies intended for use by authorized emergency medical care providers in the provision of emergency medical care. 8. By entrepreneurs engaged in the production of medical equipment and supplies or the publication of materials described above.
