FR940622-0-00026 FR940622-0-00011 a. OBRA 89 Provisions •Rural primary care hospitals. A new category of provider, rural primary care hospitals, was established (section 6003(g)(3) of OBRA 89). Only facilities currently certified as hospitals and not in violation of any conditions of participation (42 CFR part 482) could be designated by the Secretary as rural primary care hospitals. •Compliance requirements (section 6018 of OBRA 89). Hospitals are required to_ +␣Adopt and enforce a policy to ensure compliance with section 1867 of the Act; +␣Maintain medical and other records related to individuals transferred to or from a hospital for a period of 5 years from the transfer date; and +␣Maintain a list of on-call physicians available for duty to provide treatment needed to stabilize an individual with an emergency medical condition. •Posted information (section 6018 of OBRA 89). Participating hospitals must post conspicuously in their emergency departments_ +␣A sign listing the rights of individuals under section 1867 of the Act regarding examination and treatment for emergency medical conditions; and +␣Information indicating whether the facility participates in the Medicaid program under a State plan approved under title XIX of the Act. Both posted items are to be in a form specified by the Secretary. •Additional requirements for Medicare participating hospitals with emergency departments (section 6211 of OBRA 89). +␣The medical screening requirement was changed to indicate that the capability of the facility's emergency department includes ``ancillary services routinely available to the emergency department.'' +␣Participating facilities are now required to inform each individual (or a person acting on his or her behalf) of the risks and benefits to the individual of examination and treatment and/or transfer, and to ``take all reasonable steps to secure the individual's (or person's) written informed consent to refuse such examination and treatment'' and/or transfer. +␣Changes were made relating to the restrictions on transfers to include_ _A requirement that participating facilities obtain written requests for transfer to another medical facility after informing individuals (or legally responsible persons acting on their behalf) of the hospital's obligations and the risk of transfer; _An explicit statement that there should be consideration of the risks and benefits to unborn children of women in labor in determining whether the physician should certify that the benefits outweigh the risks of transfer; _A requirement that transfer certifications by participating facilities include a summary of the risks and benefits upon which the certification is based; _A requirement that when a qualified medical person signs the certification, it be done in consultation with a physician and that the physician later countersign the certification; _A requirement that the hospital provide medical treatment within its capacity to minimize the risks of transfer; and _A requirement that the transferring hospital include specified documents in the medical records sent to receiving hospitals. •Civil monetary penalties (section 6211(e) of OBRA 89). +␣Physicians, including on-call physicians, are subject to civil monetary penalties and exclusion from Medicare and the State health care programs for violations of section 1867 of the Act, including_ _The signing of transfer certifications if the physician knew or should have known that the benefits of transfer did not outweigh the risks; or _Misrepresenting an individual's condition or other information on the transfer certification. +␣A participating facility or an on-call physician is subject to a penalty if the on-call physician fails or refuses to appear within a reasonable period of time when notified by an emergency department physician that his or her services are needed and the emergency physician orders a transfer because he or she determines that without the services of the on-call physician the benefits of transfer outweigh the risks of transfer. •Specialty hospitals (section 6211(f) of OBRA 89). Participating hospitals with special capabilities or facilities are obligated to accept the appropriate transfer of an individual who requires such specialized capabilities or facilities if the hospital has the capacity to treat the individual. •No delay in examination or treatment (section 6211(f) of OBRA 89). Participating hospitals are not to delay the provision of a medical screening examination, treatment, or both, to inquire about the individual's method of payment or insurance status.
