FR940405-2-00043 FR940405-2-00021 p. Scoping Process: In gathering background information for preparation of the Environmental Assessment for the issuance of a Federal hydropower license, staff of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, is using a scoping process to identify significant environmental issues related to the construction and operation or the continued operation of hydropower projects. The staff will review all issues raised during the scoping process and identify issues deserving of study and also deemphasize insignificant issues, narrowing the scope of the environmental assessment as well. If preliminary analysis indicates that any issues presented in the scoping process would have little potential for causing significant impacts, the issue or issues will be identified and the reasons for not providing a more detailed analysis will be given. q. Request for Scoping Comments: Federal, state, and local resource agencies; licensees, applicants and developers; Indian tribes; other interested groups and individuals, are requested to forward to the Commission, any information that they believe will assist the Commission staff in conducting an accurate and thorough analysis of the site-specific and cumulative environmental effects of the proposed licensing activities of the project(s). Therefore you are requested to provide information related to the following items: •Information, data, maps or professional opinion that may contribute to defining the geographical and temporal scope of the analysis and identifying significant environmental issues. •Identification of and information from any other EIS or similar study (previous, on-going, or planned) relevant to the proposed licensing activities in the subject river basin. •Existing information and any data that would aid in describing the past and present effects of the project(s) and other developmental activities on the physical/chemical, biological, and socioeconomic environments. For example, fish stocking/management histories in the subject river, historic water quality data and the reasons for improvement or degradation of the quality, any wetland habitat loss or proposals to develop land and water resources within the basin. •Identification of any federal, state or local resource plans and future project proposals that encompass the subject river or basin. For example, proposals to construct or operate water treatment facilities, recreation areas, or implement fishery management programs. •Documentation that would support a conclusion that the project(s) does not contribute, or does contribute to adverse and beneficial cumulative effects on resources and therefore should be excluded for further study or excluded from further consideration of cumulative impacts within the river basin. Documentation should include, but not limited to: How the project(s) interact with other projects within the river basin or other developmental activities; results from studies; resource management policies; and, reports from federal, state, and local agencies. Comments concerning the scope of the environmental assessment should be filed by the deadline date. 10a. Type of Application: Change in land rights. b. Project No.: 2413&hyph;026. c. Date Filed: December 22, 1993. d. Name of Project: Wallace Project. e. Project Licensee: Georgia Power Company. f. Location: Lake Oconee on the Oconee River in Putnam and Greene Counties, Georgia. g. Filed Pursuant To: Section 23(b) of the Federal Power Act. h. Licensee Contact: Georgia Power Company, Attn: Larry Wall, 333 Piedmont Avenue_16th Floor, Atlanta, GA 30308, (404) 526&hyph;2054. i. FERC Contact: Jon Cofrancesco, (202) 219&hyph;2650. j. Comment Date: May 2, 1994. k. Description of Project: Georgia Power Company has filed, for Commission approval, a request to transfer to Reynolds Plantation a parcel of land of approximately 557.62 acres in exchange for a parcel owned by Reynolds Plantation that is approximately 421.48 acres. Both parcels are located adjacent to Lake Oconee. Georgia Power Company will have a 20-foot-wide access easement across both parcels and a conservation easement across the 557.62-acre parcel. The 557.62-acre parcel is designated for a future state park. The exchange will include the transfer of this designated use to the 421.48-acre parcel.
