FR940921-0-00033 FR940921-0-00016 1. Natural Gas 2. LPG Vehicle/Pump Interface 3. LPG Tank Venting D. Standards for CO and Crankcase Emissions 1. Idle CO 2. Crankcase Emissions E. On-Board Diagnostics F. HC Measurement G. Fuel Composition H. Fuel Economy I. Aftermarket Conversions 1. Applicability 2. Test Procedures 3. On-board Diagnostics 4. Liability IV. Environmental Effects V. Economic Impacts VI. Statutory Authority VII. Executive Order 12866 VIII. Reporting and Recordkeeping Requirements IX. Impact on Small Entities X. Judicial Review I. Introduction Recently there has been increasing interest in the use of non-petroleum transportation fuels for a variety of reasons, including the potential environmental benefits offered by these fuels. Natural gas and liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) are among the more prominent of these fuels, along with methanol and ethanol. EPA promulgated emission standards for methanol-fueled vehicles on April 11, 1989 (54 FR 14426) due to the imminent commercialization of those vehicles. However, there are currently no emission standards in place for vehicles which operate, all or in part, on natural gas and LPG. This lack of standards is seen as a potential barrier to the widespread commercial introduction of these vehicles into the marketplace due to the uncertainties the manufacturers face regarding potential future standards where EPA has not yet addressed any of the issues involved. In addition, the recent rise in interest in these fuels has resulted in increased interest in aftermarket conversions ( i.e. , the conversion of a vehicle or engine to operate on a fuel other than that for which it was originally designed and certified to operate). Again, the lack of defined certification procedures for conversions, as well as the absence of a method to demonstrate good emissions performance of such conversions, are seen as potential barriers to their more widespread use for two reasons. First, the lack of defined certification procedures leads to uncertainty among converters as to whether the conversions they perform constitute tampering and result in the potential associated liability. Second, the potential for environmental benefits associated with gaseous fuels has led to increased interest in marketing conversions as an environmental strategy. The lack of a recognized procedure for confirming emissions performance has been seen as hindering efforts to market conversions in this manner. Thus, in order to remove these potential barriers EPA published a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (NPRM) proposing emission standards for natural gas and LPG vehicles, and certification procedures for aftermarket conversions on November 5, 1992 (57 FR 52912). A public hearing was held on December 3, 1992, in Ann Arbor, Michigan at which verbal comments on the NPRM were received. Written comments responding to the proposal were also received from 34 public and private parties. The Agency fully considered all comments received in developing today's final rule. The remaining sections of this preamble describe EPA's resolution of the issues associated with the rulemaking. Section II describes today's action and summarizes the new requirements. Section III reviews the major comments received on the NPRM and the Agency's analysis of those comments. Subsequent sections summarize the technical feasibility, leadtime requirements, environmental effects, and economic effects associated with today's action. II. Description of Action This section describes each provision of today's rule. In general, today's rule extends the coverage of the existing federal motor vehicle emissions program to include natural gas and LPG vehicles (hereinafter referred to as gaseous-fueled vehicles). As such, EPA's current regulations governing certification, production line, and in-use requirements are for the most part adopted for gaseous-fueled vehicles. Rather than present an exhaustive review of the entire federal emissions program, this section contains a basic description of the gaseous-fueled vehicle regulations and highlights where these regulations differ from those currently in place for other vehicles. For additional information on the new or existing program requirements the reader is referred to the accompanying regulations appearing at the end of today's notice, and Title 40, parts 80, 85, 86, 88 and 600 of the Code of Federal Regulations, which this rulemaking amends. A. Timing EPA proposed that these standards be effective with the 1994 model year, and explained that the Agency did not expect that significant lead-time for developing emission control technology would be required for compliance. Nonetheless, because this rule is not being promulgated until after the start of the 1994 model year, EPA no longer believes that there is sufficient time to certify vehicles and engines pursuant to these regulations for the 1994 model year. Further, EPA received several comments stating that leadtime was required for technology development, especially for durability demonstration, in addition to that required for the certification process alone. Therefore, EPA is promulgating the standards to be effective with the 1997 model year. Finally, the refueling requirements for gaseous-fueled vehicles will be implemented consistent with the recently finalized refueling emission standards for other vehicles (three year phase-in beginning with the 1998 model year for light-duty vehicles and the 2001 model year for light-duty trucks). 1 The requirements for refueling stations will take effect on January 1, 1998 for large volume stations, with a two year delay until January 1, 2000 for those stations which dispense less than 10,000 gallons per month on a gasoline equivalent basis. This phase in for smaller stations is consistent with the approach taken with the dispensing rate limits placed on gasoline refueling stations contained in the evaporative emissions final rule. 2 1 59 FR 16262, April 6, 1994. 2 58 FR 16002, March 24, 1993. EPA proposed that manufacturers be allowed to certify engines and vehicles produced prior to the effective model year in order to include engines in the emissions trading and banking program, and to include vehicles in manufacturers' corporate average fuel economy. EPA received no adverse comments on this aspect of the proposal. For this reason, manufacturers may choose to comply prior to the 1997 model year, including the 1994 model year.
