FR940603-1-00033 FR940603-1-00007 (2) Ineligible vessel. A vessel used in the IFQ sablefish and halibut fixed gear fisheries that is an ineligible vessel under the moratorium will be issued a restricted groundfish and crab vessel permit. A vessel that is issued a restricted groundfish and crab vessel permit must not retain an aggregate amount of moratorium species other than sablefish and halibut in round weight equivalents greater than 20 percent of the aggregate amount sablefish and halibut in round weight equivalents on board. (e) Letter of authorization_ (1) Vessel permit or license application. If a vessel owner submits a complete application for a vessel permit or license as specified in §§671.4, 672.4 and 675.4, and 50 CFR part 301, NMFS will send a letter of authorization to the vessel owner if NMFS has not issued a written initial decision to the vessel owner on the permit or license application within 30 days of receipt of the application by NMFS. The letter of authorization will expire 75 days after NMFS issues an initial written decision to the vessel owner on the permit or license application. (2) Filing notice of appeal. If a vessel owner files a notice of appeal with the Regional Director as specified in §676.6, NMFS will send a letter of authorization to the vessel owner if NMFS has not issued a written final decision to the vessel owner on the appeal within 30 days of the filing of the notice of appeal with NMFS. The letter of authorization will expire 30 days after the Regional Director issues a written final decision on the appeal. §676.6 Appeals. This section is effective from [date 30 days after date of publication of final rule in the Federal Register ], through December 31, 1997. A vessel owner may file a notice of appeal with the Regional Director within 45 days of the issuance of an initial decision by NMFS that a groundfish and crab vessel permit will not be issued, a restricted halibut license will be issued, or that a restricted groundfish and crab vessel permit will be issued. The notice of appeal must be accompanied by a statement in support of the position of the owner, along with all supporting data and information. The Regional Director will review the records used to make the initial decision and the information submitted with the appeal. (a) If, during his review, the Regional Director determines that a decision can be made based on a review of the records submitted, the Regional Director will issue a written decision that will be the final administrative decision of the U.S. Department of Commerce. (b) If, during his review, the Regional Director determines that his decision would benefit from industry expertise beyond that available from a review of the records, then the Regional Director will forward the appeal to the Appeals Board for a recommendation. Subject to Federal and State of Alaska confidentiality regulations, the Appeals Board will review the records used to make the initial decision and the information submitted with the appeal at a public meeting and make a recommendation on the appeal. After receiving the Appeals Board's recommendation from the Council, the Regional Director will consider the recommendation and issue a written decision on the appeal based on his findings and state the reasons for his decision. The decision of the Regional Director is the final administrative decision of the U.S. Department of Commerce. §676.7 Prohibitions. Effective from January 1, 1995, through December 31, 1997, it is unlawful for a person to: (a) Submit false or inaccurate information on a vessel permit application; (b) Harvest a moratorium species with a vessel that has a LOA greater than the maximum LOA for the vessel; (c) Harvest a moratorium species with a vessel that has received an unauthorized transfer of moratorium qualification; (d) Fish for sablefish or halibut with IFQ from a vessel with a restricted groundfish and crab vessel permit and retain an aggregate amount of moratorium species other than sablefish and halibut in round weight equivalents greater than 20 percent of the aggregate amount sablefish and halibut in round weight equivalents on board; and (e) Violate any other provision of subpart A of 50 CFR part 676. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;13469 Filed 5&hyph;31&hyph;94; 9:18 am] BILLING CODE 3510&hyph;22&hyph;P
