FR940505-1-00046 FR940505-1-00012 A submittal from the State and local districts of an approvable 15 SIP demonstrating attainment by the applicable deadline will enable EPA to rescind the FIP in its entirety. EPA believes that this rescission is appropriate even if the SIP for the area has other deficiencies (such as deficient RACT or NSR rules) which trigger separate FIP actions. 16 15 Under section 110(k)(4) of the Act, EPA can conditionally approve a state plan which lacks adopted enforceable measures as long as the state has been made a commitment to adopt the enforceable measures within one year of the conditional approval. 16 The Act allows states to replace FIP requirements with SIP measures, subject, of course, to EPA's approval of the SIP measures under sections 110(a), (k), and (l) of the Act. The Act provides that EPA is relieved of having to promulgate a FIP at all if the state submits and EPA approves a replacement SIP before the FIP must be promulgated. Section 110(c)(1) of the Act provides: ``The Administrator shall promulgate a Federal implementation plan at any time within 2 years after the Administrator [makes certain findings or disapproves a SIP] unless the State corrects the deficiency, and the Administrator approves the plan or plan revision, before the Administrator promulgates such Federal implementation plan.'' Section 302(y) of the Act defines a FIP as ``a plan (or portion thereof) promulgated by the Administrator to fill all or a portion of a gap or otherwise correct all or a portion of an inadequacy in a State implementation plan.␣.␣.␣.'' If a state fills a gap or cures an inadequacy in its SIP subsequent to EPA promulgating a FIP, the FIP may be rescinded or revised. The U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit recognized this principle in Coalition for Clean Air v. EPA (reported as Coalition for Clean Air v. Southern California Edison ), 971 F.2d 219. EPA wishes to emphasize that all existing and future SIP obligations remain the responsibility of State and local agencies, despite provisions in the FIP that may fulfill, in whole or in part, these obligations. Thus, the State and the applicable areas of the State are subject to the sanctions provisions of section 179 for any failure to submit a required plan or plan element, or upon EPA disapproval of a required plan or plan element. 17 17 Under section 179 of the Act, two principal sanctions are authorized: a highway funding restriction and an increased offset requirement for major new or modified sources. The highway funding sanction is enforced through an EPA prohibition on approval by the U.S. Secretary of Transportation of projects or grants in the area except where the Secretary has determined that the purpose of the project or grant is to improve a demonstrated safety problem. Section 179(b)(1)(B) also allows the Secretary to exempt certain projects and grants that are intended to minimize air pollution problems. The offset sanction requires that major new or modified sources in the area obtain at least 2 to 1 offsets before construction. Section 179(a) requires EPA to impose one of these sanctions within 18 months and the remaining sanction within 24 months if: (1) The state has failed to submit a required plan or element; (2) the required submission is deemed incomplete; (3) EPA disapproves the required submission; or (4) an approved SIP provision is not being implemented. Section 110(m) allows EPA to impose these sanctions at any time after EPA has made one of these findings. While EPA's FIP promulgation process unfolds, the responsible State and local agencies in Sacramento, Ventura, and the South Coast are developing their own plans under the schedule provided by the 1990 Amendments. Depending upon the time EPA is able to approve SIP replacement measures submitted by these agencies, EPA may upon approval of such measures either refrain from promulgating, or withdraw the corresponding portions of the FIP. sections 110(c) and 302(y). As the relationship between the FIPs and the developing SIPs evolves, EPA will confront a number of issues. One question that has been raised is whether the State may claim credit toward meeting progress or attainment requirements for the emissions reductions from FIP measures that apply to a limited category of sources over which State or local control is legally preempted. The issue is whether the State, in its plan, may seek not to replace these FIP measures, but rather continue to rely upon them, at the same time obtaining EPA's full approval for the state plan. Although EPA has not previously addressed this specific question, a straightforward reading of the Clean Air Act's text and structure suggests that a state plan to be approvable must demonstrate attainment of the relevant standard, without reliance on measures that EPA has promulgated solely pursuant to its FIP authority. (Under this theory, a state could still rely on any measures that EPA has promulgated under its independent authority, such as Title II, as opposed to its authority under section 110(c) to assume California's waiver role under, for example, section 209. See discussion of EPA's FIP authority, section III.A.2.a. To decide otherwise would require the conclusion that Congress intended FIP measures to remain in place, perhaps permanently, without sanctions being imposed on the state_a view arguably at odds with the Act's historic emphasis on the primacy of state responsibility and the role of FIPs as temporary substitutes for state failures. On the other hand, it may be argued that, for a limited number of sources over which the federal government, when promulgating a FIP, demonstrably has sole legal authority, and over which the state is barred from exerting control, removing the FIP measures and hence requiring the state to compensate for the lack of control of these sources may force it to impose unreasonably and inequitably harsher controls on other sources. Thus, the argument goes, EPA should consider whether there is any basis in law, and justification in policy, for carving out a limited exception to the traditional view. EPA does not resolve this complex issue here, but intends to continue to analyze and explore it. In this proposal we solicit comment on the legal and policy implications raised by this aspect of the relationship between the FIP and the SIP. 2. Sacramento On November 15, 1993, the State submitted Sacramento ozone rate-of-progress plans for the Sacramento Metropolitan Area, addressing the Act's 15 percent rate-of-progress plan requirements. The Sacramento area's 15 percent plans involved a coordinated effort by the Sacramento Area Council of Governments (SACOG) and the five local air pollution control agencies. Each of the air agencies developed a plan for their portion of the area. The reductions in Sacramento's 15 percent plans rely on an enhanced I/M program, measures that the State and local governments have adopted or have committed to adopt, measures that the Federal government will have to develop and implement for the Sacramento area, and substitution of NO X for VOC reductions. However, an approvable enhanced I/M program has not been authorized by the State legislature, EPA has decided preliminarily that it will not accept commitments for measures for purposes of the Act's 15 percent rate-of-progress provision, and EPA cannot credit NO X reductions in place of the necessary VOC reductions. Therefore, EPA cannot take action at this time to approve this submittal with respect to the Clean Air Act progress demonstration.
