FR940106-0-00048 FR940106-0-00016 We believe that the composition of a contractor's workload (for example, number of hospital inpatient bills versus number of outpatient bills or laboratory bills, etc.) is an important factor in the amount of costs it incurs since some claims are inherently more problematic and difficult to resolve. In order to give full consideration of each contractor's unique situation, we currently apply a ``complexity index'' to develop the BPRs' unit cost targets. This methodology allows us to correlate the contractor's costs with its individual workload composition. The use of the complexity index allows us to identify the contractors whose unit costs appear to be out of proportion to the type and medium (electronic versus hardcopy) of workload they must process. Use of the complexity index methodology allows us to evaluate each contractor's costs with full consideration of its unique workload mix and within the national forum of its peers. In this way, we identify our high cost contractors. However, since the use of the complexity index methodology is an administrative tool to identify contractors with aberrant costs and can be changed or modified as required, we do not believe it necessary to outline this methodology in the regulation. Comment: Several commenters stated that the proposed §§421.124(a) and 421.203(a) on high cost contractors do not specify the types of adverse action we may take on the grounds of excessive cost. Contractors are uncertain about how we would go about the process of applying sanctions and what these sanctions might be. Response: Adverse contract actions are listed in §§421.124(a) and 421.203(a) of the proposed regulation, but we are not limited to those. Adverse contract actions are further defined in the intermediary and carrier manual issuances released within the HCFA Program Manual Issuances System, which contain the details of the CPEP. Adverse actions range in severity commensurate with relative performance and include, but are not limited to, such actions as, Regional Office Letter of Admonition; Central Office Letter of Admonition; deletion of the automatic renewal clause from the contract without performance goals established; deletion of the automatic renewal clause from the contract with performance goals established; limited contract automatic-renewal clause and provision for termination upon 90 days notice; reduction in territory or ``carve-out''; non-renewal; and termination. Comment: A commenter was unsure whether, if HCFA does not publish the CPEP standards during a fiscal year, there would be no performance evaluation for that year or whether the previous year's CPEP would apply. Response: In general, the evaluation period which the criteria and standards measure is the Federal fiscal year. We make every effort to publish the criteria and standards prior to the beginning of the Federal fiscal year, that is, October 1st. If we do not publish a Federal Register notice before the new fiscal year begins, readers may presume that, until and unless notified otherwise, the criteria and standards which were previously in effect remain in effect. When a new CPEP is published, it usually applies to a prospective period, as stated in the Federal Register notice. Comment: One commenter states that contractors participate in pilot projects which may involve additional funding from HCFA. They assume this ``additional funding'' would not be considered as ``excessively high costs''. Response: We encourage contractors to participate in pilot projects which may result in improved quality, service or efficiency in the administration of the Medicare program. Where a contractor's participation in a pilot study or program adversely affects its performance evaluation, appropriate adjustments are made to mitigate the impact of the pilot study or program.
