FR940523-0-00014 FR940523-0-00004 (i) A commercial enterprise was established by the alien; (ii) The alien invested or was actively in the process of investing the requisite capital; and (iii) The alien sustained the actions described in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) and (c)(1)(ii) of this section throughout the period of the alien's residence in the United States. The alien will be considered to have sustained the actions required for removal of conditions if he or she has, in good faith, substantially met the capital investment requirement of the statute and continuously maintained his or her capital investment over the two years of conditional residence. (iv) The alien created or can be expected to create within a reasonable period of time ten full-time jobs to qualifying employees. In the case of a ``troubled business'' as defined in 8 CFR 204.6(j)(4)(ii), the alien maintained the number of existing employees at no less than the pre-investment level for the previous two years. (2) If derogatory information is determined regarding any of these issues or it becomes known to the government that the entrepreneur obtained his or her investment funds through other than legal means (such as through the sale of illegal drugs), the director shall offer the alien entrepreneur the opportunity to rebut such information. If the alien entrepreneur fails to overcome such derogatory information or evidence the investment funds were obtained through other than legal means, the director may deny the petition, terminate the alien's permanent resident status, and issue an order to show cause. If derogatory information not relating to any of these issues is determined during the course of the interview, such information shall be forwarded to the investigations unit for appropriate action. If no unresolved derogatory information is determined relating to these issues, the petition shall be approved and the conditional basis of the alien's permanent resident status removed, regardless of any action taken or contemplated regarding other possible grounds for deportation. (d) Decision _(1) Approval. If, after initial review or after the interview, the director approves the petition, he or she will remove the conditional basis of the alien's permanent resident status as of the second anniversary of the alien's entry as a conditional permanent resident. He or she shall provide written notice of the decision to the alien and shall require the alien to report to the appropriate district office for processing for a new Alien Registration Receipt Card, Form I&hyph;551, at which time the alien shall surrender any Alien Registration Receipt Card previously issued. (2) Denial. If, after initial review or after the interview, the director denies the petition, he or she shall provide written notice to the alien of the decision and the reason(s) therefor, and shall issue an order to show cause why the alien should not be deported from the United States. The alien's lawful permanent resident status and that of his or her spouse and any children shall be terminated as of the date of the director's written decision. The alien shall also be instructed to surrender any Alien Registration Receipt Card previously issued by the Service. No appeal shall lie from this decision; however, the alien may seek review of the decision in deportation proceedings. In deportation proceedings, the burden shall rest with the Service to establish by a preponderance of the evidence that the facts and information in the alien's petition for removal of conditions are not true and that the petition was properly denied. PART 235_INSPECTION OF PERSONS APPLYING FOR ADMISSION 18. The authority citation for part 235 continues to read as follows: Authority: 8 U.S.C. 1101, 1103, 1182, 1183, 1201, 1224, 1225, 1226, 1227, 1228, 1252. 19. In ยง235.11, paragraphs (a) and (c) are revised to read as follows: ยง235.11 Admission of conditional permanent residents. (a) General _(1) Conditional residence based on family relationship. An alien seeking admission to the United States with an immigrant visa as the spouse or son or daughter of a United States citizen or lawful permanent resident shall be examined to determine whether the conditions of section 216 of the Act apply. If so, the alien shall be admitted conditionally for a period of two years. At the time of admission, the alien shall be notified that the alien and his or her petitioning spouse must file a Petition to Remove the Conditions on Residence (Form I&hyph;751) within the 90-day period immediately preceding the second anniversary of the alien's admission for permanent residence. (2) Conditional residence based on entrepreneurship. An alien seeking admission to the United States with an immigrant visa as an alien entrepreneur (as defined in section 216A(f)(1) of the Act) or the spouse or unmarried minor child of an alien entrepreneur shall be admitted conditionally for a period of two years. At the time of admission, the alien shall be notified that the principal alien (entrepreneur) must file a Petition by Entrepreneur to Remove Conditions (Form I&hyph;829) within the 90-day period immediately preceding the second anniversary of the alien's admission for permanent residence. * * * * *
