FR941227-0-00071 FR941227-0-00013 (d) Special rules for electing taxpayers whose rates are under the jurisdiction of the Rural Electrification Administration. Notwithstanding any other provision of the regulations under section 468A, a schedule of ruling amounts may be provided to a taxpayer with respect to a nuclear power plant if the rates for the furnishing or sale of the plant's electricity are under the jurisdiction of the Rural Electrification Administration. This schedule will be determined on the basis of all facts and circumstances in a manner consistent with section 468A. No taxpayer will be provided a schedule of ruling amounts under section 468A for any taxable year unless the portion of the rates attributable to the decommissioning costs of that taxpayer with respect to such taxable year are treated by the taxpayer as though they were subject to section 88. Par. 4. Section 1.468A&hyph;3 is amended as follows: 1. Paragraph (h)(1)(v) is removed. 2. Paragraphs (h)(1)(vi) through (h)(1)(viii) are redesignated as paragraphs (h)(1)(v) through (h)(1)(vii), respectively. 3. Newly designated paragraph (h)(1)(vii) is revised. 4. Paragraphs (h)(2) (xii) and (xiii) are added. 5. Paragraph (i)(1)(ii) is revised. 6. The revisions and additions read as follows: §1.468A&hyph;3 Ruling amount. * * * * * (h) *␣*␣* (1) *␣*␣* (vii) (A) If a request does not comply substantially with the requirements of this paragraph (h), the Internal Revenue Service will notify the taxpayer of that fact. If the information or materials necessary to comply substantially with the requirements of this paragraph (h) are provided to the Internal Revenue Service within 30 days after this notification, the request will be considered filed on the date of the original submission. If the information or materials necessary to comply substantially with the requirements of this paragraph (h) are not provided within 30 days after this notification, the request will be considered filed on the date that all information or materials necessary to comply with the requirements of this paragraph (h) are provided. (B) The Internal Revenue Service may waive the requirements of paragraph (h)(1)(vii)(A) of this section if the Service determines that the electing taxpayer is making a good faith effort to comply with the deadline and if the waiver is consistent with the purposes of section 468A. (2)␣*␣*␣* (xii) A chart or table, based upon the assumed after-tax rate of return to be earned by the assets of the nuclear decommissioning fund, setting forth the years the fund will be in existence, the annual contribution to the fund, the estimated annual earnings of the fund and the cumulative total balance in the fund. (xiii) If the request is for a revised schedule of ruling amounts, a copy of the most recently issued schedule of ruling amounts for the nuclear power plant to which the request relates that has been issued to the taxpayer (or a predecessor in interest) making the request. * * * * * (i)␣*␣*␣* (1)␣*␣*␣* (ii) (A) Any taxpayer that has obtained a formula or method for determining a schedule of ruling amounts for any taxable year under paragraph (a)(4) of this section (which applies when a public utility commission estimates decommissioning costs in current dollars) must file a request for a revised schedule of ruling amounts on or before the deemed payment deadline for its fifth taxable year that begins after its taxable year in which the most recent formula or method was received.
