FR940318-0-00216 FR940318-0-00023 Pending Substitutes 1End use 1Substitute 1Comments Metals cleaning w/CFC&hyph;113, MCF Monochloro-toluene/benzotrifluorides Agency has not completed review of data. Evaluation of exposure and toxicity data still ongoing. ␣ Dibromomethane Agency has completed review of data, and intends to propose this chemical as an unacceptable substitute under a separate rule-making. ␣ Volatile methyl siloxanes (octamethylcyclotetrasiloxane, decamethylcyclopentasiloxane) Agency has completed review of data, and intends under separate rule-making to propose these chemicals as acceptable with the use condition that the company-set exposure limits must be met. Electronics cleaning w/CFC&hyph;113, MCF Monochloro-toluene/benzotrifluorides Agency has not completed review of data. Evaluation of exposure and toxicity data still ongoing. ␣ Dibromomethane Agency has completed review of data, and intends to propose this chemical as an unacceptable substitute under a separate rule-making. ␣ Volatile methyl siloxanes (octamethylcyclotetrasiloxane, decamethylcyclopentasiloxane) Agency has completed review of data, and intends under separate rule-making to propose these chemicals as acceptable with the use condition that the company-set exposure limits must be met. ␣ HFC&hyph;4310mee Agency has not completed review of data. Premanufacture Notice review under the Toxic Substances Control Act not yet completed. Precision cleaning w/CFC&hyph;113, MCF Monochloro-toluene/benzotrifluorides Agency has not completed review of data. Evaluation of exposure and toxicity data still ongoing. ␣ Dibromomethane Agency has completed review of data, and intends to propose this chemical as an unacceptable substitute under a separate rule-making. ␣ Volatile methyl siloxanes (octamethylcyclotetrasiloxane, decamethylcyclopentasiloxane) Agency has completed review of data, and intends under separate rule-making to propose these chemicals as acceptable with the use condition that the company-set exposure limits must be met. ␣ HCFC&hyph;123 New toxicity data has led to an upward revision of the company-set workplace exposure limit. EPA intends to propose under separate rule-making this chemical as an acceptable substitute subject to the new limit. ␣ HCFC&hyph;225 Toxicity data only recently completed. HCFC&hyph;225ca isomer has comparatively low company-set exposure limit; EPA intends to propose HCFC&hyph;225 as acceptable subject to this limit under separate rule-making. This limit should be readily achievable since HCFC&hyph;225 is sold commercially as a blend of ca- and cb-isomers. In addition, equipment where HCFC&hyph;225 is used typically has very low emissions. ␣ HFC&hyph;4310mee Agency has not completed review of data. Premanufacture Notice review under the Toxic Substances Control Act not yet completed.
