FR941107-2-00024 FR941107-2-00007 Fair Value Comparisons A. Participating Respondents To determine whether sales to the United States of pure magnesium by AIOC, Gerald Metals, HDM, Interlink, MG Metals, and Razno, and sales to the United States of alloy magnesium by Gerald Metals and SMW, were made at less than fair value, we compared the United States price (``USP'') to the foreign market value (``FMV''), as specified in the ``United States Price'' and ``Foreign Market Value'' sections of this notice. B. Non-participating Respondents All companies to which a questionnaire was issued are considered mandatory respondents in these proceedings. We consider those mandatory respondents that did not respond to the questionnaire to be uncooperative respondents, and we have based the less-than-fair-value margin for those companies on the best information available (``BIA''). For these preliminary determinations, we consider F&S (pure magnesium only) and W&O Bergmann (both pure and alloy magnesium) to be uncooperative respondents, as well as: Derek Raphael & Co., Ltd.; Marco Trading; Wogen Group Ltd.; Alex; Mages; and the eight companies whose names cannot be disclosed because their identities are deemed business proprietary information. Accordingly, we have based these companies' LTFV margins on an uncooperative BIA rate. F&S's responses to our inquiries indicated sales of pure magnesium but not sales of alloy magnesium. Therefore, only F&S's sales of pure magnesium are subject to a BIA deposit rate. In determining what to use as BIA, the Department follows a two-tiered methodology, whereby the Department normally assigns lower margins to those respondents that cooperated in an investigation and margins based on more adverse assumptions for those respondents which did not cooperate in an investigation. As outlined in the Final Determination of Sales at Less Than Fair Value: Certain Hot-Rolled Carbon Steel Flat Products, Certain Cold-Rolled Carbon Steel Flat Products, and Certain Cut-to-Length Carbon Steel Plate From Belgium, 58 FR 37083 (July 9, 1993), when a company refuses to provide the information requested in the form required, or otherwise significantly impedes the Department's investigation, it is appropriate for the Department to assign to that company the higher of (a) the highest margin alleged in the petition, or (b) the highest calculated rate of any respondent in the investigation. Here, since these companies failed to respond to our questionnaire, we are assigning as BIA to uncooperative exporters a margin of 64.12 percent for pure magnesium and 107.89 percent for alloy magnesium. These margins represent the highest margin in each petition for each product, as recalculated by the Department for the initiation. C. All Other Companies We are basing the LTFV margins for all other companies, including those companies which reported that they did not sell the subject merchandise to the United States during the POI, on a simple average of the rates calculated for the mandatory respondents, including rates based on BIA but excluding zero and de minimis margins, if any. United States Price We based USP for AIOC, Interlink, Gerald Metals, MG Metals (where appropriate), Razno, and SMW on purchase price, in accordance with section 772(b) of the Act, because the subject merchandise was sold directly by the exporters to unrelated parties in the United States prior to importation into the United States and because exporter's sales price (``ESP'') methodology was not indicated by other circumstances. For Interlink, Gerald Metals, MG Metals, Razno and SMW, we calculated purchase price based on packed, CIF, delivered, or FOT warehouse prices to unrelated purchasers in the United States. We made the following deductions (where appropriate): for Razno and SMW, ocean freight and marine insurance; for AIOC, Interlink, Gerald Metals, and MG Metals, ocean freight, marine insurance, U.S. brokerage and handling charges, U.S. duty, U.S. inland freight, and U.S. inland insurance. We based USP for HDM and, where appropriate, MG Metals, on ESP, in accordance with section 772(c) of the Act, because the subject merchandise was sold to the first unrelated purchaser after importation into the United States. We calculated exporter's sale price based on packed delivered prices, where appropriate. For HDM, we made deductions, where appropriate, for ocean freight, marine insurance, U.S. inland freight, U.S. duties, and U.S. brokerage and handling. For MG Metals, we made deductions for foreign brokerage, ocean freight, marine insurance, U.S. duties, inland freight, inland insurance, and U.S. brokerage and handling. From each exporter's U.S. price, we deducted foreign inland freight between the factory and the reported intermediate destination ( e.g. , Rotterdam) as follows: For AIOC, SMW, and Razno, we used reported distances and transport modes to calculate an appropriate surrogate factory-to-border freight amount on the basis of surrogate freight rates in Brazil; for Interlink, Gerald Metals, HDM and MG Metals, we deducted the per-ton foreign inland freight amount reported in the petition as best information available because those exporters failed to report in their questionnaire responses information with respect to such charges. We made no deduction from USP to account for either export taxes paid by Russian companies to the Russian government or commissions paid by Russian companies to other Russian companies because (a) the actual amounts paid are an internal expense within an NME country and (b) there is no quantifiable good or service factor for which a surrogate value can be determined. Finally, we adjusted reported marine insurance and ocean freight charges for Razno as follows: a reported figure that appeared to be an extended value ( i.e. , an amount applicable to the entire transaction) was adjusted to reflect a per-unit amount; for transactions where no figure was reported, we used as the highest reported non-aberrational per-unit amount.
