FR941130-0-00024 FR941130-0-00003 DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY Office of Thrift Supervision 12 CFR Parts 563b and 575 [No. 94&hyph;253] RIN 1550&hyph;AA73 Conversions From Mutual to Stock Form; Mutual Savings and Loan Holding Companies AGENCY: Office of Thrift Supervision, Treasury. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: The Office of Thrift Supervision (OTS or Agency), is issuing a final rule to revise its regulations governing conversions from mutual-to-stock form and mutual savings and loan holding companies. On May 3, 1994, the OTS issued an interim final rule with request for comment and a proposed rule with request for comment. The interim final rule contained amendments to the OTS's mutual-to-stock conversion regulations (conversion regulations) designed to strengthen the standards governing conversions and to ensure the integrity of the conversion process. The proposed rule contained a new ``convenience and needs'' test to be added to the approval standards for conversion transactions. This final rule includes revisions made to the interim final rule that reflect OTS's consideration of the comments it received during the 45-day comment period following publication of the interim final rule. In addition, this final rule also addresses the comments received by the OTS during the 75-day comment period following publication of the proposed rule and adopts the proposed rule without modification. Finally, this final rule incorporates certain technical changes to the regulations governing mutual-to-stock conversions and mutual savings and loan holding companies. EFFECTIVE DATE: January 1, 1995. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Teri M. Valocchi, Counsel (Banking and Finance) (202/906&hyph;7299), Michael P. Vallely, Counsel (Banking and Finance) (202/906&hyph;6241), J. Larry Fleck, Assistant Chief Counsel (202/906&hyph;6413), Business Transactions Division, Chief Counsel's Office; Diana L. Garmus, Deputy Assistant Director (202/906&hyph;5683), Corporate Activities Division, Office of Thrift Supervision, 1700 G Street, NW., Washington, D.C. 20552. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: I. Summary of Interim Final and Proposed Rules On May 3, 1994, the OTS published an interim final rule with request for public comment. 1 The interim final rule amended the OTS regulations governing mutual-to-stock conversions of savings associations to strengthen the conversion standards and ensure the integrity of the conversion process. Specifically, the amendments: 1 See 59 FR 22725 (May 3, 1994). (A) revised and clarified the appraisal standards; (B) prohibited the use of ``running'' proxies by management of converting associations; (C) placed the current tax-qualified employee stock ownership plan (ESOP) stock purchase priority after those of eligible depositors; (D) provided stock purchase priority to core depositors; (E) required that a stock purchase preference be given to account holders and voting members residing in the association's local community; (F) prohibited management stock benefit plans in a conversion; (G) limited merger conversions to institutions that qualify for a conversion, i.e., financially-weak institutions; (H) lengthened the conversion public comment period; (I) required converting associations to submit business plans in support of the conversion; and (J) prohibited the repurchase of a converted association's stock within one year of conversion. The interim final rule did not propose any changes to the prohibition in the OTS conversion regulations on the transfer or sale of subscription rights or similar ``free distribution'' schemes, but did request comment on whether subscription rights should continue to be nontransferable, or if transferability is recommended, the reasons for, and the manner in which to allow for, such transfer. Finally, the interim final rule made preliminary conversion proxy materials available to the public and incorporated certain technical changes to the OTS's regulations governing mutual savings and loan holding companies.
