FR940204-0-00053 FR940204-0-00021 Chorizanthe pungens var. pungens (Monterey spineflower) has white (rarely pinkish) scarious margins on the involucral lobes and a prostrate to slightly ascending habit that distinguish it from Chorizanthe pungens var. hartwegiana. The aggregate of flowers (heads) tend to be small (less than 1 centimeter (cm) (0.4 inches (in)) in diameter) and either distinctly or indistinctly aggregate. The plant is found scattered on sandy soils within coastal dune, coastal scrub, grassland, maritime chaparral, and oak woodland communities along and adjacent to the coast of southern Santa Cruz and northern Monterey Counties and inland to the coastal plain of Salinas Valley. Historically, the plant ranged along the coast from southern Santa Cruz County south to northern San Luis Obispo County and from Monterey inland to the Salinas Valley. Only one collection dating from 1842 was made from northern San Luis Obispo County; however, in recent years it was not collected south of Monterey Peninsula (Reveal and Hardham 1989). Along the immediate coast, Chorizanthe pungens var. pungens was documented at Manresa State Beach and the dunes near Marina. The plant probably was extirpated from a number of historical locations in the Salinas Valley, primarily due to conversion of the original grasslands and valley oak woodlands to agricultural crops (Reveal and Hardham 1989). Significant populations of Chorizanthe pungens var. pungens, representing upwards of 70 percent of the range of the plant, were recently documented from Fort Ord (Army Corps of Engineers 1992). These surveys indicated that within grassland communities the plant occurs along roadsides, in firebreaks, and in other disturbed sites. In oak woodland, chaparral, and scrub communities, the plants occur in sandy openings between shrubs. In older stands with a high cover of shrubs, the plant is restricted to roadsides and firebreaks that bisect these communities. The highest densities of C. pungens var. pungens are located in the central portion of the firing range, where disturbance is the most frequent. Although studies were not conducted on factors that determine the pattern of distribution and the densities of C. pungens var. pungens on Fort Ord, a correlation exists between open conditions resulting from activities that disturb habitat and high densities of C. pungens var. pungens. Prior to onset of human use of this area, this species was possibly restricted to openings created by wildfires within these communities. Chorizanthe robusta (robust spineflower) is comprised of two varieties: C. robusta var. robusta and C. robusta var. hartwegii. A description of the species is broken out below by variety. Chorizanthe robusta var. robusta has thin white to pinkish scarious margins along the basal portions of the teeth and an erect to spreading or prostrate habit. The heads are large (1.5 to 2 cm (0.6 to 0.8 in) in diameter) and distinctly aggregate. The plant once ranged from Alameda to Monterey Counties, but is currently known only from sandy and gravelly soils along and adjacent to the coast of southern Santa Cruz and northern Monterey Counties. Many of the areas from which collections were made in Alameda and San Mateo Counties were urbanized, and no new collections were made from there or from Monterey County for 30 years (Ertter 1990). As with C. pungens var. pungens, the coastal dune and scrub communities were affected by recreational use, urban development, and military activities, and the coastal plain vegetation of the Salinas Valley was converted to agricultural crops. The only known extant populations occur northeast of the city of Santa Cruz on property recently acquired by the city from the University of California and near Sunset and Manresa State Beaches, approximately 12 miles away. The total number of individuals of the plant was estimated to be less than 7,000 in 1990. Specimens collected from certain populations of Chorizanthe in the vicinity of Sunset State Beach are ``comparable to Chorizanthe pungens '' according to Ertter (1990). The Service believes that these populations are best assigned to Chorizanthe pungens var. pungens. Chorizanthe robusta var. hartwegii has rose-pink involucral margins confined to the basal portion of the teeth and an erect habit. The heads are medium in size (1 to 1.5 cm (0.4 to 0.6 in) in diameter) and distinctly aggregate. The plant is endemic to Purisima sandstone and Santa Cruz mudstone in Scotts Valley in the Santa Cruz Mountains. Where C. robusta var. hartwegii occurs on Purisima sandstone, the bedrock is overlain with a thin soil layer that supports a meadow community comprised of herbs and low-growing grasses. The presence of certain associated species, such as toad rush ( Juncus bufonis ), sand pigmyweed ( Crassula erecta ), mosses, and lichens, suggest a high seasonal moisture content. Where the plant occurs on Santa Cruz mudstone, the bedrock is variously mixed with scree or a thin soil layer that also supports a meadow community of herbs and grasses, though of somewhat different composition than those on Purisima sandstone, and with a lower frequency of toadrush, pigmyweed, and lichens (Habitat Restoration Group 1992).
