FR940223-2-00086 FR940223-2-00042 Food and Drug Administration Discussion of Activities of the International Conference on Harmonisation of Technical Requirements for the Registration of Pharmaceuticals for Human Use; Notice of Public Meeting AGENCY: Food and Drug Administration, HHS. ACTION: Notice of public meeting. SUMMARY: The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) is announcing a public workshop on the progress of activities associated with the International Conference on Harmonisation of Technical Requirements for the Registration of Pharmaceuticals for Human Use (ICH). The agency will present summary information on guidelines developed as a result of ICH harmonization initiatives and will respond to questions. DATES: The workshop will be held on Wednesday, March 2, 1994, 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. ADDRESSES: The workshop will be held in conference rms. O, P, and Q, third floor, Parklawn Bldg., 5600 Fishers Lane, Rockville, MD 20857. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Janet Showalter, Office of Health Affairs (HFY&hyph;50), Food and Drug Administration, 5600 Fishers Lane, Rockville, MD 20857, 301&hyph;443&hyph;1383. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: In recent years, many important initiatives have been undertaken by regulatory authorities and industry associations to promote international harmonization of regulatory requirements. FDA has participated in many meetings designed to enhance harmonization and is committed to seeking scientifically based harmonized technical procedures for pharmaceutical development. One of the goals of harmonization is to identify and then reduce differences in technical requirements for drug development. ICH is concerned with harmonization of technical requirements for the registration of pharmaceutical products among three regions: The European Union, Japan, and the United States. The six ICH sponsors are the European Union, the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industry Associations, the Japanese Ministry of Health and Welfare, the Japanese Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association, FDA, and the U.S. Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association. The ICH Steering Committee includes representatives from each of the organizing bodies and the International Federation of Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Associations (IFPMA), as well as observers from the World Health Organization, the Canadian Health Protection Branch, and the European Free Trade Area. The ICH Secretariat, which coordinates the preparation of documentation, is provided by IFPMA. ICH was organized to provide an opportunity for tripartite harmonization initiatives to be developed with input from regulatory and industry representatives and other interested parties. FDA is committed to ensuring that there is an opportunity for public comment through Federal Register notices on all of the guidelines developed as a result of the ICH harmonization initiatives. A number of ICH draft guidelines will be published soon in the Federal Register for public comment. The purpose of this public workshop is to provide an opportunity for the agency to present summary information about these documents and to respond to questions. In addition, general background information on ICH will be provided. This public workshop should be of interest to professional and consumer organizations and to the pharmaceutical industry. The status of the topics under consideration by ICH is as follows: ICH Consensus Draft Guidelines (will be published in the Federal Register soon for public comment) 1. Guideline for the Validation of Analytical Procedures 2. Toxicokinetics: A Guidance for Assessing Systemic Exposure in Toxicology Studies 3. Pharmacokinetics: Guidance for Repeated Dose Tissue Distribution Studies 4. Dose Selection for Carcinogenicity Studies of Therapeutic Agents 5. Good Clinical Practices: Addenda on Investigators Brochure and Essential Documents 6. Population Exposure to Assess Clinical Safety ICH Draft Guidelines and Texts in Preparation 7. Impurities in New Drug Substances (guideline) 8. Light Stability Testing (guideline) 9. Genotoxicity Testing Requirements (guideline) 10. Quality of Biotechnology Products: Genetic Stability (guideline) 11. Quality of Biotechnology Products: Stability Testing (annex to guideline on stability testing for new drugs and products) 12. Clinical Study Reports (proposals for a common format based upon a comparison of current FDA and European Community (EC) requirements) 13. Ethnic Factors in the Acceptability of Foreign Data (studies are in progress and a guideline is in preparation) ICH Consensus Draft Guidelines (released for public comment in the Federal Register of July 9, 1993) 14. Dose-Response Information to Support Drug Registration 15. Clinical Safety Data Management: Definitions and Standards for Expedited Reporting ICH Harmonised Tripartite Guidelines (released for public comment in the Federal Register of April 16, 1993) 16. Detection of Toxicity to Reproduction for Medicinal Products 17. Studies in Support of Special Populations: Geriatrics 18. Stability Testing of New Drug Substances and Products Dated: February 17, 1994. Michael R. Taylor, Deputy Commissioner for Policy. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;4072 Filed 2&hyph;17&hyph;94; 3:38 pm] BILLING CODE 4160&hyph;01&hyph;F
