FR940429-0-00053 FR940429-0-00010 (5) If the Advisory Committee recommends deferral of a decision on the agency's application, the Advisory Committee specifies the reasons for the recommendation, the requirements of this part that it believes the agency has not met, and a recommended deferral period. (d) After the meeting, the Advisory Committee forwards its written recommendations concerning recognition to the Secretary. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1099b, 1145) ยง602.13 Review and decision by the Secretary. (a) The Secretary determines whether to grant national recognition to an applicant accrediting agency based on the Advisory Committee's recommendation and the full record of the agency's application, including all oral and written presentations to the Advisory Committee by the agency, the designated Department official, and interested third parties. (b)(1) Before making a final decision, the Secretary affords both the designated Department official and the accrediting agency an opportunity to contest, in writing, the Advisory Committee's recommendation. If either the agency or the designated Department official wishes to contest the recommendation, that party shall notify the Secretary and the other party no later than 10 days after the Advisory Committee meeting. (2) If the party contesting the Advisory Committee's recommendation wishes to make a written submission to the Secretary, the Secretary must receive that submission no later than 30 days after the Advisory Committee meeting. However, the contesting party may not submit any evidence to the Secretary that it did not submit to the Advisory Committee. The contesting party shall simultaneously provide a copy of its submission to the other party. (3) If the noncontesting party wishes to respond in writing to the Secretary, the Secretary must receive that submission no later than 30 days after the noncontesting party receives the contesting party's submission. However, the noncontesting party may not submit any evidence to the Secretary that it did not submit to the Advisory Committee. The noncontesting party shall simultaneously provide a copy of its response to the contesting party. (4) If the Advisory Committee's recommendation is contested, the Secretary renders a final decision after taking into account the two parties' timely written submissions, if any. (c) The Secretary approves the accrediting agency for national recognition if the Secretary determines that the agency satisfies each of the requirements contained in this part. (d) The Secretary approves the accrediting agency for national recognition even if the agency does not satisfy each of the requirements contained in this part if the Secretary determines that the agency's effectiveness is not impaired by the noncompliance. (e) If the Secretary approves the accrediting agency for national recognition, the Secretary defines_ (1) The scope of the agency's recognition for Federal purposes, which shall include the_ (i) Geographic area; (ii) Degrees and certificates awarded; (iii) Types of institutions, programs, or both that the agency may accredit; and (iv) Preaccreditation status(es), if any, that the Secretary approves for recognition; and (2) The recognition period, which does not exceed five years. (f) If the Secretary denies recognition to the accrediting agency or grants recognition for a scope narrower than that requested by the agency, the Secretary indicates in writing the reasons for that decision. (g) If the Secretary defers a decision on the accrediting agency's application, the Secretary_ (1) Indicates in writing the reasons for the deferral and the deferral period; and (2) Automatically extends any previously granted recognition period until the Secretary reaches a decision on the renewal application. (h) If the Secretary does not reach a final decision on an accrediting agency's application for renewal of recognition before the expiration of the agency's recognition period, the Secretary automatically extends the previously granted recognition period until the Secretary reaches a decision on the renewal application. (Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1099b) ยง602.14 Limitation, suspension, or termination of recognition.
