FR940805-2-00106 FR940805-2-00056 Post Agreement Activities Guidelines for Emergency Suspension of a Section 274b Agreement I. Introduction This procedure provides the guidelines that will be followed by NRC staff when considering whether or not to exercise the authority contained in Section 274j(2) of the Atomic Energy Act. II. General Section 274j(2) of the Act addresses emergency situations and gives the Commission authority to temporarily suspend all or part of its agreement with a State without notice or hearing if an emergency situation exists requiring immediate action to protect public health and safety and the State failed to take steps within a reasonable time. The NRC will invoke this authority to temporarily suspend all or part of its agreement with an Agreement State only as a last resort, where an emergency creates a danger to the public health or safety, and the Agreement State has failed to take, or is prevented from taking, the necessary steps to protect the public health and safety. The Commission will exercise this authority whenever necessary to contain or eliminate the danger, and only during the period of the emergency. Prior to any emergency suspension of all or part of the NRC's agreement with a State, the NRC will notify the governor of the State. The NRC will consider invoking this authority with respect to a single facility or location if the emergency situation and the criteria of Part V or the guidelines so warrant after considering the factors stated in Part VI. III. Emergency The NRC recognizes that a severe threat to public health and safety would have to exist before a emergency suspension of all or part of its agreement with an Agreement State would be invoked. Under existing practices, an Agreement State could, if necessary, request technical assistance from NRC for a specific emergency situation. NRC continues to encourage State requests for technical assistance. The exercising of NRC authority to temporarily suspend an agreement would occur for those highly unusual events which would require prompt remedial action to protect the public health and safety. IV. Initiation of Emergency Suspension Action 1. Under section 274j(2), if a State requests that the NRC temporarily suspend part of its agreement, the State shall make the request by telephone call to the Executive Director for Operations (telephone number), in coordination with the Director of Office of State Program or in off hours, to the NRC Emergency Operation Center, telephone (␣). Such a request should be made by the Governor, or the Governor's designee, and include the specific nature of the emergency and its possible impacts as related to the criteria and factors in Parts V and VI below. This request may be made only by the Agreement State that has regulatory authority under which the licensee is operating when the emergency occurs. 2. When the NRC determines an event warrants emergency suspension of an agreement it will follow the guidelines and criteria stated in Parts V below. 3. The Governor and the radiation control program director of the affected State will be consulted and kept fully informed of the actions taken by the NRC. For events which may warrant consideration of emergency suspension but for which there is a reasonable basis for presumption that a State can satisfactorily resolve the emergency situation, the NRC will inform the State of necessary actions that the State should take to avert further consideration of emergency suspension under section 274j(2) and will provide appropriate technical assistance within the limits of its resources. 4. The Executive Director for Operations, in consultation with OSP, NMSS, the involved Regional Office and OGC will issue an order regarding the emergency suspension (Appendix A). The Commission will be kept informed as to the nature of the emergency situation and the actions taken to contain or eliminate the danger (Appendix B).
