FR940128-1-00045 FR940128-1-00006 The agency recognizes that not all processing activities will require hand washing and sanitizing. Activities that would not require such steps include the handling of raw fish and fishery products prior to the initial washing step (i.e., directly from the fisherman) and the handling of finished products in shipping cases. These activities are exceptions, however, to the general rule that employees must thoroughly wash and sanitize their hands after each contact with an insanitary surface. Additionally, when insanitary objects come into contact with product contact surfaces, they must be thoroughly cleaned and sanitized. In the processing of cooked products, the raw material may also serve as a reservoir of pathogenic microorganisms. For this reason, employees or equipment that handle or touch the raw material must be cleaned and sanitized before being used with cooked product or ice, or they could convey the microorganisms to these foods (Refs. 63, 64, 73, 74, 84, 87, and 88). In ยง123.10(c)(1), the agency is proposing to require that the sanitary practices of the employees, especially as they relate to hand washing, sanitizing practices, and the potential for cross contamination, be checked and recorded at least every 4 hours during processing. This monitoring will ensure that employees arriving for work and returning from the midshift break have properly washed and sanitized their hands. The concentration of hand sanitizing solutions tends to be reduced over the course of a production day because of the reaction of the sanitizer with organic matter and dissipation as a gas (Ref. 82). It will also cause a regular assessment of the adequacy of the normal operating procedures. Finally, recording will provide assurance that appropriate procedures are being followed. In ยง123.10(a)(8)(i), FDA is proposing to require that hand washing facilities be located in all processing areas in which washing and sanitizing is required by CGMP's so that these facilities are readily accessible to employees who work in processing areas. The agency has tentatively concluded that proper sanitization is such an important part of preventing the spread of disease as to warrant a requirement that hand washing equipment be conveniently located to facilitate their use. Where these facilities are not conveniently located, they may not be frequented by the employees. FDA is proposing to require in ยง123.10(a)(8)(ii) that these facilities be equipped with hand cleaning and effective sanitizing preparations and single-service towels or suitable hand drying devices. Ordinary soap is acceptable for hand washing. Hand sanitizers need to be fast acting because of the short contact time involved. In contrast to the sanitizing of equipment, which can involve leaving a sanitizing spray on the equipment for extended periods of time, hand sanitizing usually involves a quick dip in and out of the sanitizer. Of the sanitizers described previously (see discussion of proposed ยง123.10(a)(4)), quaternary ammonium is not fast acting and is not suitable as a hand sanitizer. The others are appropriate as hand sanitizers.
