FR941216-1-00052 FR941216-1-00010 (iv) Interest accrual for 1998. In 1998, B has no adjustments and, based on the modified projected payment schedule, includes $125.54 total daily portions of interest in income (rather than $121 as under the original projected payment schedule). On December 31, 1998, B's adjusted basis in the debt instrument and the adjusted issue price of the debt instrument are increased by the $125.54 total daily portions of interest included in income under the modified projected payment schedule, and reduced by $300, the amount of the fixed payment on December 31, 1998, that is reflected on the modified projected payment schedule. (iii) Timing contingencies. This paragraph (b)(9)(iii) provides rules for debt instruments that have both payments that are contingent as to time and payments that are contingent as to amount. (A) Treatment of certain options. If a taxpayer has an option to put or call the debt instrument, to exchange the debt instrument for other property, or to extend the maturity date of the debt instrument, the projected payment schedule is determined by using the principles of §1.1272&hyph;1(c)(5). If an option to put, call, or exchange the debt instrument is assumed to be exercised under the principles of §1.1272&hyph;1(c)(5), it is generally reasonable to assume that the option is exercised immediately before it expires. If the option is exercised at an earlier time, the exercise is treated as a sale or exchange of the debt instrument. (B) Other timing contingencies. [Reserved] (iv) Allocation of deductions. For purposes of §1.861&hyph;8, any amount treated as an ordinary loss under paragraph (b)(6)(iii)(B) or (b)(8)(ii) of this section is considered a deduction that is definitely related to the class of gross income to which interest on the relevant debt instrument belongs. Any other deduction or loss relating to the debt instrument will be subject to the general rules of §1.861&hyph;8. (v) Special rule when all contingent payments become fixed. Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, if all the remaining contingent payments on a debt instrument become fixed substantially contemporaneously, any positive or negative adjustment on the instrument is spread over the remaining term of the instrument in a reasonable manner. For purposes of the preceding sentence, a payment is treated as a fixed payment if all remaining contingencies with respect to the payment are remote or incidental. (c) Method for debt instruments not subject to the noncontingent bond method _(1) Applicability. Paragraph (c) of this section applies to a contingent payment debt instrument that has an issue price determined under §1.1274&hyph;2 (other than a debt instrument issued in a potentially abusive situation). For example, paragraph (c) of this section generally applies to a contingent payment debt instrument that is issued for nonpublicly traded property. (2) Separation into components. In the case of a debt instrument subject to paragraph (c) of this section (the overall debt instrument), the noncontingent payments and any quotable contingent payments (as defined in paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section) are subject to the rules in paragraph (c)(3) of this section, and the nonquotable contingent payments (as defined in paragraph (b)(4)(ii) of this section) are accounted for separately under the rules in paragraph (c)(4) of this section. (3) Treatment of noncontingent and quotable contingent payments. The noncontingent payments and any quotable contingent payments are treated as a separate debt instrument. The issue price of the separate debt instrument is the issue price of the overall debt instrument, determined under §1.1274&hyph;2. No interest payments on the separate debt instrument are qualified stated interest payments (within the meaning of §1.1273&hyph;1(c)) and the de minimis rules of section 1273(a)(3) and §1.1273&hyph;1(d) do not apply to the separate debt instrument. If the separate debt instrument provides for a quotable contingent payment, the rules of paragraph (b) of this section apply to the instrument, notwithstanding paragraph (b)(1) of this section. (4) Treatment of nonquotable contingent payments _(i) In general. Except as provided in paragraph (c)(4)(iii) of this section, the portion of a nonquotable contingent payment treated as interest under paragraph (c)(4)(ii)(B) of this section is includible in gross income by the holder and deductible from gross income by the issuer in their respective taxable years in which the amount of the payment becomes fixed. (ii) Recharacterization of certain nonquotable contingent payments _(A) Amount treated as principal. In general, a nonquotable contingent payment is treated as a payment of principal in an amount equal to the present value of the payment, determined by discounting the payment at the test rate from the date that the amount of the payment becomes fixed to the issue date. However, a nonquotable contingent payment accompanied by a payment of adequate stated interest is treated entirely as a payment of principal. (B) Amount treated as interest. If the total amount of a nonquotable contingent payment exceeds the amount of the payment treated as principal under paragraph (c)(4)(ii)(A) of this section, the excess is treated as a payment of interest. (C) Test rate. The test rate used for purposes of paragraph (c)(4)(ii)(A) of this section is the rate that would be the test rate for the overall debt instrument under §1.1274&hyph;4 if the term of the overall debt instrument began on the issue date of the overall debt instrument and ended on the date the contingent payment is fixed. (iii) Certain delayed contingent payments _(A) Deemed issuance of separate debt instrument. If a nonquotable contingent payment becomes fixed more than 6 months before the payment is due, the issuer and holder are treated as if the issuer had issued a separate debt instrument on the date the amount of the payment becomes fixed, maturing on the date that the payment is due. This separate debt instrument is treated as a debt instrument to which section 1274 applies. The stated principal amount of this separate debt instrument is the amount of the payment that becomes fixed. An amount equal to the issue price of this debt instrument is characterized as interest or principal under the rules of paragraph (c)(4)(ii) of this section and accounted for under paragraph (c)(4)(i) of this section, as if this amount had been paid by the issuer to the holder on the date that the amount of the payment becomes fixed. To determine the issue price of the separate debt instrument, all payments under the separate debt instrument are discounted at the test rate from the maturity date of the separate debt instrument to the date that the amount of the payment becomes fixed. The amount of a contingent payment is treated as fixed even if, once fixed, the payment is payable in the future together with interest that is subject to further contingencies.
