FR941220-2-00043 FR941220-2-00030 [Release No. 34&hyph;35098; File No. SR&hyph;MSTC&hyph;94&hyph;17] Self-Regulatory Organizations; Midwest Securities Trust Company; Notice of Filing and Immediate Effectiveness of Proposed Rule Change Relating to the Legal Expert System December 13, 1994. Pursuant to Section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act''), 1 notice is hereby given that on November 29, 1994, the Midwest Securities Trust Company (``MSTC'') filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``Commission'') the proposed rule change as described in Items I, II, and III below, which Items have been prepared primarily by MSTC. The Commission is publishing this notice to solicit comments on the proposed rule change from interested persons. 1 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1) (1988). I. Self-Regulatory Organizations Statement of the Terms and Substance of the Proposed Rule Change The purpose of the proposed change is to change the pricing structure of the Legal Expert System and to clarify MSTC's policies with regard to the use of the Legal Expert System. 2 2 For a complete description of the Legal Expert System, refer to Securities Exchange Act Release No. 33756 (March 11, 1994), 54 FR 13350 [File No. SR&hyph;MSTC&hyph;94&hyph;02] (order approving a rule change regarding the Legal Expert System's fees and a clarification disclaiming any liability on MSTC's part for any misinformation contained in the Legal Expert System). II. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change In its filing with the Commission, MSTC included statements concerning the purpose of and basis for the proposed rule change and discussed any comments it received on the proposed rule change. The text of these statements may be examined at the places specified in Item IV below. MSTC has prepared summaries, set forth in section (A), (B), and (C) below, of the most significant aspects of such statements. (A) Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change MSTC proposes to amend a portion of its services and the schedule of charges relating to the Legal Expert System. MSTC also proposes to clarify its existing policy with respect to the use of the Legal Expert System by participants. The Legal Expert System is a computer program available to MSTC participants which details the necessary documentation for effecting a legal transfer of securities based on industry criteria and individual state regulations. First, MSTC wishes to clarify that the Legal Expert System is available only to full MSTC participants; accordingly, it is not available to pledgee participants or limited purpose participants. Furthermore, the Legal Expert System is proprietary to MSTC; therefore, participants may not provide third parties with access to the Legal Expert System without MSTC's prior written approval. The new schedule of charges will be effective January 1, 1995. The text of the proposed rule change is as follows with additions italicized and with deletions bracketed:
