FR940513-2-00267 FR940513-2-00098 The objectives of the Neighborhood Development Program are: _To help neighborhood development organizations increase their capacities to carry out larger or more complex activities, in cooperation with private and public institutions; and _To assist neighborhood development organizations to achieve long-term financial support for their activities. The activities must benefit low- and moderate-income persons within the neighborhood. B. Allocation Amounts The Department will make grants, in the form of matching funds, to eligible neighborhood development organizations. Under section 123(e)(3), a grantee organization may receive no more than $75,000 in Federal matching funds in a single program year. HUD reserves the right to make grants for less than the maximum amount. The amount of Federal matching funds that an applicant receives during the program year will depend in part upon the amount of monetary contributions raised in the preceding quarter of the program year from individuals, businesses, and nonprofit and other organizations located within established neighborhood boundaries, and from neighborhood development funding organizations. Contributions attributable to organizations or persons not residing in or conducting business within the grantee's neighborhood, loans, in-kind services, contributions by owners of properties to be improved, fees for services, public funds, and any in-lieu-of-cash contributions cannot be used to match Federal funds. These contributions may, however, be used to carry out project activities. The neighborhood monetary contributions for matching purposes must be raised within the one-year grant period. However, grant activities may be programmed over a one- to three-year period. A Federal matching ratio will be established for each participating applicant in accordance with the statutory requirement that the highest ratios be established for neighborhoods having the ``smallest number of households or greatest degree of economic distress.'' Subject to the statutory maximum of $75,000, the Federal match for this program year will range from one to six Federal dollars for each qualifying dollar raised by the grantee. Applications selected to receive Federal funds will be rank-ordered and the matching ratios will be determined in accordance with these two criteria. Any application selected for the award of Federal funds that proposed a matching funds ratio in excess of the ratio HUD determines for it will be offered an award of funds at the HUD determined ratio. However, any application selected for award that proposed a match below the maximum ratio HUD determines for it will be funded at the level proposed by the applicant. Federal payments to participating neighborhood organizations will be made on a quarterly basis following receipt of quarterly performance and financial reports. The maximum Federal payment to an applicant will be governed by the amount of verified, qualifying monetary contributions received from local sources in the preceding quarter, multiplied by the matching funds ratio established for the neighborhood. C. Eligibility 1. Eligible Applicants_Definition An eligible neighborhood development organization must be located in and serve the neighborhood for which assistance is to be provided. It cannot be a city-wide organization, a multi-neighborhood consortium, or, in general, an organization serving a large area of the city. The applicant must meet all of the following statutory requirements: (a) The applicant must be incorporated as a private, voluntary, nonprofit corporation under the laws of the State in which it operates; (b) The applicant must be responsible through a governing body to the residents of the neighborhood it serves. Not less than 51 percent of the members of the governing body must be residents of the neighborhood;
