FR941031-1-00016 FR941031-1-00002 §618.8015 Policy guidelines. (a) The board of directors of each institution providing related services shall adopt a policy addressing related services. The policy should include clearly stated purposes, objectives, and operating parameters for offering related services and a requirement that each service offered be consistent with the institution's business plan and long-term strategic goals. Such policy should also be subject to review under the institution's internal control policy. (b) All related services must be offered to recipients on an optional basis. If the institution requires a related service as a condition to borrow, it must inform the recipient that the related service can be obtained from the institution or from any other person or entity offering the same or similar related services. (c) All fees for related services shall be separately identified from loan interest charges and disclosed to the recipient of the service. §618.8020 Feasibility requirements. For every related service program an institution provides, it must document program feasibility. The feasibility analysis shall include the following: (a) Support for the determination that the related service is authorized; and (b) An overall cost-benefit analysis of offering the program that demonstrates its feasibility, taking into consideration the following items: (1) An analysis of how the program relates to or promotes the institution's business plan and strategic goals; (2) An analysis of the expected financial returns of the program which, at a minimum, must include an evaluation of market, pricing, competition issues, and whether the program would be expected to make a profit or if its purpose is to be combined with a broader objective aimed at contributing to the overall financial health of the institution or the individual borrower; and (3) An analysis of the risk in the program, including: (i) An evaluation of the operational costs and risks involved in offering the program, such as management and personnel requirements, training requirements, and capital outlays; (ii) An evaluation of the financial liability that may be incurred as a result of offering the program and any insurance or other measures that are necessary to minimize these risks; and (iii) An evaluation of the conflicts of interest, whether real or perceived, that may arise as a result of offering the program and any steps that are necessary to reduce these conflicts. §618.8025 Feasibility reviews. Prior to an association offering a related service program for the first time, the board of directors of the funding bank must verify that the association has performed a feasibility analysis pursuant to §618.8020. The bank's review is limited to a determination that the feasibility analysis is complete and that the analysis establishes that it is feasible for the association to provide the program. Any conclusion by the bank that the feasibility analysis is incomplete or fails to demonstrate the program's feasibility must be fully supported and communicated to the association in writing within 60 days of its submission to the bank. §618.8030 Out-of-territory related services. System banks and associations may offer related services outside their chartered territories subject to the following condition. Any System bank or association desiring to offer related services outside its chartered territory must obtain the consent of at least one institution chartered to serve the territory in which the related service is to be provided. Such consent shall be in the form of a written agreement with specific terms and conditions, including timeframes. (a) The providing institution must fulfill all requirements of subparts A and B of this part 618.
