FR940413-2-00146 FR940413-2-00070 A. Rule G&hyph;37_``Pay to Play'' Restrictions 1. Business Disqualification Provision Proposed rule G&hyph;37 will prohibit brokers, dealers and municipal securities dealers (``dealers'') from engaging in municipal securities business with an issuer within two years after proscribed contributions made by (1) the dealer, (2) any municipal finance professional associated with the dealer, or (3) any political action committee (``PAC'') controlled by the dealer or any such associated municipal finance professional, to an official of the issuer who can, directly or indirectly, influence the awarding of municipal securities business. ``Municipal securities business'' includes certain dealer activities such as the purchase of a primary offering of municipal securities from the issuer on other than a competitive bid basis ( i.e. acting as a managing underwriter or as a syndicate member in negotiated underwritings), and acting as a financial advisor, consultant, placement agent, or negotiated remarketing agent. 41 The proposal defines an ``official of an issuer'' as any incumbent, candidate or successful candidate for elective office of the issuer, which office is directly or indirectly responsible for, or can influence the outcome of, the hiring of a dealer for municipal securities business. This includes any issuer official, incumbent or candidate (or successful candidate) who has influence over the awarding of municipal securities business. ``Contributions'' include any gift, subscription, loan, advance, or deposit of money or anything of value made: (1) For the purpose of influencing any election of any official of a municipal securities issuer for federal, state, 42 or local office; (2) for payment or reduction of debt incurred in connection with any election; or (3) for transition or inaugural expenses incurred by the successful candidate for state or local office. 41 The proposed rule does not apply to competitive bids, i.e. , offerings in which the securities are awarded to the underwriting syndicate presenting the best bid according to stipulated criteria set forth in the notice of sale. See Glossary of Municipal Terms , supra note 11. Obviously, there is potential for abuse in determining the criteria by which eligibility is determined. If such abuse occurs, we would expect the MSRB to respond appropriately. 42 The term ``state'' is defined in section 3(a)(16) of the Act to mean any state of the United States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, or any other possession of the United States. Thus, contributions to certain state-wide executive or legislative officials will affect the eligibility of the firm to engage in municipal securities business. 43 The proposal applies to contributions made on or after April 25, 1994. 44 43 For example, governors will be included under the proposal's definition of official of an issuer. 44 File No. SR&hyph;MSRB&hyph;94&hyph;2, Amendment No. 1 (March 29, 1994). See supra note 4. The proposal's disqualification provision also would be triggered by contributions from employees of dealers, defined as ``municipal finance professionals, '' are primarily engaged in municipal securities business. The proposal exempts contributions made by municipal finance professionals of $250 or less per election to each official for whom the individual is entitled to vote. The proposal defines the term ``municipal finance professional'' to mean: (1) Any associated person primarily engaged in municipal securities representative activities, as defined in rule G&hyph;3(a)(i); 45 45 Rule G&hyph;3(a)(i) defines the term ``municipal securities representative'' as a person associated with a dealer, other than a person whose functions are solely clerical or ministerial, whose activities include one or more of the following: (A) Underwriting, trading or sales of municipal securities; (B) financial advisory or consultant services for issuers in connection with the issuance of municipal securities; (C) research or investment advice with respect to municipal securities; or (D) any other activities which involve communication, directly or indirectly, with public investors in municipal securities; provided, however, that the activities enumerated in subparagraphs (C) and (D) are limited to such activities as they relate to the activities enumerated in subparagraphs (A) and (B). (2) Any associated person who solicits municipal securities business; (3) Any direct supervisor of such persons up through and including, in the case of a dealer other than a bank dealer, the chief executive officer or similarly situated official and, in the case of a bank dealer, the officer or officers designated by the board of directors of the bank as responsible for the day-to-day conduct of the bank's municipal securities dealer activities, as required pursuant to rule G&hyph;1(a); or (4) Any member of the dealer executive or management committee or similarly situated officials, if any (or, in the case of a bank dealer, similarly situated officials in the separately identifiable department or division of the bank, as defined in rule G&hyph;1). 46 46 The proposal's prohibition on business would result if a municipal finance professional associated with the dealer made the contribution before becoming associated with the dealer, (the two year ban on business applies to both the current and prior employer of the municipal finance professional). Family members are not specifically included within the definition of municipal finance professional. The proposal, however, prohibits a dealer and any municipal finance professional from doing any act indirectly which would result in a violation of the proposed rule if done directly by the dealer or municipal finance professional. This is intended to prevent dealers from funnelling funds or payments through other persons or entities to circumvent the proposal's requirements. For example, a dealer would violate the proposal if it does business with an issuer after contributions were made to an issuer official from or by associated persons, family members of associated persons, consultants, lobbyists, attorneys, other dealer affiliates, their employees or PACs, or other persons or entities as a means to circumvent the rule. A dealer also would violate the rule by doing business with an issuer after providing money to any person or entity when the dealer knows that the money will be given to an official of an issuer who could not receive the contribution directly from the dealer without triggering the rule's prohibition on business.
