FR941128-1-00008 FR941128-1-00001 (h) The Lead Center shall be open to the public twelve months each year, operating on a 40 hour week basis or during the normal business hours of the recipient organization. Anticipated closures for holidays and other organizational shutdowns shall be included in the annual application submitted by the SBDC. Emergency closures shall be reported to the SBA Project Officer as soon as is feasible. Other SBDC service providers shall operate during the normal business hours of their sponsoring SBDC organizations. ยง130.340 SBDC Advisory Boards. (a) State/Regional Advisory Boards. (1) The Lead Center shall establish an advisory board to advise, counsel, and confer with the SBDC Director on matters pertaining to the operation of the SBDC network. (2) The advisory board shall be referred to as a State SBDC Advisory Board in a State having only one recipient organization. (3) The advisory board shall be referred to as a Regional SBDC Advisory Board in a State having more than one recipient organization. (b) These boards shall represent the entire service area and shall include, among others, small business owners. (c) New Lead Centers are required to establish a State or Regional SBDC Advisory Board no later than the second budget period. (d) A State or Regional SBDC Advisory Board member may also be a member of the National SBDC Advisory Board. (e) Travel of Advisory Board Members. Travel of any Board member for official Board activities may be paid for out of the SBDC's budgeted funds. (f) National SBDC Advisory Board. (1) The SBA shall establish a National SBDC Advisory Board consisting of nine members who are not part of the Federal workforce, appointed by the SBA Administrator. Three members of the National SBDC Board shall be from universities or their affiliates and six shall be from small businesses or associations representing small businesses. All Board members serve three year terms. Terms are staggered with three Board members appointed each year. The Administrator may also appoint successors to fill unexpired terms. (2) The National SBDC Advisory Board shall elect a Chairman and shall advise, counsel, and confer with the SBA's AA/SBDCs on policy matters pertaining to the operation of the SBDC program. The Board shall meet, with the AA/SBDCs, at least semiannually at the call of the Chairman. ยง130.350 SBDC Services and Restrictions on Service. (a) General. The SBDC network shall maximize accessibility to small businesses by providing extension services and utilizing satellite locations when necessary. To the extent possible, the SBDC shall make full use of other Federal, State, and local government programs that are concerned with aiding small business. Under the direction and administration of the SBDC Director, the SBDC network shall provide: (1) Access to business analysts to counsel, assist and inform small business clients; (2) Access to technology transfer agents to provide state-of-the-art technology to small businesses; (3) Access to information specialists to assist in providing information searches and referrals to small business; (4) Access to part-time professional specialists to conduct research or to provide counseling assistance whenever the need arises; (5) Access to laboratory and adaptive engineering facilities; (6) Access to international trade assistance; and (7) Access to procurement assistance. (b) Services. (1) The assistance provided through the SBDC network shall reflect local small business needs. Services should be periodically assessed and improved to keep pace with changing small business needs. The SBDC network shall provide prospective and existing small business owners and managers with comprehensive small business assistance. These services may include, but are not limited to, help with financing, marketing, production, organization, engineering and technical problems, research and feasibility studies. Special SBDC programs and economic development activities may include, but are not limited to advocacy, technology assessment, transfer and commercialization, international trade centers and programs to encourage exporting, business law information and guidance, procurement assistance, rural development, agribusiness, convention, tourism and small business incubators. SBDCs shall provide free one-on-one counseling. SBDCs may also sponsor or cosponsor training for individuals interested in going into a small business or improving or expanding an existing small business. (2) SBDCs are encouraged to provide financial counseling services that increase a small business concern's access to capital. For example, SBDCs are encouraged to assist small business concerns in areas such as business plan development, financial statement preparation and analysis, and cash flow preparation and analysis. These services are considered ``counseling'' and shall be provided to clients free of charge. (c) Restrictions on SBDC assistance. (1) SBDCs are not authorized to make loans, service loans or make credit decisions regarding the award of loans. SBDCs are also prohibited from making credit recommendations unless specifically authorized to do so by the Administrator, or his or her designee. (2) In assisting small businesses with the preparation of financial packages, SBDCs must ensure that their clients are sufficiently involved in the process to gain the knowledge to represent themselves to the lending institution. While the SBDCs may attend meetings with lenders for the purpose of assisting the client in the preparation of the financial package, the SBDCs may not take a direct role in representing clients in loan negotiations.
