FR941205-2-00038 FR941205-2-00030 7. To a congressional office in response to an inquiry from the congressional office made at the request of the subject of a record. 8. To the Department of State for administering the Act in foreign countries through services and facilities of that agency. 9. To the American Institute of Taiwan for administering the Act in Taiwan through services and facilities of that agency. 10. To the Department of Veterans Affairs (DVA) Regional Office for administering the Act in the Philippines through services and facilities of that agency. 11. To the Department of Interior for administering the Act in the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands through services and facilities of that agency. 12. To State audit agencies for auditing State supplementation payments and Medicaid eligibility considerations. 13. To DOJ, a court or other tribunal, or another party before such tribunal when: (a) SSA, any component thereof; or (b) Any SSA employee in his/her official capacity; or (c) Any SSA employee in his/her individual capacity where DOJ (or SSA where it is authorized to do so) has agreed to represent the employee; or (d) The United States or any agency thereof where SSA determines that the litigation is likely to affect the operations of SSA or any of its components, is a party to litigation or has an interest in such litigation, and SSA determines that the use of such records DOJ, the court or other tribunal or other party before such tribunal is relevant and necessary to the litigation, provided, however, that in each case, SSA determines that such disclosure is compatible with the purpose for which the records were collected. Wage and other information that is subject to the disclosure provisions of the IRC (26 U.S.C. 6103) will not be disclosed under this routine use unless disclosure is expressly permitted by the IRC. 14. In response to legal process or interrogatories relating to the enforcement of an individual's child support or alimony obligations, as required by sections 459 and 461 of the Act. 15. Information necessary to adjudicate claims filed under an international Social Security agreement that the United States has entered into pursuant to section 233 of the Act may be disclosed to a foreign country that is a party to that agreement. 16. To Federal, State, or local agencies (or agents on their behalf) for the purpose of validating SSNs used in administering cash or noncash income maintenance programs or health maintenance programs (including programs under the Act). 17. Tax return information (e.g., information with respect to net earnings from self-employment, wages, payments of retirement income that has been disclosed to SSA and business and employment address) may be disclosed, upon written request, to officers and employees of a Federal, State or local agency for purposes of, and to the extent necessary in, determining an individual's eligibility for, or the correct amount of, benefits under certain programs listed in section 6103( l )(7) of the Internal Revenue Code (IRC). These programs are:
