FR941110-0-00169 FR941110-0-00016 Response: We recognize that a temporary manager in a public facility may be constrained in ways that he or she would not be in other facilities. We expect the temporary manager to work within any limitations under which the facility operates and to abide by union agreements and contracts. (See above response.) Comment: One commenter asked whether HCFA or the State would sanction a temporary manager who fails to rectify an immediate jeopardy situation within 23 days. Response: A failure to rectify an immediate jeopardy situation may be more indicative of the magnitude of a facility's deficiencies than the competency of the temporary manager, and neither HCFA nor the State will penalize automatically a temporary manager when his or her efforts failed to remove the immediate jeopardy. However, if HCFA or the State believes that the temporary manager was deficient in his or her duty, then that individual may be penalized to the extent that he or she is excluded from consideration for future temporary management assignments. Comment: Several commenters asked that we limit the duration of the temporary management. Many recommended that the temporary manager be discontinued when the immediate jeopardy is removed or when compliance with the requirements that triggered the temporary management is achieved. Response: Temporary management will be removed when the facility is terminated, or when HCFA or the State has determined that the facility is in substantial compliance and has the management capability to sustain substantial compliance. The temporary management might end when the immediate jeopardy has been removed and deficiencies have been corrected, but it would not have to. It would be premature to discontinue the temporary management before HCFA or the State is confident that the facility will not relapse into noncompliance. Effective enforcement involves promoting sustained substantial compliance, and we are revising ยง488.454, ``Duration of remedies'' to reflect this. Comment: One commenter recommended that HCFA or the State be able to continue special actions taken by the temporary manager which are necessary to protect resident health, welfare or safety. Facility management would request termination of the special conditions once it could show that they are no longer necessary. The commenter believed that this policy would ensure that the facility doesn't deteriorate when the temporary management ends. Response: Neither HCFA nor the State will discontinue temporary management and restore control of a facility to its own management unless it is convinced that the facility is capable of and committed to sustaining substantial compliance. We do not believe an additional regulatory provision is necessary to ensure this result. Comment: Several commenters were opposed to the use of temporary management, and proposed alternatives to it. One commenter suggested that, instead of using temporary management in immediate jeopardy cases, HCFA require the non-compliant homes to hire consultants approved by HCFA to correct deficiencies. Another commenter proposed that HCFA itself create and train teams to act in an advisory capacity. A few commenters asked that temporary management be eliminated and replaced by State monitoring. Another commenter requested that we allow facilities to devise their own plans of correction to remove immediate jeopardy and have the State agency monitor implementation instead of imposing temporary management. Response: Temporary management is authorized by sections 1819(h)(2)(B)(iii), 1919(h)(2)(A)(iii), and 1919(h)(3)(C)(iii) of the Act, and HCFA and the States are required to establish and implement it: we may not exclude it as an enforcement option. Sections 1819(h)(2)(A)(i), 1919(h)(1)(A), and 1919(h)(5) of the Act specifically require that temporary management be used in immediate jeopardy situations when provider agreement termination is not sought. The Act provides that the temporary manager is to oversee the operation of a facility and assure the health and safety of the facility's residents while improvements are made to bring the facility into compliance. Therefore, we conclude that the Act intends the temporary manager's role to be more than that of just a monitor of the progress made by the facility or a consultant to management, and we believe that inherent in the Act's rationale for establishing temporary management is the assumption that the facility's management staff lacks the capability to bring the facility into compliance. It would be insufficient to substitute the use of a consultant or monitor for the appointment of a temporary manager, because a consultant or monitor would not have the authority to completely manage the entire facility as a temporary manager does. Only a temporary manager has a role active enough to substitute for the facility management, whose deficient skills or practices would impede correction of deficiencies and protection of the residents' health or safety.
