FR940804-2-00115 FR940804-2-00068 Antitrust Division United States v. Tele-Communications, Inc. and Liberty Media Corporation Comment and Response on Proposed Final Judgment Pursuant to the Antitrust Procedures and Penalties Act, 15 U.S.C. 16(a) and (b), the United States publishes below the comments it received on the proposal Final Judgment in United States v. Tele-Communications, Inc. and Liberty Media Corporation , Civil Action No. 94&hyph;0948, United States District Court for the District of Columbia, together with the response of the United States to those comments. Copies of the response are available on request for inspection and copying in Room 3233 of the Antitrust Division, U.S. Department of Justice, Tenth Street and Pennsylvania Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20530 and for inspection at the Office of the Clerk of the United States District Court for the District of Columbia, Third and Constitution Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20001. Constance K. Robinson, Director of Operations, Antitrust Division. Response to Public Comments Pursuant to Section 2(b) of the Antitrust Procedures and Penalties Act (15 U.S.C. 16(b)&hyph;(h))(``APPA''), the United States of America hereby files its Response to Public Comments. I. Introduction The United States has carefully reviewed the comments submitted on the proposed Final Judgment and remains convinced that entry of the proposed Final Judgment is in the public interest. II. Background This action was commenced on April 28, 1994, when the United States filed a complaint alleging that the defendant's proposed merger violated Section 7 of the Clayton Act, as amended, 15 U.S.C. 18. On the same date, the United States submitted a proposed Final Judgment and a Stipulation between the United States and the dependents pursuant to which the United States and the defendants consented to entry of the proposed Final Judgment. The Stipulation provides that the proposed Final Judgment may be entered by the Court after completion of the procedures required by the APPA. III. Compliance With the APPA Upon publication of this Response in the Federal Register , the procedures required by the APPA prior to entry of the proposed Final Judgment were completed, and the Court is free to enter the proposed Final Judgment. IV. Response to Public Comments The Department has received two comments relating to the proposed Final Judgment. The first comment, filed by K. Lawrence Kemp, a bankruptcy trustee, was filed on behalf of Dennis F. Gianotti, the owner of GTV, a regional sports video programming company which has filed for bankruptcy in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Western District of Pennsylvania. The second comment was submitted by GTE Service Corporation, on behalf of its affiliated domestic telephone operating companies and GTE Laboratories Incorporated. The issue of the standard of judicial review, raised by the comments, will be discussed below in Section IV(C).
