FR941028-2-00163 FR941028-2-00109 Executive Summary This document updates and replaces all previously published guidelines for the prevention of Mycobacterium tuberculosis transmission in health-care facilities. The purpose of this revision is to emphasize the importance of (a) the hierarchy of control measures, including administrative and engineering controls and personal respiratory protection; (b) the use of risk assessments for developing a written tuberculosis (TB) control plan; (c) early identification and management of persons who have TB; (d) TB screening programs for health-care workers (HCWs); (e) HCW training and education; and (f) the evaluation of TB infection-control programs. Transmission of M. tuberculosis is a recognized risk to patients and HCWs in health-care facilities. Transmission is most likely to occur from patients who have unrecognized pulmonary or laryngeal TB, are not on effective anti-TB therapy, and have not been placed in TB isolation. Several recent TB outbreaks in health-care facilities, including outbreaks of multidrug-resistant TB, have heightened concern about nosocomial transmission. Patients who have multidrug-resistant TB can remain infectious for prolonged periods, which increases the risk for nosocomial and/or occupational transmission of M. tuberculosis. Increases in the incidence of TB have been observed in some geographic areas; these increases are related partially to the high risk for TB among immunosuppressed persons, particularly those infected with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV). Transmission of M. tuberculosis to HIV-infected persons is of particular concern because these persons are at high risk for developing active TB if they become infected with the bacteria. Thus, health-care facilities should be particularly alert to the need for preventing transmission of M. tuberculosis in settings in which HIV-infected persons work or receive care. Supervisory responsibility for the TB infection-control program should be assigned to a designated person or group of persons who should be given the authority to implement and enforce TB infection-control policies. An effective TB infection-control program requires early identification, isolation, and treatment of persons who have active TB. The primary emphasis of TB infection-control plans in health-care facilities should be achieving these three goals by the application of a hierarchy of control measures, including (a) the use of administrative measures to reduce the risk for exposure to persons who have infectious TB, (b) the use of engineering controls to prevent the spread and reduce the concentration of infectious droplet nuclei, and (c) the use of personal respiratory protective equipment in areas where there is still a risk for exposure to M. tuberculosis (e.g., TB isolation rooms). Implementation of a TB infection-control program requires risk assessment and development of a TB infection-control plan; early identification, treatment, and isolation of infectious TB patients; effective engineering controls; an appropriate respiratory protection program; HCW TB training, education, counseling, and screening; and evaluation of the program's effectiveness. Although completely eliminating the risk for transmission of M. tuberculosis in all health-care facilities may not be possible at the present time, adherence to these guidelines should reduce the risk to persons in these settings. Recently, nosocomial TB outbreaks have demonstrated the substantial morbidity and mortality among patients and HCWs that have been associated with incomplete implementation of CDC's Guidelines for Preventing the Transmission of Tuberculosis in Health-Care Facilities, with Special Focus on HIV-Related Issues published in 1990.* Follow-up investigations at some of these hospitals have documented that complete implementation of measures similar or identical to those in the 1990 TB Guidelines significantly reduced or eliminated nosocomial transmission of M. tuberculosis to patients and/or HCWs. *CDC. Guidelines for Preventing the Transmission of Tuberculosis in Health-Care Facilities, with Special Focus on HIV-Related Issues. MMWR 1990; 39 (No. RR&hyph;17). I. Introduction A. Purpose of Document In April 1992, the National MDR&hyph;TB Task Force published the National Action Plan to Combat Multidrug-Resistant Tuberculosis ( 1 ). The publication was a response to reported nosocomial outbreaks of tuberculosis (TB), including outbreaks of multidrug-resistant TB (MDR&hyph;TB), and the increasing incidence of TB in some geographic areas. The plan called for the update and revision of the guidelines for preventing nosocomial transmission of Mycobacterium tuberculosis published December 7, 1990 ( 2 ). Public meetings were held in October 1992 and January 1993 to discuss revision of the 1990 TB Guidelines ( 2 ). CDC received considerable input on various aspects of infection control, including health-care worker (HCW) education; administrative controls (e.g., having protocols for the early identification and management of patients who have TB); the need for more specific recommendations regarding ventilation; and clarification on the use of respiratory protection in health-care settings. On the basis of these events and the input received, on October 12, 1993, CDC published in the Federal Register the Draft Guidelines For Preventing the Transmission of Tuberculosis in Health-Care Facilities, Second Edition ( 3 ). During and after the 90-day comment period following publication of this draft, CDC's TB Infection-Control Guidelines Work Group received and reviewed more than 2,500 comments. The purpose of this document is to make recommendations for reducing the risk for transmitting M. tuberculosis to HCWs, patients, volunteers, visitors, and other persons in these settings. The information also may serve as a useful resource for educating HCWs about TB. These recommendations update and replace all previously published CDC recommendations for TB infection control in health-care facilities ( 2, 4 ). The recommendations in this document are applicable primarily to inpatient facilities in which health care is provided (e.g., hospitals, medical wards in correctional facilities, nursing homes, and hospices). Recommendations applicable to ambulatory-care facilities, emergency departments, home-health-care settings, emergency medical services, medical offices, dental settings, and other facilities or residential settings that provide medical care are provided in separate sections, with cross-references to other sections of the guidelines if appropriate. Designated personnel at health-care facilities should conduct a risk assessment for the entire facility and for each area* and occupational group, determine the risk for nosocomial or occupational transmission of M. tuberculosis, and implement an appropriate TB infection-control program. The extent of the TB infection-control program may range from a simple program emphasizing administrative controls in settings where there is minimal risk for exposure to M. tuberculosis, to a comprehensive program that includes administrative controls, engineering controls, and respiratory protection in settings where the risk for exposure is high. In all settings, administrative measures should be used to minimize the number of HCWs exposed to M. tuberculosis while still providing optimal care for TB patients. HCWs providing care to patients who have TB should be informed about the level of risk for transmission of M. tuberculosis and the appropriate control measures to minimize that risk. * Area: a structural unit (e.g., a hospital ward or laboratory) or functional unit (e.g., an internal medicine service) in which HCWs provide services to and share air with a specific patient population or work with clinical specimens that may contain viable M. tuberculosis organisms. The risk for exposure to M. tuberculosis in a given area depends on the prevalence of TB in the population served and the characteristics of the environment. In this document, the term ``HCWs'' refers to all the paid and unpaid persons working in health-care settings who have the potential for exposure to M. tuberculosis. This may include, but is not limited to, physicians; nurses; aides; dental workers; technicians; workers in laboratories and morgues; emergency medical service (EMS) personnel; students; part-time personnel; temporary staff not employed by the health-care facility; and persons not involved directly in patient care but who are potentially at risk for occupational exposure to M. tuberculosis (e.g., volunteer workers and dietary, housekeeping, maintenance, clerical, and janitorial staff). Although the purpose of this document is to make recommendations for reducing the risk for transmission of M. tuberculosis in health-care facilities, the process of implementing these recommendations must safeguard, in accordance with applicable state and federal laws, the confidentiality and civil rights of persons who have TB.
