FR940516-1-00092 FR940516-1-00006 EPA is reluctant to set such a combined standard because it is extremely concerned that no precedent be set for promulgating combined emission standards in future rulemakings. EPA's past practice has been to set separate pollutant standards. EPA is considering the combined standard approach only for this Phase 1 small SI engine rule because of limited data availability, the aggressive timeframe of this rule, and to harmonize with the California lawn and garden regulation. Option 2: Under this option EPA would set separate Class I and II emission levels for HC and NOx. Based on information currently available to EPA, the NOx standard would be approximately 136 percent higher than current new engine levels, while the HC standard would be approximately equal to the difference between those levels and the HC + NO x standards proposed in option 1. EPA requests comment on this specific option, including industry data which addresses the appropriate level of both HC and NOx if separate standards were to be promulgated. 8. Engine Family Categorization For the purpose of demonstrating emission compliance, EPA is proposing that manufacturers of small SI engines divide their product line into groups of engines, called engine families, which are composed of engines having similar emission characteristics. Small SI engine families would be determined by using the same criteria (type of fuel, method of air aspiration, number of cylinders, and so forth) currently used to define on-highway motorcycle engine families. To be placed in the same engine family, engines would be required to be identical in all the following applicable respects: (1) Combustion cycle, (2) Cooling mechanism, (3) The cylinder configuration (inline, vee, opposed bore spacings, and so forth), (4) The number of cylinders, (5) The engine class, (6) The number of catalytic converters (location, volume, and composition), and (7) The thermal reactor characteristics. At the manufacturer's option, engines identical in all the above respects could be further divided into different engine families if the Administrator determined that such engines were expected to have different emission characteristics. This determination would be based on a number of features, such as the intake and exhaust valve or port size, the fuel system, exhaust system, and method of air aspiration. EPA requests comment on the appropriateness of adding governed engine RPM range as a criterion for the determination of an engine family. EPA is concerned that a wide-governed RPM spread in the same engine family, that is one engine configuration has a no-load governed speed at 3,200 RPM and another engine configuration has a rated no-load governed speed of 2,200 RPM, may be a sufficient reason to break up one engine family into more than one engine family. 9. Compliance With Emission Standards The test engine(s) representing an engine family would be required to demonstrate that emissions are less than or equal to each separate emission standard. If a test engine exceeded any one emission standard in the applicable class, the engine family would be deemed not in compliance with emission standards of that class. EPA is proposing that if catalysts are used in an engine family to meet the emission standards of this regulation, the engine manufacturer must affirm that the durability of the catalysts has been confirmed on the basis of the evaluation procedure that is specified in this notice. 10. Useful Life Period, In-use Enforcement, and Development of an In-use Testing Program EPA is not proposing a small SI engine useful life period or an in-use enforcement program in today's proposal. However, EPA believes that a critical element in the success of its nonroad program is assuring that manufacturers build engines that continue to meet emission standards throughout the engine's useful life. While section 213(d) of the CAA authorizes EPA to enforce emission standards in-use, EPA is proposing to postpone setting a useful life period and an in-use enforcement program for small SI engines until the Phase 2 regulations become effective and, instead, to require in this Phase 1 regulation that manufacturers test in-use engines. The Phase 2 rulemaking for small SI engines is under a court-ordered deadline and must be promulgated by April 30, 1997. EPA is not proposing a Phase 1 useful life period for several reasons. Only limited testing data is currently available on in-use performance of small SI engines. Additional data would be provided by the in-use testing program described below. Second, EPA does not believe that emission controls proposed for Phase 1 will experience significant deterioration beyond normal engine deterioration, although this area needs more research. For further discussion of these issues see ``V.P. Applicability of In-Use Standards'' and ``V.Q. In-Use Testing Requirements.'' The proposed in-use testing requirement is intended to parallel in-use testing previously or currently conducted by industry. While manufacturers and their associations have proposed that EPA adopt a cooperative testing program, EPA believes cooperative programs would not adequately or as effectively achieve the goals of this in-use program. See ``V.Q. In-Use Testing Requirements.'' EPA is proposing that engine manufacturers test a sample of in-use engines. In the absence of in-use emission standards, EPA believes this testing requirement would be invaluable for manufacturers and EPA to learn about in-use emissions and emission deterioration. Although EPA would not enforce in-use emission standards for Phase 1 engines, EPA expects that manufacturers would take appropriate actions to prevent recurrence of in-use noncompliance and to also remedy in-use noncompliance when it was discovered. At the time of certification the engine manufacturer would propose which engine families are to be included in the in-use test program. The certificate of conformity issued by EPA for engine families included in the in-use testing program would be conditional based on completion of the test program for that family. EPA would approve a manufacturer's test program if the selected engine families represented an adequate consideration of the elements discussed below. Number of engines to be tested: The number of small SI engines to be tested by a manufacturer would be determined by the following method: For an engine manufacturer with total projected annual production of more than 75,000 small SI engines, the minimum number of engines to be tested will be the lowest of the numbers determined in (1), (2), or (3) below: (1) Divide the manufacturer's total projected annual production of small SI engines by 50,000, and round to the nearest whole number, (2) Test five engines each from 25 percent of all small SI engine families certified in that model year,
