FR940919-1-00024 FR940919-1-00011 In addition to the measures in this rule, discussed above, Amendment 7 would add localized depletion to the FMP's list of problems in the snapper-grouper fishery. It would add FMP objectives to evaluate and minimize localized depletion and modify the framework procedure for implementing or adjusting certain management measures to allow the Council to react more quickly to changing resource conditions. The proposed change to the framework procedure would allow the Council to initiate and implement necessary changes at any time during the fishing year instead of only prior to each fishing year. Revision of 50 CFR part 646 is not required to effect these changes. Background and rationale for the additional measures in Amendment 7, and for the measures in this rule, discussed above, are contained in Amendment 7, the availability of which was announced in the Federal Register (59 FR 42570, August 18, 1994). Additional Measures Proposed by NMFS NMFS proposes to change the title of part 646 to ``Snapper-Grouper Fishery Off the Southern Atlantic States,'' with concomitant changes of the language in the codified text, to more correctly indicate the geographical scope of the regulations. The address in the definition of ``Regional Director'' would be changed to reflect a recent move. The requirement that an applicant for a dealer permit for wreckfish must have a physical facility at a fixed location would be changed to clarify that such facility must be for the receipt of fish, rather than merely a mailing address. Classification Section 304(a)(1)(D) of the Magnuson Act requires NMFS to publish regulations proposed by a Council within 15 days of receipt of the amendment and regulations. At this time, NMFS has not determined that the amendment these rules would implement is consistent with the national standards, other provisions of the Magnuson Act, and other applicable laws. NMFS, in making that determination, will take into account the data, views, and comments received during the comment period. This action has been determined to be not significant for purposes of E.O. 12866. The Assistant General Counsel for Legislation and Regulation of the Department of Commerce certified to the Chief Counsel for Advocacy of the Small Business Administration that this proposed rule, if adopted, would not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities because neither gross revenues nor compliance costs would be significantly changed. All participants in the fishery are small entities. As a result, a regulatory flexibility analysis was not prepared. This rule contains three collection-of-information requirements subject to the Paperwork Reduction Act_namely, applications for charter vessel/headboat permits, applications for dealer permits, and applications for experimental fishing permits. These requirements have been submitted to the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) for approval. The public reporting burdens for these collections of information are estimated to average 20 minutes, 5 minutes, and 1 hour per response, respectively, including the time for reviewing instructions, searching existing data sources, gathering and maintaining the data needed, and completing and reviewing the collection-of-information. Send comments regarding these reporting burden estimates or any other aspect of these collections of information, including suggestions for reducing the burdens, to NMFS and OMB (see ADDRESSES ). List of Subjects in 50 CFR Part 646 Fisheries, Fishing, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements. Dated: September 13, 1994. Gary Matlock, Program Management Officer, National Marine Fisheries Service. For the reasons set out in the preamble, 50 CFR part 646 is proposed to be amended as follows:
