FR940506-1-00016 FR940506-1-00010 DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION Coast Guard 33 CFR Part 181 [CGD 92&hyph;065] RIN 2115&hyph;AE37 Expanded Hull Identification Number and New Requirements for Certificates of Origin AGENCY: Coast Guard, DOT. ACTION: Notice of proposed rulemaking. SUMMARY: The Coast Guard proposes amending the regulations concerning vessel Hull Identification Numbers (HIN) and establishing new regulations requiring Certificates of Origin for new vessels offered for sale in the United States. The Coast Guard is proposing the regulations in order to provide additional information identifying vessels and establishing evidence of vessel ownership to aid in marine investigations, deter theft, and provide a more useful vessel identifier for the purposes of developing the vessel identification system, as required by legislation. The Coast Guard also proposes to make several editorial corrections to its HIN regulations. DATES: Comments must be received on or before September 6, 1994. ADDRESSES: Comments may be mailed to the Executive Secretary, Marine Safety Council (G&hyph;LRA/3406) (CGD 92&hyph;065), U.S. Coast Guard Headquarters, 2100 Second Street SW., Washington, DC 20593&hyph;0001, or may be delivered to room 3406 at the above address between 8 a.m. and 3 p.m., Monday through Friday, except Federal holidays. The telephone number is (202) 267&hyph;1477. Comments on collection of information requirements must be mailed also to the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, Office of Management and Budget, 725 17th Street, NW., Washington, DC 20503, Attn: Desk Officer, U.S. Coast Guard. The Executive Secretary maintains the public docket for this rulemaking. Comments will become part of this docket and will be available for inspection or copying at room 3406, U.S. Coast Guard Headquarters. A copy of the material listed in ``Incorporation by Reference'' of this preamble is available for inspection at room 1505, U.S. Coast Guard Headquarters. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Mr. Alston Colihan, Auxiliary, Boating, and Consumer Affairs Division, (202) 267&hyph;0981. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Request for Comments The Coast Guard encourages interested persons to participate in this rulemaking by submitting written data, views or arguments. Persons submitting comments should include their name and address, identify this rulemaking (CGD 92&hyph;065) and the specific section of this proposal to which each comment applies, and give a reason for each comment. The Coast Guard requests that all comments and attachments be submitted in an unbound format suitable for copying and electronic filing. If not practical, a second copy of any bound materials is requested. Persons wanting acknowledgement of receipt of comments should enclose a stamped, self-addressed postcard or envelope. The Coast Guard will consider all comments received during the comment period. It may change this proposal in view of the comments. The Coast Guard plans no public hearing. Persons may request a public hearing by writing to the Marine Safety Council at the address under ADDRESSES. If it determines that the opportunity for oral presentations will aid this rulemaking, the Coast Guard will hold a public hearing at a time and place announced by a later notice in the Federal Register . Drafting Information The principal persons involved in drafting this document are Mr. Alston Colihan, Project Manager, and Helen Boutrous, Project Counsel, Office of Chief Counsel. Background and Purpose The Secretary of Transportation is required to establish the Vessel Identification System (VIS) (46 U.S.C. chapters 125, 131 & 313) for use by the public and law enforcement officials. The Secretary has delegated to the Commandant, U.S. Coast Guard, the authority to implement VIS. VIS will provide a nationwide pool of vessel and vessel owner information that will help in identification and recovery of stolen vessels and deter vessel theft. This rulemaking would aid in the development of VIS by expanding the existing 12 character HIN to include certain vessel-specific information and thereby create a more useful vessel identification number. Further, requiring vessel manufacturers and importers to provide a Certificate of Origin with each vessel produced or imported for the purposes of sale would ensure the availability of documentation certifying this information and establishing a chain of ownership. Discussion of Proposed Amendments Investigations of lost and stolen vessels depend in large part on the proper authorities' ability to identify a vessel and establish a chain of ownership. The proposed regulations would aid in this pursuit by expanding the current 12 character HIN to include detailed information about each vessel. In addition, a check digit in the expanded HIN would make alteration of an HIN more difficult thereby helping to prevent fraud in the sale of vessels. The proposed regulations would also require that vessel manufacturers provide a Certificate of Origin certifying the truth about certain information in the HIN and for use as the first document in the paper trail establishing proof of vessel ownership.
