FR941212-0-00113 FR941212-0-00019 (1) Receive annual training on the receiving state's claims procedures, to include the applicable time limits, procedures and location of the appropriate receiving state claims office or agency; (2) Screen all new claims and inquiries about claims to identify claimants who must file with the receiving state; (3) Ensure that all such claimants are informed of this requirement and the applicable time limit. (d) All foreign inhabitants who have claims against the United States which are the responsibility of the receiving state (i.e. based on acts within scope of duties of employees or members of U.S. forces and not otherwise excluded by the treaty) will be required to file the claim with the appropriate receiving state office. Those U.S. inhabitants whose claims would otherwise be cognizable under the Military Claims Act (subpart C) and who are deemed by the receiving state to be proper claimants under the SOFA claims provisions must also file with the receiving state. However, if they fail to do so, their claim may be considered under subpart C, for good cause, with the permission of the Commander, USARCS. Claims for which a foreign country is responsible under a SOFA or similar agreement will not be paid under subpart J or subpart C without prior approval of the Commander, USARCS or the senior JA in country (§§536.52(a)(3) and 536.152(c)). (e) A claim filed and adjudicated by a receiving state under a SOFA or other international agreement claims provision may be considered under other claims provisions of this regulation only if the receiving state denied the claim on the basis that it was not cognizable under the treaty or agreement provisions. Where a claimant has filed a claim with a receiving state and received payment, such payment will be the claimant's final and exclusive remedy against the United States. If the claim is denied on the merits by the receiving state, that action will also be the claimant's final and conclusive remedy against the United States. §536.117 Responsibilities. (a) The Commander, USARCS, is responsible for_ (1) Providing policy guidance to command claims services concerning SOFA or other treaty reimbursement programs implementing 10 U.S.C. 2734a. (2) Monitoring the reimbursement system to ensure that programs are in place for the proper verification and certification of reimbursement claims. (3) Monitoring funds expended for reimbursements to foreign governments. (b) Command claims services within whose jurisdiction SOFA or other treaty provisions providing for a claims reimbursement system are in force and where DA has been assigned single-service responsibility for the foreign country seeking reimbursement (see §536.159) are responsible for_ (1) Establishing a program for the verification, certification, and reimbursement of claims. A copy of the procedures implementing the program will be provided to the Commander, USARCS. (2) Providing the Commander, USARCS, with budget estimates or reimbursements in addition to the reports required by §536.242. (3) Providing the Commander, USARCS, with statistical information each month in which payments are made as to the number of individual claims reimbursed, the total amount paid by the foreign government, and the total amount reimbursed by the United States. (4) Providing the Commander, USARCS, with a quarterly report showing total reimbursements paid during the quarter for maneuver damage and tort claims (broken out by major categories of damage as determined by the Commander, USARCS) and an update on major issues or activities that could impact on the operation or funding of the reimbursement system. §536.118 Reimbursements for nonappropriated funds. (a) Reimbursements for claims generated by the operations of nonappropriated fund activities will be paid using nonappropriated funds (NAF) (see subpart L). (b) Command claims services will provide the Commander, USARCS, with statistical information each month, if appropriate, as to the number of NAF claims processed and the amounts to be reimbursed by NAFs. §536.119 Reimbursement for Coast Guard activities. Upon request of the Secretary of Transportation, or designee, any payments made relating to Coast Guard-generated claims covered by 10 U.S.C. 2734a(c) may be reimbursed or paid to the foreign government concerned by a command claims service out of its reimbursement expenditure allowance, subject to reimbursement from the Department of Transportation (10 U.S.C. 1734a(d)). Subpart H_Maritime Claims General §536.120 Statutory authority. Adminsitrative settlement or compromise of admiralty and maritime claims in favor of and against the United States by the Secretary of the Army, or designee, is authorized by the Army Maritime Claims Settlement Act (10 U.S.C. 4801&hyph;04, 4806, as amended). §536.121 Related statutes. The Army Maritime Claims Settlement Act is supplemented by the following statutes under which suits in admiralty may be brought: the Suits in Admiralty Act (46 U.S.C. 741&hyph;752); the Public Vessels Act (46 U.S.C. 781&hyph;790); an act Extending the Admiralty and Maritime Jurisdiction (46 U.S.C. 740). Similar maritime claims settlement authority is exercised by the Department of the Navy under 10 U.S.C. 7365 and 7621&hyph;23 and by the Department of the Air Force under 10 U.S.C. 9801&hyph;04 and 9806. Claims Against the United States §536.122 Scope. Title 10, United States Code, section 4802, provides for the settlement or compromise of claims for_ (a) Damage caused by a vessel of, or in the service of, the DA or by other property under the jurisdiction of the DA; (b) Compensation for towage and salvage service, including contract salvage, rendered to a vessel of, or in the service of, the DA or to other property under the jurisdiction of the DA; or (c) Damage caused by a maritime tort committed by any agent or employee of the DA or by property under the jurisdiction of the DA. §536.123 Claims exceeding $500,000. Claims against the United States settled or compromised in a net amount exceeding $500,000 are not payable hereunder, but will be investigated and processed under this section and, if approved by the Secretary of the Army, will be certified to Congress. §536.124 Claims not payable. A claim is not allowable under this section that_ (a) Is for damage to, or loss or destruction of property, or for personal injury or death, resulting directly or indirectly from action by the enemy, or by U.S. Armed Forces engaged in armed conflict, or in immediate preparation for impending armed conflict. (b) Is for the personal injury or death of a member of the Armed Forces of the United States or a civilian employee incurred incident to his or her service. (c) Is for the personal injury or death of a Government employee for whom benefits are provided by the FECA (5 U.S.C. 8101&hyph;8150). (d) Is for the personal injury or death of an employee, including nonappropriated fund employees, for whom benefits are provided by the Longshoremen's and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act (33 U.S.C. 901). (e) Has been made the subject of a suit by or against the United States, except as provided in §536.127(b). (f) Arises in a foreign country and was considered by the authorities of a foreign country and final action taken thereon under Article VIII of the NATO SOFA, Article XVIII of the Japanese Administrative Agreement, or other similar treaty or agreement, if reasonable disposition was made of the claim. (g) Is based upon the exercise or performance or the failure to exercise or to perform a discretionary function or duty whether or not the discretion is abused, provided that the United States Court of Appeals for the jurisdiction in which the claim arises has not specifically refused to incorporate the discretionary function exception into the Suits in Admiralty Act (e.g. United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit). (h) Is presented by a citizen or government agency, or a corporation controlled by a citizen or government agency, of a country at war or engaged in armed conflict with the United States, or any country allied with such enemy country unless the appropriate settlement authority determines that the claimant is, and, at the time of the incident, was friendly to the United States. §536.125 Claims under other laws and regulations. (a) Claims of DA personnel and civilian employees of DOD including military and civilian officers and crews of Army vessels, for damage to or loss of personal property occurring incident to their service will be processed under the provisions of subpart K.
