FR940318-2-00122 FR940318-2-00077 [RIN&hyph;0905&hyph;ZA07; PN # 2178 Rural Telemedicine Grant Program AGENCY: Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA), Public Health Service (PHS). ACTION: Notice of availability of funds. SUMMARY: The Office of Rural Health Policy, HRSA, announces that applications are being accepted for Rural Telemedicine Grants to (1) develop a base of information for conducting a systematic evaluation of telemedicine systems serving rural areas; and (2) facilitate development of rural health care networks through the use of telemedicine. Awards will be made from funds appropriated under Public Law 103&hyph;112 (HHS Appropriation Act for FY 1994). Grants for these projects are authorized under section 301 of the Public Health Service Act. National Health Objectives for the Year 2000 The PHS is committed to achieving the health promotion and disease prevention objectives of Healthy People 2000, a PHS-led national activity for setting priority areas. The Rural Telemedicine Grant program is related to the priority areas for health promotion, health protection, and preventive services. Potential applicants may obtain a copy of Healthy People 2000 (Full Report: Stock No. 017&hyph;001&hyph;00474&hyph;C) or Healthy People 2000 (Summary Report: Stock No. 017&hyph;001&hyph;00473&hyph;1) through the Superintendent of Documents, Government Printing Office, Washington, DC 20402&hyph;9325 (Telephone (202) 783&hyph;3238). Funds Available Approximately $4.0 million is available for the Rural Telemedicine Grant program in FY 1994. With these funds, the Office of Rural Health Policy expects to make approximately eight awards for one year. Applicants may propose project periods for up to three years. However, applicants are advised that continued funding of grants beyond the one-year period supported under this announcement is subject to appropriation of funds and assessment of grantee performance. The start date for the new projects will be September 30, 1994. Funding Limits Individual grant awards under this notice will be limited to a total amount of $500,000 (direct and indirect costs) per year. Applications for smaller amounts are strongly encouraged. Equipment costs up to 40 percent of the total grant award are allowable. However, the costs of purchasing and installing transmission equipment, such as laying cable or telephone lines, microwave towers, digital switching equipment, amplifiers, etc., are not allowable. Transmission costs are allowable. Indirect costs are allowable up to 20 percent of the total grant award. Grant funds may not be used for construction, except for minor renovations related to the installation of equipment. Grant funds may not be used to acquire or build real property. Cost Participation Cost participation serves as an indicator of community and institutional support for the project and of the likelihood that the project will continue after Federal grant support has ended. Applicants are required to demonstrate cost participation in the form of equipment, personnel, building space, indirect costs, other in-kind contributions, or cash. DATES: Applications for the program must be received by the close of business on May 20, 1994. Applications shall be considered as meeting the deadline if they are either (1) received on or before the deadline date; or (2) postmarked on or before the deadline date and received in time for orderly processing. Applicants must obtain a legible dated receipt from a commercial carrier or the U.S. Postal Service in lieu of a postmark. Private metered postmarks will not be acceptable as proof of timely mailing. Late applications will be returned to the sender. ADDRESSES: Requests for grant application kits should be directed to Monte Parham, Office of Rural Health Policy, 301&hyph;443&hyph;0835. Requests for additional information regarding business or fiscal issues, and completed applications, should be directed to: Opal McCarthy, Grants Management Office, Bureau of Primary Health Care, West Tower, 11th floor, 4350 East West Highway, Rockville, MD 20857, (301) 594&hyph;4260. The standard application form and general instructions for completing applications (Form PHS&hyph;5161&hyph;1, OMB 0937&hyph;0189) have been approved by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB). FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Requests for technical or programmatic information on this announcement should be directed to Carole Mintzer or Cathy Wasem, Office of Rural Health Policy, 5600 Fishers Lane, Room 9&hyph;05, Rockville, MD 20857, (301) 443&hyph;0835. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Program Objectives The purpose of the program is to demonstrate and collect information on the feasibility, costs, appropriateness, and acceptability (to practitioners and patients) of telemedicine for improving access to health services for rural residents and reducing the isolation of rural practitioners. Grants will be awarded for implementing and operating telemedicine systems that link multi-specialty entities with rural health care facilities for the purposes of delivering health care services to the rural sites and exchanging information between the sites. A central goal of the program is to demonstrate how telemedicine can be used as an effective tool in the development of integrated systems of health care. Integrated systems of care provide comprehensive, coordinated health care services to the rural residents served by the system through referrals, consultations, and support systems that ensure patient access to a comprehensive set of services and reduce practitioner isolation. In particular, the program is to promote systems of health care in rural areas that link rural primary care practitioners with specialty and referral services. For the purposes of this grant program, telemedicine is defined as the use of telecommunications for medical diagnosis and patient care. A clinical consultation is defined as a person-to-person interaction relating to the clinical condition or treatment of the patient. The consultation could be between two practitioners, with or without the patient present, or between a specialty practitioner and a patient.
