FR940428-2-00132 FR940428-2-00062 [Release No. 34&hyph;33946; International Series Release No. 659; File No. SR&hyph;NASD&hyph;94&hyph;23] Self-Regulatory Organizations; National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. Notice of Filing and Order Granting Accelerated Temporary Approval of Proposed Rule Change Relating to the Quotation Linkage With the London Stock Exchange April 21, 1994. Pursuant to Section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act''), 1 notice is hereby given that on April 12, 1994, the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. (``NASD'' or ``Association'') filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``Commission'' or ``SEC'') the proposed rule change as described in Items I and II below, which Items have been prepared by the NASD. The Commission is publishing this notice to solicit comments on the proposed rule change from interested persons. 1 15 U.S.C. 78s(b)(1) (1988). I. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Terms of Substance of the Proposed Rule Change On October 2, 1987, the Commission issued an order approving operation of a market information linkage between the NASD and the London Stock Exchange (``LSE'') (formerly, the International Stock Exchange of the United Kingdom and the Republic of Ireland) for a pilot term of two years. 2 This experimental linkage supports an interchange of quotation information (``linkage information'') on about 740 securities (``linkage securities''); of that total, each marketplace has designated approximately half as its ``pilot group'' of linkage securities. NASD and LSE members that function as market makers in one or more of a subset of linkage securities that are quoted in both the Nasdaq and LSE dealer systems (``common issues'') are entitled to access linkage information without paying a separate charge to receive it. Operation of the linkage in this fashion comports with the terms of the Commission's October 1987 Order. Most recently, the Commission authorized an extension of this pilot linkage through May 5, 1994, by approving File No. SR&hyph;NASD&hyph;93&hyph;55. 3 2 Securities Exchange Act Release No. 24979 (Oct. 2, 1987), 52 FR 37684 (Oct. 8, 1987) (the ``October 1987 Order''). 3 Securities Exchange Act Release No. 33060 (Oct. 15, 1993), 58 FR 54616 (Oct. 22, 1993). Pursuant to Section 19(b)(1) of the Act and Rule 19b&hyph;4 thereunder, the NASD hereby files this proposed rule change to obtain Commission approval for continuation of the NASD/LSE pilot linkage through October 31, 1994. II. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change In its filing with the Commission, the NASD included statements concerning the purpose of and basis for the proposed rule change and discussed any comments it received on the proposed rule change. The text of these statements may be examined at the places specified in Item IV below. The NASD has prepared summaries, set forth in Sections (A), (B), and (C) below, of the most significant aspects of such statements. A. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement of the Purpose of, and Statutory Basis for, the Proposed Rule Change The purpose of this rule filing is to obtain an extension of the Commission's interim approval of the NASD/LSE linkage through October 31, 1994. Absent an extension, authorization for the linkage will expire as of May 5, 1994. For some time now, the sponsors of this linkage have considered various possibilities for its future development in meeting the needs of the international investment community. Both markets have also launched major initiatives to migrate their core processing and communications facilities to state-of-the-art technologies that will yield operational efficiencies and enhanced capacity. In this connection, the LSE has notified the NASD that the progression of the LSE's technology migration will foreclose continued operation of the NASD/LSE linkage after October 31, 1994. Accordingly, the NASD is requesting that the Commission extend its interim approval of the NASD/LSE linkage through October 31, 1994. The NASD does not anticipate further extension beyond that date. The NASD submits that the statutory basis for the NASD/LSE pilot linkage and the requested extension thereof, are contained in Sections 11A(a)(1) (B) and (C) and 15A(b)(6) of the Act. Subsections (B) and (C) of Section 11A(a)(1) set forth the Congressional goals of achieving more efficient and effective market operations, the availability of information with respect to quotations for securities and the execution of investor orders in the best market through the application of new data processing and communications techniques. Section 15A(b)(6) requires, among other things, that the rules of the NASD be designed to foster cooperation and coordination with persons engaged in regulating, clearing, settling, processing information with respect to, and facilitating transactions in securities, and to remove impediments to and perfect the mechanism of a free and open market. The NASD believes that the requested extension of the linkage's temporary authorization is fully consistent with the policy goals reflected in these statutory provisions. B. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Burden on Competition In its original release announcing interim approval of the NASD/LSE pilot linkage, the Commission referenced certain competitive concerns raised by Instinet Corporation (``Instinet'') through counsel. 4 In response, the NASD, after consultation with the LSE, made a good faith effort to address those concerns by narrowing the universe of firms and terminals permitted access to linkage information at no cost. Those changes were reflected in File No. SR&hyph;NASD&hyph;87&hyph;20, which the Commission approved by issuing the October 1987 Order. With respect to File No. SR&hyph;NASD&hyph;89&hyph;44 (which resulted in extension of the linkage's authorization until December 1, 1990), the NASD also submitted statistical and cost information relative to its participation in the pilot project. Given that the NASD/LSE linkage will be terminated on or shortly before October 31, 1994, the NASD believes that the instant rule change will not result in any burden on competition that is not necessary or appropriate in furtherance of the purposes of the Act. 4 See Securities Exchange Act Release No. 23158 (Apr. 21, 1986), 51 FR 15989 (Apr. 29, 1986). See also letter from Daniel T. Brooks, Counsel for Instinet, to John Wheeler, Secretary, SEC (Apr. 16, 1986). C. Self-Regulatory Organization's Statement on Comments on the Proposed Rule Change Received From Members, Participants, or Others Written comments were neither solicited nor received. III. Date of Effectiveness of the Proposed Rule Change and Timing for Commission Action The NASD requested that the Commission find good cause for approving this proposed rule change prior to the 30th day following publication of notice of the filing in the Federal Register, and, in any event, by May 5, 1994, the expiration of the linkage's present authorization. The NASD believes that the requested extension of the pilot period is fully consistent with the statutory provisions and policy goals referenced in Section II of this Rule 19b-4 filing. Moreover, the NASD argued the additional time will enable the sponsoring markets to effect an orderly termination of this experimental project. Under the circumstances, the Commission finds that allowing the NASD/LSE linkage to cease abruptly would be counterproductive. The Commission finds that the proposed rule change is consistent with the requirements of the Act and the rules and regulations thereunder applicable to the NASD and, in particular, the requirements of Sections 11A(a)(1) (B) and (C) and 15A(b)(6), and the rules and regulations thereunder. The Commission finds good cause for approving the proposed rule change prior to the 30th day after the date of publication of notice of filing thereof. Accelerated approval will avoid an unnecessary interruption of the pilot linkage while allowing the NASD and LSE to provide for an orderly termination of this experimental program in the final quarter of 1994. 5 Accordingly, under these circumstances, the Commission believes the NASD/LSE linkage should be permitted to continue operating, without a hiatus, for a brief period sufficient to bridge the migration to new technologies being developed by the sponsoring markets. 5 The NASD has represented that it will provide notice to its subscribers of the termination of the NASD/LSE linkage in its Subscriber Bulletin no later than August 30, 1994. Telephone conversation between Michael Kulczak, Associate General Counsel, NASD, with Michael Ryan, Attorney, SEC (Apr. 19, 1994). IV. Solicitation of Comments Interested persons are invited to submit written data, views, and arguments concerning the foregoing. Persons making written submissions should file six copies thereof with the Secretary, Securities and Exchange Commission, 450 Fifth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20549. Copies of the submission, all subsequent amendments, all written statements with respect to the proposed rule change that are filed with the Commission, and all written communications relating to the proposed rule change between the Commission and any person, other than those that may be withheld from the public in accordance with the provisions of 5 U.S.C. 552, will be available for inspection and copying in the Commission's Public Reference Room. Copies of such filing will also be available for inspection and copying at the principal office of the NASD. All submissions should refer to the file number in the caption above and should be submitted by May 19, 1994. It is therefore ordered, pursuant to Section 19(b)(2) of the Act, that the proposed rule change be, and hereby is, approved for an additional period, inclusive of October 31, 1994. For the Commission, by the Division of Market Regulation, pursuant to delegated authority. 6 6 17 CFR 200.30&hyph;3(a)(12) (1993). Margaret H. McFarland, Deputy Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;10125 Filed 4&hyph;26&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 8010&hyph;01&hyph;M
