FR941121-0-00068 FR941121-0-00008 (2) If the Administrator decides the request is not justified, he or she shall send the requester a brief written response giving a reason for the decision. Denials of requests for revision, revocation and reissuance, or termination are not subject to public notice, comment, or hearings. Denials by the Administrator may be informally appealed to the Environmental Appeals Board by a letter briefly setting forth the relevant facts. The Board may direct the Administrator to begin revision, revocation and reissuance, or termination proceedings under paragraph (a)(3) of this section. The appeal shall be considered denied if the Board takes no action within 60 days after receiving it. This informal appeal is, under 42 U.S.C. 307, a prerequisite to seeking judicial review of EPA action in denying a request for revision, revocation and reissuance, or termination. (3) (i) Except in the case of administrative amendment of a permit, if the Administrator tentatively decides to revise or revoke and reissue a permit under §§71.25(a)(7) and 71.26(e), he or she shall prepare a draft permit under paragraph (b) of this section incorporating the proposed changes. The Administrator may request additional information and, in the case of a revised permit, shall require the submission of an updated application. In the case of revoked and reissued permits, the Administrator shall require the submission of a new application. (ii) In a permit revision under this subsection, only those conditions to be revised shall be reopened when a new draft permit is prepared. All other aspects of the existing permit shall remain in effect for the duration of the unrevised permit. When a permit is revoked and reissued under this subsection, the entire permit is reopened just as if the permit had expired and was being reissued. During any revocation and reissuance proceeding the permittee shall comply with all conditions of the existing permit until a new final permit is reissued. (4) If the Administrator tentatively decides to terminate a permit under §§71.25(a)(7) and 71.26(e), he or she shall issue a notice of intent to terminate. A notice of intent to terminate is a type of draft permit which follows the same procedures as any draft permit prepared under paragraph (b) of this section. A notice of intent to terminate shall not be issued if the Administrator and the permittee agree to termination in the course of transferring permit responsibility to an approved State under §71.21(e). (5) Any request by the permittee for revision to an existing permit shall be treated as a permit application and shall be processed in accordance with all requirements of §71.24. (b) Draft permits. (1) Once an application is complete, the Administrator shall tentatively decide whether to prepare a draft permit or to deny the application. (2) If the Administrator tentatively decides to deny the permit application, he or she shall issue a notice of intent to deny. A notice of intent to deny the permit application is a type of draft permit which follows the same procedures as any draft permit prepared under this subsection. If the Administrator's final decision is that the tentative decision to deny the permit application was incorrect, he or she shall withdraw the notice of intent to deny and proceed to prepare a draft permit under paragraph (b)(4) of this section. (3) If the Administrator decides to prepare a draft permit, he or she shall prepare a draft permit that contains the permit conditions under §71.25. (4) All draft permits prepared under this subsection shall be publicly noticed and made available for public comment. The Administrator shall give notice of opportunity for a public hearing, issue a final decision and respond to comments. For all early reductions permits, an appeal may be taken under paragraph (l) of this section. (c) Statement of basis. The Administrator shall prepare a statement of basis for every draft permit. The statement of basis shall briefly describe the derivation of the conditions of the draft permit and the reasons for them or, in the case of notices of intent to deny or terminate, reasons supporting the tentative decision. The statement of basis shall be sent to the applicant and, on request, to any other person. (d) Public notice of permit actions and public comment period. _(1) Scope. (i) The Administrator shall give public notice that the following actions have occurred: (A) A permit application has been tentatively denied under paragraph (b)(2) of this section; (B) A draft permit has been prepared under paragraph (b)(3) of this section; (C) A hearing has been scheduled under paragraph (f) of this section; (D) An appeal has been granted under paragraph (l)(3) of this section. (ii) No public notice is required in the case of administrative permit amendments, or when a request for permit revision, revocation and reissuance, or termination has been denied under paragraph (a)(2) of this section. Written notice of that denial shall be given to the requester and to the permittee.
