FR941017-1-00014 FR941017-1-00001 6. Required Plant Shutdow The current regulation (Section V(a)(2)) states that if vibratory ground motion exceeding that of the OBE occurs, shutdown of the nuclear power plant is required. The supplementary information to the final regulation (published November 13, 1973; 38 FR 31279, Item 6e) includes the following statement: ``A footnote has been added to ยง50.36(c)(2) of 10 CFR part 50 to assure that each power plant is aware of the limiting condition of operation which is imposed under section V(2) of appendix A to 10 CFR part 100. This limitation requires that if vibratory ground motion exceeding that of the OBE occurs, shutdown of the nuclear power plant will be required. Prior to resuming operations, the licensee will be required to demonstrate to the Commission that no functional damage has occurred to those features necessary for continued operation without undue risk to the health and safety of the public.'' At that time, it was the intention of the Commission to treat the Operating Basis Earthquake as a limiting condition of operation. From the statement in the Supplementary Information, the Commission directed applicants to specifically review 10 CFR Part 100 to be aware of this intention in complying with the requirements of 10 CFR 50.36. Thus, the requirement to shut down if an OBE occurs was expected to be implemented by being included among the technical specifications submitted by applicants after the adoption of Appendix A. In fact, applicants did not include OBE shutdown requirements in their technical specifications. The proposed regulation would treat plant shutdown associated with vibratory ground motion exceeding the OBE or significant plant damage as a condition in every operating license. A new ยง50.54(ff) would be added to the regulations to require a process leading to plant shutdown for licensees of nuclear power plants that comply with the earthquake engineering criteria in Paragraph IV(a)(3) of Proposed Appendix S, ``Earthquake Engineering Criteria for Nuclear Power Plants,'' to 10 CFR part 50. Immediate shutdown could be required until it is determined that structures, systems, and components needed for safe shutdown are still functional. Draft Regulatory Guide DG&hyph;1034, ``Pre-Earthquake Planning and Immediate Nuclear Power Plant Operator Post-Earthquake Actions,'' is being developed to provide guidance acceptable to the NRC staff for determining whether or not vibratory ground motion exceeding the OBE ground motion or significant plant damage had occurred and the timing of nuclear power plant shutdown. The guidance is based on criteria developed by the Electric Power Research Institute (EPRI). The decision to shut down the plant should be made within eight hours after the earthquake. The data from the seismic instrumentation, coupled with information obtained from a plant walk down, are used to make the determination of when the plant should be shut down, if it has not already been shut down by operational perturbations resulting from the seismic event. The guidance being developed in Draft Regulatory Guide DG&hyph;1034 is based on two assumptions, first, that the nuclear power plant has operable seismic instrumentation, including the equipment and software required to process the data within four hours after an earthquake, and second, that the operator walk down inspections can be performed in approximately four to eight hours depending on the number of personnel conducting the inspection. The regulation also includes a provision that requires the licensee to consult with the Commission and to propose a plan for the timely, safe shutdown of the nuclear power plant if systems, structures, or components necessary for a safe shutdown or to maintain a safe shutdown are not available. (This unavailability may be due to earthquake related damage.) Draft Regulatory Guide DG&hyph;1035, ``Restart of a Nuclear Power Plant Shut Down by a Seismic Event,'' is being developed to provide guidelines that are acceptable to the NRC staff for performing inspections and tests of nuclear power plant equipment and structures prior to plant restart. This guidance is also based on EPRI reports. Prior to resuming operations, the licensee must demonstrate to the Commission that no functional damage has occurred to those features necessary for continued operation without undue risk to the health and safety of the public. The results of post-shutdown inspections, operability checks, and surveillance tests must be documented in written reports and submitted to the Director, Office of Nuclear Reactor Regulation. The licensee shall not resume operation until authorized to do so by the Director, Office of Nuclear Reactor Regulation.
