FR940922-2-00003 FR940922-2-00002 Forest Service Thunder Mountain Fire Recovery and Salvage, Okanogan National Forest, Okanogan County, Washington, Intent To Prepare an Environmental Impact Statement AGENCY: Forest Service, USDA. ACTION: Notice of intent to prepare an environmental impact statement. SUMMARY: Notice is hereby given that the USDA, Forest Service, will prepare an environmental impact statement (EIS) for a proposal to implement connected projects for the purpose of speeding recovery of the Thunder Mountain Fire burned area. Forest Service proposed projects includes: Timber sale of dead and fire damaged trees within the fire perimeter; rehabilitation of riparian areas and channels damaged by fire; and control of livestock to maintain pre-fire pristine character of streams and meadows. The EIS will develop and evaluate a range of alternatives for management of the resources within the fire perimeter. The alternatives will include a no action alternative, involving no timber harvest or road construction, and additional alternatives in response to issues identified during the scoping process. The proposed projects are consistent with the direction in the 1989 Okanogan National Forest Land and Resource Management Plan (Forest Plan) which provides the overall guidance for management of the area. The entire burned area and proposed project are within the Long Swamp Roadless Area. Implementation of proposed projects is scheduled for Fiscal Year 1995. The Long Swamp Roadless Area is located approximately 25 miles west of Tonasket, Washington. The agency invites written comments on the scope of this project. In addition, the agency gives notice of this analysis so that interested and affected people are aware of how they may participate and contribute to the decision making process. DATES: Comments concerning the scope and implementation of this proposal must be received by October 11, 1994. ADDRESSES: Submit written comments and suggestions concerning the scope of the analysis to Don Rose, Project Coordinator, Tonasket Ranger District, P.O. Box 466, Tonasket, Washington 98855. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Direct questions about the proposed action and environmental analyses to Don Rose, Project Coordinator, Tonasket Ranger District, P.O. Box 466, Tonasket, Washington 98855, telephone: (509) 486&hyph;5110. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Thunder Mountain Fire was started by lightning on July 23, 1994 and was not declared controlled until August 30. During that time, the fire burned through 8,950 acres of lodgepole pine, Engelmann spruce, and subalpine fir forest. Within the fire perimeter, it is estimated that approximately 4,500 acres of trees were killed by the flames and heat of the fire. The remainder of the area within the fire perimeter either burned to a lesser degree (and may experience further dying of trees) or did not burn at all. Fire control was hampered by the roadless nature of the area which limited access. The proposed action is to salvage dead and fire damaged trees on approximately 25 percent of the area within the fire perimeter. Approximately half of the area to be salvaged will be logged using helicopter yarding and the other half will be logged using cable and tractor systems. Approximately 3 miles of road will be constructed to improve access to the center of the area. The roads would be on three or four ridgetops running west from the main road in the area. This area has recently been analyzed in both the Meadows Integrated Resource Analysis, which concentrated on issues associated with management of North American lynx, and the Chewuch Watershed Analysis, which analyzed historical disturbance patterns and how existing resource conditions differ from historical conditions. To date, the major issues identified are: Management of the roadless area; effects on lynx habitat; effects on anadromous fish habitat within the Chewuch River; future fire risk; and long term health of the soils and water within the burned area. Public meetings will be held in Tonasket and the Methow Valley (Washington) to review existing information and facilitate public scoping. This EIS will tier to the Forest Plan, as amended by the Eastside Screening Environmental Assessment. The Forest Plan provides forest-wide standards and guidelines, management area standards and guidelines, and desired future conditions for the various lands on the Forest. This direction is provided for management practices that will be utilized during the implementation of the Forest Plan. The Thunder Analysis Area contains about 8,950 acres. All of this is in the Long Swamp Roadless Area, which is 70,200 acres in size. The Analysis Area is allocated to the following Management Areas (MA): _Approximately 90 percent is in MA 12 which is designed to provide habitat to support a stable lynx population over the long term while accessing the area for the purpose of growing and producing merchantable wood fiber. _Approximately 9 percent is in MA 5 which is designed to provide opportunities for recreation and viewing scenery in a roaded natural setting. _Approximately 1 percent is in MA 8 which is designed to preserve naturally occurring physical and biological units as Research Natural Areas. The analysis will develop a range of alternatives_from no-action, (with no timber harvest or road construction) to an alternative that proposes harvest (no road construction), to an alternative that considers timber harvest with road construction and a lesser amount of helicopter yarding. Public participation will be especially important at several points during the analysis. The Forest Service will be seeking information, comments, and assistance from other Federal, State, local agencies, and tribes, and other individuals or organizations who may be interested in or affected by the proposed project. This input will be used in preparation of the draft EIS. the scoping process includes: _Identifying potential issues. _Identifying major issues to be analyzed in depth. _Identifying issues which have been covered by a relevant previous environmental analysis. _Exploring additional alternatives based on themes which will be derived from issues recognized during scoping activities. _Identifying potential environmental effects of this project and alternatives (i.e., direct, indirect, and cumulative effects and connected actions). _Determining potential cooperating agencies and task assignments. _Notifying interested members of the public of opportunities to participate through meetings, personal contacts, or written comment. Keeping the public informed through the media and/or written material (e.g. newsletters, correspondence, etc.). The draft EIS is expected to be filed with the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and to be available for public review by December, 1994. Your comments and suggestions are encouraged and should be in writing. The comment period on the draft EIS will be 45 days from the date the EPA publishes the notice of availability in the Federal Register . The Forest Service believes it is important to give reviewers notice of this early stage of public participation and of several court rulings related to public participation in the environmental review process. First, reviewers of draft EIS must structure their participation in the environmental review of the proposal so that it is meaningful and alerts an agency to the reviewer's position and contentions. Vermont Yankee Nuclear Power Corp. v. NRDC, 435 U.S. 519, 553 (1978). Also, environmental objections that could be raised at the draft stage but that are not raised until after the completion of the final EIS may be waived or dismissed by the courts. City of Angoon v. Hodel , 803 F.2d. 1016, 1022 (9th Cir. 1986) and Wisconsin Heritages, Inc. v. Harris , 490 F. Supp. 1334, 1338 (E.D. Wis. 1980). Because of these court rulings, it is very important that those interested in this proposed action participate by the close of the 45 day comment period so that substantive comments and objections are made available to the Forest Service at a time when it can be meaningfully considered and responded to in the final EIS. To assist the Forest Service in identifying and considering issues and concerns on the proposed action, comments on the draft environmental impact statement should be as specific as possible. It is also helpful if comments refer to specific pages or chapters of the draft statement. Comments may also address the adequacy of the draft environmental impact statement or the merits of the alternatives formulated and discussed in the statement. (Reviewers may wish to refer to the Council on Environmental Quality Regulations for implementing the procedural provisions of the National Environmental Policy Act at 40 CFR 1503.3 in addressing these points. The final EIS is scheduled to be completed by March, 1995. In the final EIS, the Forest Service is required to respond to comments and responses received during the comment period that pertain to the environmental consequences discussed in the draft EIS and applicable laws, regulations, and policies considered in making a decision regarding the proposal. Sam Gehr, Forest Supervisor, is the responsible official. The responsible official will document the decision and rationale for the decision in the Record of Decision, which will be subject to Forest Service appeal regulations 36 CFR Part 215. Dated: September 15, 1994. Sam Gehr, Forest Supervisor. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;23439 Filed 9&hyph;21&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3410&hyph;11&hyph;M
