FR940505-1-00081 FR940505-1-00012 Open burning operations at single and two-family dwellings are currently exempt from most permissive burn/no-burn day programs. Although EPA is not proposing that these sources be required to obtain a burn permit, the proposed FIP regulation would also require that this type of burning activity be restricted to permissive burn days. Comments are requested on the impacts and issues resulting from including these sources in the proposed FIP regulation. The cost resulting from the lost opportunity to burn waste on the additional no-burn days would be minimized by allowing sources to burn on days when exceedances are not predicted. In the case of Sacramento, the proposed rule is expected to allow waste burning during over 80 percent of the calendar days each year. However, in the South Coast, where the state ozone standard is exceeded roughly 50 percent of the calendar days each year, the proposed rule would restrict burning to approximately 50 percent of the calendar days per year. The impact of the proposed FIP measure in Ventura is expected to be minimal since the district has already instituted a policy of restricting burning when the state standard is predicted to be exceeded. Comments are requested on the feasibility of this strategy for the FIP areas, especially for the South Coast FIP area. EPA also requests information on potential costs resulting from the proposed FIP measure. Comments are also requested on alternative strategies (e.g., soil incorporation, residue removal, after market disposal alternatives) which will reduce waste burning impacts on ambient ozone air quality. EPA seeks comments on ways to avoid any increased costs and increased pesticide use that may be associated with the rule. Comments are requested on potential VOC reductions resulting from implementation of the Connelly-Areias-Chandler Rice Straw Burning Reduction Act of 1991 (California Health & Safety Code, Part 4, Chapter 3, Article 3, Section 41865). Comments are requested on the necessity of exemptions in the proposed FIP measure. For example, California district offices may exempt a source from no burn day prohibitions during circumstances of imminent and substantial economic loss. However, these terms are undefined. Comments are requested on an appropriate definition for the aforementioned terms. EPA is also requesting comment on an alternative to the aforementioned strategy. As an alternative, a waste burning measure could be designed to only allow waste burning during the period of the year when ozone levels are within the state ozone standard, typically November through February depending on the area. This alternative would supplement the current no-burn day program and prohibit burning during the ozone season. This approach would provide greater certainty to affected parties so they could adequately plan their burn schedules; however, it would also provide less flexibility by prohibiting burning on days expected to be within ozone standard. While EPA is continuing to evaluate the emissions inventory and potential reductions from the proposed FIP measure, preliminary emission reduction estimates from the 1990 baseline are 1.8 to 3.6 tpd in the Sacramento area, 0.3 to 0.5 tpd in the South Coast FIP area, and less than 0.1 tpd in the Ventura FIP area. Actual reductions will depend on the overall effectiveness of the FIP measure. (m) Residential Water Heaters (Sacramento). Proposed 40 CFR 52.2961(l) controls NO X emissions resulting from residential water heaters. Emission reductions are achieved by: (1) replacement of conventional gas-fired water heaters with low-NO X units; (2) replacement of conventional gas-fired water heaters with electric water heaters; or (3) installation of solar panels to decrease natural gas consumption associated with the use of gas-fired water heaters. The proposed rule applies to any natural gas-fired water heater installed in the Sacramento FIP area after August 15, 1995, which emits in excess of 40 nanograms of NO X (calculated as weight equivalent NO X per joule) and with a heat input rating less than 75,000 British thermal units per hour (Btu/hr). The rule does not apply to water heaters with a rated heat input of 75,000 Btu/hr or greater, used for recreational vehicles, or used exclusively to heat swimming pools and hot tubs. The proposed rule is based largely on SCAQMD Rule 1121, BAAQMD Regulation 9_Rule 6, and VCAPCD Rule 74.11. Evaluation of the environmental, economic, and other impacts of the proposed rule are discussed in detail in EPA's technical support document. The proposed rule is expected to result in a cost savings created by the more energy efficient units and lower cost of the low-NO X units (compared to currently sold units). Considering the long-term fuel costs for residential water heating, solar water heaters can also be a cost-effective option. As described in the technical support document, uncontrolled 1990 NO X emissions from residential water heaters were 1.8 tpd in the Sacramento FIP area. Emissions are projected to continue to grow to 2.3 tpd in 1999 and to 2.7 tpd in 2005. Implementation of this proposed rule is projected to reduce those emissions by 0.2 and 0.6 tpd respectively at a retail cost savings of $3.00 to $19.00 per heater (1992 dollars) if replaced with a low-NO X heater. Additional reductions will continue to occur until approximately 2008 when it is expected that all existing units will have been replaced 46 by the low-NO X units. Energy savings and costs would also accrue if currently available low-NO X , higher efficiency units or solar powered water heaters were used. While electric water heaters are also an option, electricity currently costs approximately three times the cost of natural gas in the Sacramento area. 46 Estimated service life of a residential water heater is approximately twelve years. Additional reductions could be achieved in all three FIP areas by requiring that a percentage of new housing starts in the areas install solar water heater systems. While it is not feasible for EPA to require this approach through a FIP regulation, it is very feasible for local communities to adopt ordinances that require a percentage of solar water heaters in new construction. Examples of such communities include the Gold River Area Housing Development in Sacramento, the City of La Verne in Los Angeles County, and the cities of Thousand Oaks and Del Mar. Comments are requested on additional methods or options, such as market incentives and methods encouraging solar technologies, which might further reduce NO X emissions from residential water heaters. (n) Stationary Internal Combustion Engines (Sacramento). Proposed 40 CFR 52.2961(m) controls NO X emissions resulting from stationary internal combustion (IC) engines. These engines are used for a variety of applications including electric power generation for both base and standby service, oil and gas pipeline pumping/transport, oil and gas exploration and production, irrigation, hoisting, and nuclear power plant emergency cooling water pump operation. Engines are generally classified by fuel type, method of ignition, combustion cycle, and charging method. 1990 NO X emissions from IC engines in the Sacramento FIP area were estimated at 2.6 tons per day. Several control techniques are available for controlling NO X emissions from IC engines. Combustion controls include exhaust gas recirculation, prestratified charge, injection timing retard, pre-ignition chamber combustion, control of the air-to-fuel ratio, and wet injection. Post combustion add-on controls include selective noncatalytic reduction selective catalytic reduction. Other control techniques include conversion of fuel-fired engines to electric motors or the use of alternative fuels such as methanol in place of diesel fuel. The proposed rule applies to any owner or operator of an IC engine rated at 50 or more brake horsepower in the Sacramento area. After May 15, 1997, all IC engines shall meet a parts per million NO X standard based on engine and fuel type as follows: rich-burn engines, 25 ppm; lean-burn engines, 45 ppm; diesel 80, ppm; rich-burn (waste gas), 50 ppm; lean-burn (waste gas), 125 ppm. VOC and CO limits are also included within the standards. Engines rated at less than 50 brake horsepower or operated less than 200 hours per calendar year are exempt from the requirements of the proposed rule. Additional exemptions are provided for very low or specialized uses. The proposed rule limits are based largely on SCAQMD Rule 1110.2, VCAPCD Rule 74.9, and EPA's ACT guidance for IC engines.
