FR940317-1-00072 FR940317-1-00013 (1) The claimant can incur the cost of the examination and submit a paid receipt or cancelled check, which constitutes a reimbursable element of damage in evaluating the claim. (2) The DA can absorb the cost of the examination (payment is made from Appropriations, Operation and Maintenance, Army (AR 37&hyph;108, paragraph 3&hyph;74)) by the claims office having responsibility for investigating the claim. (d) As to an examination costing in excess of $750 or when local funds are exhausted, a request for funding may be directed to Commander, USARCS with appropriate justification. (e) If the parties cannot agree upon an independent examiner, and if either the examiner chosen by the claimant or the results of the examination are not acceptable, the Government may demand that the claimant be examined by an examiner acceptable to the Government. (f) Examinations of claimants at Army medical treatment facilities are authorized by AR 40&hyph;3. Such examinations may be used in addition to or in lieu of the foregoing where indicated. ยง536.28 Effect on award of other payments to claimant. The total award to which the claimant (and subrogees) may be entitled normally will be computed as follows: (a) Determine the total of the loss or damage suffered. (b) Deduct from the total loss or damage suffered any payment, compensation, or benefit the claimant has received from the following sources: (1) The U.S. or ARNG employee/member who caused the damage. (2) The U.S. or ARNG employee's/member's insurer. (3) Any person or agency in a surety relationship with the U.S. employee; or (4) Any joint tortfeasor or insurer, to include Government contractors under contracts or in jurisdictions where it is permissible to obtain contribution or indemnity from the contractor in settlement of claims by contractor employees and third parties. (5) Any advance payment made pursuant to the section entitled ``advance payments'' of this subpart. (6) Any benefit or compensation based directly or indirectly on an employer-employee relationship with the United States or Government contractor and received at the expense of the United States, including but not limited to medical or hospital services, burial expenses, death gratuities, disability payment, or pensions. (7) The State (Commonwealth and so forth) whose employee or ARNG member (32 U.S.C. section 101(3) caused or generated an incident that was a proximate cause of the resulting damages. (8) Value of Federal medical care. (9) Benefits paid by the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) that are intended to compensate the same elements of damage. When the claimant is receiving money benefits from the VA under 38 U.S.C. 351 for a nonservice connected disability or death based on the injury that is the subject of the claim, acceptance of a settlement or an award under the FTCA will discontinue the VA monetary benefits until the amount that would have otherwise been received in VA monetary benefits is equal to the total amount of the agreement or award including attorney fees. While monetary benefits received under 38 U.S.C. 351 must be discontinued as above, medical benefits, that is, VA medical care may continue provided the settlement or award expressly provides for such continuance and the appropriate VA official is informed of such continuance. (10) When the claimant is receiving money benefits under 38 U.S.C. 410b for non-service connected death, arising from the injury that is the subject of the claim, acceptance of a settlement or award under the FTCA or under any other tort procedure will discontinue the VA benefits until the amount that would have otherwise been received in VA benefits is equal to the amount of the total settlement or award including attorney fees. The discontinuation of monetary benefits under 38 U.S.C. 410b has no effect on the receipt of other VA benefits. The claimant should be informed of the foregoing prior to the conclusion of any settlement and thus afforded an opportunity to make appropriate adjustment in the amount being negotiated. (11) The value of other Federal benefits to which the claimant did not contribute, or at least to the extent they are funded from general revenue appropriations. (12) From collateral sources where permitted by State law (for example, State or Federal workers' compensation, social security, private health, accident, and disability benefits paid as a result of injuries caused by a health care provider). (c) No deduction will be made for any payment the claimant has received by way of voluntary contributions, such as donations of charitable organizations.
