FR940324-1-00072 FR940324-1-00021 The Secretary proposes to amend part 682 of title IV of the Code of Federal Regulations, to read as follows: PART 682_FEDERAL FAMILY EDUCATION LOAN PROGRAM 1. The authority citation for part 682 continues to read as follows: Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1071 to 1087&hyph;2, unless otherwise noted. 2. Section 682.209 has been amended by adding paragraphs (a)(6) (iii) through (viii) and revising paragraphs (a)(7)(ii) and (h)(4)(ii) to read as follows: §682.209 Repayment of a loan. (a)␣*␣*␣* (6)␣*␣*␣* (iii) Not more than six months prior to the date that the borrower's first payment is due, the lender shall offer a choice of a fixed-amount, graduated, or income-sensitive repayment schedule to a new borrower who receives a Stafford or SLS loan first disbursed on or after July 1, 1993. For purposes of this section, a ``new borrower'' is an individual who has no outstanding principal or interest balance on an FFEL Program loan as of July 1, 1993 or on the date he or she obtains a loan on or after July 1, 1993. This term also includes a borrower who obtains a Federal Consolidation Loan on or after July 1, 1993 if the borrower has no other outstanding FFEL Program loan when the Consolidation Loan is made. The lender shall also offer a choice of repayment schedules to any individual whose Consolidation loan application is received by the lender on or after January 1, 1993. The Secretary encourages lenders to offer the choice of repayment schedules to all other borrowers. (iv) The repayment schedule must require that each payment equal at least the interest that accrues during the interval between scheduled payments. (v) The lender shall require the borrower to repay the loan under a fixed-amount repayment schedule described in paragraph (a)(6)(vi) of this section if the borrower does not select, or does not qualify for, an income-sensitive or a graduated repayment schedule. (vi) Under a fixed-amount repayment schedule, the borrower is scheduled to pay the same amount for each installment payment made during the repayment period, except that the borrower's final payment may be slightly more or less than the other payments. (vii) Under a graduated repayment schedule, the amount of the borrower's installment payment is scheduled to change (usually by increasing) during the course of the repayment period. If a graduated repayment schedule is established, it may not provide for any single installment that is more than three times greater than any other installment. An agreement as specified in paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section is not required if the schedule provides for less than the minimum annual payment amount specified in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section. (viii) (A) Under an income-sensitive repayment schedule, the amount of the borrower's installment payment is adjusted annually, based on the borrower's expected monthly disposable income, as defined in §682.200(b), during the course of the repayment period. The Secretary encourages lenders to develop income-sensitive repayment schedules that do not result in any single installment that is more than three times greater than any other installment. (B) The lender shall inform the borrower that the loan must be repaid within the time limits specified under paragraph (a)(7) of this section. (C) No earlier than 90 days prior to the due date of the borrower's initial installment payment and subsequent annual payment adjustment under an income-sensitive repayment schedule, the lender shall request documentation from the borrower sufficient for the lender to make a reasonable determination of what the borrower's payment amount should be. The lender shall require the borrower to submit at least the following documentation: ( 1 ) Evidence showing the amount of the borrower's most recent monthly disposable income from all sources, including, if applicable, pay statements from employers and documentation of any income received by the borrower from other parties. ( 2 ) A copy of the borrower's Federal income tax return if the borrower filed a tax return within eight months prior to the date the lender requested it. (D) If the borrower fails to provide the documentation described in paragraph (a)(6)(viii)(C) of this section, the lender shall require the borrower to repay the loan in accordance with either a fixed-amount or a graduated repayment schedule.
