FR941216-1-00145 FR941216-1-00012 (2) The danger zone for personnel in the vicinity of the gun firing explosive ammunition shall be: ␣ 1Type of gun 1Radius1 (feet) Machine guns 600 Less than or equal to 75mm 1,200 Over 75mm through 105mm 1,800 Over 105mm 2,400 1Radii may be halved when ball ammunition or rounds with inert projectiles are used. The use of barricades to confine blast effects may also reduce the danger zone. (3) The danger zone down range shall be maintained as for actual firing until the danger of cook-off has passed. (b) Premature burst. If a premature burst occurs, the test shall be suspended or the lateral limits of the danger zone increased in accordance with prescribed safety distances before the test continues. The increased lateral limits shall be maintained until the particular test is completed. (c) Misfire. After a misfire, all persons shall stand clear of the breech, in case the round functions and the gun recoils. All electrical connections that could cause firing of the gun shall be disconnected. The appropriate danger zone for the actual firing shall be maintained during the waiting period, until the danger of cook-off has passed. The removed round shall be immediately placed where subsequent detonation could not cause injury or damage. In the case of misfires involving small-caliber rockets and small-arms ammunition, the rounds should be immersed in water (unless the results of prior analyses or investigations preclude such practice). Misfire procedures shall be established to include attempts to refire weapons, waiting periods, cooling, operational precautions, and disposition of ammunition. Once these procedures have been carried out, the firing pin and mechanism shall be checked, and the barrel of the gun examined to ensure that it is clear; then firing may resume. Appendices A through H of this subpart provide general guidance on what to do when misfires occur. (d) Hangfire. A hangfire is a delayed firing occurring as a short time lag between the striking of the firing pin on the primer and the ignition of the primer, igniter, or propellant. All hangfires shall be immediately reported to responsible personnel. This is particularly important for early detection of trends. In these cases, the firing of a particular lot of ammunition shall be suspended unless responsible authorities advise differently. §184.182 Ammunition and dud recovery. Open-air test area recovery requirements follow: (a) Making. When projectiles or bombs with live fuzes, live boosters, or high explosive are fired for impact on, or burst over, a recovery field, observers stationed in a protected place shall record the location of duds and exploded rounds. Before leaving a recovery field or impact area, personnel in charge of cleaning the fields shall mark duds and exploded rounds with the appropriate color-coded flag or device. Where locations cannot be marked, fields shall be posted with warning signs and entry shall be restricted.
