FR940127-1-00053 FR940127-1-00015 50 CFR Part 17 Endangered and Threatened Wildlife and Plants; 90&hyph;Day Finding for a Petition To List the Ohlone Tiger Beetle as Endangered AGENCY: Fish and Wildlife Service, Interior. ACTION: Notice of petition finding and commencement of status review. SUMMARY: The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (Service) announces a 90-day finding on a petition to list the Ohlone tiger beetle ( Cicindela ohlone ) pursuant to the Endangered Species Act of 1973, as amended. The Service finds that the petition presents substantial information indicating that the requested action may be warranted for this species. Through issuance of this document, the Service now requests additional data and comments from the public regarding the status of the Ohlone tiger beetle. DATES: The finding announced in this document was made on January 19, 1994. Comments and materials related to this petition finding may be submitted until further notice. Comments and materials should be submitted at the earliest possible date to ensure their use in the final decision. ADDRESSES: Data, information, comments, or questions concerning the status of the petitioned species should be submitted to the Field Supervisor, Fish and Wildlife Service, Ventura Field Office, 2140 Eastman Avenue, suite 100, Ventura, California 93003. The petition, finding, supporting data, and comments are available for public inspection, by appointment, during normal business hours at the above address. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Judy Hohman at the Ventura Field Office (see ADDRESSES section) or at 805/644&hyph;1766. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background Section 4(b)(3)(A) of the Endangered Species Act of 1973, as amended (16 U.S.C. 1533) (Act), requires that the Service make a finding on whether a petition to list, delist, or reclassify a species presents substantial scientific or commercial information indicating that the requested action may be warranted. To the maximum extent practicable, this finding is to be made within 90 days of receipt of the petition, and the finding is to be published promptly in the Federal Register . Section 4(b)(3)(B) of the Act further requires the Service to make a finding as to whether or not the petitioned action is warranted within 1 year of receipt of a petition that presents substantial information. On February 18, 1993, the Service received a petition from Mr. Randall Morgan to list the Ohlone tiger beetle as an endangered species under the Act. The petition was dated February 12, 1993. A letter acknowledging receipt of the petition was mailed to the petitioner on March 30, 1993. The finding is based on the species' description (Freitag et al. 1993), other published literature, agency documents and reports, and field sightings. Interviews were conducted with entomologists familiar with the biology of tiger beetles, with planners, and with others who are knowledgeable about proposed projects that may negatively affect the Ohlone tiger beetle. All documents and records of telephone conversations upon which this finding is based are on file at the Ventura Field Office (see ADDRESSES section).
