FR940927-0-00073 FR940927-0-00010 Virginia stated that within 30 days of OSM's approval of the husbandry practices provision, Virginia will issue a policy statement concerning husbandry practices. The draft policy statement submitted by Virginia reads as follows: The Virginia program at 480&hyph;03&hyph;19.816/817.116(c)(3) provides that the Division may approve selective husbandry practices that may be utilized without extending the period of responsibility for revegetation success and bond liability. On October 1, 1990, DMLR submitted for OSM's approval a limited list of the selected practices that can be used in Virginia. On XXXXXX OSM published in the Federal Register its final approval of the selected husbandry practices. Pursuant to this program amendment, there are a finite number of husbandry practices that have been approved by OSM. Coal surface mining operations may utilize only this list of practices without extending the bond liability period. For a copy of the program amendment or a description and supporting literature/publications, please contact Jerry Legg at the Division's Big Stone Gap Office. This draft language satisfies one of OSM's concerns about the proposed husbandry practices by making the following point: The list of husbandry practices approved by OSM comprises the only approved husbandry practices which may be used by industry without restarting the period of responsibility for reclamation success and bond liability. The following husbandry practices, were submitted and described by Virginia on October 22, 1993 (Administrative Record Number VA&hyph;829). Forestry_Common management practices for the land use of unmanaged forestry that will be allowed in Virginia without the restart of the bonding liability period: Replanting of trees Herbicide application Pest control Repair of rills and gullies as necessary to implement the land use Commercial Forestry_Common management practices for land use of commercial forestry that will be allowed in Virginia without the restart of the bonding liability period: Replanting of trees Herbicide application Basal pruning Insecticide application Mowing Fertilization and liming Repair of rills and gullies as necessary to implement the land use Hayland/Pasture_Common management practices for the land use of hayland/pasture that will be allowed in Virginia without the restart of the bonding liability period: Repair of rills and gullies Application of lime fertilizer Maintenance, weed and brush control Rotation or continuous grazing Reseeding or spot seeding Fencing Commercial, Industrial, Residential, or Recreational_Common management practices for the land uses of commercial, industrial, residential, or recreational that will be allowed in Virginia without the restart of the bonding liability period: Planting or replanting of trees Application of lime and fertilizer Surface roughing or the repair of rills and gullies Seeding or reseeding Irrigation Sodding Weed and pest control Topsoiling and other standard landscaping practices Gravel or asphalt Construct structures In the administrative record information provided by Virginia concerning the husbandry practices of reseeding and spot seeding, these practices are limited to those situations listed below. Hayland/Pasture Periodic reseeding to maintain or improve the desired combination of grasses and legumes. Seeding for weed control. Spot seeding in high traffic areas: e.g., around water troughs, salt licks, and areas damaged by livestock. Seeding of reclaimed rills and gullies. Commercial, Industrial, Residential, or Recreational Reseeding to prevent rill erosion. Seeding to maintain the desired mix of plants. In its May 12, 1994, letter to OSM, Virginia also clarified the following points concerning its implementation of the husbandry practices provision. Virginia proposes to limit the extent of reseeding or spot seeding that it will allow as husbandry practice to a maximum of 10 percent of the applicable area. Virginia will also use the 10-percent figure to limit areas where liming, fertilization, and irrigation may be used in excess of the levels normally applied to similar lands with the same land use. The 10-percent figure is inspired by the Virginia regulations concerning revegetation success. Specifically, VR 480&hyph;03&hyph;19.816.116(a)(2) provides that ground cover, production, or stocking shall be considered equal to the approved success standard when they are not less than 90 percent of the approved success standard. The Federal regulations at 30 CFR 816.116(a)(2) have a similar standard.
