FR941121-0-00025 FR941121-0-00001 1. General. Includes all accounts in which the credit union, by contract, agrees to give at least 30 days advance written notice of decreases in the dividend rate. Thus, credit unions can decrease rates only after providing advance written notice of rate decreases, e.g. , a ``change-in-terms notice.'' (o) Grace Period 1. General. A period after maturity of an automatically renewing term share account during which the member may withdraw funds without being assessed a penalty. Use of a ``grace period'' is discretionary, not mandatory. This definition does not refer to the ``grace period'' account, which is a synonym for ``federal rollback method'' or ``in by the 10th'' accounts, which are prohibited by TISA and part 707. (p) Interest 1. General. Member savings placed in deposit accounts are debt investments, and the return earned on these accounts is interest. Federal credit unions are not authorized to offer any interest-bearing deposit accounts. State-chartered credit unions may offer both share and deposit accounts if permitted by state law. State law, including without limitation regulations and official interpretations, will determine if returns earned in accounts in state-chartered credit unions are interest. Interest excludes the payment of a bonus or other consideration worth $10 or less given during a year, the waiver of reduction of a fee, the absorption of expenses, non-dividend membership benefits, and extraordinary dividends. 2. Differences between dividends and interest. Generally, dividends are returns on an equity investment (shares); interest is return on a debt investment (deposits). Dividends, in general, are not properly payable until declared at the close of a dividend period; interest, in general, is properly payable daily according to the deposit contract. Dividend rates are prospective until actually declared; interest rates are set according to contract in advance and are earned on that basis. Share accounts establish a member (owner)/credit union (cooperative) relationship; deposit accounts establish a depositor (creditor)/depository (debtor) relationship. 3. Referencing. Except where specifically stated otherwise, use of the terms ``dividend'' or ``dividends'' in part 707 also refers to ``interest'' where appropriate (for interest-bearing and non-interest-bearing deposit accounts at some state-chartered credit unions). (q) Member 1. Professional capacity. Examples of accounts held by a natural person in a professional capacity for another are: i. Attorney-client trust accounts. ii. Trust, estate and court-ordered accounts. iii. Landlord-tenant security accounts. 2. Other accounts. Examples of accounts not held in a professional capacity include accounts held by parents for a child under the Uniform Gifts to Minors Act (or Uniform Transfers to Minors Act. 3. Retirement plans. IRAs and SEP accounts are member accounts to the extent that funds are invested in accounts subject to the regulation. Keogh accounts, like sole proprietor accounts, are not subject to the regulation. (r) Non-Dividend Membership Benefits 1. General. Term reflects unique credit union practices that are difficult to value, encourage community spirit, and are not granted in such quantity as to be includable as calculable dividends. 2. Examples. Examples include: i Food, refreshments, and drawings and raffles at annual meetings, member functions, and branch openings. ii. Travel club benefits.
