FR940817-1-00063 FR940817-1-00014 5. Elimination of the total holdings column in Forms 4 and 5 (which the current rules limit to the class of securities with respect to which a transaction is reported), or simplification of the reconciling data for such columns. The Commission is interested in obtaining the least burdensome reporting system that will effectively achieve the disclosure purposes of Section 16(a), and therefore solicits comment on each of the above proposals. While the above changes are not included in the text of the proposals published today, the Commission may adopt any of the alternatives specified above, or a combination of those alternatives, and also may in the final rule amendments incorporate any one or more of the approaches discussed above. Comment is solicited as to whether each of these suggested changes would simplify the reporting obligations on insiders without materially reducing the flow of information that is significant to investors. If the total holdings column is retained, comment also is requested as to whether any reconciling information could be eliminated. Additionally, comment is solicited as to whether a new column should be added to Forms 4 and 5 requiring insiders to reconcile their current holdings with those reported on the previous report. Would this reconciliation requirement be appropriate only if reporting of exempt transactions were eliminated? In addition, commenters recommending the elimination of Form 5 should address the mechanism by which information that currently is reportable only on an annual basis should be reported. Commenters also are asked to address whether Form 5 has continuing usefulness in reducing reporting delinquencies, 76 and, if so, what mechanism could serve this purpose if Form 5 were rescinded. In particular, what mechanism would enable issuers to determine, in connection with their disclosure obligations under Item 405 of Regulation S&hyph;K and S&hyph;B, whether all required Section 16(a) reports had been filed? 77 76 See Rule 16a&hyph;3(f)(1)(ii) [17 CFR 240.16a&hyph;3(f)(1)(ii)]. 77 See Section III.F below for discussion of Item 405. Although the current reporting scheme generally requires transactions exempt from short-swing profit recovery to be reported annually, certain transactions, such as stock splits and stock dividends, are exempt from the reporting requirement. The Commission proposes to eliminate the reporting requirement for the exempt cancellation or expiration of a long derivative security where no value is received. 78 Comment is requested as to whether this reporting requirement should be retained, and whether there are other limited classes of exempt transactions that could be exempted from reporting without impairing the ability of the public to obtain useful information. 78 Proposed Rule 16a&hyph;4(e). See Rule 16b&hyph;6(d) [17 CFR 240.16b&hyph;6(d)]. Finally, a new transaction code K would be added to Forms 4 and 5 to report any transaction that changes only the form of beneficial ownership and not the extent of a reporting person's pecuniary interest in the subject securities. Such transactions are reportable on Form 5, but the code also would be added to Form 4 so it could be used for voluntary reporting on that form. Comment is requested as to whether any additional codes need to be added, or whether any existing codes may be deleted, consistent with the informational needs of persons who use Section 16(a) disclosure.
