FR941222-1-00045 FR941222-1-00008 b. Wastewaters from the production of azo pigments (K163). Summary The Agency is proposing to list wastewaters from the production of azo pigments as hazardous wastes. This waste meets the criteria set out at 40 CFR 261.11(a)(3) for listing a waste as hazardous and is capable of posing a significant present or potential hazard to human health or the environment. Based on ingestion of contaminated ground water, EPA calculated high-end individual risk levels for three carcinogens that exceed 1E&hyph;4 for disposal in an unlined on-site surface impoundment, the plausible management scenario. The calculated combined carcinogenic risk for these constituents is 3E&hyph;4 from exposure to contaminated ground water for the surface impoundment management scenario. To further support this listing, four additional contaminants pose individual risks between 1E&hyph;4 and 1E&hyph;6 for the surface impoundment scenario. Discussion Data from the RCRA Section 3007 Questionnaire show that the 1991 volume reported by the industry for the wastewater stream from azo pigment production is 9,914,662 metric tons, or approximately 7.2 million gallons per day. Over 75% of wastewaters from azo pigment manufacturing currently are pretreated and discharged to a publicly owned treatment works (POTW). Most of these wastewaters are treated in equalization and neutralization tanks prior to discharge to a POTW. A smaller percentage of these wastewaters is subjected to aerobic biological treatment in tanks, with subsequent NPDES discharge to a surface water. As explained under Section II.D, Description of Health and Risk Assessments, the risk assessment for these wastewaters was performed using treatment in tanks as the current, or baseline, management practice, and treatment in surface impoundments as a plausible management scenario. The risks of increased cancer for exposure to this waste are presented in Table II&hyph;5. The data presented in this table represent six samples collected from four azo pigment manufacturing facilities.
