FR940603-1-00063 FR940603-1-00009 2. The Final Inventory attached hereto and made a part hereof is a complete and accurate summary of all units of construction in the Project and of work performed in accordance with the Construction Contract. XXXX Owner By XXXX President XXXX Date XXXX Name of Contractor By XXXX XXXX Title XXXX Date [End of Clause] ยง1726.315 Equipment contract, REA Form 198. The contract form in this section shall be used when required by this part. Equipment Contract Notice and Instructions to Bidders 1. Sealed proposals for the furnishing and delivery f.o.b. XXXX of equipment for the XXXX (hereinafter called the ``Owner'') which is to be part of the project known as XXXX will be received by the Owner on or before XXXX o'clock, XXXX M., XXXX 19 XXXX , at XXXX at which time and place the proposals will be publicly opened and read. Any proposal received subsequent to the time specified will be promptly returned to the Bidder unopened. 2. The Plans and Specifications, together with all necessary forms and other documents for bidders may be obtained from the Owner or from the Engineer, XXXX at the latter's office at XXXX . The Plans and Specifications may be examined at the office of the Owner or at the office of the Engineer. A copy of the loan contract (if the Project is to be financed in whole or in part, pursuant to a loan contract) between the Owner and the United States of America acting through the Administrator of the Rural Electrification Administration (hereinafter called the ``Administrator'') and of the loan contract between the Owner and any other lender, may be examined at the office of the Owner. 3. Proposals and all supporting instruments must be submitted on the forms furnished by the Owner and must be delivered in a sealed envelope addressed to the Owner. The name and address of the Bidder and the date and hour of the opening of bids must appear on the envelope in which the Proposal is submitted. Proposals must be filled in in ink or typewriter. No alterations or interlineations will be permitted, unless made before submission and initialed and dated. 4. Prior to the submission of the Proposal, the Bidder shall make and shall be deemed to have made a careful examination of the Plans and Specifications and forms of Equipment Contract on file with the Secretary of the Owner and with the Engineer, and all other matters, including transportation facilities, that may affect the cost and the time of completion of the work. 5. Proposals will be accepted only from those prequalified bidders invited by the Owner to submit a proposal. 6. In estimating the lowest cost to the Owner as one of the factors in deciding the award of the Contract, the Owner will consider, in addition to the price quoted in the Proposals, the following: XXXX . 7. The Contract, when executed, shall be deemed to include the entire agreement between the parties thereto, and the Bidder shall not claim any modification thereof resulting from any representation or promise made at any time by any officer, agent, or employee of the Owner or by any other person. 8. The Owner reserves the right to waive minor irregularities or minor errors in any Proposal if it appears to the Owner that such irregularities or errors were made through inadvertence. Any such irregularities or errors so waived must be corrected on the Proposal in which they occur prior to the execution of any contract which may be awarded thereon. 9. The Owner reserves the right to reject any or all Proposals. XXXX Owner By XXXX XXXX Date Proposal To: XXXX (hereinafter called the ``Owner''.) 1. The undersigned (hereinafter called the ``Bidder'') hereby proposes to furnish and deliver the equipment (hereinafter called the ``Equipment'') described in the Plans and Specifications attached hereto and made a part hereof for the following prices: Item XXXX .
