FR940325-0-00029 FR940325-0-00009 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY 40 CFR Parts 9 and 86 [AMS&hyph;FRL&hyph;4854&hyph;6] Amended Heavy-Duty Averaging, Banking, and Trading Credit Accounting Regulations AGENCY: Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: This final rule makes two changes to the existing Averaging, Banking, and Trading (ABT) regulations for manufacturers of heavy-duty engines, under EPA's motor vehicle emission control program. Beginning with the final reports due in 1993 for the 1992 model year engines, heavy-duty engine manufacturers participating in the ABT program are required to use credits scheduled to expire in the earliest model year before using credits that would expire in later model years. EPA has concluded that the benefits intended to be derived from the ABT program are more likely to be realized by this credit accounting method than by the credit accounting method in the existing regulations. Therefore, the intent of this change is to correct an unintended effect in the existing regulations. This action also extends the reporting period for final reports from 180 days to 270 days after the end of the model year. This extension of reporting time will provide manufacturers additional time to collect sales data for calculating ABT credits and thus improve the accuracy of the credit information submitted to EPA. EFFECTIVE DATE: This final rule is effective on April 25, 1994. ADDRESSES: Materials relevant to this rule are contained in Public Docket No. A&hyph;92&hyph;30 at the following address: U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, 401 M Street SW., Washington DC 20460. The docket is available for public inspection from 8:30 a.m. until 12 noon and from 1:30 p.m. until 3:30 p.m. Monday through Friday. A reasonable fee may be charged for copying docket materials. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Ms. Paulina Chen, U.S. EPA, Manufacturers Operations Division (6405J), 401 M Street SW., Washington DC, 20460, Telephone: (202) 233&hyph;9249. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: I. Introduction The ABT program was developed to provide flexibility for manufacturers to use a mix of emission control technology and minimize the costs associated with meeting increasingly stringent emission standards. This flexibility in turn creates environmental benefit by providing incentive in the form of credits for the earlier introduction of cleaner engines into the market. In addition, environmental benefits are derived from a 20 percent discount on all banked and traded credits. As an additional environmental safeguard, credit life is limited to assure adequate in-use overlap between credit-generating and credit-using vehicles. The Averaging, Banking, and Trading (ABT) program regulations promulgated on July 26, 1990 prohibit heavy-duty engine manufacturers from banking and withdrawing emission credits from the same averaging set in the same model year. See 40 CFR 86.091&hyph;15(a)(2)(iii). According to the credit accounting method in the regulations, a manufacturer must first combine all transactions for an averaging set in a given model year. The manufacturer could then bank any excess credits or withdraw credits if there is a credit shortfall. This is similar to the last-in-first-out inventory accounting system (LIFO), because the most recently generated credits must be used first to average before older credits can be withdrawn from the bank. This provision has been a source of confusion for some members of the regulated industry. On May 29, 1992, the Engine Manufacturers Association (EMA) met with EPA to explain why its members thought that ยง86.091&hyph;15(a)(2)(iii) allowed them to both withdraw previously banked credits and deposit new credits in the same model year and averaging set. In addition, EMA suggested that LIFO credit accounting removed a certain amount of expected flexibility from the ABT program and reduced the incentives for earlier introduction of cleaner engine technology. EPA subsequently informed EMA that ยง86.091&hyph;15(a)(2)(iii) clearly provided for LIFO credit accounting, but that the Agency would review its previous decision and consider implementing a first- in-first-out (FIFO) credit accounting method as suggested by EMA. After comparing the two credit accounting methods, EPA has concluded that the benefits intended to be derived from the ABT program are more likely to be realized under the FIFO credit accounting method, and that LIFO credit accounting may reduce the program's effectiveness in providing these benefits.
