FR940512-2-00188 FR940512-2-00078 D. Notification Under Executive Order 12372 This program is covered under Executive Order (E.O.) 12372, Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs, and 45 CFR part 100, Intergovernmental Review of Department of Health and Human Services Programs and Activities. Under the E.O., States may design their own processes for reviewing and commenting on proposed Federal assistance under covered programs. All States and Territories except Alabama, Alaska, Connecticut, Hawaii, Idaho, Kansas, Louisiana, Minnesota, Montana, Nebraska, Oklahoma, Oregon, Pennsylvania, Virginia, Washington, American Samoa and Palau have elected to participate in the Executive Order process and have established Single Points of Contact (SPOCs). Applicants from these seventeen jurisdictions need take no action regarding E.O. 12372. Applications for projects to be administered by Federally-recognized Indian Tribes are also exempt from the requirements of E.O. 12372. Otherwise, applicants must contact their SPOCs as soon as possible to alert them to the prospective applications and receive any necessary instructions. Applicants must submit any required material to the SPOCs as early as possible so that the program office can obtain and review SPOC comments as part of the award process. It is imperative that the applicant submit all required materials, if any, to the SPOC and indicate the date of this submittal (or date of contact if no submittal is required) on the Standard Form 424, item 16a. Under 45 CFR 100.8(a)(2), a SPOC has 60 days from the application deadline date to comment on proposed new or competing continuation awards. The SPOCs are encouraged to eliminate the submission of routine endorsements as official recommendations. Additionally, SPOCs are requested to clearly differentiate between mere advisory comments and those official State process recommendations which may trigger the ``accommodate or explain'' rule. When comments are submitted directly to ACF, they must be addressed to: Runaway and Homeless Youth Programs, Department of Health and Human Services, Administration for Children and Families, Division of Discretionary Grants, 370 L'Enfant Promenade, SW., Aerospace Building, 6th Floor, Washington, DC 20047. Attn: Maiso Bryant. A list of the Single Points of Contact for each State and Territory is included as Part VI, Appendix H of this announcement. Availability of Forms and Other Materials A copy of the forms required to be submitted as part of each application for a runaway and homeless youth grant, and instructions for completing the application, are provided in Part VI, Appendix I. The Basic Center Program Performance Standards as well as descriptions of the National Runaway Switchboard and the National Clearinghouse on Runaway and Homeless Youth are presented in Part VI, Appendices A, B and C. Addresses of the State Single Points of Contact (SPOCs) to which applicants must submit review copies of their proposals are listed in Part VI, Appendix H. Legislation referenced in Part I, section B of this announcement may be found in major public libraries and at the ACF Regional Offices listed in Part VI, Appendix F at the end of this announcement.
