FR941006-2-00147 FR941006-2-00103 SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: I. Scoping FTA and DART invite interested individuals, organizations, businesses and federal, state and local agencies to participate in defining the alternatives to be evaluated and identifying any significant social, economic, or environmental issues related to the alternatives. Comments on the appropriateness of the alternatives and impact issues are encouraged. Specific suggestions on additional alternatives to be examined and issues to be addressed are welcome and will be considered in the development of the final study scope. Comments may be made orally at the meetings or in writing not later than November 2, 1994. DART and NCTCOG staff will be present at the scoping meetings to describe the corridor alternatives, answer any questions and receive comments. Additional public meetings will be scheduled throughout the project to review results and provide input. Interested persons will be notified of project progress through ongoing community information distributed to the project mailing list which will include all scoping participants. Additional information on the EIS process, alternatives, and impact issues to be addressed by the study is contained in a ``Scoping Information Document.'' Copies of the document have been sent to affected Federal, State of Texas, local government agencies, and interested parties currently on record. Others may request the document from DART. See ADDRESSES above. II. Description of the Study Area and the Purpose and Need for a Corridor Improvement As part of the regional mobility planning effort, and as of June, 1994, DART initiated the process of updating the 1989 Transit System Plan. The Transit System Plan update effort has been coordinated with the North Central Texas Council of Governments (NCTCOG) Mobility 2010 Plan Update and is DART's strategic plan of services and facilities for meeting mobility goals. Elements of the plan currently being implemented include efficient delivery of bus service; construction of the 20-mile LRT Starter System; commuter rail in the Dallas/Ft. Worth RAILTRAN corridor; and, High Occupancy Vehicle (HOV) lanes. For the Northeast Corridor, DART's Draft System Plan contains recommendations for Intermediate Capacity Light Rail Transit; HOV lanes on I&hyph;635; a Travel Demand Management program; and, enhanced bus service. The Corridor includes portions of three cities in the DART service area : Dallas, Garland and Rowlett. The Corridor's southern boundary is Mockingbird Lane in the vicinity of the LRT station on the North Central line of the Starter System. The Mockingbird Station and the North Central line are currently under construction. The Corridor generally follows the MKT Railroad to the north and east. Skillman Road is considered the northwest study corridor boundary; Mockingbird Lane/Northwest Highway/Garland Road form the southeastern boundary of the study area. The Corridor is approximately 15 miles in length from Mockingbird Lane to Rowlett Road in Rowlett. The corridor includes popular recreation and leisure spots such as White Rock Lake and Park, Ridgewood Park, and Lake Ray Hubbard. A significant industrial sector is located along I&hyph;635/LBJ Freeway where the MKT Railroad right-of-way is crossed by the AT&SF Railroad. Both railroad lines have active freight service. It is not anticipated that there will be significant new roadway construction to meet the increase in travel demand. The regional mobility plan for the area calls for a combination of modes including roadway improvements and investment in transit improvements such as light rail, commuter rail, HOV lanes, as well as TSM and TDM improvements. III. Alternatives Alternatives proposed for consideration include:
