FR940902-0-00172 FR940902-0-00010 §637.210 Incentive bonus program applications. (a) Any State seeking to receive an incentive bonus under this title shall submit an Incentive Bonus Program application pursuant to instructions issued by the Secretary that will contain the criteria for approval of such application. Each application shall contain, at a minimum, the following information: (1) A list of eligible individuals who met the requirements of §637.220 of this part during the program year; (2) The amount of the incentive bonus attributable to each eligible individual who is claimed by the State; and (3) A statement certifying the availability of documentation to verify the eligibility of participants and the amount of the incentive bonus claimed by the State (section 505(b)). (b) The application for any program year shall be submitted by the State to the Secretary no later than August 31 following the end of the program year for which the bonus is being claimed. A copy of such application shall also be submitted at the same time to the appropriate DOL Employment and Training Administration Regional Office. §637.215 Review and approval of applications for incentive bonus payments. (a) The Secretary shall review all applications for overall compliance with JTPA, the requirements of this part, and the instructions issued by the Secretary. (b) The Secretary shall inform a State within 30 days after receipt of the application whether or not its application has been approved. (c) If the application is not approved, the Department shall issue an initial notice of denial of payment indicating the reasons for such denial. The Governor will then have 30 days to respond to the reasons for the denial before a final decision is made. (d) If the Department determines that the additional information provided does not adequately respond to the questions raised in the initial review process, a final denial of payment shall be issued. The Governor may then appeal the decision in accordance with the procedures at subpart H of part 627 of this chapter (sections 504(c) and 505(c)). §637.220 Eligibility criteria for individuals to be counted in determining incentive bonuses. An individual shall be eligible to be counted as part of the State's request for an incentive bonus payment under this part if the individual: (a)(1) Was an absent parent of any child receiving AFDC at the time such individual was determined to be eligible for participation in programs under the Act; (2) Has participated in education, training, or other activities (including the Job Corps) funded under the Act; and (3) Pays child support for a child specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section following termination from activities funded under the Act; or (b)(1) Is blind or disabled; (2) Was receiving disability assistance at the time such individual was determined to be eligible for participation in programs under the Act; (3) Has participated in education, training, or other activities (including the Job Corps) funded under the Act; and (4) Earns a wage or an income from employment (section 506). §637.225 Determination of incentive bonus. The amount of the incentive bonus to be paid to each State shall be the total of the incentive bonuses claimed for each eligible individual within the State. The amount of the incentive bonus to be paid each State shall be determined by the sum of:
