FR940620-0-00041 FR940620-0-00011 A practitioner may be disbarred or suspended from practice before the Internal Revenue Service for any of the following: (a) Willfully violating any of the regulations contained in this part. (b) Recklessly or through gross incompetence (within the meaning of §10.51(j)) violating §10.33 or §10.34 of this part. Par. 14. Section 10.65, paragraph (a), is revised to read as follows: §10.65 Hearings. (a) In general. An Administrative Law Judge will preside at the hearing on a complaint furnished under §10.54 for the disbarment or suspension of a practitioner. Hearings will be stenographically recorded and transcribed and the testimony of witnesses will be taken under oath or affirmation. Hearings will be conducted pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 556. A hearing in a proceeding requested under §10.76(g) will be conducted de novo. * * * * * §10.76 [Redesignated] Par. 15. Section 10.76 is redesignated as paragraph (d) of §10.33 and amended by: 1. Removing the authority that appears at the end of the redesignated text. 2. Removing the language ``of this part'' in both sentences where it appears. Par. 16. A new §10.76 is added to read as follows: §10.76 Expedited suspension upon criminal conviction or loss of license for cause. (a) When applicable. Whenever the Director has reason to believe that a practitioner is described in paragraph (b) of this section, the Director may institute a proceeding under this section to suspend the practitioner from practice before the Service. (b) To whom applicable. This section applies to any practitioner who, within 5 years of the date a complaint instituting a proceeding under this section is served_ (1) Has had his or her license to practice as an attorney, certified public accountant, or actuary suspended or revoked for cause (not including a failure to pay a professional licensing fee) by any authority or court, agency, body, or board described in §10.51(g); or (2) Has been convicted of any crime under title 26 of the United States Code, or a felony under title 18 of the United States Code involving dishonesty or breach of trust. (c) Instituting a proceeding. A proceeding under this section will be instituted by a complaint that names the respondent, is signed by the Director, is filed in the Director's office, and is served according to the rules set forth in §10.57(a). The complaint must give a plain and concise description of the allegations that constitute the basis for the proceeding. The complaint, or a separate paper attached to the complaint, must notify the respondent_ (1) Of the place and due date for filing an answer; (2) That a decision by default may be rendered if the respondent fails to file an answer as required; (3) That the respondent may request a conference with the Director to address the merits of the complaint and that any such request must be made in the answer; and (4) That the respondent may be suspended either immediately following the expiration of the period by which an answer must be filed or, if a conference is requested, immediately following the conference. (d) Answer. The answer to a complaint described in this section must be filed no later than 30 calendar days following the date the complaint is served, unless the Director extends the time for filing. The answer must be filed in accordance with the rules set forth in §10.58, except as otherwise provided in this section. A respondent is entitled to a conference with the Director only if the conference is requested in a timely filed answer. If a request for a conference is not made in the answer or the answer is not timely filed, the respondent will be deemed to have waived his or her right to a conference and the Director may suspend such respondent at any time following the date on which the answer was due. (e) Conference. The Director or his or her designee will preside at a conference described in this section. The conference will be held at a place and time selected by the Director, but no sooner than 14 calendar days after the date by which the answer must be filed with the Director, unless the respondent agrees to an earlier date. An authorized representative may represent the respondent at the conference. Following the conference, upon a finding that the respondent is described in paragraph (b) of this section, or upon the respondent's failure to appear at the conference either personally or through an authorized representative, the Director may immediately suspend the respondent from practice before the Service. (f) Duration of suspension. A suspension under this section will commence on the date that written notice of the suspension is issued. A practitioner's suspension will remain effective until the earlier of the following_ (1) The Director lifts the suspension after determining that the practitioner is no longer described in paragraph (b) of this section or for any other reason; or (2) The suspension is lifted by an Administrative Law Judge or the Secretary of the Treasury in a proceeding referred to in paragraph (g) of this section and instituted under §10.54. (g) Proceeding instituted under §10.54. If the Director suspends a practitioner under this §10.76, the practitioner may ask the Director to issue a complaint under §10.54. The request must be made in writing within 2 years from the date on which the practitioner's suspension commences. The Director must issue a complaint requested under this paragraph within 30 calendar days of receiving the request. §10.99 [Removed] Par. 17. Subpart E of part 10 is amended by removing §10.99. Jean E. Hanson, General Counsel. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;14901 Filed 6&hyph;15&hyph;94; 12:53 pm] BILLING CODE 4830&hyph;01&hyph;U
