FR941107-1-00023 FR941107-1-00007 While specific requests for comment are made throughout with respect to the proposals discussed in detail below, commenters are requested to comment generally on the need for revision of the legal proceedings disclosure requirements. Is the approach proposed adequate to address investor concerns about the background of those who direct the affairs of public companies, or would some other method be more effective? A. Disclosure of Judicial and Administrative Proceedings 1. Bankruptcy and Insolvency Proceedings The current provision requiring disclosure of the court appointment of a receiver, fiscal agent or similar officer with respect to a business in which a designated person served as an executive officer would be expanded to include a similar appointment made by a federal or state agency. 68 For example, disclosure would be required where a state insurance commissioner appointed a conservator to take control of the business and assets of an insurance company for which a designated person had served as an executive officer within two years prior to such appointment. 69 Disclosure also would be required of the appointment by a bank regulatory authority of a receiver or conservator to operate, sell or liquidate a financial institution. 70 68 Proposed Item 401(f)(1)(i). 69 See, e.g., Ariz. Rev. Stat. Ann. ยง20&hyph;169 (authorizing the director of insurance to take possession of, or to appoint a conservator for, an insolvent insurance company); Texas Insurance Code Ann. ยง21.28A (authorizing the commissioner of insurance to undertake supervision of or to appoint a conservator for, an insolvent insurance company). 70 See, e.g., Section 203 of the Bank Conservation Act [12 U.S.C. 203] (authorizing the Comptroller of the Currency of the United States to appoint a conservator for a national bank), and Cal. Financial Code ยง8250 (authorizing the California Savings and Loan Commissioner to appoint a receiver for a savings and loan association). As used in this release, ``financial institution'' means any bank, bank holding company, savings association, or savings and loan holding company, as defined in Section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act [12 U.S.C. 1813], any federal or state credit union, as defined in Section 101 of the Federal Credit Union Act [12 U.S.C. 1752], or any system institution of the Farm Credit System, as defined in Section 5.35 of the Farm Credit Act of 1971 [12 U.S.C. 2271], or any substantially equivalent foreign institution. See proposed Instruction 3 of Item 401(f). While in most instances the provisions allowing registrants to omit disclosure of legal actions based on their materiality would be eliminated under the proposals, as discussed elsewhere in this release, 71 the Commission proposes to retain a provision permitting filers to weigh the materiality of bankruptcy and insolvency proceedings involving designated persons prior to disclosure. 72 Unlike the other legal proceedings to be disclosed under Item 401, bankruptcy proceedings include proceedings as to which the designated person's responsibility could vary considerably. Comment is solicited as to whether this materiality provision should be retained with respect to bankruptcy and insolvency proceedings, as proposed, or whether such actions should be disclosed without exception. 71 See Section III.A, above, and Section III.E, below. 72 Proposed Item 401(f)(1)(i). The Commission also solicits commenters' views on whether the current provisions should be expanded to require disclosure where the designated person served as a director of a company within two years before the initiation of bankruptcy or insolvency proceedings or the appointment of a receiver or conservator with respect to that company. Currently, disclosure is required only if the person was an executive officer of the entity. Commenters should identify the reasons for or against such an expansion. Further, comment is sought as to whether the current provision requiring disclosure where the designated person served as an executive officer within two years of the identified bankruptcy or insolvency actions should be retained, as proposed, or whether the two-year time period should be shortened or lengthened, for example, to one year, or three or five years. Commenters also should address whether disclosure should be required where a designated person was an executive officer of a financial institution whose operation or sale is supervised by an administrative authority in the absence of the formal appointment of a receiver or conservator. 73 73 See, e.g., Tex. Rev. Civ. Stat. Ann. art. 342&hyph;801a (authorizing the Texas Banking Commissioner to supervise the activities of a bank) and N.Y. Banking Law ยง606 (authorizing the New York Superintendent of Banks to take possession of, operate or liquidate a banking organization). 2. Criminal Proceedings Like the current Item, the proposals would require disclosure where a designated person was convicted in a criminal proceeding or was the named subject of a pending criminal action (excluding traffic violations and other minor offenses). 74 However, the proposal clarifies that the Item requires disclosure of a criminal conviction resulting from a designated person's entry of a plea of nolo contendere. 74 Current Item 401(f)(2) and proposed Item 401(f)(1)(ii). 3. Civil and Administrative Proceedings a. Money penalty consent decrees and other orders or sanctions. Disclosure concerning civil and administrative proceedings involving designated persons now is limited to judicial orders restricting specified business activities, 75 administrative orders restricting such activities for more than 60 days, 76 and judicial or administrative findings of securities or commodities law violations. 77 As proposed, any judicial or administrative finding, order or sanction relating to violations of federal and state securities and commodities laws and regulations, or laws and regulations respecting financial institutions or insurance companies, would trigger disclosure. 78 The exemption from disclosure of administrative proceedings that impose restrictions for periods of less than 60 days would be eliminated. Comment is solicited as to whether this exemption should be retained, but with a shorter time period, such as 20, 10 or five days. 75 Current Item 401(f)(3). 76 Current Item 401(f)(4). 77 Current Item 401(f) (5) and (6). 78 Proposed Item 401(f)(1)(iii)(A) (1) and (2).
