FR940819-2-00054 FR940819-2-00029 DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY Award of a Grant, Noncompetitive Financial Assistance AGENCY: DOE Nevada Operations Office. ACTION: Notice of intent to award based on an unsolicited application. SUMMARY: Pursuant to 10 CFR 600.14(f), DOE announces its intent to award a grant based on an unsolicited application from the National Urban Coalition, Washington, DC, to provide Clark County School District, Nevada, with the unique approach of teaching science and math to minority students through the ``Say YES'' project. Of special importance in the ``Say YES'' approach to teaching science and math to minority students is the highly-developed, culturally-affirmative, and historically-accurate training curriculum. The curriculum illuminates the dynamic role of all societies in the development and evolution of math and science. Children, as well as their families and teachers, learn of the contribution their cultures have made to those fields. They come to see and value themselves as carrying forward a great tradition within their own group of excellence in math, science, and technology. The objectives of this project are: (1) to nurture and sustain children's interest in science and math; (2) to train teachers in better presentation of math and science ideas; (3) to assist students in developing creative and efficient techniques in problem-solving in science and math through hands-on activity; (4) to aid parents in developing skills needed for effective partnering with their children in the learning process; (5) to provide appropriate experiences to assist students in developing an appreciation for the importance of math, science, and critical thinking skills for successful living; (6) to provide students with information and discuss with them the educational and experimental requirements for careers in math, science, and related fields; (7) to provide opportunities whereby students will learn to apply and evaluate communicated ideals relative to relevant issues and current developments in math and science; (8) to affirm the role of all races and cultures in the history of math and science; (9) to describe and demonstrate to students the techniques for communicating ideals and issues using the language of math and science with peers and family members; and (10) to describe and discuss with parents and other interested family members appropriate procedures for becoming advocates for their children's access to higher level courses, programs, and experience in math and science. The project period for the proposed grant award is five years, to be funded annually. The first year funding is $405,068. The total estimated cost of this award is $1,893,345. This notice is published for public comment at least 14 days prior to making the award. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION COMMENTS AND QUESTIONS CONTACT: U.S. Department of Energy, Yucca Mountain Site Characterization Office, ATTN; Birdie Hamilton-Ray, P.O. Box 98608, Las Vegas, NV 89193&hyph;8608. Issued in Las Vegas, Nevada, on August 9, 1994. Nick C. Aquilina, Manager, DOE Nevada Operations Office. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;20428 Filed 8&hyph;18&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6450&hyph;01&hyph;M
