FR941019-0-00038 FR941019-0-00004 (B) Where a unit is occupied by a family receiving housing assistance payments pursuant to section 8 of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f), as amended, the family's contribution toward rent may not exceed 30 percent of the family's adjusted income. (iv) Continued occupancy of current residents. No public agency, nonprofit organization, or for-profit entity which purchases eligible condominium property may terminate the occupancy of any person residing in the property on the date of purchase for purposes of meeting the lower-income occupancy requirement. The purchaser shall be in compliance with the lower-income occupancy requirement if each newly vacant dwelling unit is reserved for lower-income occupancy until such requirement is met. (v) Financial infeasibility. The Secretary, the RTC or its successor, or the State housing finance agency for the State in which the property is located may temporarily reduce the lower-income occupancy requirements applicable to a property sold under this program if the Secretary or the applicable State housing finance agency determines that an owner's compliance with such requirements is no longer financially feasible. The owner of the property shall make a good-faith effort to return lower-income occupancy to the level required by the property's LURA, and the agency, as appropriate, shall review the reduction annually to determine whether financial infeasibility continues to exist. (vi) Written commitment before access. Prior to receiving access to an eligible condominium property, a public agency, nonprofit organization, or for-profit entity must make a written commitment (for itself or any related entity) to the listing broker or other marketing specialist that it is a qualifying condominium purchaser that will satisfy the lower-income occupancy requirements in any eligible condominium property for which it requests access, if and when it makes an offer to purchase that property. The written commitment should acknowledge the terms and conditions governing the sale of eligible condominium properties. (vii) Location. The RTC may not sell or offer to sell as part of the same negotiation or purchase multiple eligible condominium properties that are not located in the same condominium project. The properties need not be located in the same structure. (viii) Preference for sales that benefit lower income groups. In choosing among bulk purchase offers from nonprofit organizations, public agencies and for-profit entities, the RTC will give preference to the offer that would reserve the highest percentage of dwelling units for occupancy or purchase by very low-income families and lower-income families and would retain such affordability for the longest term (not exceeding the term of the LURA). The preference will be calculated in accordance with the following formula: Add to the cash equivalent offer_ 0.25% of the cash equivalent offer for each 1% of the units set aside for occupancy or purchase by very low-income families, and in response to bulk sale offers with respect to which the RTC has determined to waive the 100 percent lower-income occupancy requirement pursuant to paragraph (c)(4)(ii) of this section, 0.125% of the cash equivalent offer for each 1% of the units set aside for occupancy by lower-income families that exceeds the applicable lower-income unit requirement; provided, however, that very low-income units receiving a 0.25% preference for purposes of the preceding clause, shall not also receive a benefit under this clause.
