FR941020-2-00138 FR941020-2-00081 9. A death benefit, payable in a single sum or under an optional method of settlement, is provided if the annuitant dies before the maturity, surrender, or termination of a Contract. The death benefit will be the greatest of: (a) The amount of the purchase payments made under the Contract reduced by all prior withdrawals and any withdrawal charges; (b) The Accumulated Value of the Contract next determined following receipt by the applicable Company of due proof of death; or (c) Where permitted by state law, the Accumulated Value of the Contract as of any third interval Contract anniversary preceding the Contract anniversary nearest the Annuitant's 81st birthday, plus the purchase payments made under the Contract, less any withdrawals and any withdrawal charges imposed since such Contract anniversary. 2 Applicants state that the ``stepped-up'' death benefit described in clause (c) above is provided to owners of the Contracts at no additional cost. 2 The Accumulated Value of a Contract equals the sum of: (a) The payments made to the appropriate Account prior to annuitization adjusted to reflect the investment performance of the applicable subaccounts and any transfers, withdrawals, or charges associated with those subaccounts; and (b) The payments made prior to annuitization to the fixed account options, adjusted for interest credited, transfers, withdrawals and charges. 10. The Companies impose an annual Contract fee of $30 on Contracts having an Accumulated Value of less than $10,000. This fee will be deducted at the beginning of each Contract year after the first year and upon surrender. The application states that the Companies reserve the right to increase this fee to $50. 3 3 Applicants represent that the application will be amended during the notice period to include this statement. 11. The application states that the Companies furnish certain administrative and clerical services to their respective Accounts. For these services, the Companies make a daily charge to each Account equal to .35% on an annual basis of the current value of the net assets of that Account that are attributable to the Contracts. The application states that this charge is guaranteed and cannot be increased. Each Company represents that the .35% charge has been set at a level which is not expected to generate revenues that would, together with the revenues from the Contract fee, exceed the Company's administrative costs with respect to the Contracts. Applicants represent that the Companies will deduct both the annual Contract fee and the annual administrative charge in reliance upon and in conformity with all of the requirements of Rule 26a&hyph;1 under the 1940 Act. 4 4 Applicants represent that the application will be amended during the notice period to include this representation. 12. A contingent deferred sales charge (the ``Sales Charge'') of up to 8% of the premium payments received is imposed upon withdrawal or surrender within the first seven years of the Contract. The Sales Charge is a percentage of the amount of each purchase payment that is withdrawn. The percentage declines depending upon how many years have passed since the withdrawn purchase payment was originally credited to a Contract owner. 13. The Companies will impose a daily charge equal to an annual effective rate of 1.15% of the value of the net assets of the Accounts to compensate each Company for its assumption of mortality and expense risks in connection with the Contracts. Applicants state that approximately .45% of the 1.15% charge is attributable to mortality risk, and approximately .70% is attributable to expense risk. The application states that the Companies reserve the right to change the proportion if these estimates change. Applicants represent that the charge for mortality and expense risks will not increase. If the mortality and expense risk charge is insufficient to cover actual costs of the risks undertaken, the Companies will bear the loss. Conversely, if the charge exceeds costs, this excess will be profit to the Companies and will be available for any corporate purpose, including payment of expenses relating to the distribution of the Contracts. 14. Applicants state that the Companies assume a mortality risk inherent in the death benefit provided for in the Contracts. Where the death benefit is paid prior to the Contract's maturity date, Applicants state that the risk assumed is that the amount paid will exceed the Contract's Accumulated Value. Additionally, Applicants state that there is also the risk that no surrender charge will be imposed on a payment under a death benefit or on the payment of a life annuity to the beneficiary following the death of an owner who is not the annuitant.
