FR940825-0-00111 FR940825-0-00016 (c) Costs to a recipient resulting from obligations incurred by the recipient during a suspension or after termination of an award are not allowable unless the HHS awarding agency expressly authorizes them in the notice of suspension or termination or subsequently. Other recipient costs during suspension or after termination which are necessary and not reasonably avoidable are allowable if: (1) The costs result from obligations which were properly incurred by the recipient before the effective date of suspension or termination, are not in anticipation of it, and in the case of a termination, are noncancellable; and (2) The costs would be allowable if the award were not suspended or expired normally at the end of the funding period in which the termination takes effect. (d) The enforcement remedies identified in this section, including suspension and termination, do not preclude a recipient from being subject to debarment and suspension under E.O.s 12549 and 12689 and the HHS implementing regulations at §74.13 of this part and 45 CFR part 76. Subpart D_After-the-Award Requirements §74.70 Purpose. Sections 74.71 through 74.73 contain closeout procedures and other procedures for subsequent disallowances and adjustments. §74.71 Closeout procedures. (a) Recipients shall submit, within 90 calendar days after the date of completion of the award, all financial, performance, and other reports as required by the terms and conditions of the award. The HHS awarding agency may approve extensions when requested by the recipient. (b) Unless the HHS awarding agency authorizes an extension, a recipient shall liquidate all obligations incurred under the award not later than 90 calendar days after the funding period or the date of completion as specified in the terms and conditions of the award or in agency implementing instructions. (c) HHS will make prompt payments to a recipient for allowable reimbursable costs under the award being closed out. (d) The recipient shall promptly refund any balances of unobligated cash that HHS has advanced or paid and that is not authorized to be retained by the recipient for use in other projects. 45 CFR part 30 governs unreturned amounts that become delinquent debts. (e) When authorized by the terms and conditions of the award, HHS will make a settlement for any upward or downward adjustments to the Federal share of costs after closeout reports are received. (f) The recipient shall account for any real and personal property acquired with HHS funds or received from the Federal Government in accordance with §§74.31 through 74.37. (g) In the event a final audit has not been performed prior to the closeout of an award, HHS retains the right to recover an appropriate amount after fully considering the recommendations on disallowed costs resulting from the final audit. §74.72 Subsequent adjustments and continuing responsibilities. (a) The closeout of an award does not affect any of the following:
