FR940425-2-00019 FR940425-2-00017 Summary of Public Comments on the Environmental Assessment and Proposed Finding of No Significant Impact and Naval Nuclear Propulsion Program All of the comment letters and the responses to the comments are contained in Appendix 5 to the Environmental Assessment. The most frequent comments and the response to them are summarized below: Comment: The shipyards should not be considered for storage of Naval spent fuel due to proximity to population centers, or proximity to the ocean or bodies of water. Response: Under the National Environmental Policy Act, the Naval Nuclear Propulsion Program is required to consider the full range of reasonable alternatives, including the alternative of taking no action. The analysis in the Environmental Assessment demonstrated that the environmental impact of any of the alternatives would be very small. This analysis took into consideration population data and nearby bodies of water. Therefore, the Program did not eliminate shipyard locations from consideration based on these characteristics. Comment: Other locations should be considered. Response: For short term storage, the shipyards provide both the physical requirements for storage such as a rail siding or a storage pad, as well as the administrative and support functions needed to safely store spent fuel. These administrative and support functions include physical security, radiological monitoring, and emergency response capability. It would not be practical to provide these administrative and support functions at other sites in the brief time frame in question. Thus, such alternatives were not ``reasonable'' within the meaning of the Council on Environmental Quality regulations implementing the National Environmental Policy Act. Comment: The Program should conduct an Environmental Impact Statement of nationwide scope on spent fuel issues. Response: As discussed in the Environmental Assessment, the Navy is a cooperating agency pursuant to the National Environmental Policy Act in the DOE's comprehensive Environmental Impact Statement on spent nuclear fuel management, including Naval spent fuel. Comment: Temporary storage can last longer than planned. The Environmental Assessment should evaluate the impact if another alternative is not available in June 1995. The DOE Environmental Impact Statement and Record of Decision are unlikely to be completed by June 1995. Litigation over the sufficiency of this Environmental Impact Statement could delay implementation. An alternative allowing removal from the shipyards might not be selected. Some of the alternatives to be evaluated in the DOE Environmental Impact Statement would require further site specific National Environmental Policy Act reviews, which would prevent prompt implementation.
