FR940426-2-00008 FR940426-2-00004 International Trade Administration [Docket No. 940385&hyph;4085] RIN 0625&hyph;ZA00 Market Development Cooperator Program AGENCY: International Trade Administration (ITA), Commerce. ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: The mission of ITA is to promote U.S. exports and to strengthen the international trade position of the United States. ITA's ability to fulfill its mission is enhanced through building partnerships with the private sector. To encourage such partnerships, ITA has created the Market Development Cooperator Program to develop, maintain, and expand foreign markets for nonagricultural goods and services produced in the United States. For purposes of this program, ``nonagricultural goods and services'' means goods and services other than agricultural products as defined in 7 U.S.C. 451. ``Produced in the United States'' means having substantial inputs of materials and labor originating in the United States, such inputs constituting at least 50 percent of the value of the good or service to be exported. The advantage of a joint effort is that it permits the Government to pool expertise and funds with non-federal sources so that each maximizes its market development resources. Partnerships of this sort also may provide a sharper focus on long-term export market development than do traditional trade promotion activities and serve as a mechanism for improving Government-industry relations. While the Market Development Cooperator Program is sponsored, guided and funded by the Department of Commerce with a matching requirement by the recipient, applicants are expected to develop, initiate and carry out market development project activities. As an active partner, ITA will provide assistance identified by the applicant as being essential to the achievement of project goals and objectives. U.S. industry is best able to assess its problems and needs in the foreign marketplace and to recommend innovative solutions and programs that can be the formula to success in international trade. Examples of activities that might be included in an applicant's project are described below. Not one of these activities or any combination of these activities must be included for a proposal to receive favorable consideration. Applicants are encouraged to propose activities that (1) would be most appropriate to market development needs of their industry or industries; and (2) display the imagination and innovation of the applicant working in partnership with the Government to obtain the maximum market development impact. A public meeting for parties considering applying for funding under the MDCP will be held on May 10, 1994. Attendance at this public meeting is not required of potential proposers. The purpose of the meeting is to provide general information regarding the MDCP procedures, selection process, and proposal preparation to potential applicants unfamiliar with the MDCP. No discussion of specific proposals will occur at this meeting. DATES: The public meeting will be held May 10, 1994. Completed applications must be received no later than June 7, 1994. Competitive application kits will be available from the Department of Commerce starting April 26, 1994. It is anticipated that it will take 6 weeks to process applications. ADDRESSES: The public meeting will be held at the Herbert Clark Hoover Building, U.S. Department of Commerce, 14th and Constitution Avenue, NW., Washington, DC Contact the information contact for room location. To obtain an application kit, please send a written request with a self-addressed mailing label to Mr. Greg O'Connor, Manager, Market Development Cooperator Program, Trade Development/OPCRM, room 3211, U.S. Department of Commerce, Washington, DC 20230. Application kits may also be picked up in room 3211, U.S. Department of Commerce, 14th and Constitution Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20230. All forms necessary to submit an application will be included in the application kit. Completed applications should be sent to the Office of Planning, Coordination and Resource Management, Trade Development, room 3211, 14th & Constitution Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20230. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Applicants wanting further information on this program should contact Mr. Greg O'Connor, Manager, Market Development Cooperator Program, Trade Development, room 3211, Washington, DC 20230, (202) 482&hyph;3197.
