FR940526-2-00098 FR940526-2-00063 2.3␣Data Collection Process As noted earlier, Runzheimer obtained price information on over 12,000 items from over 3,000 outlets. To accomplish this important research effort, we selected the most efficient and effective information-gathering approaches possible. This section describes the various approaches. 2.3.1␣In-house Research Staff Runzheimer research personnel at its corporate headquarters in Rochester, Wisconsin, played a major role in all data-collection activities. These professionals: •Contacted manufacturers, trade associations, governmental agencies, and retail establishments to ensure that suitable items were selected and priced; •Contacted professionals in the real estate business in each of the costed locations to obtain general information as well as specific rental rates and home market values; •Conducted pricing surveys on site and by telephone for many items; •Served as a liaison for field researchers; •Performed hundreds of quality control checks in conformance with editing rules communicated by Runzheimer to OPM once the data had been collected (these checks often involved verification of the survey data through telephone calls as well as comparing current data-gathering results with those from the 1992-1993 survey); and •Analyzed and computed the category, component and total comparative cost indexes. 2.3.2␣Field Researchers_``Research Associates'' Collection of most price data was best accomplished through personal visits to retail outlets (e.g., grocery, clothing, automobiles). For these activities, Runzheimer hired residents of each allowance area as independent contractors (``research associates''). For years, when measuring living costs for its clients, Runzheimer has applied this approach to data collection in over 80 countries worldwide. To avoid any real or perceived conflicts of interest, Runzheimer did not hire persons as research associates who were either employees of the federal government, or who had immediate family who were employees of the federal government. 2.3.3␣On-site Visits by Runzheimer Research Personnel Full-time Runzheimer research professionals travelled to selected allowance areas to supervise data-collection activities and perform various quality-control checks on the data as necessary. Each such visit occurred during the pricing period. The researchers visited living communities within the allowance areas to look at housing accommodations personally and to talk with local real estate professionals. They also visited numerous retail outlets to verify item quality, selection and price levels in general. In addition, these researches met with Runzheimer's research associate(s) to answer any data-collection questions and to provide any additional training and instruction as necessary. 2.4␣Editing and Quality Control Procedures Runzheimer's experience in measuring living-cost differences enabled us to establish editing and quality-control procedures at all stages of collecting and analyzing data. All data provided by research associates were manually reviewed by analysts prior to being entered into Runzheimer's computer system. Data elements were subsequently checked through software programs. Federal regulations in section 591.205(b)(1)(i), title 5, Code of Federal Regulations, state that, ``Whenever possible, exact brands and models are priced in each location.'' Every effort was made to satisfy this objective. (See section 3.3 for a discussion of brand and model selection.) Nevertheless, in a number of the allowance areas, the exact brands and models were either not readily available or not available at all. In these instances, editing decisions and substitutions were needed. Runzheimer defines ``editing'' as the removal and/or replacement of a price quote based on consistent and logical criteria. In all areas, Runzheimer was concerned that items of lesser or greater quality than the item specified might inadvertently be included in the analysis and bias the results. Therefore, any price quote that varied significantly from other price quotes for the item was flagged, verified, and if necessary, eliminated from the analysis. Removing an item from a location analysis causes redistribution of its weight to other items in its subcategory (or category when no subcategory exists). Consequently, whenever possible, Runzheimer avoided removing an unpriced item from a location analysis. When the review process revealed a missing price for an item, Runzheimer resurveyed to obtain a price wherever possible. 2.5␣Pricing Surveys in Hawaii County, Puerto Rico, and the Virgin Islands Three allowances areas have multiple survey areas within each allowance areas. The three allowance areas are Hawaii County, Hawaii; Puerto Rico; and the U.S. Virgin Islands. For each of these areas, OPM provided Runzheimer GS employment distribution data based on the moving-average approach described in section 2.1.1. In the Hawaii County allowance area, two areas are surveyed: Hilo and Kailua Kona. The OPM data indicated that approximately 82% of the GS employees worked in the Hilo area, and the remaining 18% worked in the Kailua Kona area. To combine prices from both cities, Runzheimer used approximately an 82% Hilo and 18% Kailua Kona weighting. (See Appendix 13.) Similarly, in the Puerto Rico allowance area, two areas are surveyed: Mayaguez and San Juan. The OPM data indicated that approximately 84% of the GS workforce in Puerto Rico work at facilities within or near the San Juan-Caguas-Areciro Consolidated Metropolitan Statistical Area. The remaining 16% is distributed throughout Puerto Rico without any particular concentration. However, more of these remaining employees generally appeared to live closer to Mayaguez than any other large Puerto Rican city. Therefore, with OPM's approval, Mayaguez was chosen for the survey. To combine the prices from both cities, Runzheimer used approximately an 84% San Juan and 16% Mayaguez weighting. As noted earlier, this year OPM asked Runzheimer to combine survey data from St. Croix and St. Thomas, Virgin Islands. The same approach used in Hawaii County and Puerto Rico was applied to the Virgin Islands data. OPM's data indicated that approximately 46% of the GS employees worked on St. Croix, and that the remaining 54% worked on St. Thomas and St. John. Therefore, to combine the prices from these areas, Runzheimer used approximately a 46% St. Croix and 54% St. Thomas/St. John weighting. 2.6␣Surveying the Washington, DC, Area OPM defined the Washington, DC., area in the federal regulations as the Washington DC&hyph;MD&hyph;VA Metropolitan Statistical Area. Because federal employees who work in this area reside in Virginia, in Maryland, and in the District of Columbia, Runzheimer selected retail outlets and living communities from all three. Runzheimer's model gave equal weight to the average prices in each geographic area.
