FR940418-0-00048 FR940418-0-00012 3.4␣Matters reserved for decision by the Governors. 3.5␣Delegation of authority by Board. 3.6␣Information furnished to Board_financial and operating reports. 3.7␣Information furnished to Board_program review. 3.8␣Information furnished to Board_special reports. Authority: 39 U.S.C. 202, 203, 205, 401(2), (10), 402, 1003, 3013; 5 U.S.C. 552b(g), (j). §3.1 Responsibilities of Board. The composition of the Board is described in 39 U.S.C. 202. The Board directs the exercise of the powers of the Postal Service, reviews the practices and policies of the Postal Service, and directs and controls the expenditures of the Postal Service. Consistent with the broad delegation of authority to the Postmaster General in §3.5 of these bylaws, and except for those powers, duties, or obligations which the Reorganization Act specifically vests in the Governors, as distinguished from the Board of Governors, the Board accomplishes its purposes by monitoring the operations and performance of the Postal Service, and by establishing basic objectives, broad policies, and long-range goals for the Postal Service. §3.2 Compensation of Board. Section 202(a) of title 39 provides for the compensation of the Governors and for reimbursement for travel and reasonable expenses incurred in attending Board meetings. Compensation is provided for not more than 42 days of meetings per year. §3.3 Matters reserved for decision by the Board. The following matters are reserved for decision by the Board of Governors: (a) Election of the Vice Chairman of the Board. (b) Adoption of, and amendments to, the bylaws of the Board. (c) (1) Approval of the annual Postal Service budget program in both tentative and final form, including requests for appropriations; (2) Approval of the annual Postal Service operating budget. (d) Approval of the annual financial statements of the Postal Service following receipt of the annual report of the Postal Service's independent, certified public accounting firm. (e) Approval of the Postal Service Five-Year Capital Investment Plans, including specific approval of each capital investment project, each new lease/rental agreement, and each research and development project exceeding such amount specified by resolution at the annual Board meeting in January. In the case of any project or agreement subject to the requirement of Board approval under this provision, the expenditure of any funds in excess of the amount previously authorized by the Board must be specifically approved by the Board. For the purpose of determining the cost of a capital investment project, lease/rental agreement, or research and development project, (1) All such projects and agreements undertaken as part of a unitary plan (either for contemporaneous or sequential development in one of several locations) shall be considered one project or agreement, and (2) The cost of a lease/rental agreement shall be the present value of all lease payments over the term of the lease, including all periods covered by renewal options or all periods for which failure to renew imposes a penalty or a hardship such that renewal appears to be reasonably assured, plus the cost of any leasehold improvements planned in connection with the lease/rental agreement. The present value will be determined using the cost of capital of the Postal Service. (f) Authorization of the Postal Service to request the Postal Rate Commission to submit a recommended decision on changes in postal rates.
