FR941206-1-00058 FR941206-1-00007 ␣ Table 6._ Reporting and Recordkeeping Requirements of the Proposed Rule 1Requirement 1Due date a 1Applicability 2 General Provisions b 0 s §63.6(e): Operation and maintenance requirements (including preparation of startup, shutdown, malfunction plan) By the compliance date Sources using add-on controls. §63.7(b): Notification of performance test 60 days prior to test Sources using add-on controls. (c): Site-specific test plan 60 days prior to test Sources using add-on controls. (g): Report of performance test results 60 days after test Sources using add-on controls. §63.8(d): Continuous monitoring system (CMS) quality control program N/A Sources using add-on controls. (e): Notification of performance evaluation for CMS and site-specific test plan for CMS With performance test notification or 60 days prior to test Sources using VOC CMS. (e): Report of CMS performance results 60 days after test Sources using VOC CMS. §63.9(b): Initial notification requirements 120 days after effective date c All affected sources. (b): Notification of anticipated startup 30&hyph;60 days prior All affected sources. (b): Notification of actual startup 15 days after All affected sources. (h): Notification of compliance status 60 days after compliance demonstration d All affected sources. §63.10(b): Maintain all required information for 5 years N/A All affected sources. (c): Additional recordkeeping for CMS N/A Sources using add-on controls. (d): Startup, shutdown, and malfunction reports 2x/yr Sources using add-on controls. (e): Excess emissions and CMS performance report, and summary report 2x/yr e Sources using add-on controls. s 2 Requirements Specific to This Rule 0 s 1. Provide a list of the types and quantities of each regulated finishing material, adhesive, and cleaning material used, and the VHAP and solids content of each Recordkeeping All affected sources. 2. To demonstrate initial compliance with the standard, provide: ␣Calculations to demonstrate compliance with emission limits ␣Work practice implementation plan, including: ␣␣Inspection and maintenance plan to address equipment leaks; ␣␣Operator training program; ␣␣Description of cleaning/wash-off solvent tracking system; ␣␣Formulation assessment plan. Submit with compliance status report required by §63.9(h) Sources using average approach or compliant coatings. All affected sources. 3. To demonstrate ongoing compliance, submit semiannual report of: Calculations to demonstrate compliance with emission limits, if averaging approach is used; or Compliance certification, if compliant finishing materials are used; and Compliance certification associated with thinners, adhesives, and spray booth materials; and Certification that work practice standards are being followed; and The quantity of cleaning and wash off solvent that is used monthly in cases of noncompliance, a description of methods used to attain compliance 2x/yr (overrides §63.10(e); no exemptions for no episodes of noncompliance) Sources using average approach or compliant coatings. All affected sources. a Due dates are identified only for those items that must be submitted to the Administrator (or the permitting authority). b The requirements of the General Provisions apply to all sources subject to this standard. Each source should review the General Provisions in detail; this table is just a brief summary. c The effective date is the date of promulgation of the standard in the Federal Register . d The compliance date is the date by which affected sources must comply with the standard. The compliance status report would be due 60 days after the compliance date for sources using compliant materials. The report would be due 60 days after the performance test for sources using add-on controls. e If the affected source experiences excess emissions, the source must follow a quarterly reporting format for at least 1 year after the excess emissions occurred and until a request to reduce reporting frequency is approved.
