FR940825-1-00158 FR940825-1-00011 (b) This information is being collected to determine eligibility of Indian applicants and will be used to prioritize programs. Response to this request is voluntary. No action will be taken against you for refusing to supply the information requested. Public reporting burden for this form is estimated to average three hours per response, including the time for reviewing instructions, gathering and maintaining data, and completing and reviewing the form. Direct comments regarding the burden estimate or any other aspect of this form to the BIA Information Collection Clearance Officer, Division of Management Support, 1849 C Street, NW, Washington, DC 20245; and the Office of Management and Budget, ␣␣␣␣Paperwork␣␣␣␣ ␣␣␣␣Reduction␣␣␣␣ ␣␣␣␣Project␣␣␣␣ ␣␣␣␣(OMB # ␣␣), Washington, DC 20503. §46.10 Eligible activities. (a) Subject to the availability of funds, funds appropriated for the Bureau's Adult Education Program may be used to support local projects or programs designed to: (1) Enable Indian adults to acquire basic educational skills, including literacy; (2) Enable Indian adults to continue their education through the secondary school level; (3) Establish career education projects intended to improve employment opportunities; and (4) Provide educational services or instruction for elderly, disabled or incarcerated Indian adults; (5) Prepare individuals to benefit from occupational training; and (6) Teach employment-related skills. (b) Funds should not be used to support programs designed solely to prepare Indian adults to enter a specific occupation or cluster of closely related occupations. (c) The BIA's Adult Education Program shall be implemented for the benefit of eligible adult Indians, in accordance with a plan established by tribe(s) affected by the program. The tribe(s) may determine to set standards in addition to those established in this Part. §46.20 Program requirements. (a) The Adult Education Office shall implement the program or project that is designed to address the needs of the Indian adults in the service area. In determining the needs of Indian adults in the area, the Adult Education Office shall consider: (1) Elementary and secondary school dropout or absentee rates; (2) Average grade level completed; (3) Unemployment rates; or (4) Other appropriate measures. (b) The Adult Education Office, to ensure efforts that no duplication of services exists, shall identify other services in the area, including those offered by the tribe(s), that are designed to meet the same needs as those to be addressed by the project, and the number of Indian adults who receive those services. (c) The Adult Education Office shall establish and maintain an evaluation plan. (1) The plan shall be designed to measure the project's effectiveness in meeting each objective and the impact of the project on the adults involved; and (2) The plan shall provide procedures for periodic assessment of the progress of the project and, if necessary, modification of the project as a result of that assessment. (d) Subject to the availability of funds, the project is to be supported under the funding level established for Adult Education in the formulation of the budget under the Indian Priority System process. §46.30 Records and reporting requirements. (a) The Adult Education Office shall annually submit a report on the previous project year's activities to the Director. The Report shall include the following information: (1) The type of eligible activity, under Sec. 46.10, conducted under the project(s). (2) The number of participants acquiring the GED, high school diploma, and other certificates of performance. (3) A narrative summary of the activities conducted under the project. (4) Each Adult Education Office shall submit any records and information that the Director requires in connection with the administration of the program and shall comply with such requirements as the Director may find necessary to ensure the accuracy of such reports. (b) [Reserved] §46.40 Appeals. A decision of any Bureau official under this Part can be appealed pursuant to the procedures in 25 CFR part 2. Dated: June 3, 1994. Ada E. Deer, Assistant Secretary_Indian Affairs. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;20970 Filed 8&hyph;24&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4310&hyph;02&hyph;P
