FR940228-0-00067 FR940228-0-00015 15. Finally, the Commission stated that the 47 pioneer's preference requests that were found not to have met the pioneer's preference standard were denied for a variety of reasons. Some of these requests were incompatible with the rules adopted in the Second Report and Order in this proceeding, some did not demonstrate the feasibility of the proposed technologies, some did not demonstrate innovation, and some did not demonstrate the capabilities or possibilities of specific identifiable PCS technologies or services or show how these technologies or services had been brought to a more advanced or effective state. 16. Accordingly, it is ordered that the requests for pioneer's preference filed by American Personal Communications; Cox Enterprises, Inc.; and Omnipoint Communications, Inc. are granted. It is further ordered That the relevant licensing bureau shall impose the following conditions on the licenses received by American Personal Communications; Cox Enterprises, Inc.; and Omnipoint Communications, Inc. pursuant to their pioneer's preference awards: (1) Each licensee must build a system that substantially uses the design and technologies upon which its preference award is based; and (2) Each licensee must hold its license for a minimum of three years or until the construction requirements applicable to the five-year build-out period specified in Section 99.206 of the Commission's Rules have been satisfied, whichever is earlier. It is further ordered That the requests for pioneer's preference filed by Adelphia Communications Corp.; Advanced MobileComm Technologies, Inc. and Digital Spread Spectrum Technologies, Inc.; American Portable Telecommunications, Inc.; American Telephone and Telegraph; American TeleZone; Ameritech; Associated PCN Corporation; Atlantic Cellular Company, L.P.; Bell Atlantic Personal Communications, Inc.; Broadband Communications Corporation; Cable USA, Inc.; Cablevision Systems Corporation; Cellular Service, Inc.; Comcast PCS Communications, Inc.; Corporate Technology Partners; Freeman Engineering Associates; Grand Broadcasting Corporation; Iowa Network Services, Inc.; Linkatel Communications, Inc.; LiTel Telecommunications Corporation; Nextel Communications, Inc.; Omnipoint Corporation, Oracle Data Publishing, Inc.; and McCaw Cellular Communications, Inc.; Omnipoint Mobile Data Company; Pacific Bell; PacTel Corporation; PageMart, Inc.; Panhandle Telephone Cooperative, Inc.; PCN America, Inc.; PCN Communications, Inc.; PerTel, Inc.; Personal Communications Network Services of New York; Pulson Communications Corporation; Qualcomm Incorporated; Satcom, Inc.; Sharecom-Austin, L.P.; SM Tek, Inc.; Southwestern Bell Personal Communications, Inc.; Spatial Communications; Suite 12 Group; Tele-Communications, Inc.; Tel/Logic Inc.; Telmarc Telecommunications; Time Warner Telecommunications, Inc.; TRX Transportation Telephone Co.; US West NewVector Group, Inc.; Vanguard Cellular Systems, Inc.; and Viacom International, Inc. are denied. List of Subjects in 47 CFR Part 99 Personal Communications Services, Radio. Federal Communications Commission. William F. Caton, Acting Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;4407 Filed 2&hyph;25&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6712&hyph;01&hyph;M
