FR941102-1-00128 FR941102-1-00020 For example, a broker-dealer's decision regarding the routing of orders involving securities listed for trading on national securities exchanges raises the issue of price improvement. Orders in such securities that are routed to certain exchange facilities typically will receive an opportunity for price improvement, 16 while similar orders routed to other market centers_and, currently, generally with respect to all non-listed securities_may forgo this possibility. 16 But see Adopting Release, supra note 1, at n.33. In addition to enhancing the ability of customers to evaluate the costs and benefits of a broker-dealer's order routing determinations, the Commission believes that the proposed amendment to Rule 11Ac1&hyph;3(a)(2) will help obviate some of the difficulty in identifying those practices that involve conflicts between the interests of broker-dealers and their customers. In light of the complexity and the perceived economic similarity between payment for order flow and other market practices designed to induce or influence order flow, or that present the same concerns_such as internalization practices_the Commission believes that the requirement that all broker-dealers disclose their order routing practices will help facilitate equal regulation, reduce investor confusion, and further empower investors to make informed decisions in their own best interests. Broker-dealers making disclosure under the proposed rule are encouraged to explain how their order routing determinations are in the overall best interests of their customers. Finally, the Commission also solicits the views of commenters regarding whether the disclosure of broker and dealer order routing policies should be set forth in a standardized format on the confirmation involving, for example, general categories of order routing practices such as internalized/affiliate order flow, order flow subject to payment for order flow, and order flow routed to unaffiliated market centers, thereby facilitating customer understanding and ease of comprehension. D. Expanding the Scope of Covered Securities to Include Standardized Options Rule 11Ac1&hyph;3 does not apply to exchange-traded options. Although the October 1993 Proposing Release did not request comment on whether payment for order flow disclosures should be extended to these securities, two exchanges expressed support for such a change, but otherwise no comments were received on this subject. 17 In light of the favorable, albeit limited comments, the Commission proposes to amend Rules 11Ac1&hyph;3 and 10b&hyph;10 to include standardized options. The Commission particularly invites comment on whether the disclosure requirements would result in unique problems for firms effecting transactions in options. 17 One exchange suggested that the Commission consider the ramifications that payment for order flow may have on the options marketplace, especially once multiple trading of options is taken into consideration. See letter from Leopold Korins, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Pacific Stock Exchange, Inc., to Jonathan G. Katz, Secretary, SEC, dated December 9, 1993.
