FR940128-2-00033 FR940128-2-00012 1. Developed internally, 2. Acquired as part of an ADP system procurement, 3. Acquired by separate procurement, 4. Used under an ADP leasing arrangement, or 5. Specified for use in contracts for programming services. b. Interpretation of the FIPS for Shell and Utilities . NIST provides for the resolution of questions regarding the FIPS specifications and requirements, and issues official interpretations as needed. All questions about the interpretation of this FIPS should be addressed to: Director, National Computer Systems Laboratory, Attn: POSIX Shell and Utilities FIPS Interpretation, National Institute of Standards and Technology, Gaithersburg, MD 20899. c. Validation of Conforming Operating Systems Environments . NIST is developing cooperatively with industry a validation suite for measuring conformance to this standard. This suite will be required for testing conformance of POSIX Shell and Utilities implementations. These testing requirements will be announced at a future date. Where to Obtain Copies: Copies of this publication are for sale by the National Technical Information Service, U.S. Department of Commerce, Springfield, VA 22161. (Sale of the included specifications document is by arrangement with the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Incorporated.) When ordering, refer to Federal Information Processing Standards Publication XXXX (FIPSPUB XXXX ), and title. Payment may be made by check, money order, or deposit account. Appendix A_Application Portability Profile The POSIX Shell and Utilities FIPS is the second component of a series of specifications needed for the operating system services area of an applications portability profile. FIPS 151&hyph;1 (and its replacement, FIPS 151&hyph;2) provided the crucial first step by providing a vendor independent interface specification between an application program and an operating system. When fully extended, POSIX will provide the functionality required to support source code portability for a wide range of applications across many different machines and operating systems. NIST has published Special Publication 500&hyph;210, Application Portability Profile (APP), The U.S. Government's Open System Environment Profile, OSE/1, Version 2.0, June 1993. The APP has been developed to provide sufficient functionality to accommodate a broad range of application requirements. The functional components of the APP constitute a framework for organizing standard elements that can be used to develop and maintain portable applications. A key aspect of the APP is that it is based on an open system environment defined by non-proprietary specifications. Components may be added or deleted as technology changes and as Federal government requirements change. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;1818 Filed 1&hyph;27&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3510&hyph;CN&hyph;M
