FR941007-1-00135 FR941007-1-00009 (c) Indirect activities. The FDIC shall, if the wholesale or limited purpose bank elects, consider in its community development performance assessment: (1) Qualified investments or community development services provided by an affiliate of the bank, provided the investment or services are not claimed by any other institution; and (2) Community development lending by affiliates, consortia and third parties, subject to the requirements and limitations in §345.22 (c)(3) and (d) of this part. (d) Benefit to service area(s). _(1) Benefit inside service area(s). For purposes of assessing a wholesale or limited purpose bank's community development performance under this section, the FDIC shall consider all qualified investments, community development loans outstanding, and community development services that benefit areas within the bank's service area(s). (2) Benefit outside service area(s). The FDIC shall consider the qualified investments, community development loans outstanding, and community development services provided by a wholesale or limited purpose bank that benefit areas outside the bank's service area(s) only up to an amount equivalent to the amount of investments, loans, and services considered under paragraph (d)(1) of this section. If a bank demonstrates a limited need or opportunity for these investments, lending, and services, in its service area(s), the FDIC may exempt the bank from all or part of this limitation. (e) Community development performance rating. The FDIC shall rate a bank's community development performance as provided in Appendix A of this part. §345.26 Small bank assessment standards. (a) Scope of assessment. The FDIC shall assess the degree to which a small bank is helping to meet the credit needs of its service area(s) under the assessment standards described in this section. (b) Assessment criteria. The FDIC shall evaluate a small bank's CRA performance pursuant to the following criteria: (1) The bank's loan-to-deposit ratio, adjusted for seasonal variation and, as appropriate, other lending-related activities, such as loan originations for sale to the secondary markets or community development lending or investment; (2) The percentage of loans and, as appropriate, other lending-related activities located in the bank's service area(s); (3) The bank's record of lending to and, as appropriate, engaging in other lending-related activities for borrowers of different income levels and businesses and farms of different sizes; (4) The geographic distribution of the bank's loans given its service area(s); and (5) The bank's record of taking action, if warranted, in response to written complaints about its performance in meeting the credit needs of its service area(s). (c) Small bank performance rating. The FDIC shall rate a small bank's performance as provided in Appendix A of this part. §345.27 Strategic plan assessment. (a) Alternative election. A bank may request to be rated under a strategic plan rather than under the lending, service, and investment tests (§§345.22 through 345.24 of this part), the community development test (§345.25 of this part), or the small bank assessment standards (§345.26 of this part), by submitting to the FDIC a strategic plan as provided for in this section. A bank's request to be rated under a strategic plan is not approved until the FDIC approves the plan. The FDIC's approval of a strategic plan does not affect the bank's obligation, if any, to report data as required by §345.42 of this part. (b) Strategic plans in general. (1) A plan may have a term of no more than five years, and any multi-year plan shall include annual interim measurable goals according to which the FDIC shall evaluate the bank's performance. (2) A bank with more than one service area may prepare a single plan for all of its service areas or a plan for one or more but not all of its service areas. (3) Affiliated institutions may prepare joint plans if the plans provide measurable goals for each institution. (c) Public participation in strategic plan development. Before submitting a plan to the FDIC for approval, the bank shall: (1) Informally seek suggestions from the public in its service area(s) while developing the plan; (2) Once the bank has developed a plan, formally solicit public comment on the plan for at least 30 days by publishing notice in a newspaper of general circulation in each of its service areas; and
