FR941117-0-00150 FR941117-0-00011 (i) Audited financial statements certified within one year of the date of the application, indicating the availability of sufficient net liquid assets to construct and operate the proposed air-ground system for one year. (A) The auditors must be certified public accountants. (B) Net liquid assets is considered to be the excess of current assets (readily converted to cash) over current liabilities. In order to demonstrate ready convertibility into cash, the identity, liquidity and value of listed assets must be demonstrated. Non-liquid assets can be relied on if the marketability of those assets is documented. (ii) An audited balance sheet, current within 60 days of filing, which clearly shows the continued availability of sufficient net liquid assets to construct and operate the proposed air-ground system for one year after nationwide service begins. (c) Service Plan. A service plan containing: (1) A map or other description of the planned geographic coverage area, including air space over the continental United States, Alaska, Hawaii and other United States territories. (2) A schedule for construction of 50 ground stations and provision of nationwide service to subscribers within 5 years from the grant of the initial authorization. (3) A description of how the system will interconnect with the landline telephone network and be integrated with other air-ground systems, including a statement as to whether the system will be interconnected with international air-ground systems. (d) Technical Exhibit. A technical description of the proposed system demonstrating compliance with all applicable technical requirements and describing how the proposed system would operate, if authorized. This exhibit must provide the following information: (1) The number of ground stations to be used, their locations, and the type and quantity of equipment proposed for the system; (2) A complete description of the procedures and data protocols to be used on the control channel; (3) The modulation types to be used and their spectral characteristics; (4) The effective radiated power and transmitter peak envelope power for all transmitters at each ground station location, and the effective radiated power of the airborne mobile stations; (5) Antenna information as follows: (i) For airborne mobile stations, the antenna type(s) to be used; (ii) For ground stations, vertical and horizontal radiation patterns, antenna heights above ground level, antenna support structure heights above ground level, ground elevation above mean sea level and any relevant information (e.g. FAA approval) that may be helpful in determining whether ground station antennas require marking and lighting; (6) Analytical data, including calculations, of potential interference within and without the spectrum for the air-ground system; (7) A statement in compliance with the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969. See §§1.1301 through 1.1319 of this chapter. Subpart H_Cellular Radiotelephone Service §22.900 Scope. The rules in this subpart govern the licensing and operation of cellular radiotelephone systems. Licensing and operation of these systems are also subject to rules elsewhere in this part that apply generally to the Public Mobile Services. In case of conflict, however, the rules in this subpart govern. §22.901 Cellular service requirements and limitations. Cellular system licensees must provide cellular mobile radiotelephone service upon request to all cellular subscribers in good standing, including roamers, while such subscribers are located within any portion of the authorized cellular geographic service area (see §22.911) where facilities have been constructed and service to subscribers has commenced. A cellular system licensee may refuse or terminate service, however, subject to any applicable state or local requirements for timely notification, to any subscriber who operates a cellular telephone in an airborne aircraft in violation of §22.925 or otherwise fails to cooperate with the licensee in exercising operational control over mobile stations pursuant to §22.927. (a) Service area information. Licensees must inform prospective subscribers of the area in which reliable service can be expected. (b) Lack of capacity. If a licensee refuses a request for cellular service because of a lack of system capacity, it must report that fact to the FCC in writing, explaining how it plans to increase capacity. (c) Dispatch service. Cellular systems must not offer or provide dispatch service. (d) Alternative technologies and auxiliary services. Licensees of cellular systems may use alternative cellular technologies and/or provide auxiliary common carrier services, including personal communications services (as defined in part 24 of this chapter) on the communication channels in their assigned channel block, provided that cellular service is available to subscribers whose mobile equipment conforms to the cellular system compatibility specification (see §22.933).
