FR941021-1-00072 FR941021-1-00009 ยง67.411 Medical certificates by flight surgeons of Armed Forces. (a) The FAA has designated flight surgeons of the Armed Forces on specified military posts, stations, and facilities, as aviation medical examiners. (b) An aviation medical examiner described in paragraph (a) of this section may give physical examinations for the FAA medical certificates to applicants who are on active duty or who are, under Department of Defense medical programs, eligible for FAA medical certifications as civil airmen. In addition, such an examiner may issue or deny an appropriate FAA medical certificate in accordance with the regulations of this chapter and the policies of the FAA. (c) Any interested person may obtain a list of the military posts, stations, and facilities at which a flight surgeon has been designated as an aviation medical examiner from the Surgeon General of the Armed Force concerned or from the Manager, Aeromedical Education Division, AAM&hyph;400, Federal Aviation Administration, P.O. Box 26082, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma 73125. ยง67.413 Medical records. (a) Whenever the Administrator finds that additional medical information or history is necessary to determine whether an applicant for or the holder of a medical certificate meets the medical standards for it, the Administrator requests that person to furnish that information or to authorize any clinic, hospital, physician, or other person to release to the Administrator all available information or records concerning that history. If the applicant or holder fails to provide the requested medical information or history or to authorize the release so requested, the Administrator may suspend, modify, or revoke all medical certificates the airman holds or may, in the case of an applicant, deny the application for an airman medical certificate. (b) If an airman medical certificate is suspended, modified, or revoked under paragraph (a) of this section, that suspension, modification, or revocation remains in effect until the requested information, history, or authorization is provided to the FAA and until the Federal Air Surgeon determines whether the person meets the medical standards under this part. ยง67.415 Return of medical certificate after suspension or revocation. The holder of any medical certificate issued under this part that is suspended or revoked shall, upon the Administrator's request, return it to the Administrator. Issued in Washington, D.C. on October 17, 1994. Jon L. Jordon, Federal Air Surgeon, Federal Aviation Administration. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;26047 Filed 10&hyph;18&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4910&hyph;13&hyph;P
