FR940505-1-00381 FR940505-1-00012 (ii) Determination of efficiency of emission control systems. (A) The efficiency of the collection device of the emission control system as specified in paragraph (e)(3)(ii)(B) of this section shall be determined by the EPA method described at ยง52.741(a)(4)(iii). (B) The efficiency of the control device, as specified in paragraph (e)(3)(ii)(A) of this section, shall be determined by the EPA method described at ยง52.741(a)(4)(iv). The VOC content measured and calculated as carbon in the control device exhaust gases shall be determined by EPA Method 25 or 25A (40 CFR part 60, appendix A). (iii) Transfer Efficiency. The transfer efficiency for other coating application methods as defined in paragraph (e)(3)(iii)(G) of this section, shall be determined in accordance with the South Coast Air Quality Management District (SCAQMD) test method for determining transfer efficiency entitled ``Spray Equipment Transfer Efficiency Test Procedure for Equipment User, May 24, 1989.'' This transfer efficiency method is approved for the limited purpose of comparing alternative application technologies under controlled conditions. The results of these tests are not transferable to a production setting. The test method is not acceptable for determining transfer efficiency to establish VOC emission reduction credits to allow the use of higher VOC coatings, or to establish VOC credits for trading or offset purposes. (f) Commercial bakeries. (1) Applicability. Except as provided in paragraph (f)(4) of this section, this section is applicable to bakery ovens which bake yeast-leavened products. For the purposes of this section, the affected area is the Sacramento Metro Area for ozone as described at 40 CFR 81.305. (2) Definitions. For the purposes of paragraph (f) of this section, the following definitions shall apply. All terms not defined herein shall have the meaning given them in ยง52.2950. Bakery oven means a convection oven which bakes yeast-leavened products, including but not limited to breads, buns, and rolls. Fermentation time means the elapsed time between adding yeast to dough or sponge and placing the dough or sponge into an oven, expressed in hours. Yeast percentage means the pounds of yeast added to a hundred pounds of total flour in the recipe. (3) Standards. (i) On and after January 1, 1997, no person shall operate a bakery oven subject to this section, unless VOC emissions are controlled using an air pollution control system which: (A) Has been installed in accordance with an Authority to Construct issued by the applicable local air pollution control district or air quality management district; and (B) Includes an emission collection system(s) which ducts the exhaust gases from all stacks and/or vents on all ovens to a VOC emission control device(s). Such ducting shall be maintained so as to be free of visible holes, breaks, openings or separations between adjoining components from which fugitive VOCs would be emitted to the atmosphere; and (C) Has one or more VOC emission control devices, each with a destruction or removal efficiency of at least 95 percent by weight. (ii) For an oven which commences construction on or after January 1, 1995, owners and operators shall be in compliance with paragraph (f)(3)(i) of this section by the date of commencement of oven operation. (4) Exemptions. (i) The provisions of this section shall not apply to bakery ovens which are located at a facility where the combined rated heat input capacity of all ovens is less than 2 million British Thermal Units (BTUs) per hour. (ii) The provisions of this section shall not apply to ovens used exclusively for the baking of products leavened chemically without yeast. (iii) The provisions of paragraph (f)(3) of this section shall not apply to bakery ovens which are located at a facility where the uncontrolled actual emissions of VOCs from all ovens combined is less than 6.5 tons per year. (5) Reporting and Recordkeeping. A person operating a bakery oven subject to this section shall maintain records in accordance with the following:
