FR940412-1-00041 FR940412-1-00008 (2) Lease costs shall be recorded in accordance with the guidelines of the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) publication number 13, and subsequent pronouncements on this subject by the FASB. Lease costs payable on demand within one year, including the portion of long-term debt due within one year of the balance sheet date, shall be recorded in balance sheet account 20100. (g) Noncurrent liabilities. (1) Each Association shall include in this classification all debts or obligations for which liquidation or payment is not reasonably expected to require the use, within one year, of existing resources of a type which are properly classifiable as current assets, or the creation of current liabilities. Noncurrent liabilities include mortgages, bonds and debentures maturing more than one year from the date of the balance sheet, or other obligations not payable within 12 months. This classification shall reflect the principal amount or par value of debt securities issued or other long-term debt assumed by the Association. Discount and expenses on long-term debt shall be recorded in the Deferred Charges balance sheet group. Premiums on long-term debt shall be recorded in the Deferred Credits balance sheet account group. (2) In cases where debt coming due within 12 months is to be refunded, or where payment is to be made from assets of a type not properly classifiable as current, the amount payable shall not be removed from this classification. (3) Gains or losses on liquidation of bonds, debentures, or other debt securities of the Association shall be entered in profit and loss classification 47000 ``Other Income,'' or 69000 ``Miscellaneous.'' Gains and losses or adjustments to liabilities applicable to expenses incurred in operations shall be entered in the expense accounts initially charged. (h) Deferred credits. (1) Each Association shall include in this classification all credit balances in general clearing accounts, including credits held in suspense pending receipt of information necessary for final disposition and premiums on long-term debt securities of the Association. (2) Deferred credits having a definite time incidence shall be amortized over the periods to which they apply. (i) Stockholder's equity (Capital). (1) Each Association shall include in this classification all items which record the aggregate interest of Association members in assets owned by the Association. (2) The general classification ``Stockholder's Equity (Capital)'' shall be subdivided between that portion representing direct contributions of the members (Paid-In Capital) and that portion representing income retained from operations of the Association (Retained Earnings). (3) The ``Paid-In Capital'' classification shall be subdivided between membership shares and ``Other Paid-In Capital.'' Membership shares shall include par or stated value of shares issued or the cash value of the consideration actually received, in cases of shares having no par or stated value. ``Other Paid-In Capital,'' shall include the excess (premium) or deficiency (discount) of each value of the consideration received from the issue of any shares having par or stated value, donations by stockholders, adjustments of capital resulting from reorganization or recapitalization, and gains or losses from reacquisition and resale or retirement of the Association's shares. (4) The ``Retained Earnings'' balance sheet classification shall reflect the balance of net profits, income, and gains of the Association from the date of formation. In cases where a deficit has been absorbed by a reduction of ``Other Paid-In Capital'' as a result of a restatement of shares or retained earnings, a new Retained Earnings account shall be established, dated to show that it runs from the effective date of the restatement. This date shall be disclosed in financial statements until such time as the effective date no longer possesses special significance. Subpart D_Profit and Loss Classifications ยง403.400 General. (a) Each Association shall keep profit and loss accounts in accordance with the Chart of Profit and Loss Accounts in appendix B to this part. The profit and loss accounts are designed to reflect, through natural groupings, the elements entering into income or loss accruing to the proprietary interests during each accounting period. (b) The system of accounts in appendix B to this part provides for the coordinated grouping of all revenues and expenses in terms of both major objectives and functional activities.
