FR941212-1-00038 FR941212-1-00012 13. Section 1.53 paragraphs (a)-(e) are proposed to be revised to read as follows: §1.53 [Serial] >Application< number, filing date, and completion of application. (a) Any application for a patent received in the Patent and Trademark Office will be assigned >an application< [a serial] number for identification purposes. (b) >(1)< The filing date of an application for patent filed under this section>, except for a provisional application,< is the date on which: [(1)] A specification containing a description pursuant to §1.71 and at least one claim pursuant to §1.75; and [(2)] any drawing required by §1.81(a), are filed in the Patent and Trademark Office in the name of the actual inventor or inventors as required by §1.41. No new matter may be introduced into an application after its filing date (§1.118). If all the names of the actual inventor or inventors are not supplied when the specification and any required drawing are filed, the application will not be given a filing date earlier than the date upon which the names are supplied unless a petition with the fee set forth in §1.17(i) [(1)] is filed which sets forth the reasons the delay in supplying the names should be excused. A continuation>,< [or] divisional >or continuation-in-part< application (filed under the conditions specified in 35 U.S.C. 120 or 121 and §1.78 (a)) may be filed >under< [pursuant to] this section[, §1.60] or §1.62. [A continuation-in-part application may be filed pursuant to this section or §1.62.] >(2) The filing date of a provisional application is the date on which: A specification as prescribed by 35 U.S.C. 112, first paragraph; and any drawing required by §1.81(a), are filed in the Patent and Trademark Office in the name of the actual inventor or inventors as required by §1.41. No amendment, other than to make the provisional application comply with all applicable regulations, may be made to the provisional application after the filing date of the provisional application. If all the names of the actual inventor or inventors are not supplied when the specification and any required drawing are filed, the provisional application will not be given a filing date earlier than the date upon which the names are supplied unless a petition with the fee set forth in §1.17(q) is filed which sets forth the reasons the delay in supplying the names should be excused. (i) A provisional application must also include a cover sheet identifying the application as a provisional application. Otherwise, the application will be treated as an application filed under §1.53(b)(1). (ii) An application for patent filed under §1.53(b)(1) may be treated as a provisional application and be accorded the original filing date provided that a petition requesting the conversion, with the fee set forth in §1.17(q), is filed prior to the earlier of either the payment of the issue fee or the expiration of 12 months after the filing date of the provisional application. The grant of any such petition will not entitle applicant to a refund of the fees which are properly paid in the application filed under §1.53(b)(1). (iii) A provisional application shall not be entitled to the right of priority under §1.55 or 35 U.S.C. 119 or 365(a) or to the benefit of an earlier filing date under §1.78 or 35 U.S.C. 120, 121 or 365(c) of any other application. No claim for priority under §1.78(a)(3) may be made in a design application based on a provisional application. No request under §1.293 for a statutory invention registration may be filed in a provisional application. The requirements of §1.821(e) regarding sequence listings in computer readable form are not applicable to a provisional application.< (c) If any application is filed without the specification, drawing or name, or names, of the actual inventor or inventors required by paragraph (b)>(1) or (b)(2)< of this section, applicant will be so notified and given a time period within which to submit the omitted specification, drawing, name, or names, of the actual inventor, or inventors, in order to obtain a filing date as of the date of filing of such submission. A copy of the ``Notice of Incomplete Application'' form notifying the applicant should accompany any response thereto submitted to the Office. If the omission is not corrected within the time period set, the application will be returned or otherwise disposed of; the fee, if submitted, will be refunded less the handling fee set forth in §1.21(n). >Any request for review of a refusal to accord an application a filing date must be by way of a petition accompanied by the fee set forth in §1.17(i), if the application was filed under §1.53(b)(1), or by the fee set forth in §1.17(q), if the application was filed under §1.53(b)(2).< (d)>(1)< If an application which has been accorded a filing date pursuant to paragraph (b)>(1)< of this section does not include the appropriate filing fee or an oath or declaration by the applicant, applicant will be so notified, if a correspondence address has been provided and given a period of time within which to file the fee, oath, or declaration and to pay the surcharge as set forth in §1.16(e) in order to prevent abandonment of the application. A copy of the ``Notice to File Missing Parts'' form mailed to applicant should accompany any response thereto submitted to the Office. If the required filing fee is not timely paid, [or if the processing and retention fee set forth in §1.21(l) is not paid within one year of the date of mailing of the notification required by this paragraph,] the application will be disposed of. No copies will be provided or certified by the Office of an application which has been disposed of or in which [neither] the required basic filing fee [nor the processing and retention fee] has >not< been paid. The notification pursuant to this paragraph may be made simultaneously with any notification pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section. If no correspondence address is included in the application, applicant has two months from the filing date to file the basic filing fee, oath or declaration and to pay the surcharge as set forth in §1.16(e) in order to prevent abandonment of the application[; or, if no basic filing fee has been paid, one year from the filing date to pay the processing and retention fee set forth in §1.21(l) to prevent disposal of the application].
