FR940318-0-00005 FR940318-0-00002 One of the commenters suggested that a reference to footnote 2 be added to the upper left-hand block of illustration 1, which refers to non-selective enrichment broths. Because footnote 2 to illustration 1 contains pertinent information concerning non-selective enrichment, we agree and have added a reference to footnote 2 in the upper left-hand block of illustration 1. The same commenter noted that we had omitted the word ``broths'' after the word ``enrichment'' in footnote 1 to illustration 1, and also suggested that the first sentence of footnote 2 be revised for the sake of clarity. We agree with both of these points and have added the word ``broths'' to footnote 1 and have revised the first sentence of footnote 2 to read ``Beef extract or infusion broths and plates are preferred.'' Another commenter suggested that illustrations 1 and 2 are difficult to follow and that wording should be added to the illustrations to indicate that Salmonella pullorum is a slow grower and produces a smaller colony than other salmonellae, that the production of H 2 S is delayed or absent, and that the production of gas is weak or absent. We believe that the illustrations are easily understood and that the additional information suggested by the commenter is unnecessary. Each illustration contains a block referring to the use of ``additional identification media and diagnostic systems,'' which includes means of biochemical identification and differentiation of bacteria. Further, we believe that a person conducting such tests would be familiar with the isolation of Salmonella, including the identification of characteristic colonies of pullorum and other salmonellae on various media. Therefore, we have made no changes in response to the comment. Finally, paragraph (a)(2) of our proposed amendment to §147.14 stated that culturing for the dependable recovery of salmonellae should include the use of preenrichment broths supplemented with ferrous sulfate. One of the commenters noted that there is debate regarding the usefulness of adding ferrous sulfate to overcome the inhibitory effects of conalbumin, and pointed out that the egg culture protocol included in recently published APHIS regulations (``Chicken Disease Caused by Salmonella Enteritidis '') does not include the addition of ferrous sulfate. The ``regulations'' to which the commenter referred were actually proposed regulations published in the Federal Register on August 2, 1993 (58 FR 41048&hyph;41061, Docket No. 91&hyph;016&hyph;1) and, as such, have no regulatory effect. The protocols included in that proposed rule are still under review and will not become effective until a final rule is published. We believe that the ability of conalbumin to chelate metallic ions such as Fe 3 + or Cu 2 + has been clearly demonstrated by both Gelb and Harris (1980) and Tan and Woodworth (1969). Additionally, Board et al. (1991) demonstrated that the addition of iron to preenrichment broth aided in the recovery of Salmonella enteritidis from eggs. Therefore, we have made no changes in response to the comment. In addition to the changes discussed above, we are making two other changes. First, we are adding Office of Management and Budget (OMB) control numbers to §§147.1, 147.2, 147.3, 147.5, 147.11, 147.12, 147.13, and 147.21. The existing paperwork requirements contained in those sections_not any new requirements that may be contained in this final rule_were approved by OMB after the proposed rule was published, so the control numbers must be added to the end of each of those sections. Second, we are correcting an out-of-date reference in §147.43, which contains provisions regarding the Plan's General Conference Committee. In that section, there is a reference to the Assistant Secretary of Agriculture for Marketing and Transportation Services. In 1982, the Marketing and Transportation Services division was reorganized and renamed Marketing and Inspection Services, so we have corrected the reference in §147.43 to reflect the current organization. Therefore, based on the rationale set forth in the proposed rule and in this document, we are adopting the provisions of the proposal as a final rule, with the changes discussed in this document. Executive Order 12866 and Regulatory Flexibility Act This rule has been determined to be not significant for purposes of Executive Order 12866 and, therefore, has not been reviewed by the Office of Management and Budget. The changes contained in this document are based on the recommendations of representatives of member States, hatcheries, dealers, flockowners, and breeders who took part in the Plan's 31st Biennial Conference. Because participation in the Plan is voluntary, individuals are likely to remain in the program as long as the costs of implementing the program are lower than the added benefits they receive from the program. The changes in this final rule will keep the provisions of the Plan current with changes in the poultry industry, will allow the use of state-of-the-art laboratory and testing procedures, and will allow the Plan to better respond to disease emergencies. Of the changes contained in this final rule, only two are expected to have more than a negligible economic effect on Plan participants. The amendment that will allow, in certain cases, a 500-bird sample to be tested in lieu of the entire flock will result in a cost savings for affected Plan participants because fewer tests will be required to qualify certain multiplier breeding flocks and succeeding flocks for participation in the Plan's pullorum-typhoid program. It is likely, however, that those savings will be offset by the amendment that increases testing requirements by removing, for all poultry except turkeys, provisions that allow two consecutive generations of breeding flocks to go without testing for pullorum-typhoid. The remaining items, because they are either administrative or procedural in nature, will not have a significant economic impact. Under these circumstances, the Administrator of the Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service has determined that this action will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. Executive Order 12372 This program/activity is listed in the Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance under No. 10.025 and is subject to Executive Order 12372, which requires intergovernmental consultation with State and local officials. (See 7 CFR part 3015, subpart V.) Executive Order 12778 This final rule has been reviewed under Executive Order 12778, Civil Justice Reform. This rule: (1) Preempts all State and local laws and regulations that are in conflict with this rule; (2) has no retroactive effect; and (3) does not require administrative proceedings before parties may file suit in court challenging this rule. Paperwork Reduction Act In accordance with the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980 (44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq. ), the information collection or recordkeeping requirements included in this final rule have been submitted for approval to the Office of Management and Budget. List of Subjects in 9 CFR Parts 145 and 147 Animal diseases, Poultry and poultry products, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements.
