FR941013-2-00097 FR941013-2-00074 III Pursuant to 10 CFR 50.12, the Commission may, upon application by any interested person or upon its own initiative, grant exemptions, from the requirements of 10 CFR part 50 when (1) the exemptions are authorized by law, will not present an undue risk to public health or safety, and are consistent with the common defense and security; and (2) when special circumstances are present. Special circumstances are present whenever, according to 10 CFR 50.12(a)(2)(ii), ``Application of the regulation in the particular circumstance would not serve the underlying purpose of the rule or is not necessary to achieve the underlying purpose of the rule*␣*␣*''. The underlying purpose of 10 CFR 50.60 Appendix G is to establish fracture toughness requirements for ferritic materials of pressure-retaining components of the reactor coolant pressure boundary to provide adequate margins of safety during any condition of normal operation, including anticipated operational occurrences, to which the pressure boundary may be subjected over its service lifetime. Section IV.A.2 of this appendix requires that the reactor vessel be operated with P/T limits at least as conservative as those obtained by following the methods of analysis and the required margins of safety of appendix G of the ASME Code. Appendix G of the ASME Code requires that the P/T limits be calculated: (a) Using a safety factor of 2 on the principal membrane (pressure) stresses, (b) assuming a flaw at the surface with a depth of one-quarter (1/4) of the vessel wall thickness and a length of six (6) times its depth, and (c) using a conservative fracture toughness curve that is based on the lower bound of static, dynamic, and crack arrest fracture toughness tests on material similar to the McGuire reactor vessel material. In determining the setpoint for LTOP events, the licensee proposed to use safety margins based on an alternate methodology consistent with the proposed ASME Code Case N&hyph;514 guidelines. The ASME Code Case N&hyph;514 allows determination of the setpoint for LTOP events such that the maximum pressure in the vessel would not exceed 110 percent of the P/T limits of the existing ASME appendix G. This results in a safety factor of 1.8 on the principal membrane stresses. All other factors, including assumed flaw size and fracture toughness, remain the same. Although this methodology would reduce the safety factor on the principal membrane stresses, the proposed criteria will provide adequate margins of safety to the reactor vessel during LTOP transients and will satisfy the underlying purpose of 10 CFR 50.60 for fracture toughness requirements. Using the licensee's proposed safety factors instead of appendix G safety factors to calculate the LTOP setpoint will permit a higher LTOP setpoint than would otherwise be required and will provide added margin to prevent normal operating surges from lifting the PORVs or cavitation of the reactor coolant pumps. IV For the foregoing reasons, the NRC staff has concluded that the Licensee's proposed use of the alternate methodology in determining the acceptable setpoint for LTOP events will not present an undue risk to public health and safety and is consistent with the common defense and security. The NRC staff has determined that there are special circumstances present, as specified in 10 CFR 50.12(a)(2), such that application of 10 CFR 50.60 is not necessary in order to achieve the underlying purpose of this regulation. Accordingly, the Commission has determined that, pursuant to 10 CFR 50.12(a), an exemption is authorized by law, will not endanger life or property or common defense and security, and is, otherwise, in the public interest. Therefore, the Commission hereby grants the Duke Power Company an exemption from the requirements of 10 CFR 50.60 such that in determining the setpoint for LTOP events, the appendix G curves for P/T limits are not exceeded by more than 10 percent in order to be in compliance with these regulations. This exemption is applicable only to LTOP conditions during normal operation. Pursuant to 10 CFR 51.32, the Commission has determined that the granting of this exemption will not result in any significant adverse environmental impact. Publication of the Environmental Assessment and Finding of No Significant Impact in the Federal Register was delayed due to circumstances beyond the Commission's control. The Commission has determined that emergency circumstances exist and therefore is issuing this exemption pursuant to 10 CFR 51.13 and 51.35 without prior publication. Publication in the Federal Register will occur on October 3, 1994. This exemption is effective upon issuance. Dated at Rockville, Maryland, this 30th day of September, 1994. For the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. John F. Stolz, Acting Director, Division of Reactor Projects_I/II, Office of Nuclear Reactor Regulation. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;25301 Filed 10&hyph;12&hyph;94 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 7590&hyph;01&hyph;M
