FR940802-0-00061 FR940802-0-00008 (B) When the product was initially produced, it was not commonly used to generate energy (e.g. automobile tires); and (C) The product was sold or transferred for a use other than energy generation, and was later treated as a waste product. (b) Renewable oxygenate standard. (1) The reformulated gasoline and reformulated gasoline produced using RBOB that is produced by any refiner at each refinery, or is imported by any importer, shall contain a volume of renewable oxygenate such that the reformulated gasoline and reformulated gasoline produced using RBOB, on average, has an oxygen content from such renewable oxygenate that is equal to or greater than 0.30 wt% for the period of December 1, 1994 through December 31, 1995, and 0.60 wt% beginning on January 1, 1996. (2) The averaging period for the renewable oxygenate standard specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section shall be: (i) Each calendar year; except that (ii)Any reformulated gasoline and RBOB that is produced or imported prior to January 1, 1995 shall be averaged with reformulated gasoline and RBOB produced or imported during 1995. (3) (i) The oxygenate used to meet the standard under paragraph (b)(1) of this section may also be used to meet any oxygen standard under §80.41; except that (ii) The renewable oxygenate added by a downstream oxygenate blender shall not be used by any refiner or importer to meet the oxygen standard under §80.41, except through the transfer of oxygen credits. (c) Downstream oxygenate blending using renewable oxygenate. (1) In the case of any refiner that produces RBOB, or any importer that imports RBOB, the oxygenate that is blended with the RBOB may be included with the refiner's or importer's compliance calculations under paragraph (d) of this section only if: (i) The oxygenate meets the applicable renewable oxygenate definition under paragraph (a) of this section; and (ii) The refiner or importer meets the downstream oxygenate blending oversight requirements specified in §§80.69(a)(6) and (7); or (iii) (A) In the case of RBOB designated for ``any renewable oxygenate'' the refiner or importer assumes that ethanol will be blended with the RBOB; (B) In the case of RBOB designated for ``renewable ether only'' or ``non-VOC controlled renewable ether only ``, the refiner or importer assumes that ETBE will be blended with the RBOB; and (C) In the case of ``any renewable oxygenate,'' ``non-VOC controlled renewable ether only'' and ``renewable ether only RBOB,'' the refiner or importer assumes that the volume of oxygenate added will be such that the resulting reformulated gasoline will have an oxygen content of 2.0 wt%. (2) (i) No person may combine any oxygenate with RBOB designated as ``any renewable oxygenate'' unless the oxygenate meets the criteria specified in paragraph (a) of this section. (ii) No person may combine any oxygenate with RBOB designated as ``renewable ether only'' or ``non-VOC controlled renewable ether only'' unless the oxygenate meets the criteria specified in paragraph (a) of this section. (d) Compliance calculation. (1) Any refiner for each of its refineries, and any importer shall, for each averaging period, determine compliance with the renewable oxygenate standard by calculating:
