FR940303-2-00207 FR940303-2-00099 College and University Development Program in Business Management for Selected Countries in Central and Eastern Europe AGENCY: United States Information Agency. ACTION: Notice; request for proposals. SUMMARY: Subject to the availability of funds, The Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs of the United States Information Agency invites applications from accredited post-secondary U.S. educational institutions to conduct exchange programs with post-secondary educational institutions in Albania, Bulgaria, Croatia, Czech Republic, Slovak Republic, Macedonia, Hungary, Poland, Romania and Slovenia to develop curricula and teaching methodologies for foreign faculties in the field of business management. DATES: Deadline for proposals: Proposals must be received at the U.S. Information Agency by 5 p.m. Washington, DC time on April 29, 1994. Proposals received by the Agency after this deadline will not be eligible for consideration. Faxed documents will not be accepted, nor will documents which are postmarked on April 29, 1994, but received at a later date. It is the responsibility of all grant applicants to ensure that their proposals are received by the above deadline. Grants should begin not later than October 1, 1994 and must be a minimum of two years and a maximum of three years in length. ADDRESSES: The original and 14 complete copies of the proposal should be submitted by the deadline to: U.S. Information Agency, Ref.: College and University Development Program in Business Management for Eastern and Central Europe (UDPBM), Grants Management Division, E/XE, room 336, 301 4th St., SW., Washington, DC 20547. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: For general information and requests for application packets, which include all necessary forms as well as guidelines for preparing budgets, those interested should contact Ms. Robin Kline or Ms. Deborah Trent at (202) 619&hyph;5289, or write to the following address: Specialized Programs Unit, Office of Academic Programs, U.S. Information Agency, 301 4th Street SW., room 349, Washington, DC 20547. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Fiscal Year 1994 support for this program is provided under the Support for East European Democracies (SEED) Act. Pursuant to the legislation authorizing the Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs, programs must maintain a non-political character and should be balanced and representative of the diversity of American political, social and cultural life. Programs shall also maintain their scholarly integrity and meet the highest standard of academic excellence or artistic achievement. Overview Under the auspices of the SEED Act, USIA is offering this program to help foster greater expertise in business management in selected countries of the region. The specific purpose of this program is to assist Central and East European Countries in their transformation to free market economies through the development of business management training capabilities in academic institutions. Proposals that are extensions or enhancements of past or current relationships with a partner institution will be accepted.
