FR940805-2-00068 FR940805-2-00044 To aid the reader, we have organized and divided this current listing into five addenda. Addendum I identifies updates that changed the Coverage Issues Manual. We published notices in the Federal Register that included the text of changes to the Coverage Issues Manual. These updates, when added to material from the manual published on August 21, 1989, constitute a complete manual as of March 17, 1994. Parties interested in obtaining a copy of the manual and revisions should follow the instructions in section IV of this notice. Addendum II identifies previous Federal Register documents that contain a description of all previously published HCFA Medicare and Medicaid manuals and memoranda. Addendum III of this notice lists, for each of our manuals or Program Memoranda, a HCFA transmittal number unique to that instruction and its subject matter. A transmittal may consist of a single instruction or many. Often it is necessary to use information in a transmittal in conjunction with information currently in the manuals. Addendum IV lists all substantive and interpretive Medicare and Medicaid regulations and general notices published in the Federal Register during the quarter covered by this notice. For each item, we list the date published, the Federal Register citation, the title of the regulation, the Parts of the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) which have changed (if applicable), the agency file code number, the ending date of the comment period (if applicable), and the effective date (if applicable). Addendum V sets forth the revisions to the Medicare Coverage Issues Manual that were published during the quarter covered by this notice. For the revisions, we give a brief synopsis of the revisions as they appear on the transmittal sheet, the manual section number, and the title of the section. We present a complete copy of the revised material, no matter how minor the revision, and identify the revisions by printing in italics the text that was changed. If the transmittal includes material unrelated to the revised section, for example, when the addition of revised material causes other sections to be repaginated, we do not reprint the unrelated material. IV. How To Obtain Listed Material A. Manuals An individual or organization interested in routinely receiving any manual and revisions to it may purchase a subscription to that manual. Those wishing to subscribe should contact either the Government Printing Office (GPO) or the National Technical Information Service (NTIS) at the following addresses: Superintendent of Documents, Government Printing Office, ATTN: New Order, P.O. Box 371954, Pittsburgh, PA 15250&hyph;7954, Telephone (202) 783&hyph;3238, Fax number (202) 512&hyph;2250 (for credit card orders); or National Technical Information Service, Department of Commerce, 5825 Port Royal Road, Springfield, VA 22161, Telephone (703) 487&hyph;4630. In addition, individual manual transmittals and Program Memoranda listed in this notice can be purchased from NTIS. Interested parties should identify the transmittal(s) they want. GPO or NTIS can give complete details on how to obtain the publications they sell. B. Regulations and Notices Regulations and notices are published in the daily Federal Register . Interested individuals may purchase individual copies or subscribe to the Federal Register by contacting the GPO at the address indicated above. When ordering individual copies, it is necessary to cite either the date of publication or the volume number and page number. C. Rulings Rulings are published on an infrequent basis by HCFA. Interested individuals can obtain copies from the nearest HCFA Regional Office or review them at the nearest regional depository library. We also sometimes publish Rulings in the Federal Register . D. HCFA's Compact Disk-Read Only Memory (CD&hyph;ROM)
