FR940216-0-00204 FR940216-0-00010 (A) Calibration check standards and calibration standards may be prepared from the same oxygenate stocks and by the same analyst. However, calibration check standards and calibration standards must be prepared from separate batches of the final diluted standards. For the specification limits listed in paragraph (g)(8)(ii)(C) of this section, the concentration of the check standards should be in the range given in paragraph (g)(8)(i)(C) of this section. (B) Calibration check standards shall be analyzed at a rate of at least one per analysis batch and at least one per 10 samples, whichever is more frequent. (C) If the measured concentration of a calibration check standard is outside the range of 100.0% # 6.0% of the theoretical concentration for a selected oxygenate of 1.0 mass percent or above, the sources of error in the analysis should be determined, corrected, and all analyses subsequent to and including the last standard analysis confirmed to be within the compliance specifications must be repeated. The specification limits for the accuracy of calibration check standards analyses are minimum performance requirements. The performance of individual laboratories may indeed be better than these minimum requirements. For this reason it is recommended that control charts be utilized to monitor the variability of measurements in order to optimally detect abnormal situations and ensure a stable measurement process. (D) Independent reference standards should be purchased or prepared from materials that are independent of the calibration standards and calibration check standards, and must not be prepared by the same analyst. For the specification limits listed in paragraph (g)(8)(ii)(F) of this section, the concentration of the reference standards should be in the range given in paragraph (g)(8)(i)(C) of this section. (E) Independent reference standards shall be analyzed at a rate of at least one per analysis batch and at least one per 100 samples, whichever is more frequent. (F) If the measured concentration of an independent reference standard is outside the range of 100.0% # 10.0% of the theoretical concentration for a selected oxygenate of 1.0 mass percent or above, the sources of error in the analysis should be determined, corrected, and all analyses subsequent to and including the last independent reference standard analysis confirmed to be within the compliance specifications in that batch must be repeated. The specification limits for the accuracy of independent reference standards analyses are minimum performance requirements. The performance of individual laboratories may be better than these minimum requirements. For this reason it is recommended that control charts be utilized to monitor the variability of measurements in order to optimally detect abnormal situations and ensure a stable measurement process. (G) The preparation and analysis of spiked samples at a rate of one per analysis batch and at least one per ten samples. (H) Spiked samples shall be prepared by adding a volume of a standard to a known volume of sample. To ensure adequate method detection limits, the volume of the standard added to the sample shall be limited to 5% or less than the volume of the sample. The spiked sample shall be carried through the same sample preparation steps as the background sample. (I) The percent recovery of the spiked sample shall be calculated as follows: E:GRAPHICSER16FE94.003 where: V o =Volume of sample (Ml) V l =Volume of spiking standard added (Ml) C m =Measured concentration of spiked sample C o =Measured background concentration of sample C s =Known concentration of spiking standard (J) If the percent recovery of any individual spiked sample is outside the range 100% # 10% from the theoretical concentration, then the sources of error in the analysis must be determined and corrected, and all analyses subsequent to and including the last analysis confirmed to be within the compliance specifications must be repeated. The maintenance of control charts is one acceptable method or ensuring compliance with this specification. (K) (1) Either the range (absolute difference) or relative range (but not necessarily both) for duplicate samples shall be less than the following limits: ␣ 1Oxygenate 1Concentration (volume percent) 1Range 1Relative range (volume percent) Methanol 1.0&hyph;12.0 7.2 Ethanol 3.0&hyph;12.0 7.1 t-Butanol 3.0&hyph;12.0 9.4 MTBE 3.0&hyph;15.0 0.55 9.2
