FR940805-2-00052 FR940805-2-00032 VI It is further ordered, that, each respondent shall notify the Federal Trade Commission at least thirty (30) days prior to any proposed change in such respondent such as dissolution, assignment, or sale resulting in the emergence of a successor corporation or partnership, the creation, dissolution, or sale of subsidiaries, and any other change that may affect compliance obligations arising out of this Order. Analysis to Aid Public Comment on the Provisionally Accepted Consent Order The Federal Trade Commission (``Commission'') has accepted for public comment, from Boulder Ridge Cable TV (``Boulder Ridge''), Dean Hazen, Weststar Communications, Inc., and Rodney A. Hansen (collectively ``the parties''), an agreement containing consent order. This agreement has been placed on the public record for sixty (60) days for reception of comments from interested persons. Comments received during this period will become part of the public record. After sixty (60) days, the Commission will again review the agreement and the comments received, and will decide whether it should withdraw from the agreement or make final the agreement's order. The Commission's investigation of this matter concerns a non-competition and non-disclosure agreement signed by the parties in connection with the acquisition of Three Palms, Ltd. (``Three Palms''), by Boulder Ridge. Boulder Ridge and Three Palms operated competing cable companies in Ridgecrest, California. The parties own and operate multiple cable systems in California and Hawaii. The agreement containing consent order, if finally issued by the Commission, would settle charges that the mutual agreement not to compete between Boulder Ridge and Three Palms appears to restrain competition unreasonably and bears no reasonable relation to the Ridgecrest market interests of the buying firm. The Commission has reason to believe that the agreement would affect competition for cable television services adversely and would violate Section 5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act, unless an effective remedy eliminates such anticompetitive effects. The order accepted for public comment would require the parties to cease and desist from enforcing any rights they may have under Paragraphs 3 and 4 of the agreement not to compete. The order also would ban the parties from entering into similar agreements in the future by prohibiting them from agreeing not to compete in any geographic area unrelated to the cable system or systems being sold. This would bar any unreasonable broad covenant not to compete but would provide an exception for an agreement made in connection with the sale of a cable television system or cable television service in which the parties agree not to compete with one another in a geographic area that is reasonably related to the cable television system or cable television service that is being acquired or sold. The purpose of this analysis is to invite public comment concerning the consent order. This analysis is not intended to constitute an official interpretation of the agreement and order or to modify their terms in any way. Benjamin I. Berman, Acting Secretary. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;19134 Filed 8&hyph;4&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6750&hyph;01&hyph;M
