FR940825-1-00127 FR940825-1-00009 C. Use of EPA General Assistance Grants EPA has recently issued regulations governing the use of Indian Environmental General Assistance Grants as required under 42 U.S.C. 4368b. Indian Environmental General Assistance Program Act of 1992; 42 U.S.C. 4368b, (58 FR 63876, December 2, 1993) codified at 40 CFR part 35, subpart Q. The regulations establish requirements for applying for and utilizing general assistance funds. The Indian Environmental General Assistance Grants may be used by Tribes to fund program development activities in various environmental media, including air, and are thus considered to be an important means of establishing overall Tribal environmental program capability. Moreover, the award of these grants in no way precludes a Tribe from applying for, and being awarded, air grant assistance under section 103 or section 105 of the Act. D. Additional Administrative Requirements Each Tribal application for assistance must still meet the Agency's general administrative requirements for grants which are set forth in more detail in 40 CFR Parts 31, 32 and 34 and which are not modified by this regulation. Additional requirements specific to section 105 air grants are detailed in 40 CFR 35 and, for section 103, in 40 CFR Part 40. V. Miscellaneous A. Executive Order (EO) 12866 Section 3(f) of EO 12866 defines ``significant regulatory action'' to mean any regulatory action that is likely to result in a rule that may: (1) Have an annual effect on the economy of $100 million or more or adversely affect in a material way the economy, a sector of the economy, productivity, competition, jobs, the environment, public health or safety, or State, local or tribal governments or communities; (2) Create a serious inconsistency or otherwise interfere with an action taken or planned by another agency; (3) Materially alter the budgetary impact of entitlements, grants, user fees, or loan programs or the rights and obligations of recipients thereof; or (4) Raise novel legal or policy issues arising out of legal mandates, the President's priorities, or the principles set forth in this Executive order. This proposed rule was determined not to be a significant regulatory action. A draft of this proposed rule was nevertheless reviewed by the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) prior to publication because of anticipated public interest in this action including potential interest by Indian Tribes and State/local governments. EPA has placed the following information related to OMB's review of this proposed rule in the public docket referenced at the beginning of this notice: (1) Materials provided to OMB in conjunction with OMB's review of this proposed rule; and (2) Materials that identify substantive changes made between the submittal of a draft proposed rule to OMB and this notice, and that identify those changes that were made at the suggestion or recommendation of OMB. B. Regulatory Flexibility Act (RFA) Under the RFA, 5 U.S.C. sections 601&hyph;612, EPA must prepare, for rules subject to notice-and-comment rulemaking, initial and final Regulatory Flexibility Analyses describing the impact on small entities. The RFA defines small entities as follows: _Small businesses. Any business which is independently owned and operated and is not dominant in its field as defined by Small Business Administration regulations under section 3 of the Small Business Act. _Small governmental jurisdictions. Governments of cities, counties, towns, townships, villages, school districts or special districts, with a population of less than fifty thousand. _Small organizations. Any not-for-profit enterprise which is independently owned and operated and is not dominant in its field. However, the requirement of preparing such analyses is inapplicable if the Administrator certifies that the rule will not, if promulgated, have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. 5 U.S.C. 605(b). The proposed rule, if promulgated, will not have a significant economic impact on a substantial number of small entities. Many Indian Tribes may meet the definition of small governmental jurisdiction provided above. However, the proposed rule does not place any mandates on Indian Tribes. Rather, it authorizes Indian Tribes to demonstrate their eligibility to be treated in the same manner as States under the Clean Air Act, to submit CAA programs for specified provisions and to request Federal financial assistance as described elsewhere in this preamble. Further, the proposed rule calls for the minimum information necessary to effectively evaluate Tribal applications for eligibility, CAA program approval and Federal financial assistance. Thus, EPA has attempted to minimize the burden for any Tribe that chooses to participate in the programs provided in this proposed rule. The proposed regulation will not have a significant impact on a substantial number of small businesses. Any additional economic impact on the public resulting from implementation of this proposed regulation is expected to be negligible, since Tribal regulation of these activities is limited to areas within Tribal jurisdiction and, in any event, EPA has regulated or may regulate these activities in the absence of Tribal CAA programs. The proposed regulation will not have a significant impact on a substantial number of small organizations for the same reasons that the proposed regulation will not have a significant impact on a substantial number of small businesses. Accordingly, I certify that this proposed regulation, if promulgated, will not have a significant economic impact on a number of small entities.
