FR940216-0-00254 FR940216-0-00010 (f) Baseline volume and emissions determination _(1) Individual baseline volume. (i) The individual baseline volume of a refinery described in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section shall be the larger of the total gasoline volume produced in or shipped from the refinery in 1990, excluding gasoline blendstocks and exported gasoline, and including the oxygenate volume associated with any product meeting the requirements specified in paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section. (ii) Gasoline brought into the refinery in 1990 which exited the refinery, in 1990, unchanged shall not be included in determining the refinery's baseline volume. (iii) If a refiner is allowed to adjust its baseline per paragraphs (e)(5) through (e)(7) of this section, its individual baseline volume shall be the volume determined after the adjustment. (iv) The individual baseline volume for facilities deemed closely integrated, per paragraph (e)(1) of this section, shall be the combined 1990 gasoline production of the facilities, so long as mutual volumes are not double-counted, i.e., volumes of blendstock sent from the refinery to the blending facility should not be included in the blending facility's volume. (v) The baseline volume of a refiner, per paragraph (b)(3) of this section, shall be the larger of the total gasoline volume produced in or shipped from the refinery in 1990, excluding gasoline blendstocks and exported gasoline. (vi) The baseline volume of an importer, per paragraph (b)(4) of this section, shall be the total gasoline volume imported into the U.S. in 1990. (2) Individual baseline emissions. (i) Individual annual average baseline emissions (per ยง80.90) shall be determined for every refinery, refiner or importer, as applicable. (ii) For each individual summer or winter baseline fuel parameter value (determined per paragraph (e) of this section) which is outside of the complex model conventional gasoline valid range for that parameter (per ยง80.45(f)(1)(ii)), the complex model range is extended only for such fuel parameters, in both baseline and compliance complex model emissions determinations, and only for the applicable summer or winter models. (iii) Facilities deemed closely integrated, per paragraph (e)(1) of this section, shall have a single set of annual average individual baseline emissions. (iv) Aggregate baselines (per ยง80.101(h)) must have the NO X emissions of all refineries in the aggregate determined on the same basis, using either oxygenated or non-oxygenated baseline fuel parameters. (3) Geographic considerations requiring individual conventional gasoline compliance baselines. (i) Anyone may petition EPA to establish separate baselines for refineries located in and providing conventional gasoline to an area with a limited gasoline distribution system if it can show that the area is experiencing increased toxics emissions due to an ozone nonattainment area opting into the reformulated gasoline program pursuant to section 211(k)(6) of the Act. (ii) If EPA agrees with the finding of paragraph (f)(4)(i) of this section, it shall require that the baselines of such refineries be separate from refineries not located in the area. (iii) If two (2) or more of a refiner's refineries are located in the geographic area of concern, the refiner may aggregate the baseline emissions and sulfur, olefin and T90 values of the refineries or have an individual baseline for one or more of the refineries, per paragraph (f)(3) of this section. (4) Baseline recalculations. Aggregate baseline exhaust emissions (per ยง80.90) and baseline sulfur, olefin and T90 values and aggregate baseline volumes shall be recalculated under the following circumstances: (i) A refinery included in an aggregate baseline is entirely shutdown. If the shutdown refinery was part of an aggregate baseline, the aggregate baseline emissions, aggregate baseline sulfur, olefin and T90 values and aggregate volume shall be recalculated to account for the removal of the shutdown refinery's contributions to the aggregate baseline. (ii) A refinery exchanges owners. (A) All aggregate baselines affected by the exchange shall be recalculated to reflect the addition or subtraction of the baseline exhaust emissions, sulfur, olefin and T90 values and volumes of that refinery. (B) The new owner may elect to establish an individual baseline for the refinery or to include it in an aggregate baseline. (C) If the refinery was part of an aggregate of three or more refineries, the remaining refineries in the aggregate from which that refinery was removed will have a new aggregate baseline. If the refinery was part of an aggregate of only two refineries, the remaining refinery will have an individual baseline. (g) Inability to meet the requirements of this section. If a refiner or importer is unable to comply with one or more of the requirements specified in paragraphs (a) through (f) of this section, it may, upon petition and approval, accommodate the lack of compliance in a reasonable, logical, technically sound manner, considering the appropriateness of the alternative. A narrative of the situation, as well as any calculations and results determined, must be documented.
