FR940404-2-00051 FR940404-2-00036 Office of Hearings and Appeals Issuance of Decisions and Orders; Week of January 3 Through January 7, 1994 During the week of January 3 through January 7, 1994, the decisions and orders summarized below were issued with respect to applications for exception or other relief filed with the Office of Hearings and Appeals of the Department of Energy. The following summary also contains a list of submissions that were dismissed by the Office of Hearings and Appeals. Request for Exception Fletcher & Associates, Ltd, 1/7/94, LEE&hyph;0051 Fletcher & Associates, Ltd. (Fletcher) filed an Application for Exception from the provision of filing Form EIA&hyph;782B, entitled ``Reseller/Retailers' Monthly Petroleum Product Sales Report.'' In considering the request, the DOE found that the firm was not adversely affected by the reporting burden in a way that is significantly different from the burden borne by similar reporting firms. Thus, Fletcher did not demonstrate that it is experiencing serious hardship or gross inequity. Moreover, since the firm is a ``certainty firm,'' it could not be granted relief from filing. Accordingly, exception relief was denied. Refund Applications Atlantic Richfield Company/Land O'Lakes, Inc., 1/3/94, RF304&hyph;8934, RF304&hyph;15436 The DOE issued a Decision and Order granting an Application for refund filed by Land O'Lakes, Inc. (Land O'Lakes) in the Atlantic Richfield Company Subpart V special refund proceeding. In order to qualify for a refund based upon the ARCO products sold to its member-patrons, cooperatives such as Land O'Lakes need only document their purchases from ARCO and certify that any refunds will be passed along to its member-patrons. However, in 1987, Land O'Lakes transferred all of its petroleum supply business to Farmers Union Central Exchange, Inc. (CENEX). As Land O'Lakes no longer serves its former petroleum patrons, the DOE determined that CENEX'S existing patronage system is the best available mechanism to distribute refund monies to former Land O'Lakes patrons. CENEX has certified that it will notify its Board of Directors of any refunds that are obtained by CENEX in the ARCO proceeding as a result of the Application filed by Land O'Lakes. CENEX has also certified that it will then distribute those refunds to its patrons in accordance with its established patronage dividends systems. The DOE determined that Land O'Lakes and CENEX had met the requirements applicable to a cooperative for a full volumetric refund and granted CENEX a refund of $40,156. In addition, the DOE granted Land O'Lakes a reseller refund of $3,826 based on its purchases of 7,505,261 gallons of ARCO products it sold to non-members.
