FR940105-2-00024 FR940105-2-00008 5. Consumer and Trade Literature Consumer and trade literature must be designed specifically for use in the United States. Special attention should be devoted to designing literature to meet the needs of the target market. An applicant may choose to implement only one of the two designated types of consumer and trade literature project criterion set forth below: a. Consumer and trade literature development and production. 1. Preliminary planning for design and content of brochures. (15 points) 2. Evidence that market planning research has been utilized to identify visitor preferences and information needs. (15 points) 3. Correlation between literature program and overall marketing plan. (15 points) 4. Correlation with USTTA national public relations program. (15 points) 5. Information adequately covers flood affected area. (20 points) 6. Measurement plan to assess program effectiveness. (20 points) b. Consumer and Trade Literature Distribution. 1. Soundness of strategy for distribution of literature. (25 points) 2. Timeliness of proposed response mechanism. (25 points) 3. Adequacy of response mechanism to meet anticipated demand. (20 points) 4. Evidence of strategy to allow follow-up after initial response. (15 points) 5. Measurement plan to assess program effectiveness. (15 points) 6. Special Events/Festivals This category includes the development, promotion and implementation of participatory events that draw visitation and attention to the area. a. Preliminary plan for development of event. (20 points) b. Appropriate program timing and content, and potential acceptance by the target media. (20 points) c. Proposed promotion plan adequately reaches potential trade and consumer audiences. (15 points) d. Event plan includes adequate service facilities, i.e. , parking, security, traffic flows, restrooms, food service, to accommodate projected audience. (20 points) e. Correlation to USTTA national public relations program, i.e. , use of logo or theme, etc. (15 points) f. Measurement plan to determine effectiveness. (10 points) V. Other Requirements 1. Recipients and subrecipients are subject to all Federal laws and Federal and Department of Commerce policies, regulations, and procedures applicable to Federal financial assistance awards. 2. Indirect costs are allowable; however, ``the total dollar amount of the indirect costs proposed in an application under this program must not exceed the indirect cost rate negotiated and approved by a cognizant Federal agency prior to the proposed effective date of the award or 100 percent of the total proposed direct costs dollar amount in the application, whichever is less.'' 3. No Federal funds will be awarded to an applicant who has an outstanding delinquent Federal debt until either: (a) The delinquent account is paid in full; (b) a negotiated repayment schedule is established and at least one payment is received; or (c) other arrangements satisfactory to the Department of Commerce are made.
