FR940304-2-00201 FR940304-2-00114 6. Role of Existing Information Infrastructure By a variety of measures, the United States' existing information infrastructure is the most advanced in the world. Therefore, if an applicant requests support to construct new transmission capacity, there should be a clear discussion of why utilization of existing networks and systems cannot be relied upon efficiently and economically to meet the project's needs. A proposal should address whether incorporation of existing information infrastructure into the overall plan is feasible. Under this section, applicants should address questions such as: What information infrastructure is currently available to the applicant? How can commercial and non-commercial providers of telecommunications and information services help the applicant meet its information needs? 7. Accommodation of Future Technology and Flexibility As communications and information technologies rapidly evolve and improve, existing technology can quickly become obsolete. For this reason, all applicants should consider how they intend to address this issue. The capacity for upgrades and improvements, as well as the flexibility to accommodate changes in the volume or types of uses, should be considered from the beginning of any planning or development process. 8. Contribution to the Formation of the National Information Infrastructure Applicants should explain how their proposed projects can make a contribution to the development of the National Information Infrastructure. Some questions that an applicant could consider are: What applications and services are being provided through the existing information infrastructure? How will the project ensure connectivity to other systems outside the immediate state or community? What monitoring or evaluation plan will be utilized? B. Specific Evaluative Criteria 1. Category One_Demonstration Projects a. Eligibility. This category is open to any state or local government, or any non-profit entity. For purposes of this notice, a ``local government'' is any branch of government below the state level. This term also includes special purpose subdivisions, or government-funded entities that have responsibilities beyond the political boundaries of a single state, and Indian Tribal governments. A ``non-profit'' entity is any foundation, association, or corporation, no part of the net earnings of which inures, or may lawfully inure, to the benefit of any private shareholder or individual. This is the same definition used in 47 U.S.C. 397 (1991). b. Evaluative criteria. A major criterion under this category will be the capability of the applicant actually to carry out the proposed project and/or the applicant's ability to deliver the proposed service or services. In addition to the general evaluative criteria set forth above, applicants for demonstration projects should address the following criteria in their applications: (1) Connection to end-users. In formulating their proposals, applicants should be mindful of the needs of eventual end-users. Any system or network proposed for NTIA funding should include capacity for providing a range of information services, consistent both with the mission of the entity and the present and future requirements of end-users. Questions applicants might address are: To what degree does the project duplicate other services available to users in the projected service area? To what degree does the project include provisions for multifunctional activities_such as education, health care, community information services, etc._and access to related information sources? Will the project be structured to respond to increased demands for services from users? (2) Efficiency and economy. In this era of limited fiscal resources, it is essential that each dollar be spent in the most efficient and economical manner possible. Some questions that the applicant might consider under this criterion are: Is the proposed acquisition of information infrastructure, with NTIA grant funds, the most efficient and economical? Why is the applicant's choice of technology the most appropriate to the proposal? How will the system or equipment funded by NTIA be maintained? Is its operation assured for a reasonable amount of time after installation?
