FR941212-0-00144 FR941212-0-00019 (1) Only the ``dummy'' or ``lead'' folder will contain the disposition instructions required by AR 25&hyph;400&hyph;2, for files that have a common disposition. (2) When labeling individual file folders, only the information required by AR 25&hyph;400&hyph;2 will be typed on the label. The label will be placed on the top center portion of the folder. Under no circumstances will the information concerning the claim (see paragraph (a) of this section) be placed on this label. Monthly Claims Reporting System §536.238 General. (a) The Personnel Claims Management Program, the Affirmative Claims Management Program, and the Tort and Special Claims Management Program are the automated programs which generate a monthly status report on claims against the United States and recovery actions. Specific instructions pertaining to the USARCS Claims Automation Program are contained in DA PAM 27&hyph;162, chapter 1 and in documentation provided with the automation software. (b) The data contained in the USARCS Claims Automation Program and the monthly claims office status reports generated by the automation software provide the data necessary to make sound management decisions by claims officers, by heads of area claims offices, by SJAs responsible for OCONUS command claims services, and by the Commander, USARCS. The system provides a uniform method of assignment of claim file numbers to permit identification and retrieval of individual claim files, identifies delay in claims processing, and permits worldwide management control of all claims against the Government. The automated monthly reports forwarded to USARCS provide the data base used for the preparation of claims budgetary status reports and periodic budget estimates to the USAFAC as well as to the Office of the Assistant Secretary of the Army (Financial Management). It is the responsibility of all claims office personnel to ensure that automated claims records are complete and accurate. (c) This section does not apply to the reporting of reimbursement obligations to foreign countries pursuant to the NATO&hyph;SOFA or other similar treaties or agreements. (d) The Commander, USARCS, will furnish software and documentation for the Personnel Claims Management Program, the Affirmative Claims Management Program, and the Tort and Special Claims Management Program, with updated versions as required. These are the only programs authorized for recording and reporting claims in the Army Claims System. Local modification of these programs is not authorized. §536.239 Reporting requirements. The head of each area claims office and command claims service will ensure that a monthly computer-generated claims report is prepared for each claims office with an office code within his or her area of responsibility and for each Foreign Claims Commission using the automation programs provided by USARCS. The report(s) (tort claims only) and diskettes containing current claims data base(s) (for all programs) will be posted to USARCS by the fifth calendar day of the month. In addition, a copy of any archive disk prepared during the reporting period will be forwarded for processing. Whenever possible, the data should be sent using a modem or other electronic data transfer system. Claims offices under the jurisdiction of a command claims service will forward their report(s) and diskettes through the command claims service and will comply with any additional reporting requirements of the command claims service. Diskettes must be marked with the office name, the office code, the type of claim record, the disk sequence number, the month and year, and the data base file name(s) contained in the diskette (for example, Fort Blank, 001, Tort Claims, 1 of 1, Mar 89, T9000103.1DB). Detailed instructions on the preparation of the monthly automated claims report and claims data diskettes are contained in DA PAM 27&hyph;162, chapter 12 and program documentation. If there are no changes from the previous month in the Affirmative Claims reports, the Personnel Claims report, or the Tort and Special Claims report, a negative report will be submitted within the stated time guidelines. §536.240 Error reports. USARCS will provide field claims offices with monthly error reports listing claims records that cannot be loaded into the USARCS data base due to data entry errors or omissions. Errors listed on the error reports must be corrected as soon as possible; resubmission of the corrected claims records will occur at the time of the next regular monthly reporting cycle. §536.241 Preparation. (a) Reporting. Quarterly, each command claims service or office authorized to assert affirmative claims will submit a copy of the ``Previous Three Months'' report generated by the Affirmative Claims Management Program to USARCS, ATTN: JACS&hyph;PCA. Command claims services and offices will identify these reports by quarter and fiscal year (i.e., ``1st Qtr, FY 93'') and forward them so that they arrive not later than the 7th calendar day of every quarter (i.e., 7 January, 7 April, 7 July, and 7 October each year). Offices authorized to assert affirmative claims which have no affirmative claims activity in a given quarter will forward negative reports. (b) Routing. Area claims offices and claims processing offices will forward these reports directly to USARCS through the senior Judge Advocate in the office, for example, the SJA. Claims processing offices will forward an additional copy to their area claims offices. (c) Special preparation instructions. Offices may manually correct any errors in the computer generated report using the following guidelines: (1) Claims first asserted in an indefinite amount will be reported in the period in which a reasonably accurate figure can first be determined. (2) When reporting the number of claims collected during the report period, only the first collection will be counted for claims in which payments are received in installments. (3) When reporting the total dollar amount collected during the reporting period, include any installments. The dollar value of any replacement or property repair should be included in the total with the replacement or repair value portion noted. Management of Claims Expenditure Allowance (CEA) §536.242 General. Each claims settlement or approval authority which is furnished a CEA by the USARCS budget office is responsible for managing that CEA. This includes knowing at all times how much of the CEA has been obligated, the remaining balance and a monthly assessment of whether the balance will cover claims obligation needs in the local office for the remainder of the current fiscal year. §536.243 CEA reporting requirements. (a) Each CONUS claims office having a CEA and command claims services will submit, to arrive not later than the 7th calendar day of every month, a report to USARCS, ATTN: JACS&hyph;BI, that includes the following: (1) The office code of the reporting office. (2) Dollars obligated for personnel and tort claims during the prior month and the number of personnel and tort claims paid. (3) Dollars obligated for personnel and tort claims fiscal year to date (through the end of the prior month) and the total number of personnel and tort claims paid fiscal year to date. (4) Dollars deposited during the prior month. Note: Ensure that the report of dollars deposited for the month and year to date includes only funds deposited is one of the claims appropriation accounts. Do not include money recovered through the affirmative claims program and deposited with miscellaneous receipts of the U.S. Treasury.) (5) Dollars deposited year to date through prior month. (See note at paragraph (a)(4) of this section.) (b) The report submitted at the beginning of August every year will also include the following: (1) The total CEA furnished to that office up to that time (initial CEA plus or minus any changes). (2) The CEA balance. (3) The amount the office expects to be able to obligate in the remaining 2 months of the fiscal year if sufficient funds are available. (4) The expected surplus or shortfall. (5) A proposed CEA for the next fiscal year and the rationale for any unusual increases. (c) Reports may be submitted telephonically or by facsimile. §536.244 Solatia payment. Payment of solatia in accordance with local custom as an expression of sympathy toward a victim or his or her family is common in overseas commands (see DA PAM 27&hyph;162, chapter 8). Such payments are not to be made from the claims CEA. These payments are made from local operation and maintenance funds pursuant to directives established by the appropriate commander for the country concerned. This applies even where a command claims service is directed to administer the command's solatia program.
