FR940620-2-00061 FR940620-2-00039 POSTAL SERVICE Removal of Expiration Date of Domestic Mail Manual Transition Book AGENCY: Postal Service. ACTION: Notice. SUMMARY: The June 30, 1994, expiration date for the Domestic Mail Manual Transition Book is removed to permit the continuing transfer of rules and regulations from that document into other appropriate Postal Service publications. EFFECTIVE DATE: June 30, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Neil Berger, (202) 268&hyph;2859. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: In revising the Domestic Mail Manual (DMM) in preparation for publishing Issue 46 on July 1, 1993, the Postal Service identified many regulations and provisions that did not specifically govern the eligibility for and use of domestic mail services, and made a determination not to include that material in DMM Issue 46. The identified regulations and provisions chiefly fell into two categories: recommendations for voluntary customer action and internal instructions to postal employees. Also identified were provisions not pertaining to domestic mail classification, such as post office discontinuances, delivery policies, and philatelic procedures. Pending the transfer of these regulations and provisions to other documents, the Postal Service published on July 1, 1993, the identified material in a separate part of the DMM titled the Domestic Mail Manual Transition Book. In creating the Transition Book, the Postal Service provided that the material included therein remain in full force and effect as DMM regulations and provisions for up to 1 year. 58 FR 34887 (June 30, 1993). Accordingly, the Transition Book was published with an expiration date of June 30, 1994. The purpose of this 1-year period was to allow the Postal Service to make a thorough review of these regulations and provisions and to decide whether to incorporate them into other documents, to publish them as mail classification rulings, or to rescind them. As the following two tables show, several changes have been made to the Transition Book since its publication; however, the evaluation process is not yet complete. The Postal Service has therefore determined to rescind the June 30, 1994, expiration date of the Transition Book. Additional time will be required for an orderly and systematic transfer of the remaining material from the Transition Book without jeopardizing maintenance of regulations and provisions necessary for the Postal Service and its customers. As a result, the Transition Book will remain in effect until all remaining material has been transferred. Table I shows those sections of the Transition Book (DMMT) that have been removed since July 1, 1993, and, where applicable, the sections of the Postal Operations Manual (POM) or title 39 of the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) into which such material was transferred. Effective dates shown also indicate publication dates in the Postal Bulletin or Federal Register .
