FR940728-2-00147 FR940728-2-00106 Projects that include people from a variety of cultural, racial, and ethnic backgrounds. Proposed Absolute Priority 3_Captioned Films and Videos Distribution System Background This proposed priority would support the operation of a captioned films/videos distribution system which provides deaf and hard of hearing individuals, as well as other eligible individuals with disabilities, with access to captioned educational and general interest films and videos on a nonprofit free-loan basis. Activities under this proposed priority include, but are not limited to: 1) a computerized user-registration process; 2) circulation of captioned films and videos; 3) development or updating of a catalog of captioned films and videos in the collection; and 4) outreach activities. This proposed priority would provide students and other eligible individuals with disabilities with captioned films and videos so they may benefit from the same educational media used to enrich the educational experiences of students and other individuals who do not have disabilities. Priority: To be considered for funding under this proposed priority, the project must_ (1) Develop strategies and procedures to be implemented in operating a distribution system, consisting of local and regional centers including depositories, and one central general interest and educational films/video center. Local and regional centers may include State schools for disabled individuals, public or private school systems, public libraries, colleges or universities, or other distribution points that distribute captioned films/videos. (2) Ensure that the system permits interdepository circulation of captioned films/videos, allows individuals, depositories, and local and regional centers to access booking information from the computerized depositories and the general interest and educational films/video center via modem and generic communication software, and provides immediate confirmation or denial of a request; (3) Establish and describe the computerized registration procedures that will be used to register users. The current computerized system configuration may be used as a basis; (4) Develop and implement criteria and procedures for replacing irreparable films/videos; (5) Prepare, update, and distribute copies of a catalog listing all captioned films/videos available under this project; (6) Convene an annual meeting of depository managers, librarians, and audiovisual and other personnel from local, regional, and State educational agencies for the purpose of training, planning, sharing, brainstorming, and other activities related to improving the access of eligible individuals to audiovisual materials. The Washington, D.C. metropolitan area will be the site of the meeting; (7) Implement outreach activities, especially activities that reach out to local school systems to make them aware of the open and closed captioned materials that are available to them under this program and from other sources; and (8) Submit quarterly progress reports to the grants and project officers. Proposed Absolute Priority 4_Recorded Audio Cassettes for Visually and Print Disabled Students Background This proposed priority would support recording, producing, duplicating, and distributing 15/16 ips (inch per second) four-track cassette versions of textbooks and other educational reading materials for students (elementary, secondary, postsecondary & graduate) who are visually or print disabled. These cassette tapes will help provide equal educational opportunities to target students and lessen some of the barriers they face in classrooms. Priority: To be considered for funding under this priority, the project must_ (1) Handle all requests for materials, including confirmation of eligibility by disability; (2) Arrange for use of copyrights from publishers of supplied textbooks; (3) Record or duplicate the books on 15/16 ips (inch per second), four-track cassettes of one hour per track recording time. (Publishers must be provided rights to copies of the master tape and rights to market the cassettes as they see fit); (4) Mail the cassettes on a free-loan, postage paid basis; and (5) Handle returned cassettes, preservative re-recording, and all other associated administrative and circulation functions. (6) To the extent that funds are not sufficient to meet the demand for free materials, place a priority on providing free materials that are not otherwise required to be provided by educational agencies or institutions. Proposed Absolute Priority 5_Video Description Project Background This proposed priority supports the description of national television programming in order to make television more accessible to persons with visual impairments. The intent of this priority is to provide access to a diversity of programming available in order to enhance shared educational, social, and cultural experiences for persons who are visually impaired. The range of programs proposed for description may include, but is not limited to, children's programs, prime time programming, emergency broadcasts, sports programs, and documentaries.
