FR941121-2-00067 FR941121-2-00056 Agency for Health Care Policy and Research Notice of Review of Medical Technology The Agency for Health Care Policy and Research (AHCPR), through its Office of Health Technology Assessment (OHTA), announces that it is initiating a Health Technology Review of the safety and effectiveness of bone marrow transplantation for hematopoietic reconstitution in patients given high-dose chemotherapy for the treatment of multiple myeloma. Specifically, AHCPR is requesting information on: 1. Indications and/or contraindications for the use of bone marrow transplantation in this patient population, 2. Specific patient selection criteria for the use of bone marrow transplantation, and 3. Information regarding the cost of this technology. Health Technology Reviews are brief evaluations of health technologies prepared by OHTA/AHCPR of the Public Health Service. Reviews may be conducted in lieu of a technology assessment because: the medical or scientific questions are limited and do not warrant the resources required for a full assessment; the available evidence is limited and the published medical or scientific literature is insufficient in quality or quantity for an assessment; or the time frame available precludes utilization of the full, formal assessment process. AHCPR is interested in receiving information based on review and assessment of past, current, and planned research related to this technology, as well as a bibliography of published, controlled clinical trials and other well-designed clinical studies. Also requested is information related to the characteristics of the patient population most likely to benefit from the use of bone marrow transplants in the treatment of multiple myeloma as well as information on the clinical acceptability, effectiveness, and the extent of use of this technology. Information relevant to this review should be submitted in writing no later than [insert date 90 days after the date of publication] to OHTA at the address below. To enable the interested scientific community to evaluate the information included in this review, AHCPR will discuss in the review only those data and analyses for which a source(s) can be cited. Respondents are therefore encouraged to include with their submission a written consent permitting AHCPR to cite the source of the data and comments provided. Otherwise, in accordance with the confidentiality statute governing information collected by AHCPR, 42 U.S.C. 299a&hyph;1(c), no information received will be published or disclosed which could identify an individual or entity described in the information or could identify an entity or individual supplying the information. Written material should be submitted to: Thomas V. Holohan, M.D., Director, Office of Health Technology Assessment, AHCPR, 6000 Executive Boulevard, Suite 309, Rockville, MD 20852, Phone: (301) 594&hyph;4023. Dated: November 9, 1994. Clifton R. Gaus, Administrator. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;28642 Filed 11&hyph;18&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4160&hyph;90&hyph;P
