FR940722-2-00020 FR940722-2-00013 DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION Arbitration Panel Decision Under the Randolph-Sheppard Act AGENCY: Department of Education. ACTION: Notice of arbitration panel decision under the Randolph-Sheppard Act. SUMMARY: Notice is hereby given that on March 22, 1991, an arbitration panel rendered a decision in the matter of David Terry, Vendor, v. State of Tennessee, Department of Human Services (Docket No. R&hyph;S/89&hyph;4). This panel was convened by the Secretary of the Department of Education pursuant to 20 U.S.C. 107d&hyph;2, upon receipt of a complaint filed by petitioner David Terry. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: A copy of the full text of the arbitration panel decision may be obtained from George F. Arsnow, U.S. Department of Education, 400 Maryland Avenue SW., Room 3230, Switzer Building, Washington, D.C. 20202&hyph;2738. Telephone: 202&hyph;205&hyph;9317. Individuals who use a telecommunications device for the deaf (TDD) may call the TDD number at 202&hyph;205&hyph;8298. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Pursuant to the Randolph-Sheppard Act (20 U.S.C. 107d&hyph;2(c)), the Secretary publishes a synopsis of arbitration panel decisions affecting the administration of vending facilities on Federal property. Background David Terry, complainant, is a blind vendor licensed by the respondent, the Tennessee Department of Human Services (TDHS). Mr. Terry signed an agreement with TDHS to operate vending facility # 249 located in the Safety Building in Knoxville, Tennessee. He began operation in July 1986. TDHS was given the right to establish and maintain a food concession at the Public Safety Building by entering into an agreement with the City of Knoxville, Tennessee, on March 21, 1972. The State Licensing Agency (SLA), through its Department of Rehabilitation, operates the Tennessee Vending Facility Program for blind vendors. The purpose of the program is to establish and support blind vendors operating vending facilities on State, local, and Federal property. As the agency designated in Tennessee to carry out and manage the vending facility program established by the Act, the SLA duly promulgated rules and regulations to govern the State vending facility program. These rules and regulations are comprehensive in scope. Based on the State's Randolph-Sheppard rules and regulations governing its program, Mr. Terry was required to make monthly income reports, paying a set-aside fee based upon those monthly reports, and to maintain personal liability and product liability insurance. Mr. Terry, as noted previously, began his operation in July 1986. The major part of his sales came from persons employed in the building and from trustees and inmates of the City Jail located on the second floor. In December 1986, only five months after Mr. Terry started his operation, the City of Knoxville transferred operation of the City Jail to the Knox County Sheriff's Department. The Sheriff's Department established on the second floor its own food commissary operated by a sighted person and placed a cigarette machine on that floor as well. In January 1987, Mr. Terry complained to his business enterprise counselor regarding the new commissary and vending machine possibly violating the priority provided by the State rules and regulations to licensed blind persons. As a result of Mr. Terry's complaint, the cigarette machine was removed in February 1987. However, the commissary remained. Mr. Terry then complained to the Committee of Blind Vendors, the State representative body for all blind vendors. In July, the Sheriff agreed to allow Mr. Terry to operate a concession booth in the Jail Intake Center, but, within a week, the Sheriff reversed this decision due to alleged safety and security reasons. During the operation of his vending facility, Mr. Terry was warned about his poor performance in failing to file the required monthly reports and to pay the set-aside fees. Due to these reasons, the agency terminated Mr. Terry's license in March 1988. Mr. Terry filed a grievance on April 26, 1988, regarding the termination of his license. He also sought financial relief for the period prior to his termination during which the Sheriff permitted operations that competed with his facility. The Hearing Officer and the TDHS Commissioner denied the complaint. The TDHS Commissioner found that the evidence did not establish that Mr. Terry sustained damages because of the Sheriff's actions.
