FR941116-2-00091 FR941116-2-00071 Where a mental health question is used, certain kinds of counseling need not be reported. Specifically, the question exempts marital, family and grief counseling not related to violent acts by the individual under investigation from being reported. This is because such information is not relevant to a determination as to whether an individual obtains a security clearance. In addition, the mental health question will now refer only to treatment/consultation received within the past seven years, rather than one's entire life. Finally, even where the mental health question is asked and answered affirmatively, an Investigator's inquiry into the relevant mental consultation will be limited. A separate Authorization for Release of Information must be signed by the subject of the investigation which authorizes an Investigator to seek mental health information from a mental health care provider. That release will only authorize an Investigator to ask three specific questions. This narrower release will place limits on the authority granted to Investigators without depriving them of relevant information. Drug Use Inquiries The questions on both the SF 86 and the SF 85P concerning illicit drug use include language that grants the respondent immunity from criminal prosecution based upon a truthful answer to the questions. This addition has been made principally to improve the accuracy of responses to this question, and thus enhance the reported in response to this question has not been used for criminal actions against individuals. The scope of the question about past drug use has been limited to 7 years on the SF 86, to be consistent with the proposed revised scope of a national security investigation. In addition, the question concerning past drug use (more than one year ago), will not be asked on the SF 85P. Like the mental health question, it will only be asked after an agency justifies use of the supplemental form based on the duties of the individual and receives approval from OPM. Simplification of Other Questions Several of the forms being replaced inquire into areas such as past drug use, foreign countries visited, charges for minor arrest offenses, or credit records over an individual's entire life. The proposed SF 86 limits the time of inquiry on such questions to the most recent seven years. This change represents a significant reduction in the information required by current forms without depriving adjudicators of relevant, probative information. Office of Personnel Management. James B. King, Director. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;28343 Filed 11&hyph;15&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 6325&hyph;01&hyph;M
