FR941216-2-00124 FR941216-2-00073 [TA&hyph;W&hyph;30,222] Eaton Corp.; Westinghouse & Cutler-Hammer Products; Kenosha, WI; Notice of Negative Determination Regarding Application for Reconsideration By an application dated November 2, 1994, Lodge # 34 of the International Association of Machinists (IAM) requested administrative reconsideration of the subject petition for trade adjustment assistance, TAA. The denial notice was issued on October 17, 1994 and published in the Federal Register on November 1, 1994 (59 FR 54631). Pursuant to 29 CFR 90.18(c) reconsideration may be granted under the following circumstances: (1) If it appears on the basis of facts not previously considered that the determination complained of was erroneous; (2) if it appears that the determination complained of was based on a mistake in the determination of facts not previously considered; or (3) if in the opinion of the Certifying Officer, a misinterpretation of facts or of the law justified reconsideration of the decision. Investigation findings show that the workers produce two types of electrical drives_adjustable frequency and eddy current. The Department's denial was based on the fact that the ``contributed importantly'' test of the worker group eligibility requirements of the Trade Act was not met. Production of the adjustable frequency drives was transferred to another corporate site in Florida while the eddy current drives experienced increased sales and production at Kenosha in the relevant periods. The union states that 28 percent of the market for electric drives is manufactured offshore. A review of the investigation findings, however, show that the subject firm has no major declining customers. Foreign competition, in itself, would not form a basis for a worker group certification_only increased imports of electric drives that are like or directly competitive with those produced at the workers' firm and which contributed importantly to declines in employment, sales or production at the workers' firm would provide a basis for a worker group certification. Other findings show that there are no plans to transfer production of adjustable frequency drives overseas. Conclusion After review of the application and investigative findings, I conclude that there has been no error or misinterpretation of the law or of the facts which would justify reconsideration of the Department of Labor's prior decision. Accordingly, the application is denied. Signed at Washington, DC, this 7th day of December 1994. Victor J. Trunzo, Program Manager, Policy and Reemployment Services Office of Trade Adjustment Assistance. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;30902 Filed 12&hyph;15&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4510&hyph;30&hyph;M
