FR940429-0-00125 FR940429-0-00012 (1) The system has clear and effective controls against conflicts of interest or the appearance of conflicts of interest; and (2) The system is independent administratively and financially of the SPRE, and is able to make decisions and recommendations free from undue influence by the SPRE. Several commenters believed that a SPRE should have the flexibility to determine, on a case-by-case basis, whether to sue the services of an accrediting agency or a peer review system. The commenters offered, however that a SPRE should have defensible procedures in place for selecting a peer review system, and suggested that final regulations require a SPRE to publicize and submit to the Secretary the criteria and procedures it uses to select an appropriate accrediting body or peer review system. Another commenter suggested that a SPRE should be required to develop its own mechanism to assure that a peer review system meets the same level of quality as a recognized accrediting agency. Still other commenters believed that a peer system should have the same qualifications and meet the same criteria required of nationally recognized accrediting agencies. Discussion: The Secretary disagrees with the comments of the first commenter because the Secretary believes SPREs will select competent peer review systems. Moreover, the Secretary disagrees with the suggestion of the second set of commenters because section 494C(d)(15) of the HEA does not contain that limitation. Based upon the suggestions of the other commenters and further review, the Secretary believes that a peer review system (1) must have an established basis for evaluating educational quality, (2) must have review procedures that include the selection of peer reviewers who have experience in evaluating the types of programs offered by the institution, and (3) must have established policies and procedures that guard against bias in conducting reviews of institutions. Changes: Proposed §667.24(a) is revised to require a SPRE to evaluate a peer review system using these criteria described in the discussion above. Section 667.25␣Termination of an Institution's Participation in the Title IV, HEA Programs Comment: A few commenters were concerned that providing termination authority to a SPRE represented a potential conflict with title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and perhaps with the equal protection clause of the Constitution of the Untied States. Discussion: The Secretary disagrees. If the SPRE took an action against a referred institution because the institution violated a SPRE standard and treated that institution in the same manner as it treated other institutions that had the same or similar violations, the SPRE's action would not violate title VI of the Civil Rights Act nor the equal protection clause of the Constitution. Change: None. Comment: One commenter questioned whether a SPRE could provide notice to the Secretary to terminate an institution's participation in a title IV, HEA program based solely on findings resulting from a review conducted by a nationally recognized accrediting agency or other peer review system. Discussion: It depends. First, it depends on whether the institution was a referred institution. Second, it depends on the nature of those accrediting agency or peer review findings. Moreover, before it could recommend termination, the SPRE would have to give the institution a hearing at which the institution could challenge the findings of the accrediting agency or peer review. Changes: None. Comments: Many commenters believed strongly that the Secretary should allow an institution to appeal to the Secretary a SPRE's determination that the institution should no longer participate in the title IV, HEA programs. A number of these commenters recommended that the Secretary establish procedures under which the Secretary would review cases where a SPRE's decision was clearly biased. Discussion: As the Secretary indicated in the NPRM, it is the Secretary's view that section 494C(h)(1) of the HEA does not allow an appeal to the Secretary of the SPRE's termination determination. Changes: None. Section 667.26␣Due Process Requirements Comments: Many commenters believed that a State could develop due process procedures that met the minimum requirements outlined in the NPRM, but those procedures would not be adequate or provide for a meaningful appeal. The commenters suggested that final regulations (1) specify the time within which an institution could challenge an adverse action taken by a SPRE, and (2) require a State to provide an institution the opportunity to present its case in a hearing before a third party or impartial hearing official. Discussion: The Secretary agrees with the commenters' suggestions. Changes: Section 667.26 is revised to require a State to (1) identify a minimum time within which it will allow an institution to challenge its actions, and (2) provide for a hearing before an impartial official. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;10206 Filed 4&hyph;28&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 4000&hyph;01&hyph;P&hyph;M
