FR940328-1-00020 FR940328-1-00007 Conservation measures provided to species listed as endangered or threatened under the Endangered Species Act include recognition, recovery actions, requirements for Federal protection, and prohibitions against certain practices. Recognition through listing encourages and results in conservation actions by Federal, State, and private agencies, groups, and individuals. The Act provides for possible land acquisition and cooperation with the States and requires that recovery actions be carried out for all listed species. The protection required of Federal agencies and the prohibitions against certain activities involving listed plants are discussed, in part, below. Section 7(a) of the Act, as amended, requires Federal agencies to evaluate their actions with respect to any species that is proposed or listed as endangered or threatened and with respect to its critical habitat, if any is being designated. Regulations implementing this interagency cooperation provision of the Act are codified at 50 CFR part 402. Section 7(a)(4) requires Federal agencies to confer with the Service on any action that is likely to jeopardize the continued existence of a species proposed for listing or result in destruction or adverse modification of proposed critical habitat. If a species is listed subsequently, section 7(a)(2) requires Federal agencies to ensure that activities they authorize, fund, or carry out are not likely to jeopardize the continued existence of such a species or destroy or adversely modify its critical habitat. If a Federal action may affect a listed species or its critical habitat, the responsible Federal agency must enter into formal consultation with the Service. Possible future Federal actions that could affect Parish's alkali grass include U.S. Army Corps of Engineers involvement in projects such as the construction of roads, bridges, and dredging projects subject to section 404 of the Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. 1344 et seq. ) and section 10 of the Rivers and Harbors Act of 1899 (33 U.S.C. 401 et seq. ), and issuance of loans by the Farmers Home Administration. The Bureau of Indian Affairs may permit, fund, or carry out actions such as utility corridors or home construction within spring habitat. Road construction, training exercises, and other military activities could affect the species at Edwards Air Force Base. The Act and its implementing regulations found at 50 CFR 17.61, 17.62, and 17.63 set forth a series of general prohibitions and exceptions that apply to all endangered plants. All prohibitions of section 9(a)(2) of the Act, implemented by 50 CFR 17.61, apply. These prohibitions, in part, make it illegal for any person subject to the jurisdiction of the United States to import or export, transport in interstate or foreign commerce in the course of a commercial activity, sell or offer for sale in interstate or foreign commerce, or to remove and reduce to possession the species from areas under Federal jurisdiction. In addition, for plants listed as endangered, the Act prohibits the malicious damage or destruction on Federal lands and the removal, cutting, digging up, or damaging or destroying of such plants in knowing violation of any State law or regulation, including State criminal trespass law. Certain exceptions apply to agents of the Service and State conservation agencies. The Act and 50 CFR 17.62 and 17.63 also provide for the issuance of permits to carry out otherwise prohibited activities involving endangered species under certain circumstances. Such permits are available for scientific purposes and to enhance the propagation or survival of the species. It is anticipated that few trade permits would ever be sought or issued because Parish's alkali grass is not common in cultivation or in the wild. Requests for copies of the regulations on listed species and inquiries regarding prohibitions and permits may be addressed to the Office of Management Authority, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, room 420C, 4401 N. Fairfax Drive, Arlington, Virginia 22203 (703/358&hyph;2105, FAX 703/358&hyph;2281). Public Comments Solicited The Service intends that any final action resulting from this proposal will be as accurate and as effective as possible. Therefore, comments or suggestions from the public, other concerned governmental agencies, the scientific community, industry, or any other interested party concerning this proposed rule are hereby solicited. Comments particularly are sought concerning: (1) Biological, commercial trade, or other relevant data concerning any threat (or lack thereof) to Parish's alkali grass; (2) The location of any additional populations of this species and the reasons why any habitat should or should not be determined to be critical habitat as provided by section 4 of the Act; (3) Additional information concerning the range, distribution, and population size of this species; and (4) Current or planned activities in the subject area and their possible impacts on this species. Final promulgation of the regulation on this species will take into consideration the comments and any additional information received by the Service, and such communications may lead to a final regulation that differs from this proposal. The Endangered Species Act provides for one or more public hearings on this proposal, if requested. Requests must be received within 45 days of the date of publication of the proposal in the Federal Register . Such requests must be made in writing and be addressed to the Field Supervisor, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, New Mexico Ecological Services Field Office (see ADDRESSES section). National Environmental Policy Act The Fish and Wildlife Service has determined that Environmental Assessments and Environmental Impact Statements, as defined under the authority of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, need not be prepared in connection with regulations adopted pursuant to section 4(a) of the Endangered Species Act of 1973, as amended. A notice outlining the Service's reasons for this determination was published in the Federal Register on October 25, 1983 (48 FR 49244). References Cited Hitchcock, A.S. 1928. New species of grasses from the United States. Proc. Biol. Soc. Wash. 41:157&hyph;158. Phillips, A.M., III, and B.G. Phillips. 1991. Status Report for Puccinellia parishii. U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, Ecological Services, Phoenix, Arizona. 10 pp. Wallace, R. 1993. Draft Conservation Plan: Parish's Alkali Grass, Puccinellia parishii. The Nature Conservancy, Santa Fe, New Mexico. 18 pp.
