FR940208-0-00100 FR940208-0-00031 Summary of Potential Impacts The economic consequences of designating critical habitat includes reduced ranch profits in the seven counties of $4,470,000 (this amount is the estimated permanent decrease in ranch profits capitalized at 10 percent for a 50-year period, in accordance with the methodology of Rice et al. (1978)). The Federal government will compensate allottees with a one-time payment estimated at $376,000 for the loss of permanent improvements to grazing lands (pending BLM administrative decisions of partially affected allotments). Discontinuing grazing will result in an annual reduction of $170,000 in collected grazing fees that are divided among range improvements, the U.S. Treasury, and local governments. Critical habitat designation should result in the loss of fewer than 425 total jobs in the seven counties. These include 340 direct ranching jobs and 85 indirect jobs in other industries. The estimated employment loss will not be permanent because over 85 percent of laborers will be reemployed within 2 years. Benefits of Critical Habitat Designation Conservation of the desert tortoise and its habitat through designation of critical habitat may result in a wide range of benefits. These benefits include preservation of recreation and existence values that will increase the benefits for most affected activities. Scenic beauty contributes to the quality of desert recreational experiences. Many of the CHUs are adjacent to or within Wilderness Study Areas or in designated Wilderness Areas. Habitat conservation will enhance the wilderness values of these adjacent or contiguous areas. Habitat preservation also provides for improved water quality, scenic and air quality, biological diversity, and other environmental benefits. Many of the resource services provided by critical habitat are not marketed. The lack of market prices makes it difficult to value them in dollar terms, as compared to some cost impacts, such as impacts to livestock grazing. As a result, this analysis currently focuses on the cost impacts, primarily related to livestock grazing. No comprehensive estimate of the benefits of designating critical habitat is feasible with available data. Rather, the analysis provides a discussion of the kinds of benefits that are expected to ensue, with empirical data and examples as available. Existence values represent an additional category of non-use benefit, albeit one that remains difficult to measure. Furthermore, society places preservation benefits on endangered species for the option of future recreational use, with the knowledge that the desert tortoise's natural ecosystem exists and is protected, and the satisfaction from its bequest to future generations. Many of these benefits are expected to increase in relative value over time. As human activities continue to reduce desert ecosystems, the remaining areas will become less available and more valuable. Habitat protection for the desert tortoise clearly benefits other species, as well as the human use and enjoyment of these species. Dividing the sum of benefits between the various parts by which gains are generated is a delicate task. If preservation of a species is accomplished wholly through designating critical habitat, then the full value of benefits could be attributed to that action. Typically, however, preservation is attained through a set of interactive management actions, each of which is essential to success and no one of which can be singled out as the sole means by which a species is preserved (Walsh 1992). Given the information at hand, and without better understanding the network of consequences from management alternatives, it is not possible to disaggregate the sum of benefits to identify that portion directly attributable to critical habitat designation. Biodiversity Benefits Designation of critical habitat for the desert tortoise will contribute to the protection of the biotic diversity of the arid Southwest. The tortoise's habitat includes components that make it useful to a variety of other desert species whose existence is enhanced through retention of original characteristics of their habitat. Modification or elimination of activities that would adversely modify the natural ecology of the region will conserve the desert tortoise, as well as other animal and plant species. Recreational Use Benefits Direct, non-consumptive recreational use of the desert tortoise (i.e., tortoise watching) occurs, although it is limited by the desert tortoise's burrowing habits and its relatively dispersed populations. Some recreational activities may be relocated or restricted due to critical habitat designation, particularly OHV use. Intrinsic Values Users and non-users of natural resources place value on knowing that resources will exist in the future. Benefits, which may be substantial, reside in the form of ensured future existence and availability for use and in the ability to preserve the resource for future generations. By designating critical habitat for the desert tortoise, land managers will assure the retention of option and bequest values, potentially providing benefits far outside the designated habitat region.
