FR941005-0-00033 FR941005-0-00011 Wednesday October 5, 1994 Part II Department of the Interior Fish and Wildlife Service 50 CFR Part 17 Endangered and Threatened Wildlife and Plants; Final Rule Federal Register ␣/␣Vol. 59, No. 192␣/␣Wednesday, October 5, 1994␣/␣Rules and Regulations DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR Fish and Wildlife Service 50 CFR Part 17 RIN 1018&hyph;AC01 Endangered and Threatened Wildlife and Plants; Removal of Arctic Peregrine Falcon From the List of Endangered and Threatened Wildlife AGENCY: Fish and Wildlife Service, Interior. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (Service) determines that arctic peregrine falcons ( Falco peregrinus tundrius ) are no longer a threatened species pursuant to the Endangered Species Act (Act) of 1973, as amended. This determination is based upon evidence that arctic peregrine falcon populations have recovered due to a reduction in organochlorine pesticides in the environment. Section 4(g) of the Act requires the Service to monitor recovered species for at least 5 years following delisting. This rule includes the Service's post-delisting monitoring plan for arctic peregrine falcons. Removal of the arctic peregrine falcon as a threatened species under the Act will not affect the protection provided under the similarity of appearance provision of the Act listing all Falco peregrinus found in the wild in the conterminous 48 States as endangered; nor will it affect the protection provided to this species under the Migratory Bird Treaty Act. EFFECTIVE DATE: October 5, 1994. ADDRESSES: The complete file for this rule is available for inspection, by appointment, during normal business hours at Northern Alaska Ecological Services, Endangered Species, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, 1412 Airport Way, Fairbanks, Alaska 99701. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Ted Swem at the above address (907) 456&hyph;0441 or Skip Ambrose at the above address (907) 456&hyph;0239. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background The peregrine falcon is a medium-sized brown or blue-gray raptor that preys predominantly upon birds. Three subspecies occur in North America_arctic peregrine falcon ( Falco peregrinus tundrius ); American peregrine falcon ( F. p. anatum ); and Peale's peregrine falcon ( F. p. pealei ). Only arctic peregrine falcons are included in this rule; American and Peale's peregrine falcons are not affected. Arctic peregrine falcons nest in the tundra regions of Alaska, Canada, and Greenland. They are highly migratory with most individuals wintering in Latin America, although some may winter as far north as northern Mexico and southern Florida. Arctic peregrine falcon numbers declined in the period following World War II as a result of contamination with organochlorine pesticides. Organochlorine pesticides, used widely in the United States and other nations in North, Central, and South America for control of agricultural and forest pests and mosquitos, are stable, long-lived compounds that persist in the environment. Organochlorines are deposited in the fatty tissues of animals eating contaminated food, and bioaccumulate in high concentrations in animals near the top of the food chain, such as peregrine falcons. Peregrine falcons contaminated with organochlorines can die if acutely poisoned, but a serious effect of organochlorines upon peregrine falcons in North America resulted from sublethal doses of the pesticide DDT. The principal metabolite of DDT is DDE. DDE prevents normal calcium deposition during eggshell formation, causing females to lay thin-shelled eggs that often break before hatching. Although organochlorines were not used in areas where arctic peregrine falcons breed, arctic peregrine falcons were nevertheless exposed to organochlorines because they and some of their prey species migrated through or wintered in areas of organochlorine use. Arctic peregrine falcon populations may have declined by as much as 75 percent as a result of organochlorine- caused mortality and reproductive impairment. As a result of population declines, arctic peregrine falcons were protected in 1970 under the Endangered Species Conservation Act of 1969. They were later afforded the greater protection of the Endangered Species Act of 1973 upon its passage. The Act and its implementing regulations prohibit the take (includes harass, harm, pursue, hunt, shoot, wound, kill, trap, capture, or collect; or to attempt any of these), ship in interstate commerce in the course of commercial activity, or sell or offer for sale in interstate or foreign commerce any listed species. The Act also requires review of all activities funded, permitted, or conducted by Federal agencies to consider impacts to endangered or threatened species. As a result of the prohibitions and requirements of the Act, harvest of peregrines for the sport of falconry was prohibited and peregrine falcon nest sites were provided protection. The pivotal action in aiding the recovery of peregrine falcons, however, was regulation of the use of organochlorine pesticides. The use of DDT was restricted in Canada in 1970 and in the United States in 1973. Restrictions that controlled the use of other organochlorine pesticides, including aldrin and dieldrin, were imposed in the United States in 1974. Following restrictions on the use of organochlorine pesticides, reproductive rates in arctic peregrine falcon populations increased and populations began to expand by the mid- to late-1970's. By 1984, the recovery of arctic peregrine falcons had progressed sufficiently that the Service reclassified the subspecies from endangered to threatened (49 FR 10520, March 20, 1984). The number of arctic peregrine falcons continued to increase. In 1991, the Service announced that it was reviewing the status of the threatened arctic peregrine falcon to determine if a proposal to delist was appropriate (56 FR 26969, June 12, 1991). On the basis of all available information and the comments received in response to the notice of status review, the Service proposed to delist the subspecies on September 30, 1993 (58 FR 51035). A summary of the information demonstrating the recovery of arctic peregrine falcons follows. Arctic peregrine falcons nest in the tundra regions of Alaska, Canada, and the ice-free perimeter of Greenland. The exact degree of population decline and subsequent recovery has been poorly documented because most breeding areas are extremely remote and because there were few population studies prior to the pesticide era, but it appears likely that the species' population has expanded 3-fold or more since the late 1970's. Counts of the number of pairs found breeding in one area in Alaska and three areas in the Northwest Territories, Canada (NWT), follow:
