FR940919-0-00132 FR940919-0-00017 Monday September 19, 1994 Part V Department of the Interior Fish and Wildlife Service 50 CFR Part 17 Endangered and Threatened Wildlife and Plants; Determination of Endangered Status and Withdrawal of Proposal to Give Endangered Status; Final Rule and Proposed Rule Federal Register ␣/␣Vol. 59, No. 180␣/␣Monday, September 19, 1994␣/␣Rules and Regulations DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR Fish and Wildlife Service 50 CFR Part 17 RIN 1018&hyph;AB75 Endangered and Threatened Wildlife and Plants; Determination of Endangered Status for the Conservancy Fairy Shrimp, Longhorn Fairy Shrimp, and the Vernal Pool Tadpole Shrimp; and Threatened Status for the Vernal Pool Fairy Shrimp AGENCY: Fish and Wildlife Service, Interior. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (Service) determines endangered status pursuant to the Endangered Species Act of 1973, as amended (Act) for the Conservancy fairy shrimp ( Branchinecta conservatio ), longhorn fairy shrimp ( Branchinecta longiantenna ), and the vernal pool tadpole shrimp ( Lepidurus packardi ); and threatened status for the vernal pool fairy shrimp ( Branchinecta lynchi ). These four invertebrate species are restricted to vernal pools in the State of California and are in danger of extinction principally as the result of urban development, conversion of native habitats to agriculture, and stochastic (random) extinction by virtue of the small isolated nature of many of the remaining populations. This rule implements Federal protection and recovery provisions afforded by the Act for all of these animals. One species, the California linderiella ( Linderiella occidentalis ), which had been proposed for listing with the above species, has been withdrawn. Additional information that has become available to the Service since the publication of the proposed rule reveals that this species is more abundant than previously known. The Service has considered the additional information and has determined that the California linderiella is not likely to become either endangered or threatened throughout all or a significant portion of its range in the foreseeable future, and it does not qualify for listing under the Act. A notice withdrawing the proposal is published in the Federal Register concurrently with this final rule. EFFECTIVE DATE: September 19, 1994. ADDRESSES: The complete file for this final rule is available for public inspection, by appointment, during normal business hours at the Sacramento Field Office, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service, 2800 Cottage Way Room E&hyph;1823, Sacramento, California 95825&hyph;1846. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Chris Nagano or Jim Browning at the above address or by telephone (916/978&hyph;4866). SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Background The Conservancy fairy shrimp, longhorn fairy shrimp, and the vernal pool fairy shrimp are members of the aquatic crustacean order Anostraca. The vernal pool tadpole shrimp is a member of the aquatic crustacean order Notostraca. They are endemic to vernal pools in the Central Valley, coast ranges, and a limited number of sites in the Transverse Range and Santa Rosa Plateau of California. The three fairy shrimp and the vernal pool tadpole shrimp live in vernal pools, an ephemeral freshwater habitat. None are known to occur in riverine waters, marine waters, or other permanent bodies of water. They are ecologically dependent on seasonal fluctuations in their habitat, such as absence or presence of water during specific times of the year, duration of inundation, and other environmental factors that include specific salinity, conductivity, dissolved solids, and pH levels. Water chemistry is one of the most important factors in determining the distribution of fairy shrimp and tadpole shrimp (Belk 1977; Jamie King, University of California, in litt. , 1992; Marie Simovich, University of San Diego, in litt. , 1992). The four species included in this final rule are sporadic in their distribution, often inhabiting only one or a few pools in otherwise more widespread vernal pool complexes (Larry Eng, California Department of Fish and Game, pers. comm., 1990; Jamie King, in litt. , 1992; Marie Simovich, in litt. , 1992; Richard Brusca, San Diego Museum of Natural History, pers. comm., 1992).
