FR941003-1-00010 FR941003-1-00001 (a) Initial request. Following receipt of a request for records, the General Counsel will determine whether to comply with the request and will notify the requester in writing of his determination within 10 working days. (b) Appeal. A written determination on a appeal submitted in accordance with ยง2604.304 of this subpart will be issued within 20 working days after receipt of the appeal. (c) Extension of time limits. The time limits specified in either paragraph (a) or (b) of this section may be extended in unusual circumstances up to a total of 10 working days, after written notice to the requester setting forth the reasons for the extension and the date on which a determination is expected to be made. As used in this paragraph, unusual circumstances means that there is a need to: (1) Search for and collect records from archives; (2) Search for, collect, and appropriately examine a voluminous amount of separate and distinct records which are demanded in a single request; or (3) Consult with another agency having a substantial interest in the determination of the request, or consult with various OGE components that have substantial subject matter interest in the records requested. Subpart D_Exemptions under FOIA ยง2604.401 Policy. (a) Policy on application of exemptions. Section 552(b) of the Freedom of Information Act contains nine exemptions to the mandatory disclosure of records. A requested record will not be withheld from inspection or copying unless it comes within one of the classes of records exempted by 5 U.S.C. 552. In making its determination on withholding, OGE will consider whether another statute, Executive order or regulation prohibits release or, if not, whether there is a need in the public interest to withhold material which is otherwise exempt under FOIA. (b) Pledge of confidentiality. Information obtained from any individual or organization, furnished in reliance on a provision for confidentiality authorized by applicable statute, Executive order or regulation, will not be disclosed to the extent it can be withheld under one of the exemptions. However, this paragraph does not itself authorized the giving of any pledge of confidentiality by any officer or employee of the Office of Government Ethics. (c) Exception for law enforcement information. The Office may treat records compiled for law enforcement purposes as not subject to the requirements of the Freedom of Information Act when: (1) The investigation or proceeding involves a possible violation of criminal law; (2) There is reason to believe that the subject of the investigation or proceeding is unaware of its pendency; and (3) The disclosure of the existence of the records could reasonably by expected to interfere with the enforcement proceedings. (d) Partial application of exemptions. Any reasonably segregable portion of a record will be provided to any person requesting the record after deletion of the portions which are exempt under this subpart. ยง2604.402 Business information. (a) In general. Business information provided to the Office of Government Ethics by a submitter will not be disclosed pursuant to a Freedom of Information Act request except in accordance with this section. (b) Designation of business information. Submitters of business information should use good-faith efforts to designate, by appropriate markings, either at the time of submission or at a reasonable time thereafter, those portions of their submissions which they deem to be protected under Exemption 4 of the FOIA. Any such designation will expire 10 years after the records were submitted to the Government, unless the submitter requests, and provides reasonable justification for, a designation period of longer duration. (c) Predisclosure notification. The General Counsel will provide a submitter with prompt written notice of a FOIA request regarding its business information if: (1) The information has been designated by the submitter as information deemed protected from disclosure under Exemption 4 of the FOIA; or (2) The General Counsel has reason to believe that the information may be protected from disclosure under Exemption 4 of the FOIA. Such written notice shall either describe the exact nature of the business information requested or provide copies of the records containing the business information. The requester also shall be notified that notice and an opportunity to object are being provided to a submitter. (d) Opportunity to object to disclosure. A submitter has five working days from receipt of the predisclosure notification to provide a written statement of any objection to disclosure. Such statement shall specify all the grounds for withholding any of the information under any exemption of the FOIA and, in the case of Exemption 4, shall demonstrate why the information is deemed to be a trade secret or commercial or financial information that is privileged or confidential. Information provided by a submitter pursuant to this paragraph may itself be subject to disclosure under the FOIA. (e) Notice of intent to disclose. The General Counsel will consider all objections raised by a submitter and specific grounds for nondisclosure prior to determining whether to disclose business information. Whenever the General Counsel decides to disclose business information over the objection of a submitter, he will send the submitter a written notice at least 10 working days before the date of disclosure containing:
