FR940610-2-00224 FR940610-2-00106 Absolute Priority 4_Minority Institutions Personnel (84.029E). This priority supports awards to Historically Black Colleges and Universities and other institutions of higher education whose minority student enrollment is at least 25 percent. Awards may provide training of personnel in all areas noted in §318.10(a)(1) and (2) and must be designed to increase the capabilities of the institution in appropriate training areas (34 CFR 318(a)(17)). Competitive Priorities: Within Absolute Priority 4, the Secretary, under 34 CFR 75.105(c)(2)(i), gives preference to applications that meet one or more of the following competitive priorities. The Secretary awards up to 10 additional points to an application that meets one or more of these competitive priorities in a particularly effective way. These points are in addition to any points the application earns under the selection criteria for the program: (a) Training personnel to provide transition assistance from school to adult roles (34 CFR 318.11(a)(12)). (b) Preparing personnel to meet the National Education Goals (34 CFR 318.11(a)(17)). Project Period: Up to 36 months. Absolute Priority 5_Preparation of Related Services Personnel (84.029F). This priority supports preservice preparation of individuals to provide developmental, corrective, and other supportive services that assist children and youth with disabilities to benefit from special education. These include paraprofessional personnel, therapeutic recreation specialists, school social workers, health service providers, physical therapists, occupational therapists, school psychologists, counselors (including rehabilitation counselors), interpreters, orientation and mobility specialists, respite care providers, art therapists, volunteers, physicians, and other related services personnel. •Projects to train personnel identified as special education personnel in the regulations in this part are not appropriate, even if those personnel may be considered related services personnel in other settings. •This priority is not designed for general training. Projects must include inducements and preparation to increase the probability that graduates will direct their efforts toward supportive services to special education. For example, a project in occupational therapy (OT) might support a special component on pediatric or juvenile psychiatric OT, support those students whose career goal is OT in the schools, or provide for practica and internships in school settings. (See 34 CFR 318.11(a)(2).) Competitive Priorities: Within Absolute Priority 5, the Secretary, under 34 CFR 75.105(c)(2)(i), gives preference to applications that meet one or more of the following competitive priorities. The Secretary awards up to 10 additional points to an application that meets one or more of these competitive priorities in a particularly effective way. These points are in addition to any points the application earns under the selection criteria for the program:
