FR941102-1-00086 FR941102-1-00018 Neither the quality proposal by LOL nor the somatic cell proposal by NCI, in which each handler would be allowed to submit an individual quality or somatic cell payment plan to the market administrator, is included in this decision. Although the Agricultural Marketing Agreement Act in 7 U.S.C. 608c(5) does allow for adjustments to minimum pay prices on the basis of quality, such adjustments should be at a uniform rate for all producers in the market. Allowing each handler to have its own payment schedule would defeat the concept of uniform pricing to producers, eliminate the purpose of allowing quality adjustments under the order, and lead to disorderly marketing. Producers with identical milk shipping to different handlers within the same market could, and probably would, have different minimum order pay prices if each handler had its own quality or somatic cell payment plan. A number of witnesses testified that the profusion of payment plans currently in effect in the market today are causing disorderly marketing, and that one of the benefits of incorporating multiple component pricing with a somatic cell adjustment in the five orders would be to reduce or at least standardize the vast array of producer payment plans currently in effect in the region. In view of such testimony, adoption of the LOL or NCI quality adjustment proposals would serve no purpose. 5. Conforming Changes To accommodate multiple component pricing a number of changes need to be made in the current order provisions of the five orders in this decision. To compute a handler's obligation and the producer price differential, several prices need to be defined. The Class I differential price should be defined as the difference between the current month's Class I price and the current month's Class III price. The Class II differential price should be defined as the difference between the current month's Class II price and the current month's Class III price. These differential prices should not be confused with the fixed value that is added to the Minnesota-Wisconsin price for the second preceding month to arrive at the Class I price for the current month, or the computed value that is used in the computation of the Class II price. It should also be pointed out that these differential prices may be negative, which currently happens when the Minnesota-Wisconsin price is greater than the Class I or Class II price. The skim milk price will be calculated by subtracting from the Class III price the value determined by multiplying the butterfat differential by 35. The skim milk price will be expressed on a per hundredweight basis with four places to the right of the decimal. Since producer location adjustments are not changed in this decision, the application of such adjustments to the producer price differential remains unchanged. In some of the orders the uniform price is ``snubbed'' at the Class III price when producer location adjustments are applied. In these orders, the producer price differential will be adjusted for location until the producer price differential is zero if the producer price differential at the zero zone is zero or greater. However, if the producer price differential is negative, no minus producer location adjustment will be applied. Plus adjustments to a negative producer price differential would be made. In those orders in which the uniform price is not ``snubbed'' to the Class III price, producer location adjustments will be applied as they are currently. For the Market Administrator to compute the producer price differential handlers will need to supply additional information on their monthly reports of receipts and utilization. In addition to the product pounds and butterfat currently reported, handlers will be required to report pounds of protein and pounds of other solids. This information will be required from each handler for all producer receipts, including milk diverted by the handler, receipts from cooperatives as 9(c) handlers, and receipts of bulk milk received by transfer or diversion. For the Upper Midwest Order only, the due date for handlers to submit reports of receipts and utilization should be changed, from the 10th of the month to the 8th of the month. Currently, the Upper Midwest Order requires handlers to submit reports by the 10th of the month, and the Uniform Price to be announced by the 11th of the month, allowing only one day for the pooling process. The other four orders involved in this decision allow a longer period of time for the processing of data and the announcement of the Uniform Price. In the Chicago Regional Order, handler reports are due on the 10th, and the Uniform Price is announced on the 14th, a period of 4 days. In the Iowa Order, handler reports are due on the 8th, and the Uniform Price is announced on the 12th, a period of 4 days. In the Nebraska-Western Iowa Order, handler reports are due on the 7th, and the Uniform Price is announced on the 12th, a period of 5 days. In the Eastern South Dakota Order, handler reports are due on the 8th, and the Uniform Price is announced on the 12th, a period of 4 days.
