FR941117-2-00164 FR941117-2-00108 No financial support or provision is made for Fellows' dependents under the Muskie Program. Muskie Fellows receive scholarships for international transportation, domestic transportation within the United States, stipend, health insurance, full or partial tuition, room/board, and other expenses. Fellows who receive TOEFL scores below 550 will enroll in courses of English as a Second Language (ESL) in summer 1995. Whenever possible, Fellows who receive TOEFL scores above 550 will take part in summer pre-academic programs prior to arrival at their host universities. Currently 136 students are enrolled at U.S. institutions under the auspices of the 1994 Muskie Program. Approximately 140 Fellows will be selected for participation in the 1995 Muskie Program. Program Guidelines The Muskie Fellowship comprises the degree, certificate, and professional development programs outlined below. Fellows will enter U.S. graduate studies in the 1995 fall semester. Degree and Certificate Programs In general, Fellows with degree awards in business administration and economics should take part in two-year academic programs leading to the degree of Masters of Business Administration (MBA) or Master of Arts (MA), respectively. Internships should take place during the summer between the first and second years of study. All programs in law must lead to the Master of Laws (LLM) degree. Fellows with awards in law generally participate in nine-month LLM programs followed by a three-month internship; however, longer LLM programs are also admissible. Fellows with degree awards in public administration should take part in one- or two-year programs leading to the Masters of Public Administration (MPA) or Master of Arts (MA) degree. In some cases, certificates may be awarded instead of degrees. Three-month internships should take place during the summer of 1996, after one year or academic study. Professional Development Programs The Professional Development awards are specifically designed for mid-career professionals with at least three years substantive work experience prior to application. These non-degree programs in business administration, economics, and public administration generally include two semesters of tailored academic study at the mater's level, followed by up to six months of practical training. The law program for mid-career professionals should lead to the LLM degree with up to six months of practical training after the period of academic study. Program Requirements and Review Criteria U.S. institutions may apply to receive Fellows individually or in groups of two to ten people representing one or any combination of the four disciplines. Host institutions for 1995 Muskie Fellows will be selected by ACTR/ACCELS, IIE, IREX, the Soros Foundation, and USIA, based on the following criteria: a. Strength of academic program_Academic rigor and demonstrated capacity to meet participant needs. b. Track record_Expericence working with and providing a full range of support services for international students. Recognition of and compliance with the intent, rules, and regulations governing the Muskie Program. c. Professional support_Ability to facilitate professional affiliations and internships. d. Academic support_Capacity to assign a faculty advisor and a Muskie Program coordinator to provide academic guidance, logistical support, and assistance in arranging enrichment activities. e. Cost-effectiveness_Ability to provide a high quality program for lowest costs. A key measure of cost-effectiveness is the host institution's program cost per Fellow. The Agency also reviews the ratio of cost-sharing to program costs exhibited through such means as tuition scholarships, fellowships, or reduced room and board expenses. f. Geographic diversity_The Agency Seeks to achieve maximum geographic diversity in the selection of host institutions. g. Evaluation plan_Proposals should outline methods for monitoring the academic progress and integration of Fellows in the campus and community. h. Adherence of proposed activities to the criteria outlined above and the goals of the Edmund S. Muskie Fellowship Program. Institutions receiving two or more Fellows are encouraged to provide commensurate cost-sharing for such groups. The academic interests and professional needs of candidates selected as Fellows will be considered in the final designation of U.S. host institutions. Proposals must be submitted to ACTR/ACCELS, IIE, IREX, or the Soros Foundations, according to discipline and type of program (degree, certificate, or professional development), as indicated above.
