FR941121-0-00048 FR941121-0-00004 14 CFR Part 39 [Docket No. 94&hyph;NM&hyph;125&hyph;AD; Amendment 39&hyph;9071; AD 94&hyph;23&hyph;08] Airworthiness Directives; Jetstream Model HS 748 Series 2A and 2B Airplanes AGENCY: Federal Aviation Administration, DOT. ACTION: Final rule; request for comments. SUMMARY: This amendment adopts a new airworthiness directive (AD), applicable to all Jetstream Model HS 748 Series 2A and 2B airplanes. This action requires repetitive replacement of the structurally significant items (SSI) on the nose landing gear (NLG) and main landing gear (MLG) with serviceable SSI's. This amendment is prompted by fatigue testing which revealed that the SSI's on the NLG and the MLG have a limited service life. The actions specified in this AD are intended to ensure the replacement of the SSI's that have reached the maximum life limit; SSI's that are not replaced could fail and lead to the failure of the NLG and MLG during taxi, take-off, or landing. DATES Effective: December 6, 1994. The incorporation by reference of certain publications listed in the regulations is approved by the Director of the Federal Register as of December 6, 1994. Comments for inclusion in the Rules Docket must be received on or before January 20, 1995. ADDRESSES: Submit comments in triplicate to the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), Transport Airplane Directorate, ANM&hyph;103, Attention: Rules Docket No. 94&hyph;NM&hyph;125&hyph;AD, 1601 Lind Avenue, SW., Renton, Washington 98055&hyph;4056. The service information referenced in this AD may be obtained from Dowty Aerospace, Customer Support Center, P.O. Box 49, Sterling, Virginia 20166. This information may be examined at the FAA, Transport Airplane Directorate, 1601 Lind Avenue, SW., Renton, Washington; or at the Office of the Federal Register, 800 North Capitol Street, NW., suite 700, Washington, DC. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: William Schroeder, Aerospace Engineer, Standardization Branch, ANM&hyph;113, FAA, Transport Airplane Directorate, 1601 Lind Avenue, SW., Renton, Washington 98055&hyph;4056; telephone (206) 227&hyph;2141; fax (206) 227&hyph;1100. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Civil Aviation Authority (CAA), which is the airworthiness authority for the United Kingdom, recently notified the FAA that an unsafe condition may exist on all Jetstream Model HS 748 series 2A and 2B airplanes. The CAA advises that results of fatigue testing, conducting by Dowty [the manufacturer of the nose landing gear (NLG) and main landing gear (MLG) components], revealed that certain components in the NLG and MLG specified as structurally significant items (SSI) have a limited service life. Investigation revealed that these SSI's, upon attaining or exceeding a certain number of landings, can fail due to fatigue-related stress. If not replaced in a timely manner, the SSI's could fail and lead to the failure of the NLG and MLG during taxi, take-off, or landing. Dowty has issued Service Bulletin 32&hyph;104E, dated January 20, 1993, which describes procedures for determining the number of landings accumulated on the SSI's on the NLG and MLG, and repetitively replacing these SSI's with serviceable SSI's at regulator intervals. The CAA classified this service bulletin as mandatory. This airplane model is manufactured in the United Kingdom and is type certificated for operation in the United States under the provisions of section 21.29 of the Federal Aviation Regulations (14 CFR 21.29) and the applicable bilateral airworthiness agreement. Pursuant to this bilateral airworthiness agreement, the CAA has kept the FAA informed of the situation described above. The FAA has examined the findings of the CAA, reviewed all available information, and determined that AD action is necessary for products of this type design that are certificated for operation in the United States. Since an unsafe condition has been identified that is likely to exist or develop on other airplanes of the same type design registered in the United States, this AD is being issued to ensure the replacement of the SSI's that have reached the maximum life limit. This AD requires initially determining the number of landings accumulated on the SSI's currently installed in the NLG and MLG, and repetitively replacing the SSI's with serviceable SSI's, upon the accumulation of a certain number of landings. The actions would be required to be accomplished in accordance with the service bulletin described previously. There currently are no Jetstream Model HS 748 series 2A and 2B airplanes on the U.S. Register. All airplanes included in the applicability of this rule currently are operated by non-U.S. operators under foreign registry; therefore, they are not directly affected by this AD action. However, the FAA considers that this rule is necessary to ensure that the unsafe condition is addressed in the event that any of these subject airplanes are imported and placed on the U.S. Register in the future. Should an affected airplane be imported and placed on the U.S. Register in the future, it would require approximately 40 work hours to accomplish the required actions, at an average labor charge of $60 per work hour. Based on these figures, the total cost impact of this AD would be $2,400 per airplane, per replacement cycle. Since this AD action does not affect any airplane that is currently on the U.S. register, it has no adverse economic impact and imposes no additional burden on any person. Therefore, notice and public procedures hereon are unnecessary and the amendment may be made effective in less than 30 days after publication in the Federal Register .
