FR940622-0-00012 FR940622-0-00006 * * * * * Par. 3. The heading of ยง1.382&hyph;6 is revised, and the text of the section is added to read as follows: ยง1.382&hyph;6 Allocation of income and loss to periods before and after the change date for purposes of section 382. (a) General rule. Except as provided in paragraphs (b) and (d) of this section, a loss corporation must allocate its net operating loss or taxable income (see section 382(k)(4)), and its net capital loss (see section 1222(10)) or modified capital gain net income (as defined in paragraph (g)(4) of this section), for the change year between the pre-change period and the post-change period by ratably allocating an equal portion to each day in the year. (b) Closing-of-the-books election_ (1) In general. Subject to paragraphs (b)(3)(ii) and (d) of this section, a loss corporation may elect to allocate its net operating loss or taxable income and its net capital loss or modified capital gain net income for the change year between the pre-change period and the post-change period as if the loss corporation's books were closed on the change date. An election under this paragraph (b)(1) does not terminate the loss corporation's taxable year as of the change date (e.g., the change year is a single tax year for purposes of section 172). (2) Making the closing-of-the-books election_ (i) Time and manner. A loss corporation makes the closing-of-the-books election by including the following statement on the information statement required by ยง1.382&hyph;2T(a)(2)(ii) for the change year: ``THE CLOSING-OF-THE-BOOKS ELECTION UNDER ยง1.382&hyph;6(b) IS HEREBY MADE WITH RESPECT TO THE OWNERSHIP CHANGE OCCURRING ON [INSERT DATE].'' The election must be made on or before the due date (including extensions) of the loss corporation's income tax return for the change year. (ii) Election irrevocable. An election under this paragraph (b) is irrevocable. (3) Special rules relating to consolidated and controlled groups_ (i) Consolidated groups. If an election under this paragraph (b) is made with respect to an ownership change occurring in a consolidated return year, all allocations under this section with respect to that ownership change must be consistent with the election. (ii) Controlled groups. If paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section does not apply, and if, as part of the same plan or arrangement, two or more members of a controlled group (as defined in section 1563(a), determined by substituting ``50 percent'' for ``80 percent'' each place that it appears, and without regard to section 1563(a)(4)), have ownership changes and continue to be members of the controlled group (or become members of the same other controlled group), a closing-of-the-books election applies only if the election is made by all members having the ownership changes. (c) Operating rules for determining net operating loss, taxable income, net capital loss, modified capital gain net income, and special allocations. For purposes of this section, for the change year_ (1) In general_ (i) Net operating loss or taxable income is determined without regard to gains or losses on the sale or exchange of capital assets; and (ii) Net operating loss or taxable income and net capital loss or modified capital gain net income are determined without regard to the section 382 limitation and do not include the following items, which are allocated entirely to the post-change period_ (A) Any income, gain, loss, or deduction to which section 382(h)(5)(A) applies; and (B) Any income or gain recognized on the disposition of assets transferred to the loss corporation during the post-change period for a principal purpose of ameliorating the section 382 limitation. (2) Adjustment to net operating loss_ (i) Determination of remaining capital gain. The amount of modified capital gain net income (defined in paragraph (g)(4) of this section) allocated to each period is offset by capital losses to which section 382(h)(5)(A) applies and capital loss carryovers, subject to the section 382 limitation (in the case of modified capital gain net income allocated to the post-change period). (ii) Reduction of net operating loss by remaining capital gain. The amount of net operating loss allocated to each period is reduced (but not below zero) without regard to the section 382 limitation, first by the modified capital gain net income remaining in the same period, and then by the modified capital gain net income remaining in the other period.
