FR941222-0-00086 FR941222-0-00013 The approval conditions of §6.5 are designed to implement the section of the Act that requires the Secretary to promulgate regulations ``to mitigate the adverse effects of solid waste disposal sites in operation as of September 1, 1984, upon property of the United States.'' As a result of the statutory language, the first condition requires that there be adequate mitigation of adverse effects from the operation of the disposal site. The second condition requires compliance with all applicable Federal, State, and local laws and regulations. This section, like §6.4, requires that there be no hazardous waste disposal at any such sites because such activities are incompatible with the values and purpose of the National Park System and each unit thereof. Several solid waste disposal sites are currently operated by nonfederal parties in units of the National Park System. Most are on nonfederal lands within the unit boundaries, while others are on Federal lands within the units. The sites on Federal lands often exist because of agreements made as conditions to Federal acquisition of specific tracts of land. The regulations will not terminate any existing agreements that are in compliance with applicable local, State, and Federal laws. Section 6.5(c) prescribes the conditions under which the Regional Director may allow existing solid waste disposal sites to continue operations. However, the NPS intends that existing solid waste disposal sites operated by nonfederal parties will not operate indefinitely. Under §6.5(e), a site that reaches its capacity may continue operation only if the site meets conditions applicable to new sites at §6.4(a). For the purposes of these regulations, the capacity of a solid waste disposal site is that area, volume, or height prescribed in the State-issued permit or other instrument. Any proposal to extend the capacity of an existing solid waste disposal site beyond that specified in the permit will be treated as a proposal for a new solid waste disposal site. Such a proposal is subject to the approval conditions in §6.4. It is conceivable that communities that lie wholly within the boundaries of a unit of the National Park System may exhaust the capacity of their existing solid waste disposal sites. Such communities may request that the Regional Director permit them to establish a new, or expand an existing, site within the unit. The Regional Director must judge such a request under the conditions prescribed in §6.4. However, the Regional Director will judge a request for expansion of an existing site under the approval conditions of §6.5(c), if the operator shows that: •The solid waste is generated solely from within the boundaries of the unit; and •The operator owns or leases the nonfederal lands proposed for the expansion; and •The solid waste disposal site lacks road, rail or adequate water access to any lands outside of the unit for all or substantial portions of the year. A substantial portion of the year consists of three or more consecutive months. The principles of this section govern the NPS. Should the NPS seek to expand an existing solid waste disposal site that has reached its capacity, such an expansion is to be judged as a ``new'' site, governed by the approval standards of §6.4(a). If the NPS meets the first and third conditions of §6.5(e)(2), the NPS may also expand an existing NPS-operated solid waste disposal site that has reached its capacity, under the standards of §6.5(c), rather than §6.4(a). The final rule includes a new section (f) to address concerns about solid waste incinerators and transfer stations. The proposed and final definition of ``solid waste disposal site'' included incinerators. The final rule defines solid waste disposal sites to also include transfer stations. The installation of an incinerator or a transfer station where there was no site for solid waste disposal on September 1, 1984 is governed by §6.4. Section 6.5(a) governs the continued operation of an incinerator or a transfer station where such a solid waste disposal site existed before September 1, 1984. Existing incinerators or transfer stations, just as any other solid waste disposal site, may continue to dispose of solid waste within the boundaries of a unit of the National Park System only after applying to the NPS under §6.5(a) and under the standards of §6.5(c). Because incinerators or transfer stations generally do not reach capacity and require expansion, §6.5(e) does not apply to them. Rather §6.5(e) addresses conventional land-fill solid waste disposal sites. Section 6.5(f) is needed to address the conversion of an existing land-fill solid waste disposal site to a transfer station after the effective date of this rule. Without §6.5(f), an operator of an existing solid waste disposal site, approved under §6.5(c), may not realize that converting an existing solid waste disposal land-fill to a transfer station requires a request to the NPS Regional Director and further NPS review and approval. Section 6.6␣Solid Waste Disposal Sites Within New Additions to the National Park System This section is included in the final rule in recognition of the fact that solid waste disposal sites, either on Federal or nonfederal lands, may be added to the National Park System through addition of new units or the expansion of existing units. Management Policies state that solid waste disposal sites are not compatible with the purpose of the National Park System and the intent of Congress was to eliminate solid waste disposal sites from the National Park System in the future. Thus, solid waste disposal sites on Federal or nonfederal lands included within a unit boundaries must cease operations immediately upon expiration of the permit or license in effect on the date the lands were included within the boundaries of a National Park System unit. The NPS will grant no extensions. Paragraph (a) applies to solid waste disposal sites on both Federal and nonfederal lands included within a National Park System unit boundaries. In the interim, and until the expiration of the permit, permittees and/or operators of such sites on Federal or nonfederal lands within the boundaries must submit a permit request and environmental report. Thus, paragraph (b) states that an operator wishing to continue solid waste disposal must request a permit within 180 days of the site's designation as lying within the boundaries of a National Park System unit. The final rule modifies paragraph (c) to delete immediate closure as the NPS remedy under part 6 for an operator on Federal or nonfederal lands who disposes of solid waste on that land without requesting NPS approval as specified in paragraph (b). The final rule substitutes instead a broader selection of remedies and penalties as defined in §6.12. The final rule modifies paragraph (d) to make clear that while an operator of a solid waste disposal site on lands incorporated within the boundaries of a unit of the National Park System may continue to operate until the expiration of the permit or other license that existed on the date the lands were incorporated into the unit, such an operator may do so, only insofar as such operator meets the NPS approval standards of §6.5(c).
