FR940202-2-00075 FR940202-2-00055 Policy Letter 93&hyph;1, Supplement No. 1 To the Heads of Executive Departments and Agencies Subject: Management Oversight of Service Contracting. The purpose of this supplement to Policy Letter 93&hyph;1 is to provide agencies with a more ``results-oriented'' approach to managing and administering service contracts by introducing the ``best practices'' concept. The Policy Letter was issued on November 19, 1993 and published in the Federal Register on December 2, 1993 (58 FR 63593). The following changes are being made to the Policy Letter: 1. Section 4. Definition. The second sentence is revised to read: For purposes of this Policy Letter, only nonpersonal services obtained under contract are covered. 2. Section 5. Exclusions. The second paragraph is revised to read: Services obtained under contracts below the small purchase threshold, through the use of interagency agreements, and that are incidental to supply contracts also are excluded from coverage of this Policy Letter. However, agencies should ensure that they are in compliance with appropriate OFPP Policy Letters applicable to service contracting and use good management practices and contract administration techniques when using these contracting methods to obtain services. 3. Section 7. Good Management Practices. The second introductory paragraph is revised to read: The following sections offer guidance to ensure that good management practices are being followed. Agencies should involve procurement and program officials when developing requirements for service contracts. Appendix A contains a series of questions to help analyze and perfect service contract requirements within these guidelines. If the guidelines apply, and if the response to any of the questions listed in the Appendix is affirmative, agencies should ensure that they are in compliance with appropriate OFPP Policy Letters applicable to service contracting and use good management practices and contract administration techniques. 4. Section 8. Responsibilities. Paragraphs a., b., and d. are revised to read: a. Heads of Agencies. Agency heads (or their designees) should ensure that: (1) Requirements for services are clearly defined and appropriate performance standards are developed so that contractor performance meets contract terms and conditions. (2) Service contracts are awarded and administered in such a manner that will provide the customer its goods and services on time, and within budget. (3) Specific procedures are in place when contracting for services to assure compliance with OFPP Policy Letter 92&hyph;1, Inherently Governmental Functions (57 FR 45096 (1992), 91&hyph;2, Service Contracting (56 FR 15110 (1991), and 89&hyph;1, Conflicts of Interest Policies Applicable to Consultants, 54 FR 51805 (1989). (4) Implementation strategies are developed and necessary staff training is initiated to assure effective implementation of these policies. b. Contracting Officials. Contracting officials should ensure that ``best practice'' techniques, such as those set forth below, are used when contracting for services: (1) The corporate experience section of a contractor's bid proposal should be reviewed to detect conflicts of interest. Usually, the corporate experience section contains the contractor's prior business clients. (2) Monthly progress reports should be reviewed to detect whether the contractor may be performing inherently governmental functions. Contracting officials should also seek other best practices techniques in contract management and administration that may be used within their own contracting activities or other agencies that will help to achieve excellence in contractor performance. OFPP will also be working to develop governmentwide ``best practices'' models in contract administration which will be issued as separate guidance. d. Inspectors General. The Inspectors General are encouraged to conduct vulnerability assessments of service contracting and, where warranted, include in their annual plans a review of service contracts to ensure compliance with the Policy Letter. The guidance in section 7 which refers to the questions in appendix A, and any resulting ``best practices'' models developed by OFPP should not be viewed as mandatory regulatory guidance for audit purposes. All other provisions of the Policy Letter remain unchanged. Information Contact. For information regarding this Supplement, contact Linda G. Williams, Deputy Associate Administrator, Office of Federal Procurement Policy, 725 17th Street, NW., room 9001, Washington, DC 20503. Telephone (202) 395&hyph;3302. Effective Date. This supplement is effective 30 days after the date of publication in the Federal Register . Steven Kelman, Administrator. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;2356 Filed 2&hyph;1&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3110&hyph;01&hyph;M
