FR941102-1-00072 FR941102-1-00018 The proposal by TAPP and FUMMC to leave butterfat on a differential pricing basis and to price protein on a differential basis with a neutral range is not included in this decision. To continue to pay producers for butterfat and to add payment for protein on the ``traditional'' differential system would confuse and frustrate producers in the understanding of their milk checks. Continued use of differentials would perpetuate the volume-based pricing system with a high value on water, and would fail to give producers a true price signal of what the marketplace wants. The use of differentials in pricing milk components is not widely understood. There is no valid reason to continue an outmoded and confusing pricing system in valuing milk components. Pricing components on a per-pound basis will allow producers to see clearly what components have the most value, a result which plainly fits the goal of encouraging producers to produce those components which have the highest value in the market place. Per-pound pricing also makes clear to producers that it is the pounds of components that result in payment, rather than the percentages of those components in milk. Producers would be better able to look at the cost of producing pounds of components, and compare those costs with possible returns. Application of a neutral zone would discourage producers from increasing protein production marginally unless such an increase would raise the protein level above the neutral range. A. Protein The protein price for milk pooled under the five north central Federal milk orders should be calculated by multiplying the monthly average of 40-pound block cheese prices on the Green Bay Cheese Exchange by 1.32, without including a value for whey protein. No opposition was expressed at the hearing to pricing protein on the basis of its value in the manufacture of cheese. The differences between participants came in determining the appropriate level of the protein price. A proposal submitted and supported by National All-Jersey, Inc. (NAJ), and supported by a number of cooperative associations and other dairy organizations, would calculate the protein price in two parts: (1) Multiply the National Cheese Exchange monthly average 40-pound block cheese price by 1.32, and (2) add the monthly average whey protein concentrate price multiplied by .735. The sum of these two values would equal the protein price. The NAJ proponent witness explained that one of the objectives of the NAJ proposal was to establish a protein price that was high enough to give producers an incentive to produce protein. He added that a second objective was to determine the protein price from market forces rather than as a residual value, as is used in other Federal orders. The witness explained that the 1.32 factor used in the NAJ proposal comes from the modified Van Slyke cheese yield formula that is commonly used by the industry. The 1.32 factor represents the pounds of 38-percent moisture Cheddar cheese obtained from one pound of protein with 75 percent of the protein going into the cheese. The witness gave four reasons for using the National Cheese Exchange 40-pound Cheddar block price (block price): (1) The majority of the cheese in the five Federal orders is priced using the block price as the base price, (2) the block price is used in determining the somatic cell adjustment in the Eastern Ohio-Western Pennsylvania, Indiana, and Ohio Valley orders, as well as being used in the computation of the Class II price in all Federal orders, and in the determination of the Class 4a price in California, (3) since there is over twice as much American cheese manufactured in blocks as is made in barrels, and the Wisconsin assembly point barrel cheese price is within one cent of the block price, the block price represents a minimum cheese price, and (4) the protein price determined pursuant to this proposal gives a greater incentive to producers to produce protein and is more equitable to handlers and producers than the (lower) protein price contained in the other proposals.
