FR940810-1-00038 FR940810-1-00007 Invitation to Comment Interested persons are invited to submit comments and recommendations regarding these proposed regulations. All comments submitted in response to these proposed regulations will be available for public inspection, during and after the comment period, in room 4624, Regional Office Building 3, 7th and D Streets, SW., Washington, DC, between the hours of 8:30 a.m. and 4 p.m., Monday through Friday of each week except federal holidays. Assessment of Educational Impact The Secretary particularly requests comments on whether the proposed regulations in this document would require transmission of information that is being gathered by or is available from any other agency or authority of the United States. List of Subjects in 34 CFR Part 682 Administrative practice and procedure, Colleges and universities, Education, Loan programs-education, Reporting and recordkeeping requirements, Student aid, Vocational education. (Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance Number 84.032, Federal Family Education Loan Program) Dated: July 29, 1994. Richard W. Riley, Secretary of Education. The Secretary proposes to amend part 682 of title 34 of the Code of Federal Regulations as follows: PART 682_FEDERAL FAMILY EDUCATION LOAN (FFEL) PROGRAMS 1. The authority citation for part 682 continues to read as follows: Authority: 20 U.S.C. 1071 to 1087&hyph;2, unless otherwise noted. 2. Section 682.410 is amended by redesignating paragraphs (a)(6) through (8) as (a)(10) through (12), respectively; by revising paragraphs (a)(1) through (5); and by adding new paragraphs (a)(6) through (8) and (a)(9) to read as follows: ยง682.410 Fiscal, administrative, and enforcement requirements. (a) Fiscal requirements . (1) Reserve fund assets. A guaranty agency shall establish and maintain a reserve fund to be used solely for its activities as a guaranty agency under the FFEL Program (``guaranty activities''). The guaranty agency shall credit to the reserve fund_ (i) The total amount of insurance premiums collected; (ii) Funds received from a State for the agency's guaranty activities, including matching funds under section 422(a) of the Act; (iii) Federal advances obtained under sections 422(a) and (c) of the Act; (iv) Federal payments for default, bankruptcy, death, disability, closed school, and false certification claims; (v) Supplemental preclaims assistance payments; (vi) Administrative cost allowance payments received under ยง682.407 and transitional support payments received under section 458(a) of the Act; (vii) Funds collected by the guaranty agency on FFEL Program loans on which a claim has been paid; (viii) Investment earnings on the reserve fund; and (ix) Other funds received by the guaranty agency from any source for the agency's guaranty activities. (2) Uses of reserve fund assets. A guaranty agency may use the assets of the reserve fund established under paragraph (a)(1) of this section to pay only_ (i) Insurance claims; (ii) Operating costs for the agency's guaranty activities, including payments necessary in collecting loans, providing preclaims assistance, monitoring enrollment and repayment status, and carrying out any other guaranty activities; (iii) Lenders for their participation in a loan referral service under section 428(e) of the Act; (iv) The Secretary's equitable share of collections; (v) Federal advances and other funds owed to the Secretary; (vi) Reinsurance fees; (vii) Insurance premiums related to cancelled loans; (viii) Borrower refunds, including those arising out of student or other borrower claims and defenses; (ix) (A) The repayment, on or after December 29, 1993, of amounts credited under paragraphs (a)(1)(ii) or (ix) of this section, if the agency provides the Secretary 30 days prior notice of the repayment and demonstrates that_
