FR940526-2-00032 FR940526-2-00022 2. Design, implement or evaluate new, or expand the use of an existing preventive intervention in one of the following secondary conditions: (a) pressure sores in persons with mobility impairments; (b) progressive disability in persons with arthritis; (c) behavioral problems in children with fetal alcohol syndrome; 3. Determine the preventive health care needs in consumer-managed activities such as centers for independent living, assess the feasibility of conducting interventions, and/or implement health promotion programs in those settings; 4. Measure or evaluate the impact of one of the following: (a) heavy prenatal alcohol exposure on developmental disabilities; (b) early intervention programs, e.g., home visiting programs, Head Start, educational child care, etc., in children at environmental risk for mental retardation; or (c) early intervention programs for women at risk for having a child with fetal alcohol syndrome; 5. Conduct a prevention program targeted to high risk groups in order to prevent fetal alcohol syndrome; 6. Develop model public health surveillance for mild and moderate traumatic brain injury; 7. Define the impact of firearm injury, especially related to traumatic brain and traumatic spinal cord injuries, as to outcomes and secondary conditions; 8. Coordinate or conduct community interventions related to the prevention of bicycle injuries through increased usage of bicycle helmets and prevention of motor vehicle injuries through increased use of occupant protection; 9. Assess the prevalence of risk factors for osteoporosis and establish an intervention program addressing high-risk groups; 10. Develop and conduct education programs for physicians and the public so that persons with urinary incontinence will seek and receive proper treatment. Detailed design and implementation guidance regarding these special prevention projects is available from CDC. Please refer to the ``Where to Obtain Additional Information'' section. Budget and Project Costs This program has no statutory matching requirement; however, applicants should demonstrate their capacity to support a portion of project costs, increase cost-sharing potential over time, and identify other funding sources for expanding the project. Applicants must prepare separate budget requests for both the basic State core capacity and each special prevention project (identifying both Federal and non-Federal sources). While CDC has not set specific limits as to the proportion of the total application budget request that should be directed to basic State core capacity, it anticipates that funds to support such core capacity will range from $200,000 to $330,000. It is also anticipated that each special prevention project will have a budget ranging from $40,000 to $60,000. Applicants may propose special prevention projects at a budget level below or above this range. The overall quality of proposed special prevention projects, taking into account total funds available, will be the major factor as to those projects that will be funded. The CDC expects that no State will receive awards for more than three special prevention projects. Cooperative Activities In conducting activities to achieve the purposes of this program, the recipient shall be responsible for the activities under A. (Recipient Activities) and CDC shall be responsible for the activities listed under B. (CDC Activities). A. Recipient Activities 1. Develop an identified, highly visible state-based program for the prevention of disabilities and secondary conditions as related to the indicated core capacity functions; 2. Establish and operate a state-based office of disabilities prevention, support an advisory body, develop and implement the State strategic plan, establish coordination with other disabilities prevention-related agencies, develop project objectives and time frames, and provide technical assistance; 3. Implement statewide surveillance, using existing data, for all disabilities based on the collective impact on functional limitations; 4. Develop and implement public health surveillance for the targeted disability group(s); 5. Promote prevention planning in communities, conduct or guide intervention activities, and evaluate their effectiveness; and 6. Design, implement, and evaluate special prevention projects. B. CDC Activities 1. Provide scientific, programmatic, and technical assistance in the planning, operation, and evaluation of surveillance and community projects; 2. Provide programmatic assistance in administrative and organizational aspects of project operations and provide information on project activities in other States and national initiatives; 3. Support project staff by conducting training programs, conferences, and workshops to enhance skills and knowledge; 4. Provide a reference point for sharing regional and/or national data pertinent to targeted disabilities; and 5. Assist in research and in studying the effectiveness of specific prevention and intervention strategies.
