FR940314-2-00075 FR940314-2-00045 FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Toyo Biddle (202) 401&hyph;9250. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: I. Amounts Proposed For Allocation The Office of Refugee Resettlement (ORR) has available $80,802,000 in FY 1994 refugee social service funds as part of the FY 1994 appropriation for the Department of Health and Human Services (Pub. L. No. 103&hyph;112). Of the total of $80,802,000, the Director of ORR proposes to make available to States $68,681,700 (85%) under the allocation formula set out in this notice. These funds would be made available for the purpose of providing social services to refugees. In addition, the Director of ORR proposes to make available $2,000,000 from discretionary social service funds to be allocated under the formula in this notice for additional services to former political prisoners from Vietnam. The allocation amounts proposed in this notice could be adjusted slightly in the final notice after taking into consideration any population adjustments (see Section VI, below). ORR intends FY 1994 to be the last year in which a special set-aside will be allocated for additional services for former political prisoners from Vietnam. A. Discretionary Social Service Funds for Vietnamese Political Prisoners In recognition of the special vulnerability of refugees who are former political prisoners from Vietnam, the Director of ORR proposes to set aside $2,000,000 from discretionary social service funds to be allocated under the formula set forth in this announcement, based on the number of actual political prisoner arrivals in FY 1993. This formula allocation is shown separately in Table 1 (cols. 7 and 8). States are required to use this allocation to provide additional services, as described below, to recent arrivals from Vietnam who are former political prisoners and members of their families. Allowable services for the above-cited funds for political prisoners include the following direct services: (1) Specialized orientation and adjustment services, including peer support activities; and (2) specialized employment-related services, as needed. Under no circumstances may these funds be used for direct cash payments or stipends, or for the purchase of advertising space or air time. Allowable services under this allocation for Vietnamese political prisoners are intended to supplement, not to supplant, those services provided to refugees in general under the social service formula allocation, discussed below. ORR intends to provide technical assistance to States and organizations that request it to assure effective program development and implementation. Because these funds are proposed to provide specifically for services for former political prisoners from Vietnam, States which allocate social service funds to other local administrative jurisdictions, such as counties, shall do so for these funds, using a formula which reflects recent and anticipated arrivals of this target population only. ORR strongly encourages States and other contracting jurisdictions, in selecting service providers for the above, to award these funds, to the extent possible, to qualified refugee mutual assistance associations with experience serving the target population. All contractors receiving these funds should have Vietnamese language capacity and Vietnamese cultural understanding. States are required to provide to ORR program performance information on the Vietnamese political prisoner program that meets the reporting requirements contained in 45 CFR 92.40, under the terms and conditions of the social services grant awards to States. This information, to be contained in the narrative portion of State quarterly performance reports, must indicate: (1) Name of service contractors; (2) categories of activities provided; (3) numbers of persons and types (former prisoners, family members, etc.) served; and (4) outcomes, to the extent possible. B. Refugee Social Service Funds The population figures for the social service allocation include refugees, Cuban/Haitian entrants, and Amerasians from Vietnam since these populations may be served through funds addressed in this notice. (A State must, however, have an approved State plan for the Cuban/Haitian Entrant Program in order to use funds on behalf of entrants as well as refugees.) The Director proposes to allocate $68,681,700 to States on the basis of each State's proportion of the national population of refugees who had been in the U.S. 3 years or less as of October 1, 1993 (including a floor amount for States which have small refugee populations). The use of the 3-year population base in the allocation formula is required by section 412(c)(1)(B) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (INA) which states that the ``funds available for a fiscal year for grants and contracts [for social services] *␣*␣* shall be allocated among the States based on the total number of refugees (including children and adults) who arrived in the United States not more than 36 months before the beginning of such fiscal year and who are actually residing in each State (taking into account secondary migration) as of the beginning of the fiscal year.''
