FR941130-2-00074 FR941130-2-00046 V. Required Information for Proposals Each proposal for the provision of banking services will need to address the questions set forth in this section, in the order shown and as specifically and succinctly as possible. A. Structure of Loan You will need to discuss your financial institution's views with respect to the structure of the Loan that would best serve Nedcor's objectives, addressing at a minimum the following issues: 1. The terms of the financing have not yet been determined and are subject to USAID's approval. However, for purposes of your proposal, you will need to provide a complete set of financial forms detailing the costs you expect Nedcor would incur as a result of your recommended financing, based on the financing of US$30 million, and in terms of the following two scenarios: a. Rand-denominated Loan: (i) Fixed rate, eight-year, non-amortizing (bullet). b. United States dollar-denominated Loan: (i) Fixed rate, eight-year, non-amortizing (bullet), and based on the yield of a U.S. Treasury bond with a remaining life of eight years, such as the bond due November 2002; and (ii) Floating rate, eight-year, non-amortizing (bullet), and based on the yield of the twenty-six (26) week U.S. Treasury bill as of COB December 18, 1994 (indicative). Please specify the fees you would charge to provide banking services. You will also need to include an itemization of all legal fees, management fees, consultation fees, selling concession fees and costs of issuance. 2. Discuss any alternative structures which should be considered. B. Marketing Strategy You will need to discuss your financial institution's view of the optimal strategy for the marketing of the Loan, keeping in mind the requirements for any exemptions from securities registration being relied upon. C. Organizational Experience and Capabilities Because Nedcor's overall objective is to develop a long-term banking relationship and not simply to arrange for this US$30 million financing, firms responding to this notice will be required to provide more information than may be typical for a loan of this size. Accordingly, you will need to provide the following information on your organization:
