FR940610-0-00032 FR940610-0-00015 (CC) June through August; (DD) September through November; ii. For all other sources subject to the emission statement rule, the quarters are defined as follows: (AA) January through March; (BB) April through June; (CC) July through September; (DD) October through December; b. For those sources of VOC or NO X with the potential to emit equal to or greater than 10 tons per year of VOC or NO X in the Counties of: Clark; Elkhart; Floyd; Lake; Marion; Porter; St. Joseph; and Vanderburgh, the days per week on both the normal operating schedule and on a typical ozone season week, if different from the normal operating schedule. The peak ozone season for Indiana is June through August; c. For all other sources (other than those in (b) above) subject to the emission statement rule, the days per week of the normal operating schedule; d. Hours per day during the normal operating schedule; e. Hours per year during the normal operating schedule; f. For those sources of VOC or NO X with the potential to emit equal to or greater than 10 tons per year of VOC or NO X in the Counties of: Clark; Elkhart; Floyd; Lake; Marion; Porter; St. Joseph; and Vanderburgh, the weeks of operation during the peak ozone season; g. Annual fuel or process weight and units used; 4. Emissions information including: a. For those sources of VOC or NO X with the potential to emit equal to or greater than 10 tons per year of VOC or NO X in the Counties of: Clark; Elkhart; Floyd; Lake; Marion; Porter; St. Joseph; and Vanderburgh, the estimated actual VOC and NO X emissions at the segment level, in tons per year for an annual emission rate and pounds per day for a typical ozone season day. Actual emission estimates must include upsets, downtime, and fugitive emissions; b. For all other sources (other than those in (a) above) subject to the emission statement rule, the estimated actual VOC, NO X , CO, SO2, Pb, or PM emissions at the segment level, in tons per year for an annual emission rate. Actual emission estimates must include upsets, downtime, and fugitive emissions; c. AIRS facility subsystem estimated emissions method code; d. Calendar year for the emissions; e. Emission factor if used. If the emissions were calculated using an emission factor, the emission factor must: i. Be one established in AP&hyph;42, ``Compilation of Air Pollutant Emission Factors'', Volume 1, Fourth Edition, September 1985; or ii. In the alternative, the source may substitute site specific values for those listed in AP&hyph;42 if these site specific values are accepted by the IDEM and the USEPA; f. Source Classification Code number; 5. Control equipment information including: (a) Current primary and secondary AFS control equipment identification codes; and (b) current control equipment efficiencies reflecting the total control efficiencies from all control equipment and including the effects of downtime and maintenance degradation. If the control efficiency is unavailable, the design control efficiency or the control efficiency limit imposed by a permit must be specified; 6. Process rate data (in units prescribed in the AIRS facility subsystem source classification code table) including: a. Annual process rates; and b. For those sources of VOC or NO X with the potential to emit equal to or greater than 10 tons per year of VOC or NO X in the Counties of: Clark; Elkhart; Floyd; Lake; Marion; Porter; St. Joseph; and Vanderburgh, peak ozone season daily process rates. In addition to the requirements of the emission statement regulations, the emission statement SIP revision submittal also contains IDEM commitments to the following: 1. IDEM will update the AIRS facility subsystem using the annual emissions report data. The data required by the Act will be entered into AIRS by July 1st each year. The data required by 40 CFR part 51 will be updated into AIRS by September 1 of each year. 2. IDEM will retain the annual emission reports on file for at least 3 years. 3. IDEM will develop and submit to the USEPA a status report that outlines the degree of compliance with the emission statement program. IDEM will report quarterly to the USEPA, the total number of sources affected by the emission statement regulations, the number of sources that have complied with the emission statement regulations, and the number of sources that have not. The status report will also include the total annual and typical ozone season day emissions from all reporting VOC and NO X sources located in Clark, Elkhart, Floyd, Lake, Marion, Porter, St. Joseph, and Vanderburgh Counties, both corrected and non-corrected for rule effectiveness. Sources that are delinquent in submitting their emission statements will be individually listed if they emit 500 tons per year or more of VOC or 2,500 tons per year or more of NO X . The quarterly status reports will be submitted July 1, October 1, January 1, and April 1 of each year. III. Final Action IDEM's adopted annual emissions reporting regulations submitted on January 6, 1994, are acceptable under section 182(a)(3)(B) of the Act and USEPA's draft guidelines. Because USEPA considers today's action noncontroversial and routine, we are approving it today without prior proposal. The action will become effective on August 9, 1994. However, if we receive notice by July 11, 1994 that someone wishes to submit adverse comments, then USEPA will publish: (1) A document that withdraws the action; and (2) a document that begins a new action by proposing the action and establishing a comment period.
