FR940719-2-00112 FR940719-2-00062 Exhibit B.3._ Optimal Sample Allocation, MTO Demonstration 1␣ 1Experimental (MTO) group 1Section 8 control group 1In-place control group 1Total Families assigned: 20% MTO lease-up rate 4,500 1,286 3,214 9,000 40% MTO lease-up rate 2,250 1,286 964 4,500 Families leased up 900 900 N/A 1,800 The final sample size will be determined by the actual lease-up rate (i.e., the number of families actually required to exhaust the 1,800 certificates/vouchers available) and the random assignment ratio. In the absence of reliable knowledge about the lease-up rate to be expected in the experimental group, the Contractor plans to take the conservative approach of setting the initial random assignment ratio based on the assumption of a 20 percent lease-up rate in this group. If, as the demonstration progresses, this group experiences a higher lease-up rate, the random assignment ratio can be adjusted accordingly. B2.2␣Sampling Procedures As specified in the authorizing legislation, the MTO demonstration will be targeted to very low-income families with children who reside in public housing or receive project-based Section 8 assistance in specific high-poverty areas of five large cities. Participating PHAs will notify all eligible families within the designated demonstration areas of the availability of assistance to move out of project-based housing. The first step in intake will be to determine the eligibility of applicant families. This involves verifying the applicant's family composition, income, and legal tenancy in public or project-based Section 8 housing in the designated high-poverty census tracts. At this stage, families will be reminded that, because demonstration slots are limited, not all eligible applicants can be accepted; those to be accepted will be chosen by a lottery. They will be asked to agree to participate in the study (i.e. provide any information or cooperation that is requested by the researchers) even if they are not chosen to receive demonstration assistance. At this point, after signing the Enrollment Form, baseline data for the experimental analysis will be collected. It is important that these data be collected before applicants are assigned to any specific assistance group, in order to ensure that their responses are not influenced by knowledge of the group to which they have been assigned. The next step in the intake process will be random assignment of applicant families to an experimental group that receives assistance under MTO, a control group that receives regular Section 8 certificates/vouchers, or to an in-place control group that receives no certificates or vouchers. Families assigned to the regular Section 8 program will receive the standard PHA briefing and any other assistance the PHA would normally provide Section 8 enrollees. Since all applicants will have expressed an interest in moving out of project-based housing, it is assumed that virtually all will take the Section 8 certificates or vouchers and begin searching for acceptable housing. Those who are successful in finding units that pass PHA inspection will move; those who are unsuccessful will remain in their public or project-based housing. Families assigned to the experimental group will receive a standard briefing from the PHA and will be issued an MTO certificate/voucher. They will then be invited for a preliminary counseling session with the nonprofit organization (NPO) involved in the demonstration. Some of these families may decide not to search once they learn more about the MTO certificates/vouchers' restriction to use in low-poverty areas. Those who elect to continue will receive further NPO counseling and assistance in locating acceptable units in low-poverty areas. Families randomly assigned to the in-place control group will be informed that, because the number of applicants exceeded the number of certificates/vouchers available for this special demonstration, they will not receive assistance in moving. They will, however, continue to receive project-based assistance and could be wait-listed for Section 8 existing program assistance. Random assignment will occur after collection of the baseline data and before any Section 8 briefing. It will be important that PHA staff determine each applicant's eligibility and collect baseline data prior to random assignment, to ensure that no ineligibles are included in the sample and that responses to the baseline instruments are not influenced by knowledge of the treatment to which the family has been assigned. It will also be important to ensure that, following random assignment, families receive a careful explanation of the nature and terms of the assistance they are being offered (or, if they are being offered no new assistance, that they remain eligible for their current assistance). To avoid confusion, briefings for the experimental and regular Section 8 control groups will be conducted separately. The fact that some intake activities must occur before random assignment and others must occur after, but perhaps within the same visit by the participant to the PHA office, means that random assignment must be capable of being conducted with very quick turn-around. The most efficient way to accomplish this is for PHA staff to conduct random assignment on-site. To ensure that random assignment is conducted properly, and that staff cannot ``game'' the procedure, the Contractor has developed a computerized random assignment routine that can be run by local program staff on virtually any personal computer, with minimal training. Intake staff need only respond to on-screen prompts for the applicant's name, date of birth, and Social Security number;§ 19 the random assignment routine will then automatically display the family's assignment on the screen and store it on the diskette containing the random assignment software. 19 These identifiers are collected in order to ensure accurate linking of the family's random assignment status with data subsequently collected over life of the project. They are collected ordinarily on the PHAs' Section 8 applications and used on HUD Form 50058. Demonstration staff will inform the applicants of their assignments and refer the MTO and regular Section 8 groups to their respective briefings. Those assigned to remain in-place will be informed that, because the number of applicants exceeded the number that could be assisted in this special demonstration, the PHA was not able to give them a certificate/voucher. They will be assured, however, that they will continue to receive their current project-based assistance. PHA staff will give applicants this information both orally and in writing, ensuring that all applicants in this group receive the same information and providing them a document to refer to if they have subsequent questions about their status.
