FR940622-2-00020 FR940622-2-00011 Object database interfaces Federal data distribution Operating system file interface Open system directory interface Electronic mail repositories CASE tool repositories XBase repositories C++ sequence class repositories Object Request Broker interface repository Real-time database interface Internet file repositories Further detail on each of these potential application areas can be found in Section 8, ``Applicability'', of the FIPS specification of SQL Environments. 10. Specifications. See the Specifications for SQL Environments_SQL External Repository Interface (SQL/ERI)_Server Profiles (Affixed). 11. Implementation. Implementation of this standard involves four areas of consideration: the effective date, acquisition of conforming implementations, interpretation, and validation. 11.1␣Effective date. This publication is effective immediately upon publication. Since it is a nonmandatory specification, based on the established FIPS SQL standard, and used at the discretion of individual Federal procurements, no transitional period or delayed effective date is necessary. 11.2␣Acquisition. All conforming implementations of a specific SQL/ERI profile will support some aspects of the FIPS SQL standard. However, such implementations will not normally be full function database management systems and conformance will often be dependent upon SQL schema definitions and other requirements provided as part of each individual procurement. In most cases, a procurement will not be able to simply point to an SQL/ERI profile and demand conformance to it. Instead, successful procurements will normally use an appropriate SQL/ERI profile, together with an application-specific schema definition, as one aspect of overall procurement requirements. In many cases, vendors of products that provide a limited SQL interface will define their interfaces in terms of a fixed SQL schema definition. In those cases, procurements can point to the vendor-provided schema definition and to an appropriate SQL/ERI profile as a procurement requirement. In some cases, especially in those situations where schema definitions and requirements are not known in advance, a request for a proposal (RFP) many require that an SQL schema, and adherence to one of the SQL/ERI Server profiles, be presented as part of the response proposal. 11.3␣Interpretation. NIST provides for the resolution of questions regarding specifications and requirements of the FIPS for SQL Environments, and issues official interpretations as needed. Procedures for interpretations are specified in FIPS PUB 29&hyph;3. All questions about the interpretation of FIPS SQL Environments should be addressed to: Director, Computer Systems Laboratory, Attn: SQL Environments, National Institute of Standards and Technology, Gaithersburg, MD 20899, Telephone: (301) 975&hyph;2833 11.4␣Validation. Implementations of the FIPS for SQL Environments may be validated in accordance with NIST Computer Systems Laboratory (CSL) validation procedures for FIPS SQL (FIPS PUB 127). Recommended procurement terminology for validation of FIPS SQL is contained in the U.S. General Services Administration publication Federal ADP & Telecommunications Standards Index, Chapter 4 Part 2. This GSA publication provides terminology for three validation options: Delayed Validation, Prior Validation Testing, and Prior Validation. The agency may select the appropriate validation option and may specify appropriate time frames for validation and correction of nonconformities. Implementations may be evaluated using the NIST SQL Test Suite, a suite of automated validation tests for SQL implementations. Although this test suite was designed to test conformance of full-function SQL database management systems, it can be modified to accommodate testing of SQL/ERI Server implementations. The results of validation testing by the SQL Testing Service are published on a quarterly basis in the Validated Products List, available from the National Technical Information Service (NTIS). Current information about the NIST SQL Validation Service and the status of validation testing for SQL Environments is available from: National Institute of Standards and Technology, Computer Systems Laboratory, Software Standards Validation Group, Building 225, Room A266, Gaithersburg, Maryland 20899, (301) 975&hyph;2490. 12. Where to Obtain Copies. Copies of this publication are for sale by the National Technical Information Service, U.S. Department of Commerce, Springfield, VA 22161, telephone 703&hyph;487&hyph;4650. When ordering, refer to Federal Information Processing Standards Publication XXX (FIPSPUBXXX), SQL Environments. Payment may be made by check, money order, or deposit account. [FR Doc. 94&hyph;15188 Filed 6&hyph;21&hyph;94; 8:45 am] BILLING CODE 3510&hyph;CN&hyph;M
