FR940513-0-00106 FR940513-0-00029 21. Bidders will be required to submit short-form applications on FCC form 175 by the date specified in the Public Notice. 37 If the Commission receives only one application that is acceptable for filing for a particular frequency segment, and there is thus no mutual exclusivity, 38 the Commission will by Public Notice cancel the auction for this license and established a date for the filing of a long-form application (FCC Form 574). In order to encourage maximum bidder participation, we will provide applicants whose short-form applications are substantially complete, but which contain minor errors or defects, with an opportunity to correct their applications prior to the auction. However, applicants will not be permitted to make any major modifications to their applications, including ownership changes or changes in the identification of parties to bidding consortia. 39 In addition, applications that are not signed or that fail to make the required certifications will be dismissed and may not be resubmitted. 37 Applicants should note whether they intend to bid for one or both frequency segments. Applicants need not submit microfiche originals or copies. 38 As noted previously, absent mutually exclusive applications, the Commission is prohibited from auctioning the license. 47 U.S.C. §309(j)(1). 39 See Second Report and Order at ¶167 22. The Commission will issue a subsequent Public Notice listing all applications containing minor defects, and applicants will be given an opportunity to cure and resubmit defective applications. After reviewing the corrected applications, the Commission will release another Public Notice announcing the names of all applicants whose applications have been accepted for filing. B. Upfront Payment 23. In the Second Report and Order, we described three types of payments: upfront payments, down payments, and final payments. Chase favors upfront payments, while ICC believes that such a requirement would constitute a hardship on small entrepreneurs. 40 We believe an upfront payment is needed for oral outcry IVDS auctions. Requiring this payment provides some degree of assurance that only serious, qualified bidders will participate and serves as a deterrent to the filing of speculative applications which tend to slow down the provision of service to the public. It also provides the Commission with a source of funds to satisfy any penalties assessed. Therefore, we will require the upfront payment and retain the flexibility to determine the payment amount on an auction-by-auction basis. We will not, however, require an upfront payment for applicants in sealed bid IVDS auctions. 40 Chase comment at 2; ICC comment at 8, reply comment at 7. 24. A bidder may file applications for every IVDS license being auctioned, but, for open outcry auctions, its upfront payment should reflect the maximum number of licenses it desires to win. Once a bidder is a ``winning'' bidder for the maximum number of licenses reflected by its upfront payment, it will be precluded from bidding further. We will use the following procedure for collecting this payment for oral bidding IVDS auctions. The applicant or its representative will be required to show the Commission, immediately prior to the auction, a cashier's check for at last $2,500 41 in order to get a bidding number and enter the designated area in the room where the bidding will take place. Bidders will be required to have $2,500 upfront money for every five licenses they win. 42 The $2,500 upfront payment will be collected immediately after the first license is won by an applicant. 43 The highest bidder will be asked to sign a bid confirmation form. The upfront money will later be counted toward the down payment. We believe these procedures will keep the auction process simple, keep costs down for small businesses who wish to bid on only a few licenses, and eliminate Commission expenses due to issuing refunds. 41 In establishing procedures for auctioning IVDS licenses, we have tried to reduce the complexities of the auction process for both the Commission and potential applicants. To this end, we have established a standard, reasonable upfront payment amount in lieu of an amount based on a formula (e.g., $0.02/pop/MHz). Such a formula, when used in the context of more populated areas, can result in a very substantial upfront payment. In the context of IVDS, we believe $2,500 strikes a good balance between ensuring that only serious, qualified bidders participate and not placing an unreasonable financial burden on small businesses. This amount was established in the Second Report and Order, see id. at ¶180, as the general minimum upfront payment, consistent with comments submitted. 42 For example, if a bidder brings only one check for $2,500 and wins five licenses, he or she will not be allowed to bid on another license. If a bidder brings two $2,500 checks, he or she may bid until 10 licenses are won. Therefore, if a bidder anticipates winning 16 licenses, he or she must bring four $2,500 cashier's checks. 43 The upfront money will be collected immediately after the first license is won in each group of five licenses (1, 6, 11, etc.). Bidders should bring a $2,500 cashier's check for each five licenses they desire to purchase. The Commission will not refund money to those bringing a single check to cover the total upfront payment required, rather than multiple $2,500 checks, if the single check is for an amount ultimately greater than the upfront payment required. On request we will, however, apply such balance to any further monies owed in the context of IVDS auctions. C. Payment for Licenses Awarded by Competitive Bidding 25. To provide further assurance that winning bidders will be able to pay the full amount of their bids, we decided generally in the Second Report and Order that each winning bidder must tender a down payment sufficient to bring the total deposit up to 20 percent of the winning bid. We believe a down payment is appropriate for IVDS. Therefore, winning bidders will be required to supplement their upfront payments to bring their total deposit with the Commission up to at least 20 percent 44 of the final payment due for the license(s) won in that particular auction. 45 The down payment will be due within five business days after the close of bidding. 46 The down payment will be held by the Commission until the high bidder has been awarded the license and has paid the remaining balance due on the license, or until the winning bidder is found unqualified to be a licensee or has defaulted, in which case it will be returned, less applicable penalties. During the period that deposits are held pending ultimate award of the license, the interest that accrues, if any, will be retained by the Government. 44 Small businesses using the preference of installment payments, see Section VI below, need only bring their deposits up to 10 percent within 5 business days, with the remaining 10 percent due within five days of the license grant. See Second Report and Order at ¶¶192 n. 145, 238. 45 If the upfront payment already tendered amounts to 20 percent or more of the winning bid, no additional deposit will be required. 46 Second Report and Order at ¶192. For single round sealed bidding, we will notify the high bidders soon after the auction. The down payment will then be due within five business days.
