FR941206-2-00120 FR941206-2-00080 [Release No. 34&hyph;35020; File No. SR&hyph;Phlx&hyph;94&hyph;51] Self-Regulatory Organizations; Philadelphia Stock Exchange, Inc.; Order Approving a Proposed Rule Change Relating to Examination Specifications for the General Securities Sales Supervisor (Series 8) Examination, and the Corresponding Content Outline November 29, 1994. I. Introduction On October 3, 1994, the Philadelphia Stock Exchange, Inc. (``Phlx'' or ``Exchange'') filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (``Commission'') pursuant to Section 19(b)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (``Act'') 1 and Rule 19b&hyph;4 thereunder, 2 proposed rule change (File No. SR&hyph;Phlx&hyph;94&hyph;51) to revise the General Securities Sales Supervisor (Series 8) Examination Specifications and the corresponding Content Outline. 1 15 U.S.C. ยง78s(b)(1) (1988). 2 17 CFR ยง240.19b&hyph;4 (1994). The proposed rule change was published for comment in Securities Exchange Act Release No. 34842 (October 14, 1994), 59 FR 53002 (October 20, 1994). No comments were received on the proposal. This order approves the proposed rule change contingent upon the filing of the revised Examination Specifications and Content Outline by other appropriate self-regulatory organizations (``SROs''), and approval of those filings by the Commission. II. Description of the Proposal The General Securities Sales Supervisor (``Series 8'') Examination is an industry-wide qualification examination for securities sales supervisors. The Series 8 examination is generally required under rules of the self-regulatory organizations (``SROs'') for persons who are engaged in the supervision of general securities branch offices ( i.e., branch office managers) and of general securities registered representatives. The Series 8 examination tests a candidate's knowledge of securities industry rules and regulations and certain statutory provisions applicable to general securities sales supervision. The Series 8 Content Outline details the subject coverage and question allocation of the examination. The Examination Specifications detail the areas covered by the examination and break down the number of examination questions culled from each area. Revision of the Series 8 Examination, Examination Specifications, and Content Outline was recently undertaken by an industry committee composed of representatives from SROs (the NYSE, the American Stock Exchange, the Chicago Board Options Exchange, the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board, the National Association of Securities Dealers and the Philadelphia Stock Exchange) and representatives from broker-dealers, including branch office managers, compliance personnel and corporate executives, in order to update the examination in view of changes in relevant laws, rules and regulations, the development of new products, and to reflect various changes in industry practices. The committee reviewed the examination specifications, content areas and item bank and developed some new questions in new areas. The revised examination continues to cover the areas of knowledge required to supervise sales activities in securities, however, the focus of the content of the examination has been shifted to concentrate more closely on supervisory duties. Accordingly, certain questions have been deleted from the examination which deal with routine calculations and basic product knowledge and questions on new federal and SRO rules and regulations have been incorporated into the exam, as well as questions on new products, supervision and changes in industry practices. The revised Examination Specifications and Content Outline reflect the revised content of the examination. The examination will remain a six-hour, two-part, 200 question examination. The Phlx also is adopting a new paragraph to Phlx Rule 748, Supervision, to expressly incorporate a supervisory examination into Exchange rules. Specifically persons delegated supervisory responsibility pursuant to Rule 748 (b) and (c) will be required by proposed paragraph (d) to meet the Exchanges' qualification requirements, including successful completion of a supervisory examination deemed acceptable by the Exchange. This requirement is substantially similar to existing provision of other exchanges. 3 Currently, Rule 748 requires member or participant organizations to supervise all registered representatives and each office, department or business activity. In addition, a general partner or principal executive officer must be designated to assume overall responsibility for internal supervision of the organization and compliance with securities laws and regulations, including establishing written supervisory procedures delegating supervisory responsibilities and instituting a supervisory review procedure. 3 See e.g., NYSE Rule 342(d) and Supplementary Material .13.
