FR940526-2-00106 FR940526-2-00063 •broadened the housing survey for St. Croix, Virgin Islands; •gathered comparable home-sale data from additional appraisers in selected points in Maryland; •arranged for additional data sources for comparable home sales at the upper income level in San Juan; •added a new on-line data source for comparable home-sale prices for all the islands of Hawaii. To gather data, our researchers contacted real estate brokers, residential appraisers and other knowledgeable real estate professionals in each area to obtain information on the predominant age(s), size(s) and type(s) of housing in various communities and housing subdivisions. When available and appropriate, Runzheimer identified at least six communities (two at each income level) in each allowance area. However, this goal was not achievable in some of the smaller allowance areas. For the Washington, D.C., area, Runzheimer selected at least nine communities (three at each income level) in which to gather renter and homeowner data. A table of living communities used for pricing can be found in Appendix 6. 4.2.4␣Identification and Quantification of Housing-Related Expenses From the 1988 CES, Runzheimer identified and categorized housing-related expense items into one of five groups: •utilities, •real estate taxes, •owners/renters insurance, •maintenance, and •telephone. 4.2.4.1␣Utilities For this study, Runzheimer classified electric, heat (oil or gas), water and sewer as utilities. Although most utility companies had ready access to current charges per unit of consumption and average consumption patterns for all households, very few (if any) separated consumption patterns by number of family members in a household or by size/type of accommodation. Runzheimer focused on average annual consumption experience per household, gathering this information from utility companies serving each allowance area and the Washington, D.C., area. Combining this consumption data with current utility rates, Runzheimer computed average annual utility costs for each of electric, gas or oil (whichever Runzheimer found to be more widely used, if used at all), water and sewer. Runzheimer then assigned this average consumption pattern to the homeowner profile at the middle income level. Because some utility costs vary by size of house and yard, Runzheimer calculated a multiplier consistent with the standard home sizes to arrive at utility rates for the other five profiles. The table below shows the standard sizes and utility factors for each profile. The standard sizes roughly equate to the reference size of each profile. The formula to calculate each multiplier was: Multiplier = 1+(.5 × (Standard square feet_1300)/1300) The resulting utility multipliers are: Utility Multipliers 1Income level 1Renter profile 2Square feet 2Multiplier 1Owner profile 2Square feet 2Multiplier Lower 600 .73 900 .85 Middle 900 .85 1,300 1.00 Upper 1,100 .92 1,700 1.15 4.2.4.2␣Real Estate Taxes For this study, Runzheimer contacted the city assessor in each allowance area to obtain real estate tax information on the selected living communities. (See Appendix 6 for a listing of the communities.) Real estate tax formulas were obtained for most living communities; however, Runzheimer's researchers found that in San Juan, PR, the formulas do not always translate into the actual taxes paid by typical property owners. Therefore, in San Juan, Runzheimer undertook a comparative study of current actual taxes paid by homeowners and their current home values. Runzheimer then developed an average ratio for taxes paid to current home values. This ratio was applied to the average home value in that community to obtain an average real estate tax amount for the desired homeowner profile.
