FR940919-2-00051 FR940919-2-00032 4. General Information for This Florida General Permit This general permit places limitations on discharges from treatment systems which are used to treat common contaminants found in petroleum fuels and allows the permittee to expedite startup of a hydrocarbon recovery system once a leak has been detected and groundwater has been contaminated. The general permit also allows general dewatering for uncontaminated sites. Normally, such a recovery system consists of monitoring wells that are used for sampling and delineating plume movement. Recovery wells, which may be vertical or horizontal, are used to recover contaminated groundwater in the impacted area. The placement of recovery wells is generally determined after consideration of geologic conditions and groundwater movement in order to maximize recovery of petroleum hydrocarbons. The rate of movement by the contaminants is affected by the varying permeability and adsorptive characteristics of the water-filled pore spaces and depth of the water table. After the contamination reaches the water table, the free-floating contaminant is usually pumped from the recovery wells to an above ground storage tank. Additionally, vapor recovery systems are often used to remove volatiles from the soil. The dissolved organics in the contaminated water are pumped to an air stripper and treated using packed-tower aeration and, when necessary, carbon adsorption. Both of these treatment processes have proven effective in removing up to 99% of the volatile compounds before discharge into surface waters. The Florida FDEP and EPA Region IV estimates that of the sites for which a RAP is prepared in any given year, a maximum of 100 facilities may propose discharge to surface water under this general permit. In order to allow hydrocarbon recovery operations to be performed without processing individual applications for permit issuance, EPA proposes to reissue this general permit to sources identified within the political boundaries of the State of Florida. This general permit may be used to authorize discharges of treated groundwater and storm water incidental to groundwater cleanup operations. Long term cleanups, over thirty (30) days, must have an approved remedial action plan (RAP) before submitting a NOI to discharge under this NPDES General permit. The RAP Approval Order must be submitted with the applicant's NOI and is required before authorizing cleanups over thirty (30) days. This permit is not limited to cleanup operations funded by the State of Florida, but may cover all such cleanup operations if the NOI requirements are satisfied. 5. Basis for Final Effluent Limits and Permit Conditions The effluent limits for the general permit are based on treatment technology data obtained from previous individual application requests. The general permit has been written to require an effluent limit on three (3) chemicals, i.e., benzene, naphthalene and lead. Benzene is a potential carcinogen according to EPA 440/5&hyph;80&hyph;0180 and Florida has adopted a WQS for this parameter. However, the previous technology-based effluent limit of 1.0 m g/l is more stringent than Florida's water quality standard of 71.28 m g/l at (FAC 17&hyph;302.530(9)), dated April 25, 1993; therefore, the more stringent technology based limit, which is also protective of water quality, will be included in the reissued permit. Based on the ``Ambient Water Quality Document for Benzene,'' this maximum contaminant level for benzene is well below the 10 ^6 risk factor of 40 m g/l for consumption of contaminated aquatic organisms. This limit of 1.0 m g/l is also between the 10 ^5 risk factor of 6.6 m g/l and 10 ^6 risk factor of .66 m g/l for consumption of contaminated water and aquatic organisms. Most facilities have been able to meet the technology based effluent limit for lead of 30 m g/l, which is required since older gasoline sites may have marketed fuels with leaded compounds added in the form of tetraethyllead. Based on the ``Ambient Water Quality Document for Lead,'' this limit is well below the current human health standard of 50 m g/l, which is protective of human health against the ingestion of contaminated water and contaminated aquatic organisms (EPA 440/5&hyph;80&hyph;057). The naphthalene limit of 100 m g/l was developed based on FDEP petroleum contamination site cleanup criteria (17&hyph;770.730(5)(a)2e), amended February 20, 1990. According to the ``Ambient Water Quality Document for Naphthalene,'' acute and chronic toxicity to freshwater aquatic life occurs at concentrations as low as 2300 m g/l for the Rainbow Trout and 620 m g/l for the Fathead Minnow and would occur at lower concentrations among species that are more sensitive than those tested. Also, according to the ``Handbook of Environmental Data and Organic Chemicals,'' tainting of fish flesh occurs for naphthalene near 1000 m g/l. The petroleum site criteria limit of 100 m g/l for naphthalene is more stringent than EPA's water quality document for this parameter and should provide adequate protection for more sensitive aquatic organisms. The pH requirements were established based on water quality criteria at Florida Administrative Code (FAC) 17&hyph;303.530(52)(c), dated April 25, 1993. For fresh waters and coastal waters, the pH of the effluent shall not be lowered to less than 6.0 units for fresh waters, or less than 6.5 units for marine waters, or raised above 8.5 units, unless the permittee submits data during the NOI request confirming a natural background pH outside of this range. If the natural background of the receiving water, as revealed by sampling data from the permittee in the NOI request, is determined to be less than 6.0 standard units for fresh waters, or less than 6.5 standard units in marine waters, the pH shall not vary below natural background or vary more than one (1) unit above natural background. If natural background of the receiving water, as revealed by sampling data from the permittee in the NOI request, is determined to be higher than 8.5 units, the pH shall not vary above natural background or vary more than one (1) unit below natural background. The continuous monitoring for pH is an option granted to the permittee and is based on ยง401.17 of the Clean Water Act. The permittee may request an individual permit to seek less stringent end-of-pipe effluent limitations for benzene, total lead, and naphthalene dependent upon resulting instream concentrations during critical low flows of the receiving stream.
