FR940203-0-00066 FR940203-0-00017 Although deceased marine mammals that sink will return to the surface within a few days of the detonation, it is unlikely that subsurface fish species would be detectable during post-test monitoring and would likely be consumed by predators before surfacing. Sea turtles will also be difficult to detect once they sink. Comment: Several commenters noted that the course of action was unclear, should a marine mammal be lethally taken. Response: As the NMFS and the Navy expect few marine mammals to be killed during ship shock trials, each lethal take will be reviewed by NMFS scientists, MART personnel and the U.S. Navy to determine whether similar takes can be prevented in future tests. However, until ship shock tests take place and incidental lethal takes are documented, the actions NMFS and the Navy will take to reduce potential future lethal takes cannot be determined. Comment: One commenter, while approving of NMFS' participation in post-test monitoring, recommended the final rule prohibit Naval reconnaissance of the test area, by sea or air, until after the reconnaissance by NMFS and retrieval by MART are completed. Response: NMFS believes that this recommendation is neither practical nor warranted. The ship shock test is a complicated combat simulation that requires the participation of several Navy aircraft and ships. Therefore, the Navy cannot be prohibited from the test area, although it will likely have moved away from the detonation site by the time the post-test monitoring begins. Moreover, it is not entirely clear from the comment the purpose behind the requested prohibition, since the Navy will have an authorization for incidentally taking marine mammals during the exercise. Endangered Species Act Concerns Comment: The Navy violated the ESA by its failure to request a ``biological opinion'' detailing how the proposed detonation will affect endangered and threatened species. Several commenters believe that the proposed action should be denied because of this noncompliance. One commenter wanted to review and comment on the biological opinion. Response: The preamble to the proposed rule noted that NMFS will be consulting with the Navy under section 7 of the ESA. The Navy is required to consult under section 7, and it generally is NMFS policy that formal consultation should be initiated at the earliest opportunity, in this case, since NMFS would be conducting formal consultation with both the Navy and itself (because the proposed issuance of a small take authorization is a Federal action), consultation was not initiated until after the proposed rule was issued on October 15, 1993. That consultation has been completed. A copy of NMFS' Biological Opinion and Incidental Take Statement is available upon request (see ADDRESSES ). As noted previously, the requirements for mitigation, as well as monitoring, in conjunction with other existing regulations, are expected to provide adequate protection for listed species. Although biological opinions issued under section 7 are available to the general public, they are not subject to review and comment. National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) Concerns Comment: Several commenters at both the public meetings and in written comments believed that NMFS should prepare a draft environmental impact statement (DEIS) rather than an EA before it issues final regulations. Response: Since NMFS must analyze a request for a small take authorization to determine whether the proposed marine mammal taking has only a negligible impact on species or stocks of marine mammals and does not have an unmitigable adverse impact on the availability for subsistence uses, NMFS assessed many of the potential environmental impacts that are also assessed under NEPA. Through this process, and during preparation of an EA, NMFS determined that the proposed activity ( i.e., issuance of regulations and an LOA) will not significantly affect the quality of the human environment and made a ``finding of no significant impact.'' If an EA results in this finding, no additional documents are required by NEPA. The detonation of the explosives by itself does not necessarily invoke a ``significant'' impact finding. However, the Navy must also satisfy NEPA prior to undertaking any action that might impact the human environment.
