FR941117-2-00165 FR941117-2-00108 Renewal Process for Current Host Institutions Institutions currently hosting Edmund S. Muskie Fellows under the 1993 and/or 1994 Programs are eligible to submit a renewal application. U.S. institutions currently hosting 1993 or 1994 Freedom Support Act Fellows that applied to and were approved by the 1993 or 1994 Muskie university competitions are also eligible to submit a renewal application. In order to apply to host Fellows in the same field(s), universities must submit a letter confirming that the academic program, professional and enrichment support, and adherence to other grant requirements will, at a minimum, remain consistent with current levels. The letter must also indicate the desired number of Fellows to be hosted, the type of program in which they will be placed (degree, certificate, or professional development), the name of the Muskie coordinator, the 1995&hyph;96 academic calendar, and the amount of cost-sharing provided for each Fellow, adjusted as needed for 1995&hyph;96 costs. Current host institutions need to contact the appropriate contract organization (ACTR/ACCELS, IREX, Soros or IIE) to receive the required budget worksheet that must be submitted along with the letter. Original letters must be received by the appropriate contact organization by January 31, 1995. Please Note: Those institutions currently hosting only Freedom Support Act Graduate Fellows and which were not approved through either the 1993 or 1994 Muskie university competition must submit a complete application to be considered to host 1995 Muskie Fellows. Agency Cost Sharing Guidelines U.S. institutions hosting Muskie Fellows are strongly encouraged to provide cost-sharing toward tuition and/or room and board expenses, so that greater numbers of students may take part in the program. Cost-sharing may also be in the form of direct program and participant costs. Indirect and administrative costs will not be considered allowable cost-sharing items, nor will these costs be covered by the Muskie Program. The basis for determining the value of cash and in-kind contributions must be in accordance with OMB Circular A&hyph;110 (Revised), Subpart C.23_Cost-Sharing and Matching and should be described in the proposal. In the event the Recipient does not provide the minimum amount of cost-sharing as stipulated in the Recipient's budget, the Agency's contribution will be reduced in proportion to the Recipient's contribution. Preference will be given to institutions that provide cost-sharing on direct participant costs. While the Agency strongly encourages cost-sharing, it is not a requirement. Institutions unable to offer cost-sharing are eligible to apply.
