FR940524-1-00047 FR940524-1-00010 (b) The applicant shall deliver, at his own expense, the number of completely assembled respirators and component parts required for testing, to the Certification and Quality Assurance Branch. (c) Respirators and component parts submitted for approval must be made from materials specified in the application. (d) One completely assembled respirator approved under the provisions of this part may be retained by the Institute as a laboratory exhibit, the remaining respirators may be returned to the applicant at his own expense, upon written request within 30 days after notice of approval. If no such request is made, the respirators will be disposed of by the Institute in such manner as it deems appropriate. (e) Where a respirator fails to meet the requirements for approval set forth in this part, all respirators and components delivered in accordance with this section may be returned to the applicant at his own expense, upon written request within 30 days after notice of disapproval. If no such request is made, the respirators will be disposed of by the Institute in such manner as it deems appropriate. Subpart C_Fees §84.20 Examination, inspection, and testing of complete respirator assemblies; fees. Except as provided in §84.22, the following fees shall be charged by the Institute for the examination, inspection and testing of complete respirator assemblies: ␣ 1␣ 1␣ Self-contained breathing apparatus: Entry and escape, 1 hour or more $3,500 Entry and escape, less than 1 hour 2,750 Escape only 2,000 Gas masks: Single hazard 1,100 Type N 4,100 Supplied-air respirators 750 Particulate respirators: All Types 1,250 Chemical cartridge respirators 1,150 §84.21 Examination, inspection, and testing of respirator components or subassemblies; fees. Except as provided in §84.22, the following fees shall be charged by the Institute for the examination, inspection and testing of the individual respirator components or subassemblies: ␣ 1␣ 1␣ Facepieces $450 Canisters 900 Cartridges 600 Filters 650 Hoses 250 Blowers 250 Harnesses 100 §84.22 Unlisted fees; additional fees; payment by applicant prior to approval. (a) Applications for the examination, inspection and testing of complete respirator assemblies which are not listed in §84.20, or for the examination, inspection, and testing of respirator components or subassemblies which are not listed in §84.21, shall be accompanied by the following deposits: ␣ 1␣ 1␣ Complete respirator assembly $1,500 Each individual component or subassembly 500 (b) The Institute reserves the right to conduct any examination, inspection, or test it deems necessary to determine the quality and effectiveness of any listed or unlisted respirator assembly or respirator component or subassembly, and to assess the cost of such examinations, inspections, or tests against the applicant prior to the issuance of any approval for such assembly, component, or subassembly. (c) The fees charged for the examination, inspection, and testing of unlisted respirator assemblies, unlisted individual respirator components or subassemblies, and for the additional examination, inspection, and testing of listed respirator assemblies and components or subassemblies shall be at the rate of $100 per day for each man-day required to be expended by the Institute. (d) Upon completion of all examinations, inspections, and tests of unlisted respirator assemblies or components, or following the completion of any additional examination, inspections, or tests of listed assemblies, or components or subassemblies, including retesting subsequent to disapproval, the Institute shall advise the applicant in writing of the total cost assessed and the additional amount, if any, which must be paid to the Institute as a condition of approval. (e) In the event the amount assessed by the Institute for unlisted assemblies, or components or subassemblies is less than the amount of the deposit submitted in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section, the Institute shall refund the overpayment upon the issuance of any approval or notice of disapproval. Subpart D_Approval and Disapproval §84.30 Certificates of approval; scope of approval. (a) The Institute shall issue certificates of approval pursuant to the provisions of this subpart only for individual, completely assembled respirators which have been examined, inspected, and tested, and which meet the minimum requirements set forth in subparts H through L of this part, as applicable. (b) The Institute will not issue certificates of approval for any respirator component or for any respirator subassembly. (c) The Institute shall not issue an informal notification of approval. However, if the application for approval, submitted in accordance with §84.11, states that the submitted respirator and component parts are only prototypes, the Institute will examine, inspect, and test such respirator and component parts in accordance with the provisions of this part 84. If, upon completion of such examinations, inspections and tests, it is found that the prototype meets the minimum requirements set forth in this part, the Institute may inform the applicant, in writing, of the results of the examinations, inspections, and tests, and may require him to resubmit respirators and component parts made on regular production tooling, with no operations included which will not be incorporated in regular production processing, for further examination, inspection, and testing, prior to issuance of the certificate of approval.
