FR940713-1-00069 FR940713-1-00014 (i) MROP with unit conversions. Conversions are not subject to section 18 of the Act; however, a proposed conversion must be approved before an MROP involving a conversion may be approved, or an application for said conversion must have been submitted (see §941.604(d)). §941.604 Uses of MROP funding. The following establish limitations on the use of MROP funds: (a) Management improvements. Management improvements limited to the MROP project are eligible costs under MROP to the extent that such proposed management improvement is necessary for the viability of the project; i.e., to maintain the proposed physical improvements of the MROP project. (b) Development and property acquisition. Development of additional units is an ineligible cost under MROP. (c) Demo/dispo and replacement. The MROP project may include the cost of approved demo/dispo pursuant to §941.603(h). MROP funds may not be used for replacement housing. (d) MROP conversion of units. Costs of converting existing dwelling units to different bedroom sizes or to nondwelling space are eligible MROP costs only as follows: (1) It must be demonstrated that the units proposed for conversion are in excess of the needs of the PHA and there is a greater need for the proposed converted units; and (2) The proposed conversion must not result in a net reduction greater than that permitted under §941.603(h). (e) MROP conversion of non-dwelling space. Conversion from non-dwelling use to dwelling use is permitted under MROP. Conversion in use of non-dwelling space (e.g., community to management or vice versa) is eligible under MROP. (f) Duplicate funding. The PHA shall not receive duplicate funding for the same work item or activity under any circumstance, and shall establish controls to assure that any activity, program, or project that is funded under any other HUD program, shall not be funded by MROP. §941.605 General program requirements. (a) Subpart A. Subpart A of part 941 is applicable to the MROP program, except that MROP projects may only be developed by: (1) Sealed bid procurement method with award to the lowest responsible bidder; or (2) Competitive proposal method, whereby the PHA would execute a fixed price contract in which the contractor would be responsible for design of specific work items identified in the Request for Proposals, soliciting and contracting for construction work, contract administration and construction inspection; the contract could either provide for progress payments, as in the sealed bid method, or a lump sum after successful completion of all work. (b) Subpart B. Subpart B of this part applies to the MROP program, except: (1) Since the site is already owned and the structures are already present, the following provisions of subpart B are not applicable to the MROP program: §941.202 (concerning site and neighborhood standards); §941.203 (a), (e) and (f) (concerning certain requirements of the design and construction standards); §941.206 (concerning eligible properties); and §941.405(b)(1) (concerning the section 213 review). Instead, the modernization and energy conservation standards set forth in 24 CFR part 968 are applicable and the environmental requirements must be met before an MROP application may be approved, as under CIAP (24 CFR part 968). The Intergovernmental Review under Executive Order 12372 (see §941.405(b)(2)) must be completed before an MROP application may be approved. (2) Pursuant to section 5(j)(2)(D) of the Act, HUD will establish limitations on the total costs for MROP recognizing the higher direct costs of MROP work as related to new development and modernization, and the requirements of §941.204 are therefore modified. The total MROP cost (TMC) limitations which HUD establishes will be used as a maximum for the purpose of reserving the funds for MROP projects and represent the maximum TMC that may be approved and included in the ACC for an MROP project.
