FR941206-1-00094 FR941206-1-00008 Control Techniques Guidelines Section 183(b)(4) of the Act, as amended in 1990 (1990 Amendments), requires the Administrator to issue CTG's for VOC and particulate emissions from coatings (paints) and solvents used in shipbuilding and ship repair facilities, to such level as the Administrator determines may be achieved through the adoption of BACM. Volatile organic compounds react in the atmosphere to form ozone, a criteria air pollutant for which primary and secondary ambient air quality standards have been established. The EPA is required to take into account the applicable requirements of section 112 in developing the guidelines. The organic HAP emissions described in the remainder of this document are, with only one exception, a subset of the VOC emissions from coatings and solvents used in shipbuilding and ship repair facilities. Thus the control techniques evaluated for the MACT standard are also applicable to VOC emissions. The EPA has traditionally issued draft CTG's containing recommended control levels for public comment. Rather than issue a separate draft CTG in this case, the EPA is using this document to request public comment on a draft recommended by BACM. The recommended BACM is identical to the proposed MACT for coatings and solvents, stated in terms of VOC units rather than VOHAP units (where a VOHAP means any compound of carbon, excluding metallic carbides and carbonates, that is listed in or pursuant to section 112(b) of the Act; this includes both VOC and exempt compounds that are listed as HAP). For those options using VOC as a surrogate for VOHAP for the MACT standard, compliance would be based on the Agency's reference Method 24. For any compliance option involving measurement of actual VOHAP content, the test method used by the source must be documented and approved by the Administrator. Comments received on the proposed MACT rule will also be considered in formulating a final recommended BACM and vice-versa. Meanwhile, States are in the process of developing VOC rules for these sources to meet other Act requirements. The EPA published an alternative control techniques (ACT) document in February 1994 to provide guidance to the States for these efforts. The recommended BACM described here is consistent with information in the ACT. Also, as explained in the ACT, although control technologies for particulate emissions at shipyards are in development, none are sufficiently demonstrated at this time to recommend as BACM. Therefore, the Agency has no recommendation for BACM for particulate emissions at this time. III. Summary of the Proposed Rule A. Applicability 1. Description of the Source Category The proposed rule would apply to each shipbuilding facility whose total activities emit or have the potential to emit, considering controls, 9.1 megagrams per year (Mg/yr) (10 tons per year [tons/yr]) or more of any HAP or 22.7 Mg/yr (25 tons/yr) or more of any combination of HAP. In general, the shipbuilding industry covered by the proposed rule is represented by SIC Code 3731, ``Shipbuilding and Repairing.'' This industry consists of establishments that build, repair, repaint, convert, and alter ships. However, SIC Code 3731 includes the manufacture of both offshore oil and gas well drilling and production platforms; marine coatings used on such platforms will not be subject to this rule, but rather to limitations imposed by the EPA's Federal rule on Architectural and Industrial Maintenance Coatings. Based on information obtained through the U. S. Maritime Directory Listings (June 1992), there are an estimated 437 facilities of varying capabilities involved in the construction and repair of ships in the United States. Of the 437 facilities, an estimated 25 qualify as major sources of HAP emissions and would be subject to the proposed rule. The total VOHAP emissions from surface coating operations at the 25 facilities that would be subject to the proposed rule are estimated at 1,155 Mg/yr (1,272 tons/yr).
