FR940323-1-00015 FR940323-1-00005 We issued a separate document to interpret this and other provisions of COBRA. In it, we left to the States the responsibility for defining these services listed in the statute within the bounds of broad policy guidelines (54 FR 7798, February 23, 1989 and 55 FR 48601, November 21, 1990). We believe that the same principles apply for the pregnancy-related services and services which may complicate pregnancy which are specific to the section 1902(1) group of women. (See ยง440.250(q).) Generally, the State plan includes services identified in section 1905(a) (1) through (24) of the Act (mandatory and optional services that are considered as medical assistance to Medicaid recipients). Many of these services can qualify as appropriate components of the areas of care required by the statute; that is, prenatal services, delivery services, postpartum services, and family planning services, and services related to conditions that may complicate pregnancy. For example, physicians' services in section 1905(a)(5) can qualify as prenatal services, since examinations by a physician are part of prenatal care, and as delivery services, since a physician may also deliver the woman's baby. Therefore, a State plan must provide pregnant women with what the State has decided are enough services identified in section 1905(a) to sufficiently cover each of the required areas of care. In addition, a State, at its option, may provide services under section 1905(a) of the Act (for example, rehabilitative services or nutritional supplements) only to pregnant women and not to any other categorically needy eligible Medicaid recipient, as long as such services qualify as either services related to pregnancy or to other conditions that may complicate pregnancy. A State would not be required to specifically identify which services it provides to pregnant women. However, the State would be required to specify in its plan that it covers each of the required areas of care. We interpret ``pregnancy-related services'' to mean those services which are needed because the woman is or was pregnant, either because they are necessary for the health of the pregnant woman or fetus or because the services became necessary as a result of the woman having been pregnant. These include, but are not limited to, prenatal care, delivery, family planning, and postpartum services. On the other hand, ``services relating to any other condition which may complicate pregnancy'' are not ``pregnancy related'' because they do not arise because of the pregnancy. These services include those for diagnosis or treatment of illnesses or medical conditions which might threaten the carrying of the fetus to full term or the safe delivery of the fetus. Because these services are for conditions ``which may complicate the pregnancy,'' the services can be provided only while the woman is pregnant. It is important to note that, unlike the other eligibility groups of pregnant women who are entitled to at least the full range of services available under a particular State's Medicaid plan to recipients of the same eligibility group, these low-income categorically needy pregnant women are only entitled to pregnancy-related services (including family planning services) and services for the treatment of conditions that may complicate pregnancy. Infants and children in these eligibility groups are eligible for all appropriate Medicaid services included in the approved State plan. 5. Premiums for Pregnant Women and Infants Section 4101(d) of OBRA '87 redesignated section 1916(c) as 1916(d) and created a new section 1916(c) which permits States to impose a monthly premium on optional categorically needy low-income pregnant women and infants eligible under section 1902(a)(10)(A)(ii)(IX) of the Act. States may impose the premium on these individuals if their income equals or exceeds 150 percent, but is not more than 185 percent, of the poverty level for a family of the size involved. The amount of the premium imposed may not exceed 10 percent of the amount by which the family's income exceeds 150 percent of the poverty income guidelines. Costs for the care of a dependent child must be deducted in determining the family's income under this provision. States are prohibited from requiring the prepayment of the premium. Eligibility may not be terminated for failure to pay this premium unless the premium has been unpaid for at least 60 days. In cases of undue hardship, as defined by the State, the State may waive the payment of the premium. In addition, a State may use State or local funds from other programs to pay the premium. Under section 1916(c)(4) of the Act, if these funds are used, they may not be counted as income to the individual for whom payment is made. Although Congress did not specifically address the meaning of the term ``costs of care for a dependent child'' (the Conference Report refers to these costs as ``child care'' expenses (H. Rep. No. 495, 100th Cong., 1st Sess. 731 (1987)), we believe that there was no Congressional intent to use a broader concept of child care costs for this provision than that traditionally used under the AFDC program. Therefore, we propose to define child care costs for purposes of this provision as costs related to the care of a child necessary to enable a member of the family whose income was included in the eligibility determination to work or participate in training.
