FR940111-0-00016 FR940111-0-00006 DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE Immigration and Naturalization Service 8 CFR Parts 103, 214, 223, 223a, 248, 264 and 292 [INS No. 1324&hyph;92] RIN No. 1115&hyph;AC20 Changes in Processing Procedures for Certain Applications and Petitions for Immigration Benefits AGENCY: Immigration and Naturalization Service, Justice. ACTION: Final rule. SUMMARY: This final rule streamlines evidence rules and the processes by which persons may apply for and receive certain immigration documents and benefits. The rule is necessary to improve service to the public and to streamline operations. EFFECTIVE DATE: This rule is effective February 10, 1994. FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: 0 Michael L. Aytes, Director, Service Center Operations, Immigration and Naturalization Service, 425 I Street, NW., room 4014, Washington, DC 20536, telephone (202) 514&hyph;3156. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: The Immigration and Naturalization Service published a proposed rule on December 2, 1991 at 56 FR 61201 as part of a comprehensive initiative to simplify and streamline the filing and processing of applications and petitions for immigration benefits. This initiative has already led to a number of steps which have begun to significantly improve efficiency and the quality of service provided to the public. A number of comments were received about this proposal. Many were prepared by a working group of interested organizations. The following sections discuss the comments and explain the revisions adopted. Representation by Another Person Several commenters opposed the proposed requirement that an applicant or petitioner sing Form G&hyph;28, Notice of Entry of Appearance as Attorney or Representative, to show that he or she authorized the representation. For example, one commenter argued that an attorney's indication that he or she represents someone should be accepted as ``absolutely definitive evidence'' since submission by an attorney where not so authorized would be a violation of his or her ethical and legal obligations, and would subject him or her to disciplinary action and a malpractice suit. However, a number of other commenters within the industry supported the new requirement. Some pointed out that the form is not only used by attorneys. Others noted that requiring the signature can help combat the unauthorized practice of law. Still others felt that the signature would address potential Privacy Act concerns. For the reasons given by those supporting the new requirement, as well a those enumerated in the proposed rule, this proposal has been retained. An applicant or petitioner must sign the Form G&hyph;28 to definitively indicate to the Service that he or she has authorized the person to represent him or her in the proceeding. The person submitting the Form G&hyph;28 must be authorized under 8 CFR part 292 to represent the applicant or petitioner. Where a Form G&hyph;28 is submitted that is not properly signed, the application or petition will be processed as if a Form G&hyph;28 had not been submitted. Notification Procedures Where an applicant or petitioner has an authorized representative, the Service now mails two copies of each written notice. One goes to the applicant or petitioner, and the other goes to the authorized representative. The proposed rule suggested sending only one notice in such a case, and sending it to the representative. This would have meant that the Service would communicate with the applicant or petitioner through his or her authorized representative if he or she had one. The commenters pointed to past problems in representatives receiving their copy, and argued that separate notices should be continued as a safeguard. After review, the Service will therefore continue to send separate notices to the applicant or petitioner and his or her authorized representative.
