FR940927-0-00022 FR940927-0-00002 12. Settlement of Claim (a) We will determine your loss on a unit basis. In the event you are unable to provide records of production: (1) For any optional unit, we will combine all optional units for which acceptable records of production were not provided; or (2) For any basic unit, we will allocate any commingled production to such units in proportion to our liability on the harvested acreage for each unit. (b) In the event of loss or damage covered by this policy, we will settle your claim on any unit: (1) For grain sorghum and soybeans by: (i) Multiplying the insured acreage by the production guarantee; (ii) Subtracting from this the total production to count; (iii) Multiplying the remainder by your price election; and (iv) Multiplying this result by your share. (2) For corn by: (i) Multiplying the insured acreage of each type (grain/silage) by the production guarantee for the applicable type; (ii) Multiplying each result by the price election for the applicable type; (iii) Adding these values; (iv) Multiplying the production to count of each type (see subsection 12.(d)) by the price election for that type (see the provisions under section 3 (Insurance Guarantees, Coverage Levels, and Prices for Determining Indemnities)); (v) Adding these dollar values; (vi) Subtracting the result of step (v) from the result of step (iii); and (vii) Multiplying the result by your share. (c) The total production in bushels (tons for corn silage) (see subsection 12.(d)) to count from all insurable acreage on the unit will include: (1) All appraised production as follows: (i) Not less than the production guarantee for acreage: (A) That is abandoned; (B) Put to another use without our consent; (C) Damaged solely by uninsured causes; or (D) For which you fail to provide records of production that are acceptable to us; (ii) Production lost due to uninsured causes; (iii) Unharvested production (mature unharvested production may be adjusted for quality deficiencies and excess moisture in accordance with subsection 12.(e)); and (iv) Potential production on insured acreage you want to put to another use or you wish to abandon and no longer care for, if you and we agree on the appraised amount of production. Upon such agreement the insurance period for that acreage will end if you put the acreage to another use or abandon the crop. If agreement on the appraised amount of production is not reached: (A) If you do not elect to continue to care for the crop we may give you consent to put the acreage to another use if you agree to leave intact, and provide sufficient care for, representative samples of the crop in locations acceptable to us (The amount of production to count for such acreage will be based on the harvested production or appraisals from the samples at the time harvest should have occurred. If you do not leave the required samples intact, or you fail to provide sufficient care for the samples, our appraisal made prior to giving you consent to put the acreage to another use will be used to determine the amount of production to count); or (B) If you elect to continue to care for the crop, the amount of production to count for the acreage will be the harvested production, or our reappraisal if additional damage occurs and the crop is not harvested; and (2) All harvested production from the insurable acreage. (d) The production to count for corn will be in bushels for grain and in tons for silage as follows: (1) For harvested acreage, according to the method of harvest; and (2) For unharvested acreage, according to the information contained on your acreage report; except as otherwise provided in paragraph 12.(c)(1). (e) Mature coarse grain production (excluding corn insured or harvested as silage) may be adjusted for excess moisture and quality deficiencies. If moisture adjustment is applicable it will be made prior to any adjustment for quality. Corn insured or harvested as silage will be adjusted for excess moisture and quality only as specified in subsection 12.(f). (1) Production will be reduced by 0.12 percent for each 0.1 percentage point of moisture in excess of: (i) Fifteen percent (15%) for corn (If moisture exceeds 30 percent (30%), production will be reduced 0.2 percent for each 0.1 percentage point above 30 percent (30%)); (ii) Fourteen percent (14%) for grain sorghum; and (iii) Thirteen percent (13%) for soybeans. We may obtain samples of the production to determine the moisture content. (2) Production will be eligible for quality adjustment if: (i) Deficiencies in quality, in accordance with the Official United States Standards for Grain, result in: (A) Corn not meeting the grade requirements for U.S. No. 4 (grades U.S. No. 5 or worse) because of test weight or kernel damage (excluding heat damage) or having a musty, sour, or commercially objectionable foreign odor; (B) Grain sorghum not meeting the grade requirements for U.S. No. 4 (grades U.S. Sample grade) because of test weight or kernel damage (excluding heat damage) or having a musty, sour, or commercially objectionable foreign odor (except smut odor), or meets the special grade requirements for smutty grain sorghum; or (C) Soybeans not meeting the grade requirements for U.S. No. 4 (grades U.S. Sample grade) because of test weight or kernel damage (excluding heat damage) or having a musty, sour, or commercially objectionable foreign odor (except garlic odor), or which meet the special grade requirements for garlicky soybeans; or (ii) Substances or conditions are present that are identified by the Food and Drug Administration or other public health organizations of the United States as being injurious to human or animal health. (3) Quality will be a factor in determining your loss only if: (i) The deficiencies, substances, or conditions resulted from a cause of loss against which insurance is provided under these crop provisions;
