FR940627-0-00219 FR940627-0-00019 (3) Provisions Applicable to Atypical Products. A manufacturer with total annual sales less than $10 million is not required to meet the requirements of Tier 2 (specified in § 79.53) in regard to such manufacturer's fuel and/or additive products which meet the criteria for inclusion in an Atypical group pursuant to §79.56. Upon such manufacturer's satisfactory completion and submittal to EPA of basic registration data specified in §79.59(b) and Tier 1 information specified in § 79.52 for an Atypical fuel or additive, the manufacturer may request and EPA shall issue a registration for such product, subject to §79.51(c) and paragraphs (d)(4) and (d)(5) of this section. Compliance with Tier 1 requirements under this paragraph may be accomplished by the individual manufacturer or as a part of a group pursuant to §79.56. (4) Any registration granted by EPA under the provisions of this section are conditional upon satisfactory completion of any Tier 3 requirements which EPA may subsequently impose pursuant to §79.54. In such circumstances, the Tier 3 requirements might include (but would not necessarily be limited to) information which would otherwise have been required under the provisions of Tier 1 and/or Tier 2. (5) The provisions in paragraphs (d)(2) and (d)(3) of this section are voluntary on the part of qualifying small manufacturers. Such manufacturers may choose to fulfill the standard requirements for their fuels and additives, individually or as a part of a group, rather than satisfying only the requirements specified in paragraphs (d)(2) and/or (d)(3) of this section. If a qualifying small manufacturer elects these special provisions rather than the standard requirements for a product, then EPA will generally assume that any additional information submitted by other manufacturers, for fuels and additives meeting the same grouping criteria (under §79.56) as that of the small manufacturer's product, is pertinent to further testing and/or regulatory decisions that may affect the small manufacturer's product. (e) Aftermarket Aerosol Additives. (1) To obtain registration for an aftermarket aerosol fuel additive, the manufacturer shall provide existing information in the form of a literature search, a discussion of the potential exposure(s) to such product, and the basic registration data specified in §79.59(b). (2) The literature search shall include existing data on potential health and welfare effects due to exposure to the aerosol product itself and its raw (uncombusted) components. The analysis for potential exposures shall be based on the actual or anticipated production volume and market distribution of the particular aerosol product, and its estimated frequency of use. Other Tier 1 and Tier 2 requirements are not routinely required for aerosol products. EPA will review the submitted information and, at EPA's discretion, may require from the manufacturer further information and/or testing under Tier 3 on a case-by-case basis. §79.59 Reporting requirements. (a) Timing. (1) The manufacturer of each designated fuel or fuel additive shall submit to EPA the basic registration data detailed in paragraph (b) of this section. Forms for submitting this data may be obtained from EPA at the following address: Director, Field Operations and Support Division, 6406J_Fuel/Additives Registration, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, 401 M Street, S.W., Washington, DC 20460. (i) For existing products (pursuant to §79.51(c)(1)), manufacturers shall submit the basic registration data as specified in §79.59(b) to EPA by November 28, 1994. (ii) For registrable products (pursuant to §79.51(c)(2)), manufacturers shall submit the basic registration data as specified in §79.59(b) to apply for registration for such product.
