FR940525-2-00150 FR940525-2-00078 •Existence of an adequate information barrier policy in the applicant firm; 13 and 13 If the MPC finds that an applicant firm does not have adequate information barrier procedures in place, it will deny that firm status as a CS. Conversation between Karen Aluise, Assistant Vice President, and N. Amy Bilbija, Commission, on March 7, 1994. As noted above, the specific requirements for adequate information barrier procedures are set forth in a separate proposal that is also being approved in conjunction with this approval order. •Objection by the regular specialist in a stock, with or without cause. 14 14 Any objection by the regular specialists to permit comptition in one or more of such specialist's stocks must be in writing and filed with the Exchange within 48 hours (unless the specialist is unavailable, in which case within 48 hours of becoming available) of notice of filing of the competing specialist application. Such an objection is not an automatic veto, but rather is merely a factor to be considered by the MPC in reviewing the application. In addition, all applicants must be registered with the Exchange as specialists and must meet the current minimum requirements set forth in chapter XV of the BSE rules, the minimum capital and equity requirements as set forth in Chapters VIII and XII of the BSE rules, and conform to all other performance requirements and standards set forth in the Rules of the Exchange. Any specialist seeking to terminate its status must so notify the MPC at least three business days prior to the desired effective date of such withdrawal from competition. Withdrawal from registration by a CS will bar that CS from applying to compete in that same stock for 90 days following the effective date of withdrawal. When the regular specialist requests to be relieved of a stock, the stock will be posted for reallocation by the Stock Allocation Committee. In the interim, if the MPC is satisfied that the CS can continue to maintain a fair and orderly market in such stock, the CS will serve as the regular specialist until the stock has been reallocated. 15 Where there is more than one CS in the stock, Exchange staff will place the stock with a caretaker 16 until reallocation. 15 Once the stock has been reallocted to a regular specialist, that specialist will not have the right to object to competition in such stock. 16 A ``caretaker'' is a specialist from another specialist unit who is chosen by the Exchange to temporarily act as the regular specialist. The registration of any CS may be suspended or terminated by the MPC upon a determination of any substantial or continued failure by such CS to engage in dealings in accordance with the Constitution and Rules of the Exchange. Finally, the proposal amends the BSE Rule governing the specialist's book, the contents of which are otherwise confidential, to add a provision permitting specialists to disclose information in their books to other specialists competing in the same stocks on a summary basis as provided for in the procedures for CSs. III. Summary of Comments The Commission has received comment letters on the proposal from the American Stock Exchange (``Amex), 17 Chicago Stock Exchange (``CHX''), 18 Cincinnati Stock Exchange (``CSE''), 19 and New York Stock Exchange (``NYSE''), 20 as well as BSE's responses thereto. 21 The letters (with the exception of the CSE) raise similar concerns with the BSE proposal about the preferencing feature, internalization of order flow, payment for order flow, adequate information barrier procedures, and the overall effect on auction market principles. 22 These comments are discussed in more detail below. 17 See letters from Jules L. Winters, Chief Operating Officer, Amercian Stock Exchange, to Jonathan G. Katz, Secretary, Commission, dated August 26, 1993 (``Amex letter 1'') and March 18, 1994 (``Amex letter 2''). 18 See letter from Homer J. Livingston, President and Chief Executive Officer, Chicago Stock Exchange, to Jonathan G. Katz, Secretary, Commission, dated December 10, 1993 (``CHX letter''). 19 See letter from Robert P. Ackermann, Vice President, Regulation, Cincinnati Stock Exchange, to Jonathan G. Katz, Secretary, Commission, dated July 29, 1993 (``CSE letter''). In sum, the CSE argues that because their current Dealer Preferencing System is analogous to the BSE proposal, the same restrictions should be applied to both pilots, or, in the alternative, the Commission should remove the restrictions from the CSE pilot. The restrictions include prohibitions on direct cash payments for preferenced order flow, prohibitions on use of short-sale arbitrage programs, and limitations on the scope of the program. All of these restrictions have been incorporated into the BSE proposal. See Amendments Nos. 1, 2, and 3. 20 See letters from James E. Buck, Senior Vice President and Secretary, New York Stock Exchange, to Jonathan G. Katz, Secretary, Commission, dated August 25, 1993 (``NYSE letter 1''); and Daniel Parker Odell, Assistant Secretary, New York Stock Exchange, to Jonathan G. Katz, Secretary, Commission, dated October 29, 1993 (``NYSE letter 2''). 21 See letters from Karen A. Aluise, Assistant Vice President, Boston Stock Exchange, to Jonathan G. Katz, Secretary, Commission, dated July 30, 1993 (``BSE letter 1''); John I. Fitzgerald, Executive Vice President, Legal Affairs and Trading Services, Boston Stock Exchange, to Jonathan G. Katz, Secretary, Commission, dated September 16, 1993 (``BSE letter 2'') and November 10, 1993 (``BSE letter 3''). 22 The CSE, Amex, and NYSE also recommended that the issue of competing specialist should be made part of the Market 2000 Study along with the Amex competing dealer proposal. Division of Market Regulation, U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, Market 2000: An Examination of Current Equity Market Developments (1994). The Amex's competing dealer proposal seeks to alter the current rules of priority in regard to the orders of regional exchange specialists and third market makers that are directed to the Amex. The issues raised in Amex's competing dealer proposal are fundamentally different from the concerns raised by the competing specialist proposal which seeks to alter the current rules to accomodate competitors on the floor of the BSE. Specifically, the Amex's proposal is intended to alter the treatment of incoming orders from competing dealers, while the BSE proposal creates the ability for competing specialists to compete on the floor of the Exchange.
