FR940222-1-00048 FR940222-1-00008 The time needed for compliance with this requirement would depend on what systems the plan already has in place, how much modification, if any, they require, and, for an HCPP, the number of particular part B services the HCPP furnishes to its Medicare enrollees. 3. Effect of Increased Reporting Requirements on HCPPs that do not Furnish Inpatient Hospital Services For HCPPs that do not furnish inpatient hospital services, the elimination of the effective incentives policy requires major changes. As noted above, under this policy, HCPPs were in some cases exempt from reasonable charge limits and therefore were not required to document what they paid for individual services. Under the proposed rule, these HCPPs would be required to document what they paid for services using the Medicare coding systems and to determine the Medicare payment level for all services. This would require changed procedures for these HCPPs, most of which are currently exempt from such documentation either because they provide services on other than a fee-for-service basis, or because they contract with physician groups that use effective incentives and thus are subject to the prudent buyer standard of current §417.802(b) of the rules. Since the information is readily available from the Medicare contractor, we estimate that not more than 40 hours would be required to include it in the annual cost report. However, for a staff or group plan that does not pay its physicians on a fee-for-service basis, the conversion may be more time-consuming. 4. Effect on Physicians Physicians would be affected by the presumptive limit, if an HMO, CMP, or HCPP_ •Terminates its contract with HCFA; or •In order to keep costs within the presumptive limit_ •Reduces its payments to physicians; •Controls utilization so that the fewer services are furnished; or •Reduces the number of physicians on staff or under contract. 5. Effect on Medicare Enrollees Medicare enrollees could be affected if the organization in which they are enrolled decides, because its costs exceed the presumptive limit, not to contract with Medicare. However, many HMOs and CMPs entered into contracts or retained contracts when the AAPCC was to be applied as an absolute limit, so it does not seem likely this proposed regulation alone would lead them to drop their cost contracts. 6. Effect on Medicare Intermediaries and Carriers If an organization exceeds the presumptive limit and seeks payment under the special circumstances exception, intermediaries and carriers might be required to provide information necessary to verify a plan's documentation of special circumstances. However, this would not significantly affect intermediary or carrier workload and would not require renegotiation of their contracts. If organizations terminate their cost contracts, carriers (and intermediaries for home health claims) would have to process claims for those Medicare enrollees who do not enroll in another prepaid health care organization. 7. Conclusion The chief objective of the presumptive limit is to ensure that HMOs, CMPs, and HCPPs are paid no more for services than would have been paid under the Medicare fee-for-service payment systems. We believe that this proposed rule would move the Medicare program toward this objective by encouraging HMOs, CMPs, and HCPPs to operate more efficiently without impeding reasonable and necessary service to Medicare enrollees. Section 1102(b) of the Act requires the Secretary to prepare a regulatory impact analysis for any rule that may have a significant impact on the operations of a substantial number of small rural hospitals. This analysis must conform to the provisions of section 603 of the RFA. For purposes of section 1102(b) of the Act, we define a small rural hospital as a hospital that is located outside of a Metropolitan Statistical Area and has fewer than 50 beds. We are not preparing a rural impact statement since we have determined, and the Secretary certifies, that this proposed rule would not have a significant impact on the operations of a substantial number of small rural hospitals. In accordance with the provisions of Executive Order 12866 this proposed rule was reviewed by the Office of Management and Budget.
