FR940613-0-00114 FR940613-0-00015 STATE: OKLAHOMA COMBINATION: Truck tractor and 3 trailing units_LCV LENGTH OF THE CARGO-CARRYING UNITS: 95 feet MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE GROSS WEIGHT: 90,000 pounds OPERATIONAL CONDITIONS: WEIGHT and ACCESS: Same as the OK&hyph;TT2 combination. DRIVER: Same as the OK&hyph;TT2 combination except that in addition, a driver of a three trailing unit combination must have had at least 2 years of experience driving tractor-trailer combinations. VEHICLE: All vehicles must meet the requirements of applicable Federal and State statutes, rules, and regulations. Vehicle and load shall not exceed 102 inches in width on the Interstate System and other four-lane divided highways. Maximum unit length of triple trailers is 29 feet. Truck tractors pulling triple trailers must have sufficient horsepower to maintain a minimum speed of 40 miles per hour on the level and 20 miles per hour on grades under normal operation conditions. Heavy-duty fifth wheels, pick-up plates equal in strength to the fifth wheel, solid kingpins, no-slack hitch connections, mud flaps and splash guards, and full-width axles are required on triple trailer combinations. All braking systems must comply with State and Federal requirements. Multiple trailer combinations must be stable at all times during braking and normal operation. A multiple trailer combination when traveling on a level, smooth paved surface must follow in the path of the towing vehicle without shifting or swerving more than 3 inches to either side when the towing vehicle is moving in a straight line. Heavier trailers are to be placed to the front in multiple trailer combinations. PERMIT: An annual special authorization permit is required for triple trailer combination vehicles operating on the Interstate System having a gross weight of more than 80,000 pounds. A special vehicle combination permit is required for the operation of triple trailers on the Interstate System and on other four-lane divided primary highways. The permit holder must certify that the driver of a triple trailer combination is qualified. Operators of triples must maintain a 500-foot following distance and must drive in the right lane except when passing or in an emergency. Speed shall be reduced and extreme caution exercised when operating triples under hazardous conditions such as those caused by snow, wind, ice, sleet, fog, mist, rain, dust, or smoke. When conditions become sufficiently dangerous as determined by the company or driver, operations shall be discontinued and shall not resume until the vehicle can be safely operated. The State may restrict or prohibit operations during periods when, in the State's judgment, traffic, weather, or other safety conditions make such operations unsafe or inadvisable. Class A and B explosives; Class A poisons; and Class 1, 2, and 3 radioactive material or any other material deemed to be unduly hazardous by the U.S. DOT cannot be transported in triple trailer combinations. Permit movements are limited to travel from one-half hour before sunrise to one-half hour after sunset, 7 days a week except on specified holidays, beginning at noon the day preceding the holiday. Specified holidays are: New Year's Day, Memorial Day, Independence Day, Thanksgiving Day, and Christmas Day. A fee is charged for both the special authorization and triple trailer combination permits. ROUTES: Same as the OK&hyph;TT2 combination. LEGAL CITATIONS: Title 47 1981 O.S. 14&hyph;101 Title 47 1990 O.S. 14&hyph;109, &hyph;116, &hyph;121 DPS Size and Weight Permit Manual 595:30.
